
The Bank of Twiga started to provide services.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, November 2016.

The's rib,.

After being announced last week that it will be under the supervision of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the Bank of Twiga Bancorp will start again to give some of the services tomorrow.

However, as a result of the capital problem facing that bank, BoT has announced to look for new investors who will invest more capital so as to save it should not also be provided by the Central Bank yesterday it mentioned some of the services to be provided as the collection of loans for the customers of that bank.
Furthermore, the report said that the good services will be provided by the Executive Manager of that bank, including the procedures that are supposed to be considered as required.
BoT has suspended the bank under the law of banks and financial institutions of the year 2006 that involves the authority's authority which is the coordinator of all banks in the country, to intervene in the operations of banks when I see that its trend is a threat to the customers.
"The Central Bank would like to serve the public that the evaluation of financial situation of Twiga Bancorp, has been completed in the same logic, Twiga, will start giving some of the banking services to the public starting from the o'clock," part of his contribution said.
He added that BoT is in the process of through and evaluation of alternative ways of solving the capital problem facing Twiga Bancorp, BoT clarified that the way that is given priority is to look for capital from new investors, the process that will enable you in the real situation of the geothermal energy.
"The shortage of new investors is expected to take three weeks and it will be completed, the Central Bank will enter the agreement with new investors to ensure that they sell their capital as soon as possible so as the ordinary citizens will be completed.
"We would like to thank the public that BoT will continue to protect the interests of those who are in the bank with the aim of bringing their patience due to the financial sector," said part of the report.
Twiga Bancorp, was put under the management of BoT from October 28 this year, since that time the bank used to provide any service to an evaluation that will be done by the Central Bank to be satisfied with the security of the customers of that bank.
