
King Mohammed of Morocco makes a lot of grace.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

That was released on October 25th, 2016, King Mohammed VI of Morocco has agreed to request for President John Magufuli to build a football stadium in Dodoma town which will be great than the national stadium in Dar es Salaam as well as building a big Mosque in the city.
Magufuli made the remarks at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was giving thanks after meeting with that leader, who was accompanied by 150 members who together with other things, the two countries have signed two agreements with Moyoni.

While giving a brief statement of talks between them, President Magufuli said that King Mohammed VI has agreed to build a big Mosque in Dar es Salaam city as well as building the football stadium in Dodoma town worth 80 million American dollars (more than 160 shillings).
"In our discussions, I thank King Mohammed of Morocco has agreed on my request to build a big Mosque in Dar es Salaam, and he has agreed to the capital city of Dodoma, he will build a football stadium that will have great than 80 million dollars," explained Doctor Magufuli.
The National Stadium has been built by the Chinese at a cost of 60 billion shillings and has the ability to take 60,000 people who are participating in Dodoma where it is the headquarters of the country and the fifth term government has planned for all moving to the country by the year 2020, have a National Stadium which is owned by CCM and takes 8 people.
Apart from that, in strengthening the relationship between those two countries in the field of security and security, the king has agreed to start a program to share training between the police officers and Morocco and for starting to come next week 150 people of Tanzania will also go a central region in Morocco.
In a three day tour of King Mohammed VI who arrived in the country the day before yesterday, having a delegation of business people together with other leaders, they have succeeded to make an agreement of 21 agreements in various sectors including agriculture, gas, minerals and air travel.
Those contracts include the agreements for the overall winner in the economy, science, technical and culture between the government of Morocco and Tanzania that have been signed by the minister of foreign affairs and East Africa cooperation, Ambassador Augustine Mahiga and the minister of that ministry of Morocco, Salahattin Demirtas, Mela Hoya.
Another is the end of the introduction of the Constitutional Forum for political and the East African Cooperation and the ministry in Morocco, a partnership with the partnership in the gas sector, energy, minerals and science and rocks, contract of partnership with small farmers in the country.
Also, an agreement on the fishing sector has an agreement between Al-Morocco, by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals for the sake of alternative energy, a partnership between Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (OCP) and the NHO project in the country.
Also, the contract between the Tanzania Tourism Board and the Zanzibar Tourism Commission and the Tanzania Tourism Board (Morocco), an agreement with the Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank, the agreement between Tanzania Health Insurance Fund (NIC) and the Tanzania Health Insurance Fund.
Others are an agreement of the special unit of investment (BRN) and the SNade group of Morocco in a partnership with the improvement of industries of industries, an agreement of purification of road through the Tanzania Railways Company (RCO) for the partnership between Mtwara and steel mines.
Moreover, another agreement is the one for the establishment of the business council between the Tanzania Football Federation (CPA) and the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), an agreement to study between the African Bank (TPSF) and the CCBRT Hospital and a loan agreement between the Lake Region.
The agreement of loans BOA Tanzania Telecommunications Company, Forte Dodge, an international agreement between OFM Company Tanzania and Central Bank (AfDB) and Central Bank of Morocco has a professional contract to the Tanzania Insurance Fund and the insurance company in Tanzania.
Also, the partnership between the partnership between Proin Promotion of Morocco and the AfriPhones company in Tanzania.
Speaking about God at the air transport, President Magufuli said they have agreed with the two countries to start a journey of one plane directly from Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam to Rabat, the capital city of the northern region of Africa.
"And we have started our international organization the short time is evident, but we will have a good partnership with the Morocco Airport, and these agreements are a good direction to build Tanzania and to have a good economy to build Tanzania and to have a good economy by 72 percent," said President Magufuli.
President Magufuli said that Morocco has taken a big step in tourism and that the year 2015 received 105 million tourists and next year they are aiming to receive more than 14 million tourists and that Tanzania has an agreement in that sector with the aim of developing countries and market tourism.
Moreover, he said all the agreements have aimed to build Tanzania to be a country of the economy of industries and that it is possible because even now the state of the country's economy is good because it is growing by 72 percent and the economic reports show that the second quarter of the year economy has reduced by 79 percent.
"We know why we are able to build the economy and protect our visitors from Morocco, I would inform you that it is safe and you're continuing to invest in the benefit of those two countries whose relationship started since the past," explained President Magufuli.
