We should look of madness that they are in the East African Community.
October, 31st, 2013.

There is rumors that, especially among the biggest leaders (government leaders) here in the country, right now there are things not to be available in the East African Community and others among them have decided to talk about them with some issues, especially how Tanzania has been involved in this community.

In addition to rumors it has this, there are several things that are ongoing at the moment, that is said to have an intention of "resorted to Tanzania in this community. This is now causing a clear debate among five nations that use the East African Community, these are Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda, and Burundi.

These things are said, "Tanzania is together with this program that is called 'voluntary' partnership, (in the picture) between Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda by this partnership which has started several agreements, including the construction of Rwanda and Uganda which will enable them to invest more in these countries and other countries.

Together with that, Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda are attending to the moment the issue of having one region in tax, is to be able to use one level in tax for people from this three countries to see how to work together.

These three countries have been able to realize that their union are looking at a way to help the East African Community to take it in line with the highest speed among tourism to their citizens, an issue that its implementation has been planned to take place early in January 2014.

Due to these happening between the three countries, together with rumors that here in the country, the Ministry of East African Cooperation, Tanzania has been quoted by the media about the issues of issues, and said that the government of Tanzania has shown a cabinet of ministers of East African Community, this complaints.

The Deputy Minister of East Africa, Doctor Abdulla Juma has been quoted saying the cooperation of those countries in issues like the development of infrastructure will not be found in the East African Community as well as political parties as well as the presence of these issues not to be discussed without the presence of other countries, that is Tanzania and Burundi.

If you follow these issues of "voluntary cooperation" between three countries, there have been problems, although there are a small problems, but it is claimed that they have continued to put in partnership inside the East African Community, that is set aside for Tanzania within the community.

For instance, it has been claimed that once there are complaints from other countries like Kenya and Uganda against Tanzania that it has been the attorney general of the land issue in the East African agreement.

Tanzania, which is known as a great land and strong winds than other countries, the member of the East African Community, is true that it has been on its open stand on the issue of land that it is not ready to put it be in an agreement.

Also, whoever doesn't occur between Tanzania and Rwanda have brought a bad picture for the development of the East African Community in addition to that currently, we are saying that things have gone, but the history of what happened can make investigators in analysts or the important issues about this community.

This is together with the priorities in every country, the situation to prevent each other, the open goals and that are not open in every country, and the true stand of every country to the community service delivery and mission of this community.

It should be remembered that the contract of the East African Community has noted that the vision of this community is to have a community of competition, security, and cultural practices so as to improve the lives of East African people by increasing competition, worth of production, business and investment.
