
Citizens must be educated about the importance of health insurance.
Some of the people in the community have never done so much to refuse changes so that they don't like when changes will agree or at their home, you need to prevent some who contested for themselves in the area.
Recently, you know that some of the people up to today do not want to build modern houses and others in urban and rural areas do not be forced to hospital if you know the banks they were started a procedure of taking money by using the electronic machines.
The same way, there are others until today they don't want to join Health Insurance Fund but all Tanzanians are suffering from any interruptions that are not having enough understanding of issues.
Even after giving education for a long time, some of the citizens in Ruvuma province have shown a small awareness of joining the Community Health Fund (CHF) and National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) in order to get better treatment services.
That political awakening comes from or not knowing its importance or refusing to change in the system of life.
The small awareness is what seems to be in a new program of medical services to children under the age of 18, which will be known by the name of 'Toto Health Insurance. "
Some of the people were able to look at a loss that he can join or make it a child, but the ones that do not succeed in the whole year.
But they have left to look for the benefits available through the insurance system of CHF, NHIF and Toto Health Center.
For example, a one-day treatment at the cost of seeing the doctor, tests and drugs can reach more than 20,000 shillings.
This means that the child was suffering from three times in a year, she will not have paid more than 60,000 shillings while I don't talk about the cost of the child was admitted several days ago but the mother filling a form of getting a lot of treatment at all times.
To my view, this is a good opportunity.
The child Insurance when they are affected, parents lack joy and fail to go to work and if the period has no money then he will make sure that he will make sure that the money is paid is a lot of treatment at any time.
The aim of starting that service is to be explained is to give an opportunity for parents and guardians who are members of NHIF to register their children who are not the legal action of a member of the party, that is where the was started by Toto Afya Kadi will be used for treatment of extra children.
That card is giving an opportunity to children who don't have a blood relationship and a member, those who are registered are registered so as to get services by being transferred to parents or guardians, the child's brother or my son.
The program will also help many youths who have been directed by their parents and be taken by their parents and their brothers to get reliable treatment from NHIF health insurance cards.
My advice is that those who have not received enough education about the benefits of the fund should not be in their offices so as to be educated on them.
However, NHIF officers are supposed to walk in the villages to educate citizens about the importance of joining and not just to sit in the office.
They are also responding to the press for the purpose of giving information to many more citizens.
The analyst is a writer of this newspaper in Ruvuma province. (4767 759) that were known as BISON.
