You don't know the Almighty God to create, but I have asked various institutions to come out in order to provide their contribution to their children for example.
The government can give out a contribution is same but you can also meet because we have met various equipment of the game, they have requested different institutions to come out in order to help these units, "said you.
Very good news, we're continuing with my request or my advice to different companies like such, that of Kilimajaro Jitume, where I think it should be like a whole week like I think it will be like this week like I think that you will go here to study in schools we have from.
Thank you very much, the participants continue to give various donations to the late Catholving in order to answer the question what should be done in order to promote the ball to the Bible or football.
I think there are several things that can be used to help promote the game.
First, and it is the existence of the program.
Therefore, the program continues with sports is not in the same game to hold a sustainable program for games that have not end or there are a lot of documents in schools because they will be confirmed that those teachers have been left for a long time.
Without being involved in those engines, they will be able to learn and play and enjoy the heart.
For example.
We have said that there is because of the poor children and poor eyesight.
Now.
Other strokes.
I would like I would like.
Normal people that see they were participating.
In the remaining games and poor eyesight and poor children have continued to remain, the only two years ago we know if there will be a program they will be run in schools, therefore there will be a program they will be run in schools, therefore there will benefit those disabled and them be part of the disabled.
They will happen.
And to fulfill the goal of the start of football there is another that they felt one of the reasons that started this football is.
After the war, those who had been involved in war bought it.
Now in order to unite and go back to the state of seeing that they don't have anything and to start this ball and see all that they are and they are continuing to live as other people are living in that country.
Participating in something in the evil things, they will be able to see them are good students and and there is a must to build their health, another thing because many teachers were, especially.
And causing it to use them on how to walk and what's difficult, this sports will help them to change a bomb.
And put more independent more than recently, we have been separated with the disabled people who don't have sports like there and there are no games in school because they have remained to move forward.
What should happen?
So as to continue is to ask for different stakeholders the government, private individuals to contribute in aspects of other things that will help to bring in.
I love you.
