
Kikwete's appointment has spoilt the picture of CCM.
December 23, 2014.

The decision by President Jakaya Kikwete who is the chairperson of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), assume the complaints by citizens of the southern regions against some of the ministers, through this festive season, has been received with different feelings.
Some of the people who talked with this newspaper have said that due to President Kikwete's going against the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana and the secretary of the executive committee of CCM, ideology and propagation, Nape Nnauye by appointing ministers who were called by citizens especially young farmers, it is obvious that CCM is no correct system of communication and decision.
Speaking about that situation, the retired councilor of Nyamagana District, Mwanza Province (CCM), Rukia Annaph (right), has said that the decision of the decision by the chairperson of CCM and the senior directors of the party can be interpreted as well as speaking.

He says that the basis of that is to assume the views of citizens because if Nape and Kinana came to see what's true and not to be responsible for those ministers, it will be a problem of implementation of the party's performance that goes against him and his government.
Last year, when he was on a party tour in the district, don't know Ruvuma province, Nape was quoted saying that the Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Christopher Chidawali and the former deputy minister, Adam Malima the performance of the work is not satisfactory and they have gone down in the office while farmers get a lot.
I will ensure the ministers were quoted in the step together with being involved with the party, and if we will see our parliamentarians to do that work, the prime minister asked the prime minister, I asked Professor Jumanne Maghembe and who have ever arrived as I asked Nape in the tour that was accompanied by Kinana.
In the cabinet of ministers that was announced at the end of last week, Minister Chihira has continued to be the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives and Adam Malima who has been moved to the Ministry of Finance where he will continue with the position of the deputy minister.
Speaking about that situation, the former Deputy Head of the St Augustine University (AfDB), Doctor Charles Kitoro told BBC Sport that seems to be demolished because its government officials are not known for the citizens instead become the complaints by citizens not to be taxed.

He said that even these changes are a team of Toto nor the citizens not to leave any changes until the system of performance will be able to move ahead and the citizens themselves, for now they are supposed to do it just to ask God to help them because the government is nothing to be responsible for the citizens.

Giving an example to education, he said that there are policies that have been put without the existence of law, that is why together with the policy saying education is a right to every child but there is no one who is responsible and called on the policies of getting better education in non-accountability.
"The system can make sure that someone is a system that has died, now we are looking at people only, but that we will not help us, so that we can be done by citizens," said Doctor Kitoro.
