
Though we will be taught.
John Aclati being aired by Victor Wanyama who has launched the Iniesta and rocks of South Sudan, Al-Shabaab's draw in the semi-finals of the Nile Virus' that will take place in Dar es Salaam at the end of this month.
In the draw that was done in the office of the Confederation of East and Central Africa (CECAFA) at the same field yesterday, Tanzania will fight for the quarter finals against Al Fm, Mbeya City from Tanzania together with Elba of Somalia in Group B.
The match will take place in Dar es Salaam City and Shangani region where the champion will go back home with the title as well as a sum of 25 million shillings and the team that will complete the second position will be handed over 17 million shillings while the third winner will be handed over 150,000 shillings.
Group A is composed of other friendly teams from South Sudan, Victoria Solo, from South Sudan, Malunde from South Sudan and returned from the island of Zanzibar.
The team that will contest for the quarter-finals in group C are together with Al Shabab militants from South Sudan, Al Masasifrom Ethiopia which played with though they played in the second round of the Confederation Cup of African Football (CAF).
Another team that was invited to that cup, will pass from Egypt.
The secretary general of CECAFA, Nicholas Kay, wants though we want to stop Kenya well so as to end the series of bad results in the last article of that cup. He also pointed out that this is a good opportunity for the players to prepare for the final matches for the African Cup 2015.
"There is no small team or big team in this cup and every team has a good opportunity to win the competition and it will be a good chance to prepare for the cup for the African Cup," Musaizi says if the team will involve the title but it will not be allowed to go with the cup but he will be given money.
Tusker was eliminated at the group stage in the last article last year. The cup will begin on May 22nd and completed on June 4th.
