I commend him.
And a large number of male circumcision is expected to go to Tanzania mainland.
Airtel's international star, has been made in Kenya, he started and then put it exercises for a week.
Before starting the journey back to Nairobi.
Competitions, our sportsmen will I understand.
It has set up camp in Karume Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam city with the panel of coaches who are leading with the coach Ramadhani where their journey is expected to be on Saturday this week while speaking to journalists about the preparations of the team was made with ten and six youths from different provinces in the country, Airtel's relations manager, Jackson Mmbando, said he has faith that those youths are committed by knowing the answer that he was given.
If the sun is still in the Nairobi competition is involving the ten and the five days to the representatives and that after there, there will be a special clinic of six players from every country's training camp which is usually given by the school of Manchester United and another one.
In Tanzania, I saw today, we believe that you're very happy to represent the country to go to represent other youths who participated in the field so as to arrive in Dar es Salaam, but you are seen by the star.
Therefore, FIFA which has been able to get that is because of the country and you are going to play in the game for a lot of patriotism and the cotton it means that we are now.
All the countries which will participate in the country.
All is expected to get a win.
And that of the team Amyas Morula has promised that they are going to Nairobi to do the competition with an intention to compete and get victory because they have been doing since the time of the Airtel Rising Stars competition also.
I promise Tanzanians.
People should not understand.
For a heart.
I promise the first thing to be approved, old is not enough from my team.
Compete, he retired in dealing with approximately five hundred youths from different provinces in the country, where after the election done by the teachers who are involved in soccer here in the country he was chosen for the ten and six youths who were at the end of the week will come out in Nairobi in the international competition of that festival which he participated in Nairobi.
Your people have already signed the youth article.
