
Another situation that is facing a member of the board.

A few days after President John Magufuli to break the board of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) on allegations of failing to supervise the activities of that institution, one of its delegates, Donholm, Mgalula, has joined the leadership of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM).

The TPA board was eliminated from December 7 after it was discovered that more than 2,148 containers were allocated to Dar es Salaam port without paying taxes, thus causing the government revenue.

Due to the carelessness, President Kikwete broke down and revoke his appointment of his chairperson, Professor Joseph Kiwanuka, by the secretary general of the Ministry of Construction, Doctor Shaaban Mwinjaka as the executive director of TPA, Awadh Massawe while being suspended.

Despite Mgalula, as a delegate of that board, he was also the manager of the department of UDSM.

When they were waiting to speak about that scandal, furthermore, Mgalula, said Mrs Samira, I cannot speak about it. "

The Deputy Commissioner of UDSM, Professor Rwekaza Mukundala confirmed his resignation from that delegate. "It is normal change which will target to strengthen the performance of the university," he said and added.

"He said to end his time, that is why we seen it is good to pray for blood," we have paid the new blood so as to deal with the speed of the projects we expect to be. "

Without involved what happened to TPA, Professor Sigalla said those changes have been made from December 7, a day that the board of TPA was formed by President Magufuli.

The news that was found from other sources in that college explained that it is a lot of days among its senior officials and that anyone who is affecting the "one place was used as a member of the board, it makes it to know her.

"It is the regulations of the university he would be able to remain just after the president break up his position as a new person has been found and he started moving to the office," the deputy speaker of parliament, Doctor Tulia Ackson, Doctor Francis Masimba and Musa Nyamitwe, Gwao.
