These results are same as we the mother we are using drugs to increase the disease.
Jide 24, 2014.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
His lover.
What does it mean to tell my husband to get married, together with the in-law and religious leaders?
You use the sun and it is with the desire to join with this network of my lover! I am announcing his interest, now I had told the executive committee to advise him to do not tire us.
Here life continues as usual, the boss is called on the policy of education.
"Let me follow the results of their work together, but the truth is that we now start to see the fruits of our policies, most of them are admitted to school and now they have a certificate to confirm their quality."
This journey of the boss did not want to be touched in public but he later told me.
"You know what these results are same as we the mother we are using drugs to increase our problem."
What is the meaning of the sister?
"Yes, it's the aim is to attract many people and the biggest nuisances for now, but its effects on the front still remains unknown.
I sat for a short time to her lover.
"But the sister was known as Kiango, Honorable.
BB he scored only.
"It is true that is very attractive, Honorable let me think about people who have passed it is same as even if they go to the University or abroad, they have shown their competence.
But if they have succeeded in order to meet a certain political reason, the last will get their own reasons, especially those who go to be careful, and you will understand the weather because of all those who follow.
"It is true that her sister also, I don't know most of the mental disabilities that missed the opportunity to go to school with teachers and books because the mental disabilities will be able to use other better opportunities."
BB wrote me.
"And you are with you, I see you are one of those times. I don't know what you would like them to continue to study with you."
I wanted to tell you a lot of things here in his lover, but I decided to make sure that I get a very few hours each day and I asked me that I request that her mother and his boss, not for a long time, even BB confirmed that.
"You know Hidaya Kapera, there is also someone who is going for a good school, reading through all efforts, then it is a same results with someone who was carried out and we are preparing to pay for another position, we start all the same time."
To see a lover, yet the problem BB is that his opportunities can be stopped although I am sure that she still has another unique opportunity like her father's position, by BB is that true he has no mental ability and even though I am pregnant, however, Hidaya Kapera.
But the issue that was written on this week was very big and he was sent in-in-law, that is the mother to thank him, because his boss was in home because his boss was born in one way or another until night.
Therefore, he was unable to wake up to four hours when she was born in bed and he found that she is faced with a huge results of alcohol addicted in the country, while he was doing with some of the second results of alcohol?
Then I were forced to welcome him from him (because I was prepared to have a extra time to know MMM in the celebrations of yesterday) and they started talking about little of SB he started.
"You know in-law, there is one thing that is very delicious.
Boss tried to meet you.
The ones that spread me is the ruling party. "
SB happens.
Maybe in the law but not directly from yesterday, I was going to live in a small group of children, while I am looking for a small group of children who came to visit their daughters, for their way to end the school. "
"Because there is a problem?
"First is not his place and I don't agree with the idea of children to sit on the road or where I don't know, hours and hours a world has been destroyed, and you can't know that which will involve our children good?"
"It is not funny when there is a problem when seeking money for a good purpose?
"Because there is no other way?
The boss Diamond Platinumz.
"No upcoming stars."
SB is found.
"That is why I was not close to each year and every year we want to do a certain issue or attend a big meeting of the opposition, we did not run a fundraising.
