"Tanzania has 50,000 industries.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

The census for production of industries that shows that by the year 2014, Tanzania had 1,0656 industries which were their production activities to increase the value of products.

Of those industries, the census for production of industries in the year 2013 that involved 49,243 factories, it revealed the existence of 47,921 industries and big industries for 22.
That census was made in collaboration between the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment.
While presenting the research, the senior inspector of NBS, Fadhil Khalfan said that 41,919 industries which were self-employed among one up to four, 412 industries which were self-employed among the 50 and 99 industries which were employed people from 500.
He said that the small industries is like grinding pieces of the making machines, "Masau boasted.
He said in the big industries of 22, 988 industries have been involved in production of industries, toilets were affected by the mining of minerals that were affected by the mining of minerals, gas, and treatment equipment, and distribution of electricity, gas, gas, and climate change.
He said the sector of production of industries is leading to have many workers which are 19,699 employees in the industries sector and added that a big part of industries for production of industries will be involved in production of food products.
He said despite the big industries being there, but which were employed 53 percent of all industrial workers and a big percentage of the industrial workers are men and the sales, said 65 percent of the sales of the big industries took place in the country.
Khloe an said the production sector of industries that contributed to 60 percent of the increase in industries in the industries that employed workers from 100 desks which were contributed to the 79 percent of the increase in value.
The senior economist from the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Her Mutta said that the challenges facing the industries is the cost of production being high, the availability of natural resources to be small and technology that used poor.
He said the census results revealed that there is an importance of improving the standards of technology.
He said that in order to increase the sales of the government, the government in collaboration with other stakeholders continued to build an understanding to the industries in order to understand the marketing methods and be able to use well the opportunities available in the internal and international markets.
The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage has requested not to do research that since the fifth term government will not enter into power it has been built in the industries to attract some people to inform the citizens.
