
Voters in parliament have never been able to Zitto Kabwe.

The opposition camp in parliament yesterday stopped the member of parliament from their camp, Zitto Kabwe listening to the corruption of 119 million from the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and the National Parks Agency (TANAPA).

This is the first time for the opposition camp to send their fellow member of parliament, "our colleague" and allegations of corruption, different from their normal of "deal with embezzlement in the government.

Zitto Kabwe, Kigoma North member of parliament and who is also the chairperson of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), is alleged to cause the money through Lungwani Market, which has a lot of money in other companies, Charles Gombe (T) which will be his director.

While presenting the opposition views in parliament yesterday about the expenditure and use of the ministry of information, youth, culture, and sports in the year 2014 / 15, the Assistant Director of the ministry, Joseph Mbilinyi said Zitto Kabwe was required to break the money because he was renovated by the law of public leaders.

He said Zitto Kabwe, who in the recent months entered into the conflict by the leadership of his party, he is the PAC chairperson, the committee that its responsibility is to address areas with great misuse of public funds in ministries and public organizations, including TANAPA and NSSF, therefore there was a conflict of interests in that issue.

Allegations of Zitto Kabwe.

In his speech, Mbilinyi said the reports of the banks in that camp shows that it was on December 10, 2012, the National Parks.

"One day later, those funds were donated by cash money from that account, January 14 and February 7, 2013, Lungamano, 6 million shillings," said Mbilinyi.

A patient said that those funds were sent away by a person called Mchage and that when it got to February 7, it had been issued.

He said on 28 February last year, the Lungwani Market got an amount of 323 million shillings from NSSF and that the day those funds were donated to that account for four days later that organization made other payments at the Lungwani Market.

"Was loaded from 466 million shillings that were donated by that account for two months ago in a period of three months, between December 10, 2012, by March 4, 2013, that company (Zitto Zuberi) paid 1 million shillings for the same procedure of bringing to Grafarians alone," said Mbilinyi.

He said among those funds, 212,02 million were paid by TANAPA with 79 million shillings were paid by NSSF.
