The secretary of Nyerere will be released, followed him.
Mage of 18, 2015.

The retired permanent secretary of the national father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Samuel Kasibu, has noted that his residence is in Arusha town and agreed to sharp teeth.
Kasibu, who was the former secretary general of Nyerere Airport, before yesterday died on October 14th in 1999, has claimed that he will end his life as they see him as an obstacle to a group in the presidential election in the general elections this year.
The Retired President has already issued a report at the top level of the country and in the state of state and Good Governance, it means that already the dollars will work on those reports.
In one of the short message of words through mobile phone (SMS), Kasibu, wrote on one of the top leaders of the government and media stations.
"You will remember that on the 12th of February 2015, I will make sure that my life is used by the honorable as the late Teacher J. K. Nyerere, who was the name of 93949 with the late Mwalimu J. K. Nyerere, who was in the same way," he said.
"On 5 / 03 / 2015, on Thursday, 8 o'clock in the evening have come up to my home, two men, youth, and old people with Toyota in the morning and wanted to be allowed to check up"
"I was asked where they came from Moshi and that one of them has given my good news and they continued to ask him, but they were not allowed and they were unable to go through 1 / 3 / 2015.
Mzee Kasanga continued to explain that, "on 7 / 3 / 2015, on Saturday, it will come to two hundred thousand people in the legs to the legs, on the eyes set up with glasses and in the legs.
"A person of my family is to see him and see that situation, he found guilty of switching off their head when he asked him to know where he was paid in 1200, he asked him to know where he was carrying 970,089, and to be its meaning.
"Those people have identified himself that they came out to Dodoma and they asked if the house had a close defender and when they were stolen, they have said they will wait for being beaten in 1348 in the goal area.
The former secretary to the former President, has explained his message that the former president has explained to him in the same message, that they were required to call him in 970,089, a phone, those people had survived, then he lost a picture together with the appeal before leaving the speed without farewell.
While clarifying more, Elder Kasanga told me, apart from the defender of a veteran that she is accusing to fund this one, two other people and their phone numbers, who were recorded because of one point as a resident of Dar es Salaam and another is in Arusha, and finishing them by saying.
"Honorable president, let me just say that when I was shot in the year 2015, then as it is with the late J. K. Nyerere, do not use our records to the cemetery, but in the hearts, we are improving their lives and the business of Tanzania."
February this year, this newspaper made an interview with Elder Kasanga about the statement that one of the people mentioned to vie for presidency through CCM, Edward Lowassa, once got the Mwalimu Nyerere to get in the race since 1995.
In that interview, Kasanga denied all the strength of that issue to have ever happened and that it was against him and that the teacher called the veteran artist to be a person who doesn't have the qualifications to be able to vie for the high position in the country. "
Kasanga said that he was directed by a teacher when they read the words from the late Rashid Kawawa so that he did not support him, "that singer, because the teacher did not have a time of losing because he was infected.
In the presidential race, the Teacher asked for him for Benjamin Mkapa, trunning the name of the reputation "MONDE, a lot of clean up in the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi.
Since being sworn in for that interview with this newspaper, Elder Kasu has complained to the media about being accompanied by unknown people an amount of fear for his life.
This newspaper has been able to speak with Kasele at the same way through a phone and it seems not to have prepared himself or to say a lot, but in a short time, he said.
"The truth I will win what we live in the truth, it does not fear the threat or force of the army and there is an end, it is not an end," he said if he knows one of the new poets who is one in the country, the late Shaaban Robert.
