
Kikwete has shown a way, now.
Dec 21, 2013.

If there is a week which the name of Tanzania "has been very well, then it's a week that started the event to be buried in Nelson Mandela who started a good speech to be remembered during that event.

Some of the media stations in the neighboring country, Kenya for example, have written many explanations about the way the first president of that nation, Jomo Kenyatta, made him put down Kenyans by not supporting him as it was the Teacher Julius Nyerere.

Today this week, some of the newspapers in Ethiopia have explained how Kikwete appears to continue to continue to be the Prime Minister, Hinterland, whom she saw many, how their nation was able to help South Africa in fighting with Boers.

But he did not say new things and all the things that he said were taken by the government of this country and be known as the only problem is that maybe it is not many people in Africa who know this country has done to liberation.

They don't know how they wanted to use the meeting to announce that they gave him the first certificate of manslaughter.

Time has come now for the government and the private sector here in Tanzania to start using the name of our country and to announce our success every time it comes up.

If there are people or countries, he says Mount Kilimanjaro is in their country, we are supposed to clarify in big meetings and explained the truth.

This silence and talked about inside, it will help something one of the reasons for why many youths of Tanzania on these days do not have patriotism in their country, because they can get the opportunity to be reminded that this country did not know what is behind for the interests of the whole world.

Youths have not received an opportunity to be told that this country was built through the effects of farmers and workers and that during this time, this country was competing for freedom and caring for all the human beings to be in Dodoma, Biafra, Zimbabwe or East or East Africa.

This speech by Kikwete should be the first of other leaders like ambassadors, business people, heads of government departments and public organizations to talk about this history of Tanzania wherever they are.

It has come at a time of our citizens to read the chest before they are, but also not the source of polluting the name of the country, with any scandal including illegal drug trafficking.
