The special constitutional parliament to end his work to get the proposed constitution just after getting more than two votes from all the two sides of the United Republic of Tanzania where the constitution did not comply with the constitution and Danny Sserunkuma as the constitution did not consider the opinions and Danny Sserunkuma as the ruling party.
If you go through the intention click here, the revolutionary party today you talk with this the traffic rules I could be found on war as the announcement of today and you will give them a lot of time because they do not have no fear so much.
I think the draft of the commission of changes in the constitution was a party as a member of the birthday of the constitutional time we will be born afresh, but through a draft, he will be given a draft of the truth.
Yesterday the complaints by Zanzibar people were able to get good solutions in an interview with them in the estates, the citizens also wanted the United Republic of Ukawa to make sure that they do not care for the citizens by participating in them and also the whole process of availability of that constitution before leaving the power that you want.
The opposition parties.
King Mohammed.
We like citizens need to have great contribution because there are people.
They have a great importance in events of the week of our country.
Their contribution but they decided to abandon the time we have written every time, the constitution that has been completed now I don't know if we should not have a desire to need peace in our country because we are not in need of we need peace in our country because we are not supposed to confirm if you want this, my brother is the constitution of the citizens.
This is in swept away from the (they are not ready to serve Tanzanians very happy.
Why is it?
But we did not know that we are saying.
But we believe?
All that are all.
This constitution is also happy to be surprised by the action of Ukawa's resignation and your people are in scoring several people but the commission will be loved.
They wanted the constitution that we were surprised by that, we failed.
They feel that they were tested from outside while the estates do not identify the habit of doing such behaviors.
In addition, many of the citizens have also requested the government to politicians and the activists to give appropriate education to the citizens to go to the villages so that they can learn otherwise, you will be that before voting yes or no responsibility is that the citizens do not be educated.
They should be educated about the citizens' education about the proposed constitution before they are not getting in the process of voting.
Because as citizens being educated.
There is a danger of getting the constitution.
Royalties.
Shame, people should know that but do not know inside there I was and saying that there are private individuals.
.
To come out.
The audience of the citizenship to citizens especially those in the outskirts of the country.
It should know that the proposed constitution that was proposed by the proposed constitution before making a decision to vote yes or no because the constitution is guidance for the citizens themselves that they want to join this constitution that he will continue with this constitution.
The Bible dies.
I hope to know that we will also have for a long time.
Therefore, it is good for the citizens to be prepared for people to make decisions which are primary and it's at this time and on the future of the nation and for the interests of the nation, God bless TANZANIA.
