No.
The reporter of this short period I think we can continue to hear in one way or another one, I do not know what we are doing here and we do not know what we are doing here and that is why we can say that is why you are.
The agenda of the agenda.
Promote business is together with getting capital, that business is a must for you to know that there is about the use of revenue that is the income you got into the park.
And using it?
A man can we do politics to an extent.
Your capital and if you have left us with a neighbor, we must know that everything and three years contribute to the business right there to think that it is very delicious with the use and work harder, and your mother's work.
The captain is a new song every day for the new work so that you feel you feel people got many customers and they do not give them income and business.
And all the big secret is that.
When he comes out on your way you can be completed in the body, I am pleased with RITA here and then I'm in livestock and is still investing home in work as a mother to know my house and you want it.
Otherwise, that mother can help us to do hard.
Let us be taught.
Hard, you can see you will start something little but you're close to you.
.
The best use that you should be avoided, we want the bank to help us use the good things.
I remember that even the first symptoms of I was on loan.
My business after growing up I had given you a loan from the bank.
And other things, the bank receives a y anywhere and he is with business people that you will be paid a girl, but now it needs a lot of kind for a period.
In the place of looking to the right is the bank in order I have fallen in order for you.
Therefore, business capital will have a good statement is something that we can do?
Enabling business?
It is told the statement is.
Therefore, when you go to a good statement to someone to understand if you are online and the others being quoted by understanding.
It is also helping that I will listen to a customer there was no wonder but there is bad luck.
Its loss is that one person we saw the place and asked his colleagues and his colleague, therefore you will find a business and then you will see you by bad luck and the bad luck is due to the statement.
Therefore, it is our statement well, the late God bless our customers so that they can be found directly from the other and another one.
Therefore, women do not use our best mouthed.
Improving the picture I got your opinion about you to make you grow the market.
For example, it is disrupting our business and you know that their products have not touched me but we should have written many types, therefore, you will use your business and business to improve your business and business to improve their business.
And you will get the money that he is in, you will learn about that women and we must learn to make changes in all their businesses and I am welcoming them.
He threw himself and spread powdered vinegar on the road.
When I'm in Mwanza town, I will be close to the university's songs.
Here if it is brought, all types of clothes are the same time when it comes out, we are also looking at home for you for this week I urge you to get close to women.
