This debate will be taken.
I thank you so much my brothers for giving me this opportunity, I am able to contribute to the few words that I wrote.
It is called Joseph Chibehe.
A resident of Mara province, then he has refused a small village of small town until now.
Chairperson, I take this first opportunity to thank you.
All the ones that were in order to visit the youth platform and to be able to talk a few people.
Other private I would like to speak about.
Or he is a member of parliament of our agenda that we have in entrepreneurship education to youths and I would like to speak with.
Most youths especially whenever they get in the province, they gave birth there are many youths in their profession.
But we are unable to continue with each other because of their work problems, for example, what we possess, or the profession the most young people in the small town is wrong.
There is a technician, there is a mother and technicians.
Photos and others.
But the?
We are unable to do that work or they are unable to do that job, my fellow youths because the poverty of money has refused to send this money because they are unable to continue with those things because they are unable to continue with those things because they are unable to continue with those things.
Likewise, I would have requested the community and private organizations.
You can't look for us the youth and we find priority to our groups that have been completely forgotten in the youth groups like the youth, but we don't know whether you are very high because the youth failed to enter or go to take a loan because the youth failed to enter or go to take a loan because they would have refused.
For youths who can try to reduce the risk of at least they should have the ability to take a loan even if possible, the youth should use his certificate so that he can pick a loan so that he would have requested the youth?
And it is open that we get the education.
The loan or to get a loan in general.
We want to work hard to do when he used to take a loan so that we can take this loan so that we can enjoy the loan so that we can eat the same time, maybe it has shown the same time, maybe it has shown the farm.
Your father's house and today's house, when you take the loan you failed to work or goals yesterday it seems to do if you like to.
Why we request that we get the work or the money we will we get to do in work if we have decided to do if we are not affected.
Also the small chairperson.
It is not right.
And the sacred heart.
To thank the police station.
Together with a certain organization because they are also led until it took to the youth for this time we should be.
And be able to listen to the few things that we have cannot get to the concerned levels, because these are also the same day we should try to speak here and they can be able to arrive in the place.
Therefore, I was surprised when I would like to be the government.
In addition to private organizations that they can be able to give advice together with this liquefied mixture of youth.
To be taken to that, they can get loans but they offer loans to provide education that the loan that will take care of what will expire.
My fellow chairperson, I thank you very much for giving me this opportunity and my thoughts is that of speaking here and faith that they have been able to be heard by various leaders and the community in general cannot be dealt with.
