Because of?
A student completed class seven and got into form one to kill Bah from Nairobi to help as he is going to.
Or it would have risen up closely so situation they get to a modem that is like a house that he was living in the house.
And when you say you are not a house of living to another new house, it means that there is a environment.
It is a must for a time to go to a state of learning, a situation that has contributed to every student in the act of an actor that is believed to be a researcher from one of the language is the main system of.
He says the world with his language is used in a danger of or at the field of violence and community institutions.
He complained about the language of countries he was mentioned that has brought in the whole world by Kindai and technical issues is not a must to make bad events but when I explained the effects are there in the whole world where women have been released money and given a wide opportunity because you do not vote.
According to the champions of the field of next few years, after the language he will go down and it will be a blow with the knowledge of natural gas and technical and Africa.
They will have lost an opportunity of any creativity in which experts who understand Africa in the environment and system of environmental environment.
It is a view that it is not a must that it's to the education officer Joachim Mushi about the issue of stopping.
Those are like we are getting a culture and because we do not have faith in many years or depending on it, there are some whom they can make those phones since they are believed to have lost our culture.
Culture, we have a culture of a Tanzanian who does its Swahili language, because we should not continue, let me bless you, God bless you, do not tire you, do not tire us.
First.
Raising various talents and improving.
And in Mbezi Ward, the executive council of reproductive health did not have a lot of man, Paul light, explaining more about the challenges and the opportunity of the language in the community of several regions to be joined by clarification.
If you look for our colleagues in the attempt to inform you, which is wrong.
You're going to live with a lot of time to use their long time.
And the meaning of their language because it's is the language that will make you pass through you, will it be a language that will help her and improve it is a problem so that we can be able to create the answers that this will be a problem now.
Those are coming to a community of us.
This youth procedures are inspiring.
In this nation there will be a national union that will be able to do a person but by here you came out and they will be very easy to do his things, therefore it's easy to learn that, because it becomes easy for the heavy rains.
That is raising for my reason?
People believe that.
We believe that when it comes up, he will lead you.
Mbuyu will go down.
Arnautovic and the board, someone who does it mean by his father are ready to drinking water.
He knows how to get that news for a time I will fall down after there.
This means that I would like to understand England because he has been paid in ways that he knows this was not easy because we can have a good and even when the Bagamoyo district is now not getting into history by the community.
The whites who came to had their lives had a plot or how to do their things and.
To live well but now the man, when I come to the whites have said this for us, it does not have no meaning.
In a long time, you can be able to come up the reason to come out, the idea just after they gave them here in great steps and mocking him where what were we need to do in the past.
I was whites themselves on the meaning.
And other nations who have lived in a factory for doing so as to make sure they get in great development, because they used a red carpet.
The squad of which I use it is using the third time in the other to learn through the knowledge and the truth is bad, there is very bad luck, what would have heard the Swahili of God being taken to countries.
The results are there.
Look at Shabiby bus.
