And there in Zanzibar Islands, the president of Zanzibar.
Ali Mohamed Shein has appointed the judge of the main court of Zanzibar, the judge who was in the leading commission of ten people in bed and three others who have not been found, we should know if we ask him from the report given by the secretary general of the revolutionary council and the secretary general of the shop before Namibia.
The explanation that the president of Zanzibar has done the appointment under the law of the commission for investigation on the sixth and three of the law of Zanzibar.
The delegates that make that commission as well as David Mosha and Honorable David Mosha when he was appointed Captain Abu Yusuf the information and Charles Nkondola receiving the deputy secretary general, she has gotten a lesson so as Ngowi who was a small leader, who is the secretary of the commission.
The commission has ever done the investigation on an accident to say that EMEMKWA centers that caused the deaths of hundreds of people in September last year and gave different recommendations including being arraigned in court they were involved in the accident.
The commission has been announced as the minister of infrastructure and communication Mister Hamad Masoud while announcing his resignation from his position after the second accident which had lasted for that position for a period of four months.
Not because you know what I have?
But the time to be accountable.
If it arrived.
In my house to me.
I say it is a very big step in another step.
Chama Cha Mapinduzi has appointed the representative of the county, Maclen Gmwaijonga has the former minister of infrastructure and communication Hamad Masoud, his decision to be accountable after the accident occurred.
Speaking to journalists, the director for human rights, outreach and communication has been revealed to ensure that Mister Hamad Rashid has no mistake of not seeing carelessness but take them that step with an aim of carrying a political bail, something that is better to be followed here in the country.
A Revolutionary Party.
It has revealed.
It is enough that Honorable Hamad Masoud Hamad.
He has no mistake or he did not want jokes in any way.
There is a place that he has taken that step for the purpose of carrying a bond of politics.
To protect his honor.
Why Zakaria is captain of Zanzibar.
