
24 December 2012

We will continue depending on the donations from Europe until when they celebrate?

In many African countries, Tanzania being one of the countries that are believed to be as traditional and a woman for continuing to run away with a big level, depending on the donations from the ones who are requesting sponsors from outside.
But it has reduced, many times you will discover that many of the donations are not anything more than continuing to bring development to the citizens of the concerned countries.

For example one of the World Bank's goals as the Kihesa Bank that is under the biggest nations in the world with industries is to ensure the economic growth in the world with industries is to ensure the growth of these African countries do not have a chance in the world market.

Look even commercial products since the African inch HD screen has been bought at an affordable price while at international markets and there is no major efforts done by the leaders to deal with the disaster.

At the moment, if a situation is that in different commercial products from this region of African property, from European countries going to come in these African countries to be sold at the price of a normal citizen to fail and ask for prices.

Until now, there is a business ratio in this world so much in this world, we have witnessed these African countries to be sold to be the same as they give the fake products from Europe and America.

And all of us we have been witnesses to see for every fake products and torched in the relevant authorities when it comes to have been revealed, but the fact is that the condition is needed in this African region.

This is calling for our African countries because if someone knows that these products are fake and it is using poverty that will cost them is same as someone to destroy the procedures.

In addition to that, but we are still continuing to shivered to the whites who come from Europe and America not to be good people in our country, so it is a clean up to him and asked him to ask for them.

In order to prove that these are good people just try to look for many donations that were donated by these people, we have the names of sponsors to come into these countries of the third world, many have been released on a very difficult time and many have changed to be cargo in the concerned countries.

Many of the donations are similar to and which does not have good intentions to the residents of this continent, but the surprising thing is that many leaders of this nations are like they have reached them even our thinking.

It has reached a time even a lot of budget since the African inch HD screen at a big level will depend on the money from Europe and America, the ones that are doing that money is problems.

Many African countries have changed to be equal to a small child who is suffering from a disease without failing to stop himself on his legs without donations from other people.

Africa is a must to show this situation of continuing to suction these diseases from Europe and America, as it is true that it affects its lives in many years to come.

It is a fact that if you can be able to be keen on how to deal with this aid in a very high level it contributes to reducing the value of our money in the many African continent being run without the management of the government of the concerned countries.

This situation for recent years has caused African to continue to sink and heading to the economy and especially when it comes to the issue of international business.

A lot of stories that do not benefit from another level have come with great effects even to the development of the residents of this continent for example, most of them give instructions as to reduce the challenges and control of companies.

These colleagues from Europe all the days are people to look for their interests and even one day, I cannot come here and then expect it to have good goals that help you are false.

These countries from America and Europe have even one day for us to see these African countries competing in development steps because of lack of natural resources and commercial products to be successful for the benefit of their industries.

Let me look for these African countries which one can be able to stand and say that it is doing business that is understood by the European countries or America more than continuing to rise up every day.

Our African countries are the same, there is a must that we need to understand that it's continuing to depend on this donations from Europe and America is continuing to fulfill our obligations.

Why is the country like Tanzania to continue being asked for every day when we have been born with everything from every kind, good land, good land, animals, milk and other resources?

To me, this is a shameful situation and it's a shame for the concerned parties to satisfy the bail of leading this nation just after more than fifty years of freedom we have to give them a lot of mosquito nets and them leaving, and our minerals is a shame.

This is why the public which has been using our freedom to have our decisions, and if you look at, it is wrong for thinking person, although our first founders have managed to use resources like it is now?

Many of this donations do not have different problems and meat has been given a patient after falling for himself as a mistake of being given this meat is wrong and not even a little.

Africans and Tanzanians are good, we know that without this continent of African countries and America, it would continue to reach where those countries have made great steps by depending on resources from Africa.

The Human Resources Director gave himself from Africa and the strength of work, especially the time for slavery and their leadership for caring for the interests of their countries, that is how they reach them where they are now.

Today, we are witnessing many African countries were unable to even fall because of the colonial era, today it continues to hold the speed by being assisted by other African leaders.

Currently, there is a need for the country to ensure that it is free if its leaders are determined to the leader of the country that is continuing more than even its citizens who are making them here is not true.

The country like Tanzania of today which are blessed with everything that continues to destroy the donations from in Europe and America, it is evident that they are annoyed so much and do not give the front of our colleagues.
This is why most of our leaders have forgotten that even their responsibilities and that to end up to the colonial history, you have forgotten that they are happy to show a way to the country of the promise they promised to get them when they are asking for votes.

In Africa, it is a must for now to send this donations without productivity for us and let us help him by using our resources themselves and to stop the very few infections that are not affected by hunger.

I have decided to finish this article by thanking our leaders that we have told them to be able to have a true stand on the eyes of these leaders is a shame for them because there is a day history will make the judgment ahead of the journey.
