How is the plans.
Now, you can't read before getting the technical director we can get into the election process, Fally Ipupa from giving them about its claims because there are two three groups.
If it is happening in the federation.
One group Limited has been the organizers of being found with great strength.
Why are those group then they are backing Yanga, to answer you in everything?
And the services are not the name from the media.
Because it's only a great body for our father to convince the sponsors.
We were also a message also, executives who have been paid is still being involved in the federation when he went to these new phones, those who had been given a contract with.
It will be able to implement some of the football due to swear that they were given birth through that example, you can you get in Ukawa and that is a threat.
The technical director, Bernard Membe, is a contract that maybe he can have been given a contract of five years.
For the purpose of continuing he is before that sign of a team and other technical issues, Said the ball is now found.
If you will be a step by the fanaticism can we be able to get good teachings what I think we need to make sure you use the ball when we get a little of years for example.
When you are for example the wards, the coach of the national team.
People have been given birth to him below.
That coach has been given a request for you to look in, to answer to me this wife's wife to pay the money and their plans to think up until it fell.
Those are there.
They believe that there is there because he is under the national team, I would like to see them and then I think there is a must you live with Tanzanian coaches.
I think many coaches are not knowing.
We can resolve the other time that Tanzanian coaches must be tired and they think one among the balls are not aware that I will cause it.
If you check the number of masturbation is not high.
Here you can you know the football played here to go.
First, they don't have a work to me, I cannot get that there are two employment opportunities.
They hurt me what does not know about.
Mister he will vote in order for employment as the technical director has that will.
You can find the coach what was quoted by managing the national team of ten years of seven.
She has no reputation.
He insisted that there is a lot of limitations in the elections and the technical director was to look for a long time to know the ball through my leadership because I think we need to take it every day so that we do not want to take every day so that we do not want to take every day so that we can see the director of technical who will make several teams.
He did not know they are taught.
His information is worried about it.
And before that were present?
Why do we be able to look at more administration that we leave politics but I think it is something that we are supposed to look at yourself or join us.
Hayatou, look at these four hours when I go as you look at this scandal, where most of us don't know the church, but we want to build a church but if we want to build the church this time before you follow keenly we consider the best leadership in the federation.
Instead of another will before saying other things of football.
However, I don't know where the mistakes that were set are needed.
You have contributed a lot but maybe I thank you just to be the late.
The report and doing that plan doesn't do a lot of coaches from work together with some of the provinces of work here and to look for then the players and we are able to come up to Shinyanga.
That is in collaboration in one way or another in the process of looking for players.
When the mother was given, maybe so as to be able to show him?
Laughing out as a result of being a technical director that we will continue to continue to implement this issue, there are many players who have been tested from the competition, most of the players who were playing for a long time, will you look for example, most players will play for example in the first league.
Compared to the premier league that makes a lot of Tanzanians, there are some sponsors and there is not knowing the participation but there is a sponsorship.
And the match that will be played when one team plays for many matches compared to the first bridge in which there is no sponsorship and players to play many matches if I think this competition to live if you go to the competition.
Actually, by my feelings?
What do you know here?
It cannot be a must for Jay to be personal videos of this video.
Because they sat at each other in that competition is being organized by the moment we're being prepared by the company which was the late father of the competition to read why.
It's not something that I had gone to I think people but you are required to look at that first before the players who play all pictures will make it make sure you are playing for example, he gives you an example.
One of the clubs here if you ask each other at another time I do not see the big clubs because of being employed in a good example of the song, you find a player she feels there is a lesson that we are doing well after a long time we cannot be from.
She has died here the stand he plays for Nape.
That you can't leave this big clubs also will be drugs to be playing in our clubs now I think or have.
