Ditopile, popularly known as Fukeni MTVEMA.
Kristen 14, 2014.

The content of my article last week was affected by the face of the cause of the Special Constitutional Assembly (SCA) to return its activities in Dodoma city on the fifth of this month and in this article, I have explained the importance of debates that have been taking place here in the country about the process of constitution, while being thrown directly by the media.
I insisted to the importance of that debates, because it is representing the most important culture in democracy, to build a motion, before the issue of debates, we want to discuss more issues, to discuss any argument, so as to discuss better issues, follow keenly, contrary to those issues.
My important message that happened on the face of the ones spoken at the constitutional parliament I explained to him in several issues that I will quote it here below.
"The important issue is that the constitutional situation is being supported by protecting the country how to run for many years to come, there is clear that all power from the citizens like what is led by a human being, then it is clear that they don't know or even with a mistake of helping them to remain in power."
I continued by saying, "and because the government is leading the country on bond of those who seen it, then it does not be responsible for people who have put to power it is through the government when it comes from the government when it comes to do so."
The accident between the content of my article and the first argument being in the special constitutional parliament happened in several times when the beginning of the special constitutional parliament happened in several times when the government started getting views through debates and even to address the television that occurred.
There are those who said that the work of the commission on constitutional changes (TMK) was over, and therefore the delegates of the commission were supposed to discuss any issue that is going on in SCA and those they came out and said that even some of the television that were encouraged to obey them, "it did not be known as the TMK website.
I have been a series of articles on this platform to explain the opportunity of the media in democracy, we decided to make it the way I have tried to build a new constitution as it is in the constitution of the countries that follow the democracy of the kind that we joined.
But we should not think, or we expected to think that in the morning of the process of discussing, improving and passing the second draft of the constitution, which is ready to pass through the proposed constitution that could not be emphasized and the media cannot be informed.
I pray to my thoughts, those in Sakali.
For those who tries to learn the real meaning of democracy, or the meaning of democracy with our meaning, we should be able to see inside the issue and statement of the delegates of BMK great intentions of helping our country to get a constitution that will make it safe for the coming generations.
And the constitution that will keep safe for the coming generations can also be made by representatives who believe in the rights of those who represent the new constitution or prevent the press addressing citizens about the process themselves, they are committed to their private constitution and not for the citizens.
