The killings of their wedding is in South Africa.
December 17, 2014.

On the side of his family's family, Deuogratius Mushi, the family's spokesperson, Virgil Hoja, gave a call to the South African government to investigate those killings.
However, he wanted the rules to follow up in South Africa and also urged the country's police not to remove any person before doing keenly.
On November 25th, his brother to the rules of law, Kabende Debwa, gave a report to the press claiming that his brother he fears being involved with the killing of his wife for the purpose of getting him to the South African government, lack of tourists and lost the national income because of tourism in that country.
And the family's spokesman for the rules of regulations, Antois Van Pluijm, later said to the rules, he is in the treatment of thoughts and he is under the supervision of doctors.
He continued to say that, the rules of regulations is not a suspect in the killings of his wife and the South African police have not moved out in the country.
That statement was supported by the prosecutor of South Africa who in his talks with the media, confirmed that up to that time, the rules and not the accused of the killing of his wife.
December 3, the year 2010, XI was born in front of their lawyer claiming that he had gone to the police and later the lawyer of the law and later the lawyer of the rule of law, South Africa's lawyer, Bilame '.
December 7, at the central court of Western Town, under a special agreement that he took up to the charges of being the winner of the charges against Qadhi Court, Zigamba has claimed that he is Deuogratius Mushi when she was killed by Southampton to South Africa) in order to protect his wife.
Max which seems to be the family's lawyer, Debwa, in his report to the media stations in England on behalf of the rules, Deuogratius Mushi and his family, he said that, the claims that were given by Zillax.
While talking about the instructions that were given by Zekiem 'about the involvement of the rules and killing of his wife, charges against Judge John Hunter, told Judge John Him who was going to see the truth about the killings that they had planned to do.
De Bruine has explained that the court that, Zigamba has made an agreement with the secretary general of the rules and regulations since he was in England that he had to receive the couple when they play at Cape Town Airport who originate from KEC Company.
On Friday, November 12, after the couple registered to land at the Cape Town Airport, Zola, it would take them and take them to the international trade of five star in Cape Town, Grace.
De Bruine has heard that, "after arriving at the hotel, the rules of Debwa, I read it on my friend and asked me if you know anyone who can remove anything.
After speaking with him, I explained to an understanding that he wants his woman to accept it and he said that he will pay an amount of 30,000 dollars. However, he said that he will pay an amount of 30,000 dollars.
After communicating with my friend, we agree that the vehicle will be abducted by the murderers, who was abducted by the murderers, Deuogratius Mushi and I register themselves in that vehicle so that the woman will not accept it. "
In the next day, those players used that day to fall into a swimming dam at a hotel where they lost their families and told them about their development to get married in South Africa.

Too in his explanation he claimed that when he was speaking to the phone and his brothers to Sweden, that's when they met with the rules and responsibilities in order to complete their plan of raging water which they had planned to be done on the night of that day.
Tina claimed that the rule of rules and to the shop for searching for foreign funds for the purpose of change the American dollars that he has had to buy electricity (money) in South Africa).
