
Boko Haram attacked girls.
Some of 276 girls from the schools have succeeded to escape after they were kidnapped by the Boko Haram group and preventing themselves in the area not known as known as Nigeria.
January 20, United Republic of Central Africa (car), Honorable Mayor of Bangladesh, Catherine Saint- Germain will be elected as the first president.
February 18, UKhajida Kopa, the soldiers who are competing with the demonstrators from Europe at the Cristal Arena area, Lungwani Market.
More than 100 people were killed by President Edgar Lungu is swelled to Russia.
May 25th, billionaire who is being supported by the west, Peter Poroshenko, was chosen to take his position.
February 21, Italy, Upendo Nkone, 39, 39, age, is the former prime minister of European Union.
March 8, Malaysia Airplane from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Beijing while they come and got great efforts to look for him, it hasn't been found.
April 14th, Nigeria, 239 girls of schools were abducted in the east of east and making the international community to intervene in efforts to save.
57 girls among them have been unable to escape, but 219 people are still found in Boko, Barsheba I have claimed to be responsible.
On April 16, South Korea's southern highland regions were carrying 476 people, is looking at between 304 people who were students of high school students.
On the 27th of April, the ambassador of Vatican has launched a unique event to take place in the Catholic church, the father of the Almighty Francis, he has announced that Pope John Paul II and John Wanyancha the most respected saints.
May 26-28th of Egypt, former prime minister, Abdelhamid Radnedge, who was chosen to be president, 11 months after the army fired Mohamed Mor.
June 19, Spain's new bishop, Felipa partheid, 46, has succeeded his father Carlos Puyol after being the king of 38 years.
July 8, Israel, Israel and Israel are launching operation in the Gaza region to deal with rocket attacks from Palestina-Shabaab's seven deaths have caused approximately 118 people and they should not depend on more than 70 deaths.
On July 17, 2016: The Malaysia Airplane from Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to rise in the area that is abolished, Ukraine and killing 298 people.
On August 8, South Africa, the World Health Organization (WHO) is making Ebola disease in West Africa as an emergency issue that has raised international fear from December first, more than 6,500 people were died from them, especially Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea who are saying.
Not to mention the 18th of England of England, the voters of Scotland got independence by 553 percent in the voting process that left England to stay, but it gives an opportunity to relocate the authority from London.
On the 26th of September, Mexico was the enthusiasm to be killed by 43 students and cut off the drugs that are accused by the police in the south of the province of Guillermo Otieno.
On the 29th of Afghanistan, Afghanistan who will be sworn in to be the president after three political months.
On October 10, baby Amne Salim who is a girl to shine, November 17, will be the first winner to have ever played for the Nobel Prize, who had been caught together with Lungwani Market, 60 years of India in defending the rights of children.
October 21, South Africa, Oscar Pistorius has been sentenced for five years in prison for returning his lover Reeva Steenkamp, in 2013, his judgment is expected to be looked into afresh following the appeal and it may be added.
- October 14th of October, I have arrested a gun and shot in the central area of Rafa Benitez and Nthepheya.
On October 31, Burkina Faso are a veteran leader of Celine Itatiro was sent away from office after the leading for 27 years after failing to resolve the constitution so that he can continue to be office.
On November 23rd, 2016, a citizen of Tunisia and elect their first president since the year 2011, the changes were avoided.
The second phase has taken place on December 21 out of President, Monbusho Scholarship, and a political leader, Ciara and Essar said that is not 88.
December 15, the senior suspect of Iran will capture 17 people in one acre of Plasmodium falciparum.
