I urge him to continue enjoying life.
Sep 5, 2013.

The process of citizens to give one views to one of the new constitution has been released last week through the district constitution councils that have been supervised by the commission of constitutional changes, together with the free councils that were made up of various institutions.
Private schools participated in the parliamentary debates on the constitution as a member of the Council of the District Council of Kinondoni that took place from August 23 to 25, 2013 in Dar es Salaam city as it was expected, and if it was in the district councils that were made up of 95 percent of our council was made by CCM cadres.
The Council of Kinondoni District, was supposed to have few people with great understanding about the constitution, including the lawyers who are popular as the deputy head of Bagamoyo district, Professor Costa Makulu while there were also a few lawyers of CHADEMA in the council of Kinondoni District as well as appealing for them to give their views to freedom without caring about their party and their stand on the new constitution.
And this is a big difference, I have written between the cadres of CCM and the commanders of CHADEMA, that the cadres were studying in the stand by their party, but the commanders have talked with their thoughts and in some of the issues he went to contrary to the stand of their party.
Bad luck is that together with their large numbers, many cadres of CCM were so cunning, in the issue and they had been unable to sing the issues that they did not understand why there are many involved in every argument, something that I mentioned is to be the aim of this councils.
I had the chairperson of the commission Mzee Joseph Sinde Warioba together for the short time when the leaders were trying to find a matter which does not have any logic, but the weight of the motion is surprised and spoke to anything that is not there.
As it was in other district councils, the big issue that brought the debate is about the structure of the coalition government, and apart from the presence of leadership ethics in the constitution of the United Republic, the cadres of CCM had been accused of singing that the three government system is expensive and is to meet the founders of the union to stop the two governments system.
As well as to be educated on the history of the United Republic and to be assisted to take a dummy check since the system of three government is expensive, but everyone of the leaders they had agreed that ethics of leaders are important, but they should not make the members of the constitution.
When you ask for what they don't have any answer on that it will be able to be the law because the only reason for refusing it is to enable the cadres of CCM and CHADEMA, that a place I could be able to enable the cadres of CCM party, including Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim and Mzee Joseph Butiku.
I told him that most of the people that have ever witnessed the third government system or the party members of CCM or they were appointed by this government of the Revolutionary Party, these are the late chief justice, Francis Khibhisa and now Judge Warioba and now Judge Warioba, who is a famous member of CCM.
I understand what we learned in my debate by the constitution council is that CCM still did not understand why the country gets a high cost, to write a new constitution and we will continue to educate them that a very high level is equal to saying that we have no need for a new constitution.
