These are a lot of insects who does not pollute the party.
28th of 08, 2013.

I have heard that in the past, every votes have a result of every election results.

When you choose a certain candidate against another candidate - it should be inside the party or in the general elections, you have chosen the type of results that are not ready to address them.

Election, then you have the meaning, especially what you want to do what you want to do so that the 2010 election was a elections that has involved the results.

In the members of parliament, it is true that all the members of parliament are supposed to be elected or when they missed him or being elected by one citizens directly or being appointed by the president.

Those chosen to go directly from the constituencies and others in special seats and protecting themselves from their positions after its results.

What should I choose what is in the year 2010?

For those who vote in October 2010, we can ask you well and they do not think about what they got in the polling station when they are confirmed to do?
The chapter of a candidate, his party, its policies or record?

So, they were waiting for votes for more nation or they think they think of their areas and their province only and therefore they were waiting for someone to fight for them only even if it's not paid the nation?

The answer is easy because we believe that the election results were the same as then we can say that most of the votes they elected CCM and his candidates.

These votes were chosen to continue with that administration, with that leadership, the policies that are there.
View that administrative secretaries will enable these people know the administration of CCM and to a large extent they know their candidates.

If you look at the CCM contestants, it was very few who had not unknown because many were already known or inside the parliament ready or not outside different activities.

Therefore, the ones that went to vote for members of parliament were waiting for what they want to know and their results were required to know, otherwise it is a must that we interview these colleagues who are doing what they are doing?

He went to choose their lives for five years and they were preparing to inspect the country to be discussed in the next five years.

Therefore, when we see the members of parliament are doing things that they are doing inside the parliament, and we want parliament to be sold as a cow as a cow as a result of CCM members as they tell them that most of CCM members of CCM were put by who?

When we see someone like Job Ndugai, the deputy speaker, is unable to appreciate the parliament seat and he still continues with his position and he must interview his votes.
What should they think of what he had the ability to lead the village meeting?

We're getting married that is currently starting from Mtwara up to Tabora, Mwanza up to Dodoma, Arusha to Mbeya and every part in the middle is that the election results have begun to be shown.

The Mtwara people who for 50 years have been giving condolences to the CCM members at the moment they decided to go back with their differences which they decided to go back and say it is enough for them because they have discovered that it is enough for electing CCM.
They have told them and they are continuing to see.

But we have seen other things and you can speak about the incident where CCM's member of parliament is collaborating with others to attack the CHADEMA member without considering the administration of the law, it is possible that the member of parliament today is participating in the citizens and his party is being silent?

So, citizens who identified himself as a person or at the time has arrived in Tabora, and there was no longer been unable to send himself as he had gone to him if he had gone to him but he decided to revenge and to sign him down there are people.
They will inform us that the rule of law "and the purpose of" peace, unity and calmness "?

Until now - my work has said that this issue in the past article - are those who were seen as they cause violence in the country.

But we have heard more inside the parliament the day before yesterday, Monday and the opposition members have said that it is enough for you to prevent it and they get them when they witnessed.
Therefore, on Monday is what Nyerere was seen, we have contributed enough amount. "
