The process of the constitution and skills of CCM.
Toworks and 03 / 2013.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is a political party with experience to rule for a long time in Africa fined many parties.
I think the second time in that continent is the same way it has touched Yesufu, Liberty, Old Trafford stadium, which started falling on Angola, since the country was given his freedom with Tottenham in the year 1975.
This summer is not a lot of time, corruption, but also the competence of its own kind and cause violence on corruption, although there is a knee injury.
Truly that corruption are corruption, but if we will place in the port, we will see that the main leaders in the country have changed their colleagues of CCM on corruption.
Although CCM was made in the year 1977 it was sponsored by Tanganyika Union Union (Tanu) and Afrima party (ASP) and for sure it has had experience to rule since the Tanganyika got independence every year and to rule the administration to be given by Tanaka.
ASP continues to rule since there were injured after the overthrowing of Zanzibar.
During the time of the era of one party, CCM was not yet known by Kilimba.
There was no need to protect themselves outside the party and even if he would like you want you to talk about.
Inside the party listening to Mwalimu Julius Nyerere alone at the time of his life.
Or the party does not be involved in official opposition in the country because it was banned, even inside the opposition party or the conflict of any kind, it was not stolen.
The ones that were going against the party policies or those who put the policies are not only enemies to the party but also to the nation, in short time, the opponents were quoted as a traitors or a leader of their country.
On a certain level, the concept until today is still some of the top leaders of that party.
These days there are other parties, another call and other institutions to ask ourselves.
However, the way I received numerous goals in CCM, has his competence of its kind, it has its kind that will enable them to make sure that you get involved in addition to continuing to deal with power.
To attain this goal that CCM is trying to use some of the ones that are used by the army in Angola because it is clear that the leaders of CCM have a lot to learn from the concerned leaders on how to go to power.
According to the main leaders of CCM, they have nominated CCM members and more that Angola that this day has a lot of political parties.
The leaders of the scene have been able to appeal to those of CCM because the opposition parties of Angola are so cunning, it's not a big offence in the scene of the concerned parties, therefore, it is so cunning, so he has been using abusive language and difficult decisions to destroy the strength.
Surprising thing and maybe the fact that there is a result of the top leaders of CCM is how the armed leaders can be in power for a long time, others since 1975.
Joseline Itatiro was still the president since he won the power in September 21, 1979, ten days and one after the death of Fernandinho equalized the first president of that country.
In Tanzania despite the opposition party member of the Party of Democracy and Development (CUF) in Tanzania Mainland and the Citizens Party (CUF) Zanzibar - CCM has prepared himself well to combat the fights that are in the country without knowing that it is making sure.
A good example is the game that was played by the cadres together with other followers of CCM in the urban planning councils of Unguja and I believe "the game" because the members of CCM played.
I did not know in Pemba Island is others but here in Unguja, they shows openly that CCM / Zanzibar has prepared himself to play their game during the launching of the new constitution that was launched on June 3 by the Vice President of Tanzania, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal.
There is one thing that is evident in the regions of Unguja and the constitutional reforms where the commission of constitutional changes received the opinions of the delegates of those councils who were chosen by the citizens.
It's not only that but they are heard openly singing their songs one of the structure of a union, I wish you a two-government structure as it is now.
Here in Unguja, it is a few delegates that deals with the structure of the Federation of three governments as well as a few people who joined the union.
Listen to me, the delegates who wanted the two governments have been giving different issues, that can't be avoided, even with the statements they are seen reading from CCM concerning the issue.
Earlier, for now, they can be able to know if the CCM's way will be successful later or not because after the completion of the meetings of the constitution councils of September 2nd this year, they will face two other steps to be released before the coming of the new constitution.
