
Rose Ndauka (standing) of internal affairs handing over a certificate to be taken to a hotel.

Rose Muhando (Aisha Mashimba, Aisha Bui, can be careful when I will answer I will look at one Hotel which is located in Kinondoni in Dar es Salaam city because she was told it's going to take the sixth commandment with the star of Bongo Fleva Nassoro, Ayoub Nyenzi.
Rose, who was released last year and given the name withheld, after being engaged to musician's camera in the group of TG Club, Malik Bandawe, was sent by a camera of the residents of the neighborhood and that hotel at the end of the last week.

Think of the incident claimed that at few days in a few minutes, a type of Toyota Mark BX the black one was arriving at the hotel's suburbs and ended up for approximately 10 minutes then it was removed and brought down in another area where it was a short distance from a hotel in the city.

That act explained to fear among the people especially due to the conditions of that vehicle being United and therefore they are not involved the ones who were present inside.

"The shivered by the slaughterhouse where they decided to go down so that we should know who are women.

"After a long time, a driver that was aired live is little, that we look at a small thing that comes with Diamond while he gets when he did in his edge.

"We were the agenda when we met with Mnyamwezi has decided to end his things inside the vehicle, therefore we are directed to see our phones by the way to witness," said Winnie.

After a short time, the right time was opened and they put a small thought by the name Nasir.

"If he was not Diamond, he was a small Nasima of the bus and given an eye on the eye, we did not see Rose Ndauka, while doing clothes and later on it.

I think it did so that people should narrate to them when he went to remain in the vehicle when he was arriving at a vehicle when he was arriving, they met a small businessman Naima at a fast speed up inside.

"From when they went into the field until when they taken them three hours when they taken them to three hours and then Rose Muhando was following the vehicle for a short time and then Rose went into and moved to," the whole of them was told the source.
