
Dar es Salaam.

It has been written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) has started implementing the plan of expansion and improvement of the port of Kigoma in the small port of Kibangu.
The Municipality of Kigoma and urban planning after the plan passed for two years now.

While giving a report to the journalists today, the head of Kigoma district, Samson Majwala has said that TPA has started implementing the plan by breaking business equipment in the small port of Kibangu river after the business people of the area to be paid for a long time but they were able to leave and open a payment of compensation.
He has said that the high court in Tabora region gave judgment on October 11 this year to give the victory to TPA to continue with the implementation of its plans after business people have not paid taxes, thus removing the objection.
He has said that business people were not ready to be implemented in that program but some of them after taking money for payment of compensation they were given to continue to be given those payments, thus opening a case to oppose the plan to continue until their claims will be done.
"The court has explained that because business people had already taken money and should not fear the project to be implemented, the court has decided to continue to be implemented in that project and claims of payment of payments will continue while the project continues to be implemented," said Civil Aviation.
Some of the business people who talked with this newspaper said they should not understand the TPA to continue with that project as a result of taking payments for compensation and that they want it is an increase in payment of compensation to the acceptable levels.
One of the business people that has denied the death of his business in that area being the head of goods to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Burundi, the valley of the project when they already made payments for compensation to their areas.
