
Veteran politicians, stop misleading the source of the union on May 30th, 2012.

In the second part of this article last week, we saw how big African nations in the reason of America and England on one side, and the East African side, because of Russia and China on the second side, they were taken to capture the politics of Zanzibar after the revolution of January 12, there were injured.
We saw how America, through the intelligence organization (CIA) continues to control of Zanzibar to get to the East African Community and the military activists in that country being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported and given strength by the Communist Party in that province being supported by being given strength by the
We saw how after that revolution, China turned out as a donation, billions of money and weapons of heavy rains, big and stern warning to the new government of Revolution, while the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Abdulrahman Mohamed Babu, requested stakeholders to be keen in Christianity, in the islands and East Africa as a whole.
In order to avoid Zanzibar to get to the East African camp (Ukara), those days of cold drinks, America lost two strategies after the establishment of the Confederation of East African countries, where that country would not also be satisfied by the European Union to rule Zanzibar, as an effort to form the federation.
We saw how the country's Minister of Security (Security) of America, DealRusimbi, as he led the efforts to prevent a crowd of "they won" in the islands of involving ambassadors of his country, Tanganyika, Uganda and Kenya together with the authorities of those countries.
The evidence of these processes are following the old fact that the United Republic of Tanzania was followed keenly (without blood), where it is alleged to be misleading that the Tanganyika president, Julius Kambarage Nyerere was unable to agree with Mwalimu Nyerere to be the president of that union.

This concept is to deal with the fact that, a few weeks after the overthrowing of January 12, there were the deputy minister and member of the executive committee of the ruling party of "Tanganyika African Union" (Tanu), to convince the union of the union of foreign affairs and security, Oscar Asenga, and Miss Tumaini Mohamed, the deputy minister and member of the executive committee of the ruling party of "Tanganyika African Union" (Tanu), to convince the United Nations.
However, the second message that involve the Tanganyika ministers, Tike Said, were given to Job Ndugai, on the 9th of February, there was not able to sell his thoughts while the issue of the union was going to Zanzibar to submit the message of Nyerere on that day.
Still already he has not been given an explanation and it's because Mwalimu Nyerere, only one year before Uhuru of Tanganyika, he said that if he had the ability to fly him (Zanzibar) in the middle of the Indian Ocean, he was playing so without hesitation?
This means that the fear of Nyerere on Zanzibar since the beginning of that, one of the biggest problems in Tanganyika for many years would have been said to be said since the era of slavery that, "Zanzibar will get health," this is not true until today that Zanzibar does not come out to Tanzania mainland and the coalition in Tanzania.
So, let us talk about that the union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar on the middle of cold drinks between the Western nations and the East African countries, it was a place of Mwalimu Nyerere, to the Island of Zanzibar.
"Thank me your head until today?

On April 1, there were also the American ambassador (in the United States) in Zanzibar, Frank Cargo, that he requested for his government to discuss how to participate in the islands of Zanzibar.
He said Mrs Asha "when it is our responsibility and for our benefits to make a campaign against (Abdurahman), I would have proposed that TFF would have been involved in large numbers, therefore the advisers of diplomats in Zanzibar will benefit the international community also.

A question that was asked by many, it's why you were waiting for a bit like Zanzibar getting married by the foreign force, while already there was a big police force in America but by doing so, it was not a threat to America and England's policies.
At the same time, Minister DealRusimbi, has been made to start being patient together with its English partners as he wanted to be aired by the British ambassador in London town saying that, "we have already been aired by our country, but in Zanzibar, there is another thing that we are unable to know why the British are unable to know it."
Dealdine Soulaimane I advise that if England was not ready for an attack, America will support its army men and once they prepare well without doubt in England it will see a shame and join that attack.
In March 30th, there were only a statement to Dealdine Soulaimane, he advised America to sign him a great gift, "said Mrs Salma," we believe in Karume, a big gift that will involve him and therefore makes us take this decision and more keen. "
However, England continued to be silent about the plans of the United States, maybe by waiting for the results of the heads of countries of Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika about the purchase of East African Federation, that were planned to take place on April 10, 2016.
Talks of those senior leaders broke down without getting the right time of the federation, there was no symptoms of the possibility of those talks being taken.
On April 18, 2014, Oscar Asenga has told the United States ambassador to Tanganyika after the plan of joining Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
And the writer is not in Washington as we follow it, "what is happening in Zanzibar town, I will not be allowed to return to Zanzibar. However, Zanzibar could not be allowed to return to Zanzibar.
The decision by joining Tanganyika and Zanzibar, was followed when a grandfather was in Indonesia where before leaving the United States they agreed that, the issue of the union should be discussed because they had the famous winger from United States of England Honorable Kassim Hanga when he met the union, Babu Tale and Karume opposed the accused of those two rocks.
There are explanations which have been confirmed that, Babu went up more by bringing a lawyer from Tanganyika to defend his motion that, under the government of the United Republic, Zanzibar would be directed by Tanganyika and because this union had never been able to bring about the concept of Zanzibar.
If you fly us saying, "we must take this step quickly, if you go through the attempt to kill a grandfather, Rashid and his followers to change them, they can bring down the violence and violence that can destroy the war."
While responding to the report of the media, Deputy Minister of United States of America, George Simbachawene said, "America is giving all the blessings and is supporting Tanzania's efforts by the federation or United Republic of Zanzibar, which will be required to make sure that the level of aid in America will be required to see for April 20, there are still need to see on 20th April there.
Again he insisted, "it is important therefore, he has been advised to start doing the request for the donation that he will need from us to avoid the fact that America have directed the union, or that we want to buy power."
The Deputy Minister, George Lwandamina, continued to marry an ambassador to save saying, "together with that, if it will be able to volunteer in the following so as to fulfill our goals, they can be able to do so, so as to achieve our goals, they can be done by LHC which will involve the chairmanship of unity (coalition) of Tanganyika and Zanzibar who will face the chairmanship of unity (coalition) of Tanganyika and Zanzibar who will face the commission of unity (coalition) of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
Secondly, some of the American government plans to support all the short-term efforts to the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, are advised that the American government is ready to think about any request for the support. "
As days passed through the union, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue gave the work of giving a report in Washington about events of every day on April 20, 2014, he sent a hard report of the final events of the week is as required.
"(A), he left the go to Tabora and Kigoma on April 18, in the evening a few hours later, that was issued to the Lake Tanganyika International Airport (EAGI) if this step is out of the Tanganyika Union or within the government so as to destroy the union.
"(B) Karume, in Dar es Salaam city alone on April 18, afternoon at the Tanganyika Government Airport in Zanzibar to take them, Karume was found in Dar es Salaam on April 19.
"(C) Kambona, came back to Dar es Salaam city on April 19, one day before it was expected and he told the journalists at the Airport that Nyerere called him.
"(D) of stopping the arrest of 300 police officers in Zanzibar that was issued later on April 19, 2013, he has said he will serve later the meeting as soon as possible."
Here it should be known that, the end of the resignation of the 300 police officers in Zanzibar, was following the end of the Julius Nyerere International Airport, where the first he refused and Nyerere wanted to end the attack in Karume Memorial Stadium with his rivals.
Few days later, however, the famous news reporter of English, Columbus said that after being unable to the East African Federation (EAGI), he abandoned his efforts in a free union, between Tanganyika and Zanzibar, she doesn't know her.
Legendary report said, "the step (Nyerere) of the first was on April 11, there were only a penalty that was received by Nyerere to make talks with Nyerere so as to protect his position.
Here, maybe the new report raised the date on April 11, was the last day for talks about the Federation in Nairobi, and Karume was in Zanzibar but may be heard on April 18, as it was shown in the report of the ambassador to save.

On April 21, Carmel of Arusha, gave a statement in Washington saying, "the veteran leaders have told Karume that the American government and the England government are friends who have helped a lot in Zanzibar on the past, and therefore he has decided to give an opportunity to the government in the past, and therefore he has decided to give an opportunity to the government in the previous days.

He continued to say, "use of these diseases have said, Karume has been happy for the gift of the buildings' project, hexachlorophene, hexachlorophene, mercury, Kaizerege and in the right time to give more donations to the government of Zanzibar when the request of the child (America) is an indication that he has a great faith in the American government."
Up to that, Karume was a resident magistrate of Nyerere to remove 300 police in protecting the peace of Zanzibar when it's enough for him to accept the union, while the United States hope to be taught.
So, it's because these reasons tried to sign up the certificate of the union's agreement on April 22, there were only one kind of the union that was intended?
