
The premier league is Uli Mtebe, 1st, 2012.

Starting on Saturday this week, the Tanzania Mainland Premier League starts its second round in the final match between African Lyon and Yanga on Saturday and Sunday the Simba will face Majimaji of Songea in Dar es Salaam city.
It is clear that the first round of our premier league will be to die because after 11 matches for every team, the league will also been closed, different from the 20 teams in which one match has 19 matches for every team.
In that number of matches, there are enough opportunity for the team asking themselves well to make their different goals as to win the championship, to get the representative of the international competition and remain in the concerned bridge.

I am looking at that round, I see a difficult time for the defending champions Yanga and the league leaders, Simba.
It is clear that the teams will have a difficult time to get three points in the match that they will play against other teams while they play for each one to get the victory against his fellow team in their match on Sunday, March 14th, 2010 or Sunday April 6th, 2010.

Remember that now we are heading to getting the coach of the national team to inherit the Brazilian Marcio Maximo, the signing of his work contract in July this year.
It is clear that Civil Aviation Authority (it is not all) to be patriotic as they are known as usual, it is the only one who loves his country with great ability, so that they can get an eye on the success of the coaching position in the country to teach the national team.
I believe all they know that together with the charts at the purpose of enabling them not to cause Simba and Yanga, which are big teams in the country and those affected by foreign coaches with great ability, there will increase the charts.

After getting the coach the owner of the Magogoni ferry, Yanga has changed very much and now plays friendly soccer, for getting the victory of environmental degradation and not for instance, causing a letter from the efforts and private plans for players.
There is no a Tanzanian who has a good example of understanding each other, he doesn't know that Yanga is very high, even if he did not qualify for that team.
Change there to Yanga, together with the argument that deals with foreign coaches that is believed that, where Yanga and Simba on all days are forced to get a draw, then people will see you in a draw, then people will see you in a draw, then people will see you in a draw.

A good example of that situation was played in the 2007 / 08 season of the Premier League.
Coastal Union played on Yanga and Simba at Mkwakwani in Tanga and was given seven points against Simba in the repeat match with the prosecutor of Msimbazi, they played them against 2-1, due to Simba to have Juma Nyanga, who had already completed the penalty he was given for Ashanti United of Ilala, Dar es Salaam.
Despite getting nine points out of the 12 of Yanga and Simba, Coastal Union moved to the bridge just like the efforts that they did to play with Yanga and Simba would like to fight the bridge but they would have been playing for the top position but they had been to contest for the top position.

More than Yanga being attacked as Yanga through his popularity, now I will be attacked because it has a professional coach that plays professional soccer and therefore there is faith that he will not be avoided.
Now another team will see that scoring for Yanga is to get the right place because it will be scored a big team of Yanga and more it will be scored Yanga with a high standard soccer.

Kitegu has congratulated the management of another team for Yanga is a statement of some of its players that can be avoided if they are now good and they will win all teams.
In those statements, every team will be true that I will play with Yanga so that it will take care of this results against the statements of those players.
Therefore, the matches involving Yanga in this round will be very big because Yanga is currently involved with the victory of its players at the field where they were able to get a good guide.
I am happy, if the opposition team will lead in one goal at the field against Yanga, while the minutes come to any other, then the 'men will continue to vote their soccer club to look for a goal goal and the one to win.
Another question I think it is that after some of the fans of Yanga to build, in great mistakes, he said that their team will continue to see their team getting a draw, do not see it, while soccer has a draw of winning, a draw and fail?

Simba will be attacked by another first team, it has a great name in the country as Yanga and the second will be attacked so as to end the first round of that league by winning all matches.
Every team will fight with them with strength so that it can be a record for being the first team against Simba in the premier league this season, most of them should be heard because they need to win seven matches in the second round so that they can be able to win against Simba on the championship?

Basically, as just like Yanga and other teams, the match for Simba and other teams will be sexual excitement due to the donation where Simba were given out with Yanga at the Tusker beer competition that had been given this season even them (Simba) are only back.
As a result of that truth, it has made Simba to prepare well in this league of the league and therefore is expected to play well in this league with their opponents being launched by Yanga that even Simba continues in this season.
Therefore, his matches will be sexual excitement then I call him for Simba, her fans who do a lot of win because it takes only a team to win this season in the premier league at the end of this season in the premier league.

On their part, Yanga and Simba, their statements are helping their colleagues to prepare well in this round. Yanga is giving them to ensure that Simba did not get the championship despite the remaining points, it cautioned Simba to be careful so as to explain them.
Simba also says that Yanga will get to take the championship and it will be able to contest for the second position, enabling Yanga to fight the truth and on the right time so that he can defend his championship and basically the long time old rivals are marrying each other.

Azam FEST has been second right now, it has a chance to do well in this league because this team has good plans and is very important.
Because we are looking at a lot of Yanga and Simba, we believe that Simba became the coach Yanga and no because Azam can be technical and leadership, Simba became the champions if everything will go to justice.
Simba does not tell you, we should not think about Yanga in the first position, when Azam can take care of that opportunity because they are very good like that I have revealed that no problem has been attacked.
Despite that fact, I will not get a big position of Yanga championship if Simba led the championship to explain the championship is saying.

Mtibwa Sugar with a difference of 14 points and the leaders of that league, they can do a big issue like to take the championship or take a second position because they have a lot of experience in this league and all the years it begins as the league continues.
It's not the ease of respect the league at this time and often time this time we are collecting many points and cause conflicts between the championship or the second win, that league will end.
This is a team with big talents in every department and those playing soccer with their team is the status of the country's championship and therefore the players aim to target there in their plans of the field.
Mtibwa is a team known as well as Yanga and Simba and therefore, different from another team, it does not have a lot of time to kill them without favoring any team when it played with those teams.
If Azam, I will talk about that if Yanga and Simba will have the ability of soccer, Mtibwa does not have a problem of being attacked by another team.

It is open Majimaji of Songea, JKT Ruvu, Coast, Manyema, Dar es Salaam and Kagera Sugar of Bukoba will go back for two things out of looking for championship which I believe there is no among them who will be even if soccer has many factors.
The first issue is to vie for the second position for international representation and under them, Kagera Sugar with 12 points to get the position since he has lost nine points only and the second team is currently in the league standings.
Second is fighting to remain in the central premier league between them, Majimaji, has opened three days from below, Prisons of Mbeya, with 11 points only here in the city and that it is Majimaji, it will be Prisons soccer with those points and not against him.
Take the experience of Prisons in the premier league and their plans for it will see that they have the ability to improve the bridge.

Moro United, Prisons, African Lyon and Toto African have planned to avoid getting a bridge and all of them have shown that they will face the Premier League.
If all will avoid the disaster as a result of planning well that they are planning through a small registration and improving their technical bench because the team will participate in this season?
Itonya from African Lyon as an example of how these teams want to sit with this team in Temeke district, Dar es Salaam, through short period of registration has been built like Simba and Vincent Kigosi, a free player from Simba and Vincent Kigosi, an expert from Yanga and called a player, "Master Jay '.
The coach who has great skills and these players are used from famous teams as together with the youth with great talents like Mbwana Samatta, I believe it will not be read from the bridge and who are usually avoided, instead of them, it's the examinations.

But each one of all teams that are available in the premier league will enable its goals as its view that will win all matches and not to stop Yanga and Simba only.
If I have ever released on this column, you can uplift Yanga and Simba and they are still going back and to be defeated and also the matches that made them see some of your players so they can use a match against Yanga or Simba to look for the reputation.
When you receive the matches of winning in the country to get you, instead of being able to win all matches, if you are in the area of getting a bridge, you must have an average of one bridge.

I wish you all good joy in the last round of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League this season, while I thank me of doing well in the memory of your players who do not play several matches for a penalty so that you do not win if you win up to all his efforts.
I also request that the rains that tried to spread in any final match on March 27, 2010 or any date of April if the schedule has been changed.
I request that so as to take the last results that you want to make that match the following day.

If it comes from that I will request two things, first, the match to break it should not be of relation to the championship, the second win or not less than the second half, I will request again if we start on November up to May, we have refused because we start on November up to May, we have been unable to do on this season.
