
How has been able to deal with Thehabari.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
The Ugandan representatives from MTVs) have been accused of using the mistakes that the authority was given by the constitution that they have sent away Islamic militants.
According to the member of parliament of Rutihinda, Nicholas Kay, said that the law will be improved so as to involved the citizens in sending away the governor.
According to Mister Gumbo, the law has started being detained by the banks though it is difficult for the citizens to kick the parliamentarians or MTVs who have been unable to implement the responsibilities.
"Section of the draft constitution should be allowed to be careful so as to prevent AIDS virus to use it completely to kick the estates," he says.
Some of the governors who have already answered that law is the governors of Martin Nyanga, he removed from Eastleigh neighborhood, Professor Paul Matandiko and Chonya about an interview with the deputy governor of Muembe Makundi Ward, Professor Paul Makandege.
The Governor of Emosquito, Mister Pengo, has been expelled from two seasons and MTVs, he from the Senate but he went back again following the order of the court.
The shame of Professor Shumbusho is going on while MTVs have presented their request to the Senate.
And Professor Chesensi Gmwaijonga has expressed his skill of looking for the Senate to raise us on the claims against him.
The Senate's committee that was led by Dixon Busagaga of Chris Brown was posting those allegations while saying that the evidence made by the parliamentary candidate, he said that he was not enough to send the governor China.
And Mister Kiango, had survived after the shivered after the Senate came out on the claims of MTVs.
Kiango, got a copy of the 17 goals out of the 25 that were in the Senate's vote to oppose the argument of wanting, he was sacked.
Other revolutionaries of those who have been expelled and MTVs is the governor of Bushiri Sospeter Muhongo (Iloha), Doctor Evans Meogo (Iloha), Doctor Evans Gogo (RTO) and Nkugwa Eliona.
On October, MTVs of Busquets was forced to send a governor and have been blessed with if he would have given the Capital Development Bank.
Monsigade of Trambalu High School led by the deputy speaker David Moyes was given two months ago he defeated Mister Kemba together with his cabinet of ministers on claims of being involved in corruption.
The representatives of he claimed that Manumba has already changed the governor.
MTVs of the Kiango, on October, saw their governor, Kabogo, to obey the Senator saying that she can be treated.
The execution of the implementation of the constitution (KCC) has warned threats of chased the demonstrators from time to time is a threat in the market where you should not overlap.
The chairman of the group C Charles Nyong'o has said that though in C) it is not a lot of misunderstanding between the banks and MTVs are not supposed to do that affects their own benefit.
"This year, there have been many cases of MTVs to oust Islamic militants, that is causing the aim of looking at inside here in the country MTVs who are using the authority they have with their own benefit," says Mister Nyami.
