
It is difficult to believe the government through Doctor Uluguru Mlabu 16, 2012.

For another time, the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has given a heavy accusations against the Department of National Security (ASP), this journey was alleged to be some of the leaders of that institution who are a plan to kill some of the leaders of CHADEMA.
It will be remembered that during the process of the last general election, CHADEMA also accused the department that it was disrupting the party, allegations that made the deputy executive director of the ministry, Jack Kabigiri.
These allegations of CHADEMA have been a few days after the surprising incident that was painful to the leader of the union of doctors, Doctor Steven Mwageni who was abducted and finally being affected by people "unidentified people," in an event that made President Jakaya Kikwete talking about that issue in his speech to the nation recently.
But approximately everyone who follow keenly, that issue can join me, although the speech by President Kikwete has helped in a certain way to show that his government has been touched (because of his disappointment with the incident, to a large extent not to eliminate the thoughts that there are support of the government.

Private, I have identified himself for a long time, that event has been placed as possible by Doctor.
There was a series of articles for my own articles (TIN), in the relevant article with the news reporter, "we who represented President Kikwete that the government depends on that incident.

In addition, I have explained that although there are times a government through state organs can use threats and even great strength to ensure that the government of President Kikwete would have been ready to enter themselves in prayers and put him the leader of doctors so that they can help doctors to be taught.

I have noted that because I believe that the government understands that you are doing a lot, Doctor there was a bomb that would not affect the specialist doctors in the country.
The second concept is that there was doubt against the government and basically the concept is unacceptable, and maybe there are people with strength and some of the money "that have done that brutal act against Doctor Kizza Byanyima came in that party, especially concerning the presidential race in the year 2015.
That there are corrupt people that are able to place those funds, "the private sector" or "the truth," it is a thing that is possible, what is possible, what is possible, what is possible, what is evident, it is the analysis of losses and benefits of the concerned act (Coast).
Recently, if the corrupt who were kidnapped by Doctor Raqqa, then the government of Kikwete was accompanied by the corrupt people they will get the right time to see how the government is usually given the blame from it.
The third concept, and a private one I have a great weight, it is the presence of what is was known in the English language, "the registrar of state institutions who are doing their work contrary to the procedures and law," in a broad way.

The end of the last concept can be faced with injuries and the second because what I was known, "that is the civil servants who use their skills to implement the requirements, but the corrupt people who gave them money for a special work."

In that article of mind, I have explained that it is clear that media houses were already followed Doctor Ulbrahim and other coordinators of the strike of doctors. It's not a question because it is a normal institution "to security people not to go back home, everyone or a group that depends on well.

Now, by considering the concept of "couples, they shouldn't jump," it is possible that the executives who were given that responsibility they decided to use the "o'clock and it should be.
(No one, it is not like that of the statement by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, after the old Taarab group, he used to advise Doctor Pindi Chana to tell you, who believes that they destroy the doctors to destroy the doctors.
That is after failing to fail, they decided to use the afflictions of a high speed (in the legal language "third in cinemas' and professionally).
Why I have decided to believe about the conflict, we have witnessed several events in the past, I believe many of the readers know if you remember the incident of a vibrant journalist and the editor of the magazine MwanaHalisi was mentioned to be the employer.
I don't know the case he will end, but the basis of here is that it sent a certain kind of kind to the institution especially because it never got the officer (on the meaning of saying it was not found, "he said.
It will also be remembered that the Minister for Transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has ever explained that the Department of Transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has ever explained that the Department of National Security had a plan of killing him as it was in the event of Kubenea that brought together someone that was mentioned to be the national security officer, that department never denied those allegations.

When you go back on the accusations of CHADEMA against him, I am glad to believe that if there is a fact in those allegations, then it will be the same, "I believe there are inside that private institution.
I know this cannot get involved in those involved, but there is an issue that if you put aside the institution is operated as a security unit of CCM one of the major reasons facing the institution is employment without considering, "call" and "talent.
Anywhere in the world, security officers are supposed to have more than normal people "because of having a high speed and the ability of the high standard in every corner of their mental health and that is the basis of the word yeboyebo here.

Now we are looking for our children, brothers or our brothers to be involved in a good institution like that, "there are other interests," we are putting me in our country.
I request that it should be true that we are going on in our country for now, as a result of challenges that is going on in that department for development and development of any nation in the world.
Now if we have security officers in the Central Bank (BoT) but still the corruption committee will succeed, and if it comes at work at 24 hours, but there are people who have managed to purchase billions of dollars and follow it in Switzerland, then it is clear that the department is needed.
And if we agree that there is a big possibility in that institution because CHADEMA should not believe that the department has a great plan, then you are supposed to believe that, if those information is true, then it's true, then the results are very important.

You know, when it reached a place, the National Security Officer has seen its reputation to announce his position to the bar so as to ensure that he is not happy, or the senior leader of that institution is very clear, then it is clear, there is open for extra work to rectify the trend of that high level.
I believe that there are those who will get information (and maybe I advise that every right is an appropriate time to my work "but I believe that every country's security officer failed to see our country being used by CHADEMA but also in the end, the tax can enable our interests because our security will say 'it is enough."

We expect to reach a place where you missed the importance of having an institution of "creates thinking" which despite being afraid of many (if I believe there are people who are not fear) being unable to control numerous promises that are done against our country and our colleagues in using their power.
I have decided to finish this article by giving priority to the department that difficult questions have not been taxed by CHADEMA in accordance with the general elections and maybe the department at large is carelessness of reading during times.

And every human being to be inside that institution or normal citizen is supposed to oppose all the signs of wanting to build our country to be "Mafia District.
(That is a dollar that every Tom, Dimwa, popularly known as fools should face the ones that are fighting for human rights like those leaders of CHADEMA who are claiming to be approved, "the Bible say that she will fall down," the Bible say it deserves to be reached.
