
England has given a list of the premier league, I don't know what I don't know.
At the middle of last week, the England Football Federation, FA, announced the preparation of the premier league soccer in the country for the 2016 / 17 season that will start to kick off in August 13th 2016 and end on May 21st, 2017.
That is the 25th season of that league since it was started in the year 1992.
The announcement of the schedule has taken place as the end of the 2015 / 16 season that started on August 8, 2015, and ended on May 15, 2016.
Likewise, the announcement of that league program is an average of one month since the end of the season's league by enabling Leicester City that won the championship after 50 years of contesting for championship and since the establishment of that club.
At the same time, at the schedule, it's not looking at different things like the responsibilities of the national team, the responsibilities of its seven clubs that are participating in the European Champions League and the Europa League is being represented by three teams.
The announcement of that schedule is an illustration that it will be looking for many things because they are involving 20 teams that will play for eight months.
Now, why I ask TFF if they have seen the schedule, everyone would be understand the problem of the technical committee of TFF, it is possible even if a period of the schedule did, and for now everyone is working hard to be held over by Yanga soccer club.
It is known that every party has its administration and its procedure as well as the associations of soccer in the country, but our country has been normal to provide a schedule in one week before the league started, a step that causes some of the teams to prepare.
Jihadists Tanzania is known, it is required to be given, if you were identified, if it has come out, if it has been used to improve it, but otherwise it will not be completed.
I have been asked so much that, our teams are 16, England have 20 teams and they have already paid the schedule, now who was supposed to announce the schedule, TFF or FA?
There and then, it will be able to join TFF to run a match ahead, or after advertising, only one week later you changed again and they don't know what they are not happy and do not know, that is no answers.
After the league ended, the complaints by coaches, players and soccer stakeholders is an issue of referees as well as swords, a situation that made them to plan for a long time given is that TFF and his committee plans to make sure that you finish his match.
For example, the Lake Region has a lot of teams in the premier league, now it is good for TFF to sit down or check the other.
Those costs that are following up are that, the team can go to play and Kagera later it will leave then after one week, it is forced to play with Toto African, it will leave that, it will return to the region to play with Stand United, the truth that it will help the team although it is hard.
I don't know if it is a problem or not, but what is needed is for TFF to check the way to end that problem, because it remains to cause a lot of clubs although it is a challenge.
Another thing that I have seen, TFF if it is unable to go down and speed up to someone to provide a lesson to the TFF leaders especially the technical committee to ensure the things are going on if they were planned.
The 16 teams are open, it will be easy to look at the league matches which are the ones who can destroy the league standings, to look for the national team's matches by checking the FIFA team and another side, our teams are two, Yanga and Azam to participate in international.
TFF is required to prepare well more than one thing, for a long time, which is seen now is like they don't have a new.
I believe that TFF has the ability to release his schedule early, again that was completed without stopping.
TFF and his committee must be able to sit and prepare themselves, to fail to provide a schedule early, it is clear that some of the executives are unable to move at the pace of TFF.
Why is the schedule of 20 teams coming out early and our team has 16 teams, what is waiting for?
As I said, the team should know where it's going on early, it's good than waiting for the last minutes or two weeks before the schedule has been released and it is being viewed as your journey, you should get your journey to you.
