
What does it is not for the offense, what causes the sin?
APR of 03 / 2014.

In my recent articles now I have repeated my previous argument that the process of the constitution was given, they are struggling to continue with them because of that offense.
Every time we get a chance to look at what is happening at the constitutional parliament we can see that there is something that is not correct.
I request to select the reader of the reader that she was doing is a big offence and they still continues with that offense.
There are a lot of mistakes that have been done in starting this new constitution of a new constitution, a mistake that already I have not met in the past, even so, these crimes are seen in front of the politicians.
This can be very true because politicians themselves as the cause of those mistakes and therefore for them to accept those mistakes, get to the branch where they get married.
However, I urge you to advise you to look at two major mistakes which I have shown in the past, can cause the process of the new constitution that had gone down.
The first offense is to fill the members of parliament in the constitutional parliament and the second reason to fill the politicians in that parliament and the decision to unite members of parliament and the delegates of parliament of the constitutional assembly is a good decision of not knowing more than three months in the constitutional parliament, it is a good thing.

I don't know that when he is thinking about it when he depends on this time even if he was asked for a way to give birth to friends, relatives and representatives to work with him because it is possible for the members of parliament and representatives to do other activities especially because they are required to prepare for the budget issues.
This is true because currently there was a parliamentary session in April this year but in this period of the constitutional parliament I don't know if that parliament can meet.
That one of us was surprised a lot and see it is a good thing that ministers should be delegates of the constitutional parliament and right now if people are happy and will see that President Jakaya Kikwete has gone to England and ministers who are delegates of the constitutional parliament.
This we saw that in other political activities in the country, we see the members of parliament who are required to be on the constitutional parliament he has already left and went to other activities or political parties.

His results is impossible to have a representative of 100 percent of members of parliament in the constitutional parliament.
The speech by President Kikwete found many people but for anyone who is getting time to view that parliament is easy to see how many people do not get to parliament.
The second offense was that I have narrated how he went to politicians in that parliament.
If you see politicians who are members of parliament of the constitution, he also mentioned other people who are politicians in their profession and as members of parliament, they have been part of the problem.
I don't know it was a thought of who again - it is possible that the person who were able to get more politicians in the instrument they were caught up with politicians.
Its results are that we are witnessing bad politics and dirty and attractive, even if the ones that are done in the ordinary parliament, there are people who are supposed to avoid noise, conflicts, food and other people who know their politics?
That is, inside Christopher Mtibua and if he is John Mnyika, inside, Tundu Lissu as he is, Mwigulu Nchemba, or Livingstone Lusinde who is believed that there will be security like that parliament has Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, then it is why God bless Lema?
Now if you see you can see that the group of the delegates failed, maybe it was left to give all leaders of the constitutional parliament and not these politicians!

Unfortunately, the other politicians have written that same time but because it is an offense that we have already run away and it is not supposed to do how to prevent the mockery that if you remove the discovery of the parliament day.
Another way to be able to save this parliament and to prevent the scandal, I arrived at the normal parliament and change the law so that the law can be done, but there is true that any member of parliament made him to get out of three hundred thousand shillings in a day?
I don't see.

That is why I believe that they do not have a mistake, but these preventing the offense, but you know where it is a peak of the ignorance of God, I don't know if there is a way to save this parliament because the way I said last week we have not seen the end of his soul.
Maybe a question that we have to ask ourselves it is that we have agreed that this process and a lot of pain are people in which way you are those who are waiting for the constitution "new" from this group they have a cry in the head?
It's not that we have shown the hope of removing the hands of the desert, but it is very true we believe that in one way, our brothers can discuss anything because the following day he has gone forward?

We should not forget that we should not be identified and it is conned us.
