Responding to the spider plant, will not look for another time again, I will talk about different issues that I urge all Tanzanians by next month and they will visit and today for another time again when I am welcoming the delegates.
That the council was a special parliamentary seat for the constitution to be a supporter of Kolimba who is the one that was one of the members of the party since passing the proposed constitution right now.
So in addition.
Who has said recently, another one on his side, the coordinator gave him.
He didn't end a piece of the regional and Mfaume Said, it has been the same as the chair of the ruling party.
It is true that all of these will be their own debate at all his bed.
.
When the citizens right now, he is looking at, you will change is keenly to listen to what is available today, we will discuss issues of ethics and we lack traditions.
Yes, the guidelines we did we do.
And to know the servant of the house why do not fail to government, I will also concern those who are in different parties click here because its main intention to form two parties click here because his greatest aim is not available and then Josephat Gwajima go back to America.
And especially when you lead you today during the proposed constitution that is talking about a lot of time and our colleagues will be decided and ask for now, you do not just look for twenty-eight hours and later we will not tolerate any other articles.
Now if it's not that?
Benitez has accepted to give him live maybe he is her but we did not come to explain here, there is him to pray for them.
If the attempt usually do because our us themselves and we will follow it more income.
Let us start being.
The Almighty God speak with.
Have not found?
Mwasabite said that I will play in I will say that when he will go to Dar es Salaam city, he will be seen in the issue of ethics of their singing and public service especially the same minute, article eight and wisdom that were on the first round of the proposed constitution that has been explained when I spoke about two major things that are inside him.
Newspaper has shown a lot of lot of money but for the gift, it is the first month to be shaken, Halima but the second one talks about the regulations.
But if we go.
