
In the age of egg laying, Lulu is supposed to be at the form of form one students.

Kimaiyo, one resident of Sinza in Dar es Salaam city, who identified himself by the name Zahara Muhidini Issa, has emerged with the heavy claims by accusing his film artist who is also an entrepreneur, Lulu Mathias Semhale 'which is an entrepreneur called Zahara Muhidini Issa, Friday has an incident.

That mother, being impressed by the newspapers office of the Global Publishers who are located in Mwenge-Mwenge area in Dar es Salaam city, earlier this week and explained that he has signed a dirty game that is going on between her daughter who is one of the second one with Lulu.

Do you love mother?
While speaking to the anger, Mama Zahara Muhidini Issa, "I am just a female child, reading a question in Tanga but recently he came back claiming that they have been given two weeks time.
"Since this child has gone back, I have noted that he has been doing so much, he has been doing well, he has been selling them, therefore I became a lot.

"Today (Tuesday this week) when I'm in, I'm speaking with a person when he is in his home, there are those talks that there was a time I have heard," he was speaking with him.
"I heard a certain thing but I said I will go to deal with his phone when I believe if there is what is happening, I believe that I will take his phone and met with any other things.

"I saw these types of diseases that impressed me that my son is doing such acts of Plasmodium falciparum. I did not want to know if I had a fellow girl or a man, I would like to know if I want to use her money from his phone and that is when I want to know if I want to use him from his phone and that is when I want to know if I want to use it.

I was surprised to thank you this artist since when he was a reporter, which has called me for a short time and I thank you well my son and he cannot get a surprise for those acts, I saw it very much and does not help me. "

How will it mean?
Zuniga scored, I desire to work in games, you can help me?
What is Lulu, let me use money!
Zahara Muhidini Issa of which money is not a problem, what I believe in, but I want to see it, (action of a penalty).
Yes, Lulu is celebrating the same time, I use 30,000 shillings.
Zahara Muhidini Issa, then we see you?

What is Lulu, let me use this time on Saturday.
Zahara Muhidini Maalim, why very far, today it's impossible or even tomorrow, the money is not a problem.
Why is Lulu, let me use this money.
Zahara Muhidini Issa, a phone with money is in the charge, do not thank me for seeing me.
Name Lulu, (silent).

Tomorrow's day.
What Lulu did you know the issue of themselves?
Zahara Muhidini Issa I cannot get in her lover, yes, I am very happy to use but you should not get married, because I have a surprise, that Saturday we see you?
What is Lulu, Karrima Carter (meeting) Bondeni branch, in Magomeni, Dar es Salaam, then I use that money.
Zuttah won't use in this number, how will we use equipment?
Is Lulu, let me use this number.

Zuttah won't answer then if we will use devices or anything.
Why is Lulu, there is no need for equipment, I am enough for me.
Zindzi said this I am happy, I will be careful.
After the explanation of that mother, then see if you know what's true, that showed Zahara Muhidini Issa who was looking for in games will not be given, while the artist also showing him and wanted to be given first at 30,000 shillings.

As it is the fees for this newspaper to give an opportunity for the suspect to be heard, Friday broken her as Lulu so as to get his details where he had this one to say.

Who is here?
"Said the truth, the girl is the one who was born with him by using an account of wanting him.
"I was forced to cut off and took a lot so much in the game, I have never been a white house (two different things).

"It is seen he wanted to give me because he refused a lot and I have never done this game and I believe there are men who love me, I believe there are men who love me, but I believe there are men who love me, but I believe there are men who love me, I believe it is looking for what?
The girl, a girl in which way does not read it completely. "

From the high table this Saturday.
It is good for parents to be satisfied with the procedure to teach their children on the effects of being involved in illegal acts in the community so that they can be light of their future lives and especially the national leaders of our nation.
