
The costs that we are in charge of May 23, 2012

We don't know what we are doing so that we can decide, with our will themselves and without being unable to get for free the parents and its players of our players who have been able to play for our football team.
We can decide to make for national identity cards that will allow the parents, its players and our players of the national team to look for free in our soccer fields, to look for our players even when they go to the country.
These are a very important people in this nation because without their names, which have had put aside our country's reputation in the former sector and now it would have been there.
All of them is also that our national team of Tanzania for a long period now has been sponsored by NMB Bank, fruits, this evaluation every one being seen.
For our procedure of wanting to thank all those who want to thank all those who do so that we can agree with that all the workers of that bank to be responsible for free in any match against our nation's national team, just following up to the opinion polls to show their identity cards.
It is clear that these workers have a very right to request their leadership to do a procedure of getting free in the field to check the match for the national team where they are studying due to the fact that they are the main cause of the ability of their bank to reach the national team.
Yes, up to NMB giving a huge sponsorship to our national team, it is clear that the employees of that bank did a lot of work and enable the bank to make an additional benefits that made the bank to buy the national team.
Therefore, we should not thank these employees to allow them to get free for example, therefore, they can even do what we are supposed to build the whole time, then they try to fund our team!
And on this logic, then, it is why we will take a sitting on behalf of the identity cards that get free for free if the employees of Vodacom which the company is participating in the premier league in the country?
I found it to be this series of thoughts after reading the HIV virus, among two big stakeholders who are in the football game, TFF and the association of sports news in the country, TASWA.
According to the news from the media, the virus which is due to the TFF's decision to provide a match to the journalists to intervene in the match between Tanzania and Morocco instead of those journalists using cards that have been using the previous matches.
It has been explained that TASWA had not agree with the action of TFF to give 70 tickets for the purpose of sports news instead of 120 tickets that they want to have decided to write issues that concerns TFF more than that of the national team.
Among the things that were listed not being announced or brought together with TASWA being supported by their sports editors is together with the picture, "apart from TFF together with the sports fee.

In my opinion here where there is a case that TASWA went up apart from the entries he is an issue that concern them and if they do, they will ensure they are not like TFF alone but they should go through all.
I believe that these two important stakeholders of soccer each one will have its primary issues concerning their differences and even so, I thought that TASWA has a solution to questions to play against TFF.
The biggest more than all, and that even themselves they are saying, it is the one for the media to take a difficult decision to cater for their journalists to enter the car as well as required to take them to other important national events.
I believe that the benefits of the news agencies have been made due to announcing the ball, for example, Tanzania and Morocco are the one that it doesn't have a chance because their journalists will have gotten a gift by using their equipment or through the TFF ticket.
If we look for noise from journalists from being carried in the case of presidential candidates for fear that they will write their information by depending on the will of those who sponsor, it is good then the journalists will also stop depending on the issue of getting a car.
Protect us from their media so that they can be better to write when they see without knowing this person, this will also be part of the donations of those equipment in developing football, beer, banks and others.
I believe that the press that will be responsible for them is the courage to get in their journalists, at the end of the day it is the TFF that will be forced to prepare a procedure to take care of sports tickets at their media stations if the other institutions are required to prepare an additional information of events that concern it.
This will enable journalists to be forced to entertain in the areas of the TFF offices in Ilala days for the match so as to get tickets.
Sikunjema receiving the decision by the TFF to announce their decision of journalists to be given tickets instead of using the internet instead of using a modern card, just before the big match between Tanzania and Morocco as well as I did not support the decision of TASWA to announce that "he did not support him" a few hours before the game.
TFF would like to tell TASWA about its new long term procedure in the past where there could be a chance to sit together so as to get a solution as soon as TASWA had not able to use their tickets against TFF until after that important game for us they did not have plans to boycott.
The biggest thing is that there was no need for all the big soccer stakeholders in the country to follow up on tickets at few hours before the difficult game that is causing to start.
TASWA and TFF was supposed to be at the 3rd minute session to look for strategies and "problems of scoring against Morocco and not parliamentary sessions about the number of tickets to provide for the purpose of journalists.

We expect all of us, each one for us for his position has its importance in bringing the profile and market our football game as I have never been the first of this article.
It's not good when we will begin to distinguish itself with each one of us, to see you, giving birth of extra, due to its contribution in improving and this market, the natural soccer club in the world, Pickup, has said it is "Ambassador Seif 'from the country."
