
One government, one nation or we will benefit from 31 / 31.

Brother Lula and I have followed up on your article on the newspaper of Good Citizen for some time now, I have learned and enjoy your articles about this union so much, between Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
I am saying the union we have, we have so cunning, because it is unable to provide good rights (5) between the two sides that joined them, while Zanzibar doesn't know more so that Tanganyika can get a very little (ITU).
For example, tourism issues are not of the union but the Tanzania Tourist Board (TTB), an instrument that I believe it has Tanzania Mainland (Tanganyika) only, it will support Zanzibar by saying that, "Tanzania's country of Kilimanjaro, Serengeti and Zanzibar."
Even the members of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania from Zanzibar were supposed to attend the sessions going on the issues of the ministry of the United Republic, after that they return to Barwan from Zanzibar to discuss the challenges facing Zanzibar itself.
Here there is a saying that Zanzibar who run the ministries and the government departments in the United Government which is also the chairperson of the Tanzania mainland (Tanganyika) that are not involved.
I agree with you very much, we should have a full union because it has only one government of Zanzibar to be the province as we are in Pwani province, Mtwara, Kagera and Singida.
Otherwise we will also get a long time to discuss on how to solve the problems of the union that can't be avoided.
This problem here is, leaders from Zanzibar who benefit from the current system or a three-government system proposed by some politicians who will agree?
I am worried Judge Joseph Warioba will be expelled from his committee (the commission of constitutional changes), he will give out proposals for the citizens that will agree with your opinion which I believe is not correct.

People of Zanzibar have a lot of noise and it's like they are feared.
I request you to ask you, it is why the leaders who come from the continent are not supposed to see Zanzibar and they are ready to see Zanzibar affected by this union and it continues to continue to be bullied.
Why Mwalimu Julius Nyerere gave that word "statement" (the report) of they play for Zanzibar to an aim to have the ability to hear in those regions and Tanganyika (mainland)?
Another person getting you don't see a understanding when you come to the union of unity, Professor Issa Shivji. I saw him if he has failed for the first time to give a foundation stone on himself on this issue of the union.
I have heard that through the television opposing an issue that the new constitution of Zanzibar (the one that created the United Republic of Zanzibar has broken the union by making the country inside this country when it is against the issue of the television that the constitution has broken the union.
Now Professor Shivji said the leaders of the mainland and put it or forgetting his ability for a long time or with him has the secret agenda if he wants the people who want the union of a person like this time of now.
The writer of this article, Samson Namibes, is the reader of the newspaper of BBC Sport.
