
Poultry farming is not true, it is wrong.
By Peter Jiang.
Some of the servants usually builds self-communicable diseases because of the shame to be with the aircraft with an attraction to many.
However, Miss Eunice Masimba, 50, a resident of the mountains in town, Kakingo Pinda, things are different and also increasing their activities so as to increase their lives of daily.
The farmer also knows the rearing of chicken, although he believes that the electronic systems are not supposed to do a lot of money, how the rearing of chicken you are.
Despite not having a market of going upon in the country, he has decided to pick on the FA Cup, and started doing this activity, which he says is not very expensive to the farmer.
After visiting one friend and getting self-communicable diseases (popular in the language of English as Guinea-RT), while insisting that there was a great opportunity to start that business because there is no big conflict to get customers in the market, "he said that there was a big opportunity to start that business because there is no lot of chicken to get into the market, he says that there is a big opportunity to get the business.
"I said earlier it is that, the cost of filling it is not big because it is an airplane in the park, they did not require a lot of food like the chicken," Masau boasted.
He also revealed that ducks-shirts that takes a period of approximately six months since the past was opened, so as to prevent eggs and start using eggs.
The farmer also added that, this share of poultry farming has its own kind, "the benefits is big compared to the amount of money used by checking and to care for those airplanes," Masau boasted, while adding that, I am supposed to care for the farmer is big compared to the benefits from the chicken.
In addition, he says that those meat has caused those airplanes are very delicious with the hen. Fauzia Kullane.
He said that if he may use the rearing of those planes, it is same as the cause of rearing chicken.
According to the breeder, ducks or buckets, one of them have even reached a weight of three kilograms of 3 (3).
So as to remove those planes against various diseases that can affect so, the farmer also revealed that he does not know every time, especially when it gets a lot of chicken you can also be careful, "he says.
No one being infected with a challenge, one of the activities that he has met with them are not getting easily in the market to cater for those aircraft, "there is no need to buy, but when I think it is because they are believed to have the desire to buy, but when I think it is okay, according to the farmer.
However, he used the legal customers from that area, while others coming from Bambini Journal.
He is saying that he makes them doughing, each one who is mature is 3,000 shillings, though the one with one-year-old man in addition, it gives the age of one month to 500 shillings while the one for one month was sold at 1000 shillings.
He says that his future plans on the near future activity is to put up the national market.
It encourages those who are blocking us to start a rearing of ducks or buckets, so as to make sure that they do not have a very high cost.
