Groups comes back in eternal peace.
MTVs, 2014.

The political groups that are being shown by the delegates of the special constitutional parliament that is going on in Dodoma town, it made a nation in danger of not getting a new constitution that is needed by the citizens because of groups being involved in those groups.
One of the coordinators of that special assembly says the objection against the regulations that was going on in parliament, is aiming to make great changes in the draft constitution.
Speaking with this newspaper in Mwanza town, the lawyer of self-hop company Mister Mark Ng'amilo, says that everything should not be pleased in the open referendum or not only but the strategy of wanting to give great changes in the second draft of the constitution that is against the law of constitutional changes.
"
He added that the law on constitutional changes has paid the special constitutional parliament to improve it in the draft constitution, not to make great changes to basically, because doing so, there will be a result of the citizens' authority in the whole process of making constitution.
"For example, if the draft says there should be three governments, this special assembly is not supposed to refuse three governments, except that they are required to put the basis of running the government, instead they should be one president of the federation, Tanganyika and Zanzibar should be the new ministers," he explained.
According to the law on constitutional changes, the actual problem of the year 2012, article 25 (1) and (2) of the special constitutional law will be implemented after the proposed constitution will be implemented after the proposed constitution will be implemented after the constitutional constitution will be implemented after the proposed constitution will be implemented by the chairperson of the commission.
On his part, the senior lecturer of the St Augustine Institute (GEL) of Mwanza, Nkugwa Ng'amilo, says in addition to that the commission of Judge Warioba has done its work well but it can't know if the members of parliament of special constitutional parliament will continue to hold their political groups instead of considering the interests of the nation.
"Seems to say there's no interests of the nation, political impasse that comes out in large numbers of political parties, every group has continued with political stand but the party's not the party is not a party.
"In the state of this period, groups that have been a historical operation, like the farmers of Maasais' and the defending champions, that are in parliament are vying for the interests of their political groups," said Ng'amilo.
The lecturer, who has also got the director of the Radio Radio in Dar es Salaam (RTO) has said that even the delay of an appropriate time to some of the regulations results from delegates to consider more than the interests of their political groups instead of the interests of the nation.
That if you want to have an intention of the interests of the nation, those regulations would have been accepted immediately, but because every group is looking at those regulations for their interests, but we see the conflicts.
"The constitutional parliament is not a place to vote in politics and it's a place to decide the fate of the country by bad luck, it has become the parliament of arguing with me and I don't see the constitution without consent," he said.
In his opinion, the situation that come up now in parliament is due to the ratio that is not same as the delegates of the Constitutional Assembly and the representatives of parliament of the Republic of Parliament that is why the debates on regulations is owned by groups of political interests as it is the normal parliament and Easter like the logic of having a special constitutional parliament.
The assistant bishop of Bukoba town Reverend Meadrad has told Bongo Five that the construction is normal but what is needed is the stand of the chairman in order to take the last debate.
