
Five important things to make sure before investing in agriculture.

David Mwakalinga.
May 27, 2015.

News, the reader of the blog of agriculture, I would like to welcome him at the agricultural training that can be aired here, the aim is to ensure you get education and knowledge of how to do your farming because it's not only a farmer, but an investor in agriculture.

Today, I would like to inform us for five things that every person has a dream of investing in agriculture, it is a must that you know well and to make sure that this issues can be able to stop agriculture. Today we shall begin with two things.

1 shilling.
This is the important thing in every investment or in other business, any business must affect the market and even if there are many people who live in farming, there are many people who live in farming because most of them do not affect the market, without knowing that this product is growing very fast, without knowing that it had not been done by the market.
Others can say we cannot invest in agriculture because the market is there, especially small-scale farmers know the market is in the collection of many people like in the market and even if there is a lot of industries to learn in the market if we get time in future we will discuss it.

2 million.

Every agricultural sector has a condition of the weather or the environment that are needed to make sure that the farming development is growing very fast and if there are many factors associated with soil.

The aim of passing here is to understand that after getting a reliable market and to know how their products are required to use the laboratories for your farm but they are also getting advice on how that disease are required to use the machines that you want to study in soil.

In short areas of our country, it is good for agriculture and that is why we see many countries going to invest in agriculture in our country and even here in Kenya, many parts of Kenya are why we want to meet again next week here.

For advice or questions that they are communicating with Brother Juliana Mwakalinga, who is a writer, as the pastor and an advisor at the agricultural sector, you can communicate with 763 phone of 71002 and email support @ mkito.
