
Changes in ministers including a patient, will I see?
May 30th, 2012

There is no bad thing in life of a human being like this disease, there is no one who loves you.
In addition, everyone who likes to get a treatment of its disease, again, wants the treatment they were found quickly and at a high level, this is because the health is difficult, they ask our politicians who recently they went to India, Germany, South Africa and elsewhere.
They should also ask for the patients who were rushing for a grandfather's cup in Loliondo Town, even politicians believe by recognizing the importance of health to the community in which they used the grandfather's cup to build them or any political party!
Our days there was a primary school book that had a good example is best than the property, and this is the fact that all children who are not aware if the children and youths of today are not aware if the children and youths of today are preventing those who are not aware of it?
Many, when you listen to you are best than best than a human being what she was unable to think about it, it does not be able to remove the disease because it is not supposed to take him to hospital for several years.
The health of someone when it is when it is with the problems, the patient is usually given treatment and he is depending on the treatment provider to have enough skills, for good equipment, and all patients would like the neighborhood and their homes, at an affordable price and a high level.
This is when you get in my article of today's article, there is a patient is called Tanzania. This patient is called Tanzania and all the patient is like our brothers and all we are followed by the love of our creator, all of us we are depending on this patient.
When he was the whole of health during your same time, this patient has had love with us because it does not have us with all important needs without discrimination, at an affordable cost and without a fake time.
For sure our brother in Tanzania was being faced with diseases in the past and the same type, but when those days the doctor and nurses were not able to identify its disease early before they have reduced the body.
As they be giving good medical services without caring about the treatment, her brothers, her friends, relatives and friends of nurses and friends that have been operated quickly so that he can be able to protect themselves and continue to continue their lives.

However, the situation had changed from this young man in Tanzania where he happens and especially when the doctor and nurses who decided to come up until early they said, the problem will begin with himself and his brothers.
These they had a capacity to recognize that the youth Tanzania has been faced with the disease, and they left that disease, is mature and resorted to the second side, doctors and new nurses and think of having a patient is a chance like nurses to benefit.
These opportunities to improve the environment that attracts more than young men if they intend to be oaths (stadium of Arusha) for an opportunity for the third side, even those professional nurses who were in the moment are a child or a young man, and they met with new scientists to resolve the patient!
There are a few among the old people who have been angered by the situation of a patient with the behavior of new scientists, but it is now not to appreciate the patient with an extent of fulfilling his heart and they decided even to sign him to visit the hospital!
Haulipizwi 'Vialli' did not understand the oath of doctors! We are using the oath of doctors! We were using that oath and health of the patient's health to fight even in your blood to restore the oath of doctors.
A patient is in critical conditions and friends that a patient is near the soul of these noises have been affected by the condition of the patient when these things are going, they are going to hospitals in other countries!
Lots of noise, and these will be accompanied by threats, the assistant chief physician and doctors who have been unable to work together with threats, "our brothers does not die '!" He is called me'! "
The cries and threats have been surprised by the chief physician when he said, "then if it is an issue of scientists, I will resolve it, but not all."
Now, there is a problem when the patient's disease didn't be caused by stem cells and the administration system, relatives of the patient are supposed to be silent without telling them and even the few who put him to hospital, they got it to hospital and they were forced to take him to the Nyasaka cup!
On the health side of medicine and you can't affect the blame from a patient is in ICU, they have changed nurses and if you know, there is an issue of equipment, procedures for work services, the curriculum of health education for a patient and his brothers, and the patient with his brothers.
Change, stem cells do not recognize the patient or leaving the scientists that concern it in the room of the patient is to speed up the death of a patient in Tanzania!
Leaving the scientists that have been sacked from ICU, the fee for patients, patients, patients, patients, vehicles, patients, patients, and at least make them be able to return to them, they can make sure that they can return to the mistake.
The brothers of the patient in Tanzania, from now are supposed to stop the habit of removing these diseases and those researchers can learn how to identify diseases before they have not been forced to learn how to change the whole medical system even if it was unable to learn how to change the whole medical system even if it was unable to learn how to change the whole medical system even if it was unable to learn how to change the whole medical system.
For how the Almighty God is of love with patients, he has given them an opportunity to write a book of medical services afresh, some of the brothers of the patient found themselves so much, that the book was not aware instead of forcing the book that they did not understand.
The new book on how to purchase the patient, has begun to be written when I heard this book which is called a constitution (or when I think it would have been called a health book of us Tanzania! "My fellow musician is not supposed to ignore their responsibilities in the writing of this important book.
Inside here where I will be separated, how many types of phones will get to our homes, we do the graduates' services to do so that we should not hesitate to take advantage of their work so that we do not want them to do their work.
There will also be written on the verses of a red carpet, what diseases will be given if the HIV virus (corruption), fever (HIV), fever, and the most important responsibility is to ensure that the book was written so that they can make us like us all of us.
This book was written on the patient we had to go and depends on it will die.
There will be the end of the song "a foolish thing, since he came in a good position and he does not have violence," and even when they sell them, "the work is like a patient even if the hospital has given you a good thing."

The brothers of our brothers, Tanzania who will attract their responsibilities in the exercise of writing this book will not have rights, before the journey of taking each other, that their brothers Tanzania gets to check up because they are not different from each other.
When they do, they do not want to know where those who stopped the deceased!
The message to the chief medical officer of Tanzania does not return so far.
To help the brothers of the patient to participate and later to get better service to their health and their brothers called Tanzania, for this period of transition, we visit the hospital immediately because those who do new readers and those of old can be killing him in Tanzania!
As a result of encouraging the fear, misuse of scientists, have stopped him from the ICU recently.
The whole person being found with a wife of a person who doesn't jump and it's not a need to investigate it because it is not a need to be shot "Tanganyika and then it should go to the field so that the day or tomorrow can be discussed if they go to the home they should be found?

Secondly, it's not supposed to get all the witch doctors who are still at the ICU, the location of parents, room, and other places who are supposed to participate fully, against the patient.
Contrary to that, the book will be complete but the patient will have already died.
Likewise, the patients who are not safe for the whole body of our brother will benefit.
Remember the noise from her brothers that when it comes to the meat of meat, this was not seen to change some of the scientists, when it comes to him and his brothers after you are the chief physician to confirm if he has got the drugs for their brother and their brother?
It will not have my doctor!

Third, so as to accept this case, they can help the brothers of the patient and the patient with himself the book will be availed with integrity and good intention.
The book was written in a memory if the chief physician who is producing the affliction of a patient and love in this, do not listen to the killing of bed sheets, libel, drugs, and vehicles for patients!
These are the very bad people to go back to the near without vigilance, do not tell you from now let steal patients! I am sure that you will not allow you to give the patients your book, "said God rest his good intention and to wait for this exercise to the chief physician.
