Behind praising God, Mandela is Kambarage!
Jide 11, 2013.

Following up about the heroes of Africa, it is a must to mention the names of switching off from Ghana, Patrice Lumumba of Congo, Benjamin Nronga group of Nigeria, and many others, the list can be long but it's not a long time because of that list is in Nelson Mandela.
In the long list, the world and even some of the sun use or listen to the elder Nelson Mandela or listen to me, it's not easy to see her eyes, and the brain of understanding, it is about to be buried.
It is difficult for me to write or thank someone with the amount of Madiba, but can follow keenly to start with this festive season, earlier in 2005 when President Barack Obama had given an opportunity to attend the television station where he wanted to give him a chance to give him a message that he wants to send him to Mzee Nelson Mandela.
Obama entered into the back of the studios in Oprah went to write the message to Mandela, when it was seen more than a long time was expected to write the message, his spokesperson Roberts' Dada ', he had a problem to put it a long time.
When he is still knowing what to write, Obama told his spokesperson, "you must make sure you get enough time, you can't write a very easy message to Nelson Mandela." He is writing the writer Michael Kafamu, New York Times magazine, the edition of June 27, 2013.
There is no objection on the creation of Nelson Mandela and the honor he got in the world, him is a sign of peace and consent, it is a sign of cooperation against hatred and revenge between the American president of the United States, Abraham Malunde.
But in Mandela who did it take there?
Among the important people that voted for Mandela to be this one as he is today, it is able to take the first position is Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the first president of Tanganyika and Tanzania, the first position of the Julius Nyerere's own kind, are able to build the foundation of Mandela in the world.
With his own words, Nelson Mandela, in the one-day seminar organized by Mwalimu Nyerere's honor, October 17, in 1997, he told him a teacher as a person who contributed to a large extent of making the African Community to destroy the South African Community.
This is a fashion model for Uhuru, who also called chief technician, to join the driver of the type of racial segregation in England in the year 1959, and a leader whose efforts in the East African Community had caused South Africa about the killing that fell.
I got lucky to meet with him many years ago in 1962, when they visited Tanzania to look for the donation we shall begin the fight against the weapon and as it is now, they will be announced by his stand, the desire to find justice and equality anywhere, and its commitment to the interests of the African. "
As we use Uhuru, Mwalimu together with being the leader of the nation, most of them don't hesitate to put up his stand which without having a lot of courage, very few leaders can have been able to put those who are expected to be responsible.
