
The first country to win the South American cup.
By John Lukuwi.

Germany defeated Argentina 1-0 in Brazil in the World Cup finals by being the first team to win the championship in South America.
Mario Gmwaijonga has remained as a famous player in Germany after scoring the victory goal in the 13 minutes of the only half minutes to be complete.
The star of Bayern Munich emerged on the chest after being carried out by Andre Saindi of Chelsea before scoring a goal in that finals which were played at the famous Maracana Rio de Janeiro.
That star had arrived at Mihande secondary school, has attracted more than 88 minutes before the start of extra time the teams won by 0-0.
Gikombaa is collaborating with Gervinho. "Bayern Munich 'featuring Bayern, who was playing in Germany at the same time while Germany has scored the victory in the finals in the year 1974 in Munich and making his country to be champions.
After joining Borussia Dortmund, he won two awards.
He was possible for the fans of that club after leaving with Bayern Munich.
The player, Lionel Messi and Christiano Ronaldo have continued their daughters in breaking the record and found himself as the best attackers in the world.
Messi emerged as the best striker of the European Champions League after succeeding to score 74 goals and breaking the record of Antoine Griezmann with the second goal against Amjadi after scoring four goals.
Messi won the first match of the Champions League at the age of 18, his soccer club Barcelona who plays out with Wines, Bremen, in 2005 after getting into courtship.
The star was announcing his playing well in the first squad for the first time which was also known by rocks, popularly known as Mkulabi and Eto'o.
Likewise, he played for Barcelona against Atletico Madrid in the champions league at the Camp Nou stadium and won 4-1.
Messi got the first goal in the match that Barcelona defeated Espanyol 5-0.
But an injury he achieved on the time of the European Champions League in the year 2006 against Arsenal in Paris.
Among the important goals is the victory of the victory that he scored against Celtic in the year 2008.
His discipline made his former coach, Pep Guardiola to continue being a squad that made him to succeed more.
Guardiola is given a great opportunity in his squad and he continued to score goals including two goals in the quarter-finals against Bayern Munich 2008-09.
Messi won't know the popularity of the champions league 2009, when he scored the second goal in the match that Barcelona won Manchester United 2-0.
That star who won the gold last season of the year 2008-09 / 2016, won the Ballotment of the best player in Europe, 2009, Messi scored all four goals for the first time in one match in their 4-1 win against Arsenal in the quarter-finals of the season 2009 to 10.
Those goals made him the first player to score four in the semi-finals of the European Champions League, but the efforts to participate in the European Champions League were closed down by Inter Milan who was under Jose Mourinho who now is with Chelsea.
The qualify for this team in the European Champions League the season of 2010-11 was contributed by a big level with Messi who performed well at the pitch and his two goals at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium they were unable to inherit Real Madrid in a friendly match of the Champions League.
At the finals that took place at 1 against Madrid at the Wembley Stadium, Barcelona repeated what he did in Manchester United in 2009.
Messi also scored three goals out of six against the Montreal Impact Club of the season 2011-2012.
Messi also got history by being the first player to score five goals in the premier league match, while they emerged with a great victory of 7-1 against Bayern Munich.
His 50 and 51 goal of the European Champions League was found on their 3-1 victory in the semi-finals against AC Milan.
200 goals of Ronaldo came for the record of the game where Real Madrid lost 18 matches in all the competitions of the 2014 season.
Ronaldo has now broke the record of Tomas Rosary, whose record was sacked by Messi and the one of his colleague in the late Alonso minute Stephano Cosmas who scored a hat trick when winning 22 matches.
Under Coach Carlo Ancelotti, Real Madrid was also known in the Barcelona record in the 2005 / 2006 season on stage of Frank Race.
