
We do not want a union of "a contract" because it is, when she gets to them?
Brightiles 11, 2012

They have emerged people alleged to have unity, "insisted and" among these are together with the veteran politician of Zanzibar, Elder Hassan Nassor, who has been the minister in mainland and island Tanzania.
Together with the presence of religious leaders and others from the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar who have been seen, they believe that they have forgotten the "freedom of Zanzibar" and they want a union of, "insisted and" they don't want you to do what we are in the mainland we are ready to give them to Zanzibar outside the union.
We will not understand the union of "mystery"!
For now, if you look at the issues of these who want the union, we will see that they are forced to do people who do not want to know or think that they think by using human beings blood cells that may God bless you.
Sifuna town here or I did not know the truth that anyone who can use his heart can't be able to forgive him without stopping.
Now, when she gets the truth, you do not make an agreement with the strength of the contract.
Things of when getting their lives.
A lot of joy is why people should be together early and when they decided to take it ahead of their relationship that remain in relationship between the marriage.
They are claiming that they want United Nations, because they are not aware of the union that is of the agreement, which is the third reason that will enable the members of the union while he does not have a report and that the previous agreement was not stolen after increasing issues in the list of foreign affairs.
I have the ability and I would be able to give me all the third time so as to show that they have a great mistake, but because my aim is to serve the union, so we do not want the union outside this agreement so that we do not hesitate to join these people.
We will be able to make sure that the new contract of the union which will not put the list of foreign affairs, because if you put it just the issues of the union we will do there again.
We will be able to enter the agreement that will make Zanzibar to be similar to every state of Tanganyika without the Tanganyika without considering it, it would have shown a big load and I know that this new contract will go to Tanganyika and Zanzibar to set aside half months for different positions (administration, embassy) and even various revenue.
But I am sure that these people do not like to contribute to a half of a half to run the government of the United Republic. I will like to have another contract where people who want to get, half a half "to be ready to run the government of a half a half time.
But further, it is important to recognize that the union which is ready to follow the only way from here is or to make sure that those agreements or take it to the people of Zanzibar we have helped them to break these agreements.
It's impossible for them to go back "Zanzibar free" and at the same time, he wanted the union of dealing with the reason why Zanzibar will be "free" and "I am happy," we will be happy again to get in the contract?
So, to get into another agreement think it will be possible without stopping the ball (in the picture), you should be free and to join another country but we are not going back here, where Zanzibar is free and at the same time, where Zanzibar is free.
They want the union of analysts and the citizens of Zanzibar and they still want to union.
You can't know all the two sides, the way I said in behind we people in Tanzania we will help them from the union because we have already succeeded in order for Zanzibar to get their lives but in Zanzibar they are telling us to go to Zanzibar. "
And bad luck, there are Tanganyika people who know for Zanzibar when they go back to Zanzibar, it's impossible for any country that will be available after Zanzibar decided to be Tanganyika!
Because up to now, there is no increase in Zanzibar even one of the ones who want to get a union - he has brought to parliament in parliament of the referendum for opinion polls, maybe we should help them.
We have already stopped for a period of several weeks to see if there is a union of people of the Union or even in the United Republic of Tanzania to release their positions to boycott the union.
That is why we've started this Llongero campaign of Zanzibar Go Safely on Zanzibar.
And we are the people of the continent and those who believe good Zanzibar had to help them to help them (because they don't have the courage to decide whether to get married.
The only way of doing this is to the citizens of Mainland Tanzania are given opinions on them.
"The structure of the union" has been asked to "three governments" because three governments are names of the law.
The people of the mainland are waiting for one government, one nation like two of the current government are unsuitable for sure, it did not have faith because the remaining government will be a big cargo.
Because as a current union, which is a contract, should not be heard, but another union, except that it was not the cause of another union again.
