Look at the products of international tests.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The electricity agency (WMA), has urged business people to ensure they get into their products by using international tests otherwise they will move to the market of products of Tanzania outside the country.

In addition, the agency has started doing inspection in the border areas, industries and port of Dar es Salaam so as to make sure products have been removed from the international standards.
The acting director of the Technical Department of that authority, Stella Bunyeza said, every business person in the country has a responsibility to ensure they are following the international tests in order to protect the consumer, but also in building the country's market outside the country.
He said that for now, the WMA are doing an inspection in the borders of the sun, Sirari and Namanga and also doing an inspection in the port of Dar es Salaam so as to continue with that responsibility and defend Tanzania not to be part of collecting products that can't maintain the laws of tests.
Also, he explained that the importance of reviewing the products associated with the consumer and to protect the consumer and ensure that all business are being done on rights and equality between the two sides that are concerned with the buyer through the tests.
He said the appropriate measures will enable the buyer to buy the product in accordance with the value of his money, he explained that the verification of products followed, helps to control correct amount in modern packaging, so as to enable the government to pay correct tax.
The Head of the Law and Research Agency, Martha Mosses Mlata, said that the person has been discovered, he has violated the regulations of products followed by the law he said, under section 45 of the crime of 340 as it was done to complete the year 2002.
He said in accordance with the law, the cause of the first time is a fine that it has reached 10,000 shillings or a period of three years in prison, or all from the second time it has been fined shillings or a period of seven years or all.
