
The dock has been put by Cathbert Kajuna of NMB.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The lawyer of self-Chillah, Muganyizi Bisheko (44) has been put in the docks facing charges of injustice to the NMB Bank, to show a statement concerning the judgment that was given by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Dar es Salaam which was received by that bank.

Apart from Muganyizi, the other defendants in that case is Masoomph (50), engineer Augustine Mrema (55) and the officer of the AgriProtein company, Yekonia Bieldt.
The government's lawyer, Nassoro Katunga claimed that before the Resident Magistrate's Court, Kevin De Bruyne got that on the right that is was was known as the suspect made a plot to do a mistake.
He continued to claim that, June 19, 2014, in Dar es Salaam city with an aim of cheating, those accused collided with the bank's directive to indicate that the judgment was received by that bank while they were not true.
In the third time it is alleged that that day, those accused collided with the signing of the officer of that bank showing the signing of that judgment that is not true.
In addition, it is alleged that August 22, 2014, at the NMB's building in Azikiwe Premier Branch and the Jamhuri Ward, the documents have been issued by the senior lawyer of the Kisitu court, where they were not true.
In other charges, it is alleged that the accused in that building is on a way of cheating, they tried to get 53,238 million shillings from that bank after falling with the judgment of that bank is supposed to pay those money written on claims on the judgment.
The accused denied involvement in those mistakes and lawyer Katunga claimed that the investigation of that case is not complete and the request for the other to be mentioned.
The accused that was released on bail after attaining one of each one having two sponsors who signed a certificate of 10 million shillings in the case that will resume on October 5th, this year.
