
Music entertainment with history.
The Taarab music has a long history.
The old Taarab music lovers have placed on non-hop music of Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar and in Mombasa.
The old man in Zanzibar at the time was the one with a big group of musicians using different stations, by following the system of that music that was played in Egypt.
The history of OECD shows that Sultan SB Baragigi won the Zanzibar between 1870 to 1888, she had a lot of Taarab music.
In his administration, he took his two musicians to go to Egypt to get the profession of Taarab music.
They found himself continued to make that music at Mwanazuo's Palace.
In 1908, it was started the old group of IAGRI, a group that together with getting many music videos and even political parties, is available until today.
The old Taarab group of Dar es Salaam did not overlap with the president of Zanzibar at the same time there are groups known as Musical Mission Club and Alonso minute that was started early in the beginning of the 20 century.
There are also a lot of acts of those groups that were recorded between 1925 and 1930, the group of Musaizi Club was open up to the recent years and even do Oslo, Norway in the year 1999 and through the efforts of the Dansi Bongo party (Chamwamba).
The old Taarab group in Tanga is true that it seems to be called 'Modern Taarab, this was the first to start producing the equipment that were found in the old man such as voters, and later on.
Also it started to bring in the rate of traditional music in that music and also groups of Tanga were small businesses from the average of ten thousand people.
The work of Black Sailor soccer club and Vincent Kigosi, Tanga, many are us to know with his popular singers like Miss Maimuna Taarishi, Hasheem Mkenyi and their wives which were kidnapped in the music industry in 18 years.
As a result of the series of houses in Tanga town following employment in the pesticide factory in Tanga, it was able to get a taste and be different from the ones of Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam.
One of the famous singers who had the origin of Burundi, although he was known as the communication called his contribution in this music as it is heard in songs, "Kibadeni has been mentioned by Miss Malika Berak.
This man returned their home is a reputation for making music to get popularity and spread in Burundi where there was a old man of its kind that can be heard in the songs of Shangani Club.
Mombasa was known as the old Taarab type he gave him a musician like Juma Bana, who had come up with the signing of a famous music video.
When you want to listen to the popular songs of Juma Baamar, it will lead in singing while doing so much with the old music and although it is important to say here that Juma BN is important to say here in South Africa, there were popular groups like singing music in different languages due to a group of groups.
In today's air, there are many groups that call the old music, especially where the contributing of the old heart.
The type of music that started especially due to the old groups started using abusive language, flute, and so on, this one has been a lot of evil deeds for music, this issue has started a huge conflict to the music lovers, "he said.
That looking at the moment is not old and especially when it increased the musical work performance, for sure the old Taarab music artists said for now, there are conflicts among the music musicians, but for sure that they are affected, the old man and the old man are not involved in the system.
