
The Engineer for Kinondoni being given two months.

It has been written by Anastazia Wambura?

It has been published on 29th October, 2016.

The Minister of State, Office of the President, Regional Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI), George Simbachawene has given 60 days to the Engineer of Kinondoni Municipality and Ubungo, to ensure completing the construction of two classrooms and houses for teachers which took six teachers.

Simbachawene gave that order, during the opening of the second phase of the second phase of the second phase (MET) in Ubungo council, getting displeased with the explanations of the engineer after it was revealed for the project to Msufini Primary School, Goba and so as the problem of soil.
The construction of classrooms in the primary sector, despite being given 50 million shillings from the main government and 15 million shillings from the council for the purpose of that work.
The sports development projects is under 70 percent and the government with 30 percent given by the World Bank, Mister Simbachawene said, he is disappointed with the carelessness of the Municipal Council together with the Department of Procurement and Crdb Bank for being unable to implement that project when the funds were released since the beginning of this year.
When I agree with your information, if there is a problem of soil bricks, they should be forced to leave today, although there are some signs of leaving with a person here, but I want to return this project and I will start working here, I would like to go down here and its construction will start as soon as possible, "he said.
Previously that project, Kimaro told BBC that they loved the contractor of building that area, but just after creating a foundation that it cannot withstand the construction and therefore he decided to stop the work until when they do research professionally before continuing.
The Education Officer of Kinondoni Municipality, Brendan Rodgers, told Simbachawene that, some of the councils they took the 15 million shillings for transporting the soil so that the construction of classrooms and buildings of the teachers started, but he didn't understand the reasons for continuing to return to that project.
Moreover, Simbachawene, explained his disappointment in some of the teachers and leaders of secondary schools in the country with the aim of making the government to confirm it by refusing to hold the form four graduation for claims that the government has removed.
He said parents and teachers were supposed to talk and explain the government leaders and take advantage of money for the graduation because the government does not have a responsibility to contribute to those funds, but they were required to ask for a permit to the head of the province and to make that activity under the school committee.
