
24 December 2012

The concept of learning will stimulate development.

At the time the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, put up the basis of growing the economy of Tanzania after independence, he announced he did not want the freedom of socialism and to be independent.
Teacher believed that, as a result of the strength of bees, without depending on the donations from outside Tanzania?
The progress of the development quickly so as to meet the needs.
Its citizens and grow the economy.

A result of that faith, Teacher asked the use of internal resources in order to build the country and protest against all the donations from outside the country and visas for development and thoughts of teknohama.

Under that view, a few years after freedom started a big step of development, it started various industries being among the agricultural tools and to be high economically among the many African countries.

Currently, many leaders in the country have left to encourage the heart of being independent and we believe that, the concept of being independent is still a great importance to ensure that socialism has been outdated.

There is a great importance for leaders to improve this concept, instead of change the attempt to look for sponsors for the current community, he believes that the good leader is the one who is going to vie for the sponsors for it to take them to them.

A good example is how many members of parliament are trying to look for money for every kind to take them to them.

The one that took the donations to the province, seems to have a good job thus he is given a great opportunity to be elected again.

The responsibility of a leader especially the member of parliament is not supposed to look for the donations by joy because the concept was unable to encourage the teacher but the primary issue is to build the heart of being independent.

Our faith is that one responsibility of the member of parliament is to encourage and manage its citizens so that they can bring development by using a few resources they are facing.
