View that period of the church in homes, popular as a sister.
Close to you a big thing that is aiming to help them.
Do work in their homes to get a song but also to be able to discover themselves themselves and to improve their work skills, is because they did not be able to come from there where he is and taking action.
Development of development.
Today Almighty God has come at the district of Ilemela.
Among the vision I am happy that I had gone to.
It is a reason that he told me for a long time, but due to the challenge of that he was far and I am happy to reach but like my brothers.
You can't buy and?
Therefore, when you take place, I will meet a house in Mwanza town, I met with houses for these houses to which they claimed I know that the membership should not see him and not to mention you with me concerning the whole issue of workers.
Earlier.
Let us start.
Living in a doctor who has been told by using the phone is called by Getruda Gervinho.
He doesn't want jokes in a day they are not involved with one woman and work.
Where is it?
Now, the mother that he claimed was not true.
He believes he had gone to work hard.
She has gone down?
We're communicating with all the phone numbers, finally we got when I got a funeral, he told the pregnant mother to this, our brothers we have made us want to know what they are making it.
It's not we continue to communicate with yourself when I will give me or even I will give me this brothers, there's a employee who has called me if you don't know how I would like to go back to home, I told me if I will give it a habit.
My son whom I don't know so, they see that therefore there is my in-law with his things and he continued to vote for me, he knew that until when he saw him, he would like me and do my work but I am told my things is used every day.
What's the father you want to do no brotherhood.
I think they have talked about someone that is a school who has been killed in the second minute had a family and he is not a brother to her brother who is not a friend.
By that, your in-law is a permit for my law and that's why he continued to follow up because there is a day and called a phone, I told me when I met my in-law to agree with my sister was given.
Then he will go up to Shinyanga because of his mind, the same thing is not good.
You will not say that maybe this one can go back to Shinyanga people get off what will do so that one person comes back to Shinyanga because Shinyanga arrived but he went to my in-law in Shinyanga.
There's no one that he has called me that we will send it.
My activities do not depend on your development, it has changed then he went to morning according to the cargo vehicles to reach the vehicles.
If I told me it has been able to form your phone number I urge him to give him a kitenge on the phone, I request him to give him a ring, and it did not be found and why do not support him, "we should stop my work.
Ras Makunja has not continued to wait until now two hours before yesterday, while having been worked on, there was a person to get in a car or campaigning for him, he asked me.
And at the end, it is the one who identified himself to say this child's child, the late does not tire us about the debts they are working but if you are enough for someone saying I am happy and even when I am telling him to be able to help them.
He becomes a problem.
Prezidaa of the debate.
He was born with a shortage of that, he was born in the whole world about her mother and still it has not died.
Therefore, our sister does not know if he was born, I don't have but later on when he got into the bus he is not allowed, but if he is working if you do with him, we have problems.
When you are capable of removing her stomach, it does not love me so that he can do any work.
That is until you?
How will happen there.
He told me that it does not mean that while in bed and up to time, it will expire.
He was not able to put these things.
Because of those problems are a parent not following?
She is thinking of madness that ended with me when I was four years of age.
Therefore, so as to be the best to be very big, maybe the purpose of without a marriage will even take him to school.
Therefore, even the understanding of saying here I have a day I will not be called "I request that I would be able to entertain and I think that the woman had gone inside and I think that there is far from a shortage that can't even do anything.
The Almighty God bless us for instance, he does not slap back around that night because my in-law says she gets back down this morning.
.
Therefore, you have a phone number of phone that there is a day he told me, she told me, I've heard a lot, I have reached Mwanza and I would like to give him a lot of vehicles that we have, my phone numbers should we be careful.
Let it also take that day.
And a person who was using his number, I was called and called me I would like I was shocked when he was going on top to let me ask for a penalty he saw a certificate of cake.
If I called for a phone number then I have not seen him again because the pieces of living where it was continues, thus now.
We are required to do the efforts we will have shivered in Dar es Salaam city what has not been able to arrive because the mother's brother who is in Morogoro town, I request you to get to him, and this was preparing for the journey to return to them, therefore, then it was not able to get once for someone.
I have risen up to Bariadi in my country and there is first, that patient says anything that you see my health and I cannot go back anywhere.
Therefore, the work of doing so that we help each other to vote but this mother should explain so that he can talk about them but it is impossible to tell them but it is why you went with the rules to beef up and this is a copy of us.
That is that I think that I told me, he says that your password.
If it is seeing my family, a small child who is unable to live as part of cooking, I don't have.
There is one who failed.
This words is Joosub, one day I will be careful, I request her sister Joyce cannot help me for them, he will be able to make it a friend.
If you go in, then we will try to collaborate together.
We have to try to look at how we can have?
I have heard this one.
The sponsorship for now right now many people to get the first awareness I would like to know what I have been able to know what I have done to me.
The Vice has done many years now he has done many years only because today at nine o'clock because it is not true you are worried about it being worried about it.
Do you know that you are not worried because I was I see this time the workers get a long time when her sister was killed by his boss.
When the late God used now, and the person we did is that he does not avoid abusive language, he saw it.
You miss.
And how to do this scandal, our brother!
And different places he can go through a phone you can go down.
This means that the one becomes the only one to get news in the near home and I think it is not something that she does not know when he was surprised when he was surprised when he was surprised when he was born and he would like you, when I met music.
And there is strength.
