They pray to the mayor of Mwanza.
Marion Moore (25, 2015.

The seat for the mayor of Mwanza City Council has continued to rise up on the eyes, where this journey is claimed to be one of the nominated councilors who will vie for money for big business people who want them to continue getting money, for the purpose of using them to go to the election day.
The elections of the mayor of that town is expected to take place a few days in the next few days, while the opposition members who are vying for that position were mentioned to be together with James Ward, Mbezi Ward, Northern Region, and Dismas Mosha (WTM), from the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
CCM has a great opportunity to win the seat for the mayor of Mwanza City because of having many councilors more than those from the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
The arrest of the councilor who was alleged to start requesting for money from those businessmen to come up to one week after the existence of allegations that one of the delegates will vie for that position has claimed that the councilor is using money to support him in the tax issues and tax after being elected to be the mayor of that city.
Reports indicate that the nominated councilor is alleged to start giving donations of money to big business people in the city, he got a servant in one of the councils in the lake region before leaving that work several years ago.
While speaking to Good Citizen this week at different times, some of the councilors and residents of the city have said that the councilor has decided to cater for those efforts in state and property to ensure that he is elected as the mayor of the city.
I have heard the councilor that you look for a lot of great strength, although on the education side he will have but the performance I don't see if he is not happy, "said one of the workers of the city council, who wanted not to be mentioned.
On another side, the member of CCM in Nyamagana District, who speaking with condition of not being mentioned by the name, he said some of his fellow members have started preparing a plan of pressuring the councilor's seat, though the last week he said he had not decided to register it in the race.
He said it is a great opportunity to take that position as he wants to apologize due to his contribution in matters of development of education and sports in Mwanza province.
The Secretary General of the Football Federation of Football (soccer) in Mwanza Province, Nasib Abdul has praised that as the catalyst to the growth of soccer in and outside of Mwanza province.
"He has started a great effort and put up in improving the football game here in Mwanza, his station has been the first of Tanzania since he has been the center of sports for the age of 13, 17 and 19 who are taught sports including football, therefore, it is one important thing in the development of the community.
"On his action of being elected as the councilor for sportspeople in Mwanza province, we congratulated and we see the chance which tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we can come up, it is someone who will be supported and given a partnership."
However, some of the residents of Mwanza town have said the position of the mayor is supposed to be handed over to a leader, who doesn't have groups and founder of the development of citizens.
The businessman of here in the city who introduced himself by one name of Kamanga, has warned the councilor when asking for a donation of money not to take him in his office saying he still has a pain of the death of his fellow member, chairman of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CCM) in Geita province, Alphonce Mawazo.
The nominated councilor of Kigongo Village, Rankings, has confessed to have a plan to vie for the seat for the mayor of Mwanza town, but needed to be involved in a dirty game to prepare for those activities.
"The issues of vying for a long time I don't think if there is a business person to help the councilor seat for the current administration, right now is not present, for all the primary schools we will enable you to take care of," says Rwangisa.
The Director of Mwanza City, Adam Mayingu, has said that his office has not given direction for vying for the mayor and that it does not deal with the councilors' vote that are going on in those races.
"We have not given the guidelines, if this is taking place there, we will not allow me, this is at the party levels (political parties)," he said.
