It is dawn.
May 6, 2015.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is expected to start giving forms for people who want to vie for the presidency through that party at the beginning of the next month, our citizens have told him.
However, that party is expecting to change some of the procedures of the whole process of taking the form, different from it was the time of looking for the party's candidate in the year 2015.
Water sources of this newspaper have explained that those who want to vie for presidency through CCM will begin to take their forms at the beginning of the next month through a special procedure will be announced.
"The party will allow candidates to take forms for the first week of June this year through a special procedure that will be announced by the party when it comes," explained the source that is close to the top leadership of CCM.
Different from the elections of the year 1995, and 2005, this journey CCM runs its process of looking for candidates in the state of privacy, while it explained that the party does not allow him to make mistakes that will benefit the opposition parties.
This newspaper has been told that at the moment, CCM is organizing procedures and regulations that will be used in that process and at the parliamentary and councilors level which are in some issues are different from those used in the year 2005.
For example, Almighty God is told that maybe the party may be able to look at the procedure of looking for sponsors in the different provinces and the one used in 2005.
In the year 2005, the presidential candidates through CCM were forced to look for sponsors in different provinces of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar in order to show that they are supported by members of different provinces and all the two sides of the union.
It will be remembered that at the same time, the former presidential candidate of CCM, John Coshuma Mtengeti, who were going on to the provinces with an ancient attack and completing that exercise within one week.
"Many people do not know but at the time we were in the process like this year 1995, it was not a must for candidates going round in the provinces to look for sponsors who were in the party at that time we witnessed everything it did not have.
", but the party will use that procedure to look for sponsors in the year 2005, which was not registered in the past, thus, this year, the party can see that it is enough to continue with such a procedure."
"The party is a technical bench (what is there) and we cannot join CCM to get bribes because he is in the country because he is in the country because he is in the country because he is in the country because he is in the country.
Mke Mwema should be told that during this year's elections, members of CCM are supposed to see that all people who are coming out to vie for that position will get an opportunity to run their activities.
"There are candidates who will have the ability to have high air crafts and the others are not with them, there are candidates who can have a convoy of 100 vehicles and two others only.
"There are candidates who have great positions in government which they must be accompanied by top boxes of old people who were in 2005, like which one do, the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye, went to take a form without the convoy, we want this journey to be like this journey.
"This year I don't think this party will decide the candidates to see those contestants as the aim is that every candidate can be able to do if the party will vie for that position in the year 2005 and who is reported to vie for the position this year, told the newspaper the day before yesterday.
The parliamentary candidate.
In another step, this newspaper is worried that there is a big possibility of the party to change his procedure of getting candidates for parliamentary positions compared to the one used in the year 2005.
There are members of CCM who believe that their party was losing some of the parliamentary seats in the year 2005 due to the bad procedure of looking for parliamentarians through the opinion polls.
You thank you in one region with 20 people who are looking for one place for parliamentary positions used in the year 2005 and those those are going to vote and have CCM members in their regions, something that led many problems.
"There are people inside the party, they believe that the party needs to make its work to an extent that names that are going to the opinion polls continue to be three and those of them are must to be those who have been following all procedures of the party.
