ACT-Wazalendo will design a stronghold in Mwanza.
May 27, 2015.

Few days after getting the leadership in Mwanza Province, the ACT Wazalendo party has been safe for other political parties in the country and that is organized to run for presidential race, parliamentary and councilors during the next general elections.
Also, he has promised to use the philosophy of "u-Nyerere" to market themselves and to improve more to the citizens so that finally they get supported in the process of switching off other parties in that election.
I told me the truth we will tell CCM to continue to remain in power, we are prepared to show that we are the solution to a chronic problem facing our salvation, "says the chairperson of ACT - Wazalendo in Mwanza Province the day before yesterday.
Sifuna Mchome, who is also a member of the National Executive Council (NEC) of ACT-Wazalendo, believes that the implementation of that party is not a reason to make sure they separated with other parties in selling policies and issues that are accepted by the citizens.
"You can say God is a small party or a new party, but it is growing at a great speed, when they are organized and we are prepared to stop candidates because of going to get a huge victory, and even the presidency in the general elections that will be held on October 25th, this year," he says.
According to FAR Rabat, the first phase of the national campaigns of that party led by the chief leader, Zitto Kabwe, in some of the provinces in the country have advised many citizens to join with it with the expectations of bringing development of our lives.
"The tour have been able to prevent a big group of members, therefore, a big part of the members and the party leaders of ACT Wazalendo party will relocate from other parties, especially the parliament," he reveals.
Speculations of the philosophy of.
For now ACT-Wazalendo party states that the great force in protecting his creation of S@-@ Nyerere, that is happening at 10 important issues of good leadership that be defended by all the strength by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
That basis, according to save an ong'o, it is patriotism, unity, stomach, integrity, accountability, democracy, freedom and actions and actions of fighting corruption.
"That is the right foundation that was used by Tanoh, under the Mwalimu Nyerere leadership in fighting and bringing freedom and later to strengthen the economy and social services in our nation of Tanzania.
"The ACT Patriots are also five poles that are the faith of our party, the first time is to strengthen the fight against abiding by the fight against illegal, hypocrisy, sexual, and corruption.
The second phase is to deal with poverty and managing the wealth of our country for the benefit of all the third phase is to participate in building a nation that is causing the basis of justice and not being exploited in discrimination.
"The fourth faith is to participate in building the African Union and the fifth phase is to fight for the presence of democracy in and outside our party.
"Therefore, you can see that the basis and faith of ACT-Wazalendo will decide the field of Arusha for good things, that is why our ideology is IT of socialism and one of our main greetings is the first, today and tomorrow," explained Nyong'o.
A big attack on CCM.
The intention of ACT-Wazalendo on this period of heading to the general elections is to direct the huge attacks to the ruling party - the Revolutionary Party (CCM) different from what is accused by some people that it aims at fighting the strength of the opposition party in the country - the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
"We don't know that we should not have parliament because it does not have dollars, but also our opposition party like our country, we have a conflict between the administration of this country, who is the ruling party (CCM)," says Nyong'o in order to continue.
"Therefore, we will just look more with CCM, it's not parliamentarians who are doing such as we claim that we are struggling with the parliament and it's not true, we will just deal with the parliament so that we can do what to do when they do not have?
"We were surprised and you will say that their condolences number one is ACT Patriots, instead of CCM, those statements should not be new, there is wanting to prove to the most important citizens.
"For example, Chadema members will inform you that CUF is CCM B, therefore, they are members of the opposition parties because of cooperating with CCM to form the revolutionary government, James Mbatia, appointed by President Jakaya Kikwete to be a member of parliament.
