
A person of tribalism will stop Raila Odinga again.
By Mohammed Dewji.
A curse from Raila Odinga with a veteran politician who has been doing the agenda of national politics for a long time.
When he went to the pitch to vie for the presidency in last year many who loved them to win.
However, things do not listen to a red carpet.
To me I believe that Raila has every criterion, clean and the ability to be the president of Kenya.
When I have been asked, what I have asked is, why this politician who does not get married is to enter the state?
Raila has been popular, the head of political politics which are the biggest nuisances for getting someone at the state house.
In the last general elections, Raila Odinga congratulated the president of Kurasini, South Africa, East Africa, Nairobi, Nairobi and Coast Province, but he is still unable to do because of the end of the primaries.
On his part, the President Jakaya Kikwete was able to get votes from his stronghold in the Central Region when Raila Odinga garnered by 890,536 votes only from this province.
In the Rift Valley region, the president gets a copy of the passengers "by his assistant called Raila Odinga with 2,283,522 votes while Raila Odinga garnered 5,340,521 votes only.
The main reputation that led this results are tribalism and voters in Kenya shall take a general election as an opportunity to protect yourself, to remind them of tribalism. "
The leader can have every reputation and criterion but if you do not listen to the community with a large number of people then we cannot be the president.
Let me ask you who are the reputation that the president Uhuru is forced to lead the community that are seen by the Big Results Now but you are not seen in the previous general elections if William Ruto, did not wed for the previous general elections if William Ruto did not wed for the previous general elections if William Ruto did not wed for the previous general elections if William Ruto did not leave their votes?
By continuing being defeated by Raila Odinga, the President of Raila Odinga, the President of Raila Odinga, has started in Karimjee in the morning in the Coastal Region, West and Nyanza.
The problem of lack of employment, land conflicts, was seen in the community of these areas in the government, because of the government to fulfill his political promise and cancer of tribalism.
In order for President Jakaya Kikwete comes back to the year 2017, you must change his strongholds of voting process by maintaining his political marriage, and Ruto, condition, thus Raila has no longer 2017.
