The national competition to make more than 100 meters to choose players to play two matches and still it gives us to the Tanzanians that they can do a surprise, he is speaking until.
Football is God to go with me how it's a person and the one.
Let us take a boxer, I told him for that meaning.
For someone they want to know it is like a scholar that took her degree and knows me that is unknown.
In football it is something that is at the head of someone who is born and even.
After being born with it, there are experts who are coming with the same speed, they give the basis of the ball to the commission to take people who want to fly the president.
After taking that is why you are maize, there are many experts.
Several internet, the child was the head coach of Tanzanian, whose commission was playing for ten o'clock in the ball.
Where in the old leadership, we wish you a person where I'm shocked when I'm in small today, I am happy to see me, I have seen me for me, I have ever heard my friend, I have never found someone who is my friend for me to be like.
He is in Rungwe, he is complaining.
And there are some teachers called a place where Mayunga has gone to Germany, he knows all the things to put more than 45 youth because these issues are going on well, we have requested people with talents.
For example I told me the phone that you will be able to come up where you take them, it is now a child of the club while people were not so much to use the youth.
In football, those who are the youth in the second round of the league, there were there Azam FC.
It has come through a party that are other talk time.
It has reported that the number of three drivers have come up to have emerged victorious in the Azam team which he had come to have taken a championship of Euro championship which is when they give creativity.
Playing with the sex match, they have played good matches and they have won with people who are in national team used but those youths have died.
The team takes place.
Tanzanians know the ball for all the time we believe they are playing in the ball, but he had a chance to follow it for a match.
