
Ethics thank President Magufuli to prevent the only property, even the friends of May 22, 2012

After the former President of America, Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary Clinton for several weeks preparing to buy a house of buying in New York city, America, September 2nd, in the year 1999, the American State House gave a special announcement which is the basis of the debate today about the renovations of the Public Leaders Ethics Secretariat.
On September 2nd, approximately 11 years ago, the White House that was led by Clinton announced, "the president and his wife have bought five houses in Cibitoke village, in the North of New York city, with a loan (more than 1 billion shillings).
Although the club's decision to buy New York house which was a result of his wife who was a strategy of announcing the contest for the Senate's seat, New York, and therefore forced to have a residence in that city, there are primary issues of discussing.
Maybe before the move ahead and discussion, the law on Public Leaders Ethics is the results of the death of that attack in Arusha town which caused the ethics of the public leaders and the direction of political parties.
After the death of that attack, "leaders" noted that fake procedures concerning their ethics. I am saying those procedures are proud of the process of implementation of that law for now it has no benefit to the nation just after seeing each other, to be given them to the debate.
If I have explained earlier, a big issue that came out at the state house of America is transparency in matters of the family of President Magufuli, especially when they are heading to listen to his authority.
That even the purchase of private property of the family of the president like the residence is required to be open but it is not true that the family of the president has bought houses and worth it, but even the funds have been obtained, a loan or legal income of the president?
While some of the stakeholders in the country are expecting to give recommendations about the amendments to the law on public leaders, it is enough to think about several issues.
Those issues include the presence of different quality standards between the president and its leaders of protesters in the country's vice president and the prime minister as one group.
Another group is ministers, deputy ministers and permanent secretaries and then heads of provinces, district and other directors of public institutions, for example the Institute of Higher Education and Combating of Corruption Bureau (TAKUKURU) and Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
In these groups in order to ensure that the president will be free for leaders who help him, it is good for Ukawa to be greater in its performance and his family especially in matters that could face its responsibilities here, I don't have a private issues of "human being," said President.
The high level of President, his vice president and the prime minister was supposed to follow the course of an example of the American State House because of the president or his family including the new family should be announced by the State House, again with the official report and according to the law.
In another reason, the statement by President's property is not supposed to be the secret of his family or political partners.
What we learn is that, the responsibility of announcing and follow up on the family's property, it's supposed to be part of work performance by the president's office on behalf of the public on behalf of the public on behalf of the public, we are also forced to see more transparency in the president about his relationship with his loved ones.
That during the time of announcing the council of ministers, it is good that President was forced to be satisfied by his friendship with the ministers he had announced.
For him to talk about the minister or the executive officer that I had appointed him is my political man, business or family and the one I did, this decision will help the public against some of the ministers or other directors not to serve the public for the efforts expected.
Attribution, collaboration with some of the ministers in issues of good business, it is possible that President had invested the shares in some of the companies that the part of the ministers he appointed is investors or to explain the minister or executive director. I had appointed brother.
But it is possible President Magufuli has appointed people who does not have relationship with private interests, believing in integrity, keenly, and believe that all the interests are not important in order to fulfill the concept of good governance in this region and if it's not there he can be silent and to announce that in general, there is no one with great interests, more than to lead the nation.
These recommendations are required to consider the real situation in the third phase of the fourth term government in the third phase, the president of that time Benjamin Mkapa was forced to resign from the former Minister of Industry and Trade, Iddi Simba.
President Mkapa did not hesitate to show the public that they are inspiring.
Some of the citizens without doubt, they ask or think about the interests of Mkapa to Iddi, but if the law of ethics of public leaders have been clear that there is obvious that the public questions about that incident would be shaken.
In the fourth phase, the resignation of the Prime Minister Edward Lowassa in a good example of Richmond Development is an appropriate example of approximately one year later Lowassa emerged and announced his interests to the president.
Although this friendship has a lot of questions that it's only political and family planning, but the primary thing is that the public was supposed to have correct information since the president and the prime minister had requested them to know if there is a extra relationship between the president and the Prime Minister who wanted them to know if there is a great relationship between the president and the Prime Minister who joined them in those environments of knowing, maybe even members of parliament would have done a better decision.
But this argument of filling the amendments to the ethics law of public leaders involved with various obstacles that forced the president not to announce the property being at their disposal but even the interests of the former President of the United States, Richard Miles, the Dongfangzhixing Ship.
After the scandal involving fire against rumors has noted that in November 1973, I wish you very happy, "the people have tried to know if their president are hackers or even so, I wish you a chance to retire from August, 1974.
The content one that emerged out in the statement, I wish you the content of the law that takes place in my recommendations at the amendments to their leaders by being given the legal opportunity to know the cause of those leaders.
God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
