There's a period of what then, we will play Ipswich here in the world like smoke and evil to each other after today's first day, I am saying that Tanzanians want changes in the city and the debts that they are saying that they are leading that they are following these teachings.
How do you do?
He is going to come.
And committing sin?
All of you should be?
Talk about it.
News again, the news that has sharp teeth.
We expected to be?
Truly, we have been getting a lot of time because, as usual we discuss each other compelling the claims that Mwanza Province need for a long time?
Some of the people.
In the world and after the second side of the disease.
Most of the woman will let us lose hope in this?
But we have not yet started praising me.
First.
Before you came as we got.
It has reported that we have continued to address the topic if you remember that there is a culture of the country to take the yes, I said that they will do a reception area in political parties even if there is no one who wants to change I have not found the sun.
His mother's mother themselves.
They agree with saying that we will just go with change.
Elizabeth Jackson is important in the sector of the child.
It is good that he is good because you get this changes so that we find out of sending the late God, what happens it does not change her.
What should happen?
You will fall down here.
And he put it.
And put it on the ones to see balls.
We have been a situation.
Its a eyes of the bodies of some of the names are everything more.
We request Ilemi ward in the city, we are looking for the internet and we have talked to them that we are trying to protect public property, we are not fear in responsibility to fulfill many four people in the media, we believe I'm ready to go to a grader.
He went to
They are ready to go and serve the digital change in a period.
So, someone will bring our change to our children get to be a person who will have affected.
Tukuyu, the preparations have not told your changes as you told your views like the poor children, whether you sell, this is not that it's impossible we will see God to put God first in front of reasons.
For God to help as to pay the sun is seen as seen.
Teacher?
He warned that by doing things, maybe we believe that the whole minister Augustine Mahiga was forced to tell him that if there are two participant or a leader who will make sure you ask God to help as well as a leader who will make sure you know what is there.
But I know that God to help as to help them have been given you a decision has continued, but in God, you cannot be careful in the book 'war with bad luck and every authority is good, I do not meet if we are happy if the other Tanzanians are in the country, "what we want.
There is a leader he will also pray for pneumonia.
You will get that before the changes seen in five years other changes we have said that good things we have taken ahead of our life a shop without believe it without what will be selected and Maliki Maliki.
What we want to are for some of the not wanting us we are doing so that we see you, maybe the way to bring change as you want to sit at the basis of the expectation that we want to sit down and if usual you want to partner with the leaders.
Every party must have policies and its procedures in the implementation or to go to the party's policies, therefore, all parties are supposed to see the policies and regulations of the party, but also those policies are required to see the policies and regulations of the party, but also those policies are required to see the policies and regulations of the party and also to see the policies and regulations of the party and also to see the party policies and policies of the party and also to see the party policies and policies of the party and also to see the policies and regulations of the party and also to see the party policies and policies of the party.
Tumaini will be used to give you a lot of light on the claims due to this, Ramadhan is a party.
To say that friends.
And continue safely that if you go down?
When he was called all, there was a chance to give a service to the real patients.
To know what will happen after.
By knowing that.
The cries in the cost did not help but he will help him under a lot of questions that have not been about change.
Without clothes, I wish you any reason and they have gone down according to the policies and implementation of policies and how to inspect them.
It has its vision about the direction and I have loved the same way, there was a mistake to think and now I would have been able to make sure, the books if you get safe and the commander of the private, I have not got a mistake due to we will be there.
Campaigns, the candidates are telling us that their policies will enable you to say that children will come to me, let us benefit our party.
We have seen and?
There is a bit that we understand that one thing that he used in Usa River, will give you a place where there are changes so that you can be self-employed if I'm in, but I am pleased with you, because I wish him a child.
It's not saying CHADEMA, including we want someone to give a report, something that is in the bank to buy houses in Chukwani, we have been something due to the constitution was bad.
I was in the purpose of a woman but I have been able to have emerged if they were waiting for the same time.
Musician I arrived in getting the freedom and when I was told me, we will look for many more yesterday.
And as everything you will say that this payment has said that this payment and does not like this, you need your names like I would like to cooperate with him and bring him a chance if I would like to make changes if I would like to see change.
All of the section.
The leadership of leadership.
The owners of the teachers involved with those who were sacked.
They should be given an opportunity to read.
And it was informed that Crazy GK is the husband.
.
