Ukawa continues to take action.
May 08, 2014.

Among the things that people want to change the truth of political parties in the country, they have been encouraging and to cooperate with the great desire is to see the opposition parties in the country to join and cooperate to remove the party's vision and alternative leadership that will be better than more than the one of CCM.

Since going back to the system of many parties, the desire to have never been made in addition to several times, there have been efforts to cooperate but you have never happened a union that you've never happened if you've heard about hope.

The coming of cooperation of opposition parties and other stakeholders in order to claim the three government system has come as it gets in light on the same level, to bring hope that it is possible for a long time.

This is because the state of opposition parties is divided into many things to reach the names of CCM B, Malassy, and many other things are in the special constitutional parliament and those who are divided into a special constitutional parliament and those who are divided into normal parliament, and those who are divided into common parliament of giving them hope.

The union was looking at the peak when they started what is called the Union of the Citizens Constitution (UKAWA), it is clear that this partnership had come to where politicians of the opposition parties parliament were led by Judge Joseph Warioba they will not be accepted by many delegates of that Parliament which many are from CCM.

Before you know this some of the politicians who believed to have a cry for a three government system will be accepted easily especially because there are many CCM members who want to have a large number of CCM members of CCM, the father of CCM, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who died in a great skill of serving the nation.

Therefore, the opposition were expected to have great mistakes - that their colleagues in CCM will agree but further it is because the commission of the constitution raised the system and write a whole draft of the constitution in line with the delegates and therefore it would have been an easy issue.

Against the expectations of the party, the Revolutionary Party made a special session of the executive committee in Dodoma city and wanted to support the decision of managing its policies for two governments, this was a big blow to the opponents and to put effort to support the party's stand during passing various sections of the draft constitution.

All these things have caused the opponents to recognize that it's not only the law, but the opponents did not have enough votes since the parliament had not been able to get enough votes because the parliament had not been able to get enough votes since the parliament was the attempt to relocate the debate from the parliament and that same time.

However, I believe that in UKAWA you can enjoy the love of CCM from the United Republic of Tanzania, it is not the issue of faith that the party's policy is not a matter of faith that the party's policy is not a member of faith.
