My leadership, Edward Sokoine and the vigil of the year 1984.
December 11, 2014.

On April 12, this year it is 30 years old since he gets a lot of love to the century, the late Edward in Sokoine, who was the prime minister of the United Republic of Tanzania.
I, who during this period was among the ministers in his office, some of that we got a leader without a big leader from the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
It is a leader who will respect the way he used to read it without caring about the effects that would have failed to get during a difficult time system.
I heard this I did with him, I urge him that the late Karume was the biggest pillar of Mwalimu Nyerere, he believed that we can't live in the world of this century, by continuing having many business people who had their own products.
He performed his work by directed by the party policies and managing director for all the poles when he believed that he didn't make the policies then it will be seen, "the party will be able to give birth to the government."
By considering that, he gave out an opportunity to fight with analysts and lazy workers at work with all his efforts by Haazu taking any person, big and all the small-scale farmers were rigged.
He used his long time to urge the integrity of servants of all levels in the government, and give a warning to all lazy workers.
Every minute, every day and every month is the time of performance by the citizens through that procedure, he was a certain time for an emergency issue when he was looking for the purpose of getting a solution to an emergency issue when he was attending, but the concerned leaders were found guilty, he didn't know anything in the country's work.
In addition to that, I believe that during his life he was expecting to put the Almighty God for every issue and he used to be an example of example and ministers for example using them being better than other citizens.
He reached that one day during the launch of the new year feast in the year 1984, to prevent all the three ministers (in the office of the Prime Minister), Anna Makinda, (the current speaker of the Democratic Republic of Tanzania, Getrude Mongella and I go to the church in the vigil of St Joseph, (Dar es Salaam) and wants them to study at that night in shifts.
Every time he warned that the name of God by the Lord 'Mjinga Mpe Cheo' by Jihadists "which he performed so as to see that we are more better than others in front of Almighty God and wanted them to continue being the servants of people and leaders who care about people's problems.
I said that I was working with him by very close to what I was looking for in my leadership by his wife, Teacher Julius Nyerere. I have been successful in my life and performance in different positions.
