What is the victory of the son of Jide.
MTVs, 2013.

"You thank you and those in the high table?" He asked me, my one who was standing in my side, and he is one of the chief advisers of Uhuru Kenyatta, the leader of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Tansort), Kenya and the presidential candidate on the United Republic of Tanzania.
I understood the eye on the table and seen four Kenyans or five recently, they were youths everyone with the age of 50 years.
"You can break their wealth, you will get a total of 15 billion shillings just like it is not more," he added that they were among those who helped to vie for the Uhuru presidential campaign to vie for the presidency of Kenya. Uhuru is the first president of the United Republic of Kenya.
It was the night of Friday last Saturday and we were in an event in one famous club in Nairobi, while he was invited by one of the sponsors of Uhuru at the event, was to celebrate the end of the United Nations.
The veteran players of Tati, his Uhuru party, attended including Visezi, a politician who has the reputation of having a popular artist and the one who was competing in Nairobi.
They could have collapsed, who may be unable to be known as Havana Cuba, she was lucky enough after the end of a campaign meeting of the Jubilee campaign that took place in Nairobi.

They have collapsed as one of the senior organizers of that meeting that prove the way the union of Diamond was prepared himself.
Up to now the newspaper of Mke Mwema should remain in the past time, the winner of the presidential election of Kenya is still unknown and even so, those results indicate that Uhuru is the one with leading followed by Raila Odinga, the leader of Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party and the United Republic of Congo.
Uhuru has done a lot of work to arrive here when he arrived today when he was not happy again, the young man was forced to get married to politics and to be under a shadow of the retired president Daniel Sturridge.
Or the Uhuru is not another politician, who was a politician and the one who does not know, while addressing the crowd of people the truth that Uhuru is a child of Mzee Kenyatta, but not again the child of Mzee.
His fellow opponent Raila Odinga, who is the old baby Amne Salim who was the vice president of Kenya under Kenyatta and later become the opposition leader.
Therefore, the presidential candidates of Kenya all of Kenya are "children's children," she has been born in a house and in political family, without doubt, there are rich and responsible for small businesses.
There is the concept that Raila Odinga is a person, but that is just the concept of selling great companies or shares in those companies and she has done the corruption scandal.
Maybe it is seen that most of the relatives, because he is the baby Amne Salim, who was a relatives, or maybe because he is suffering from Germany and East Africa.
His opponent Uhuru is supporting politics and economy in the United States at the Amnesty International university where one of its teachers was Abdulrahman Kinana, former prime minister of Tanzania, who was followed by Maasais.
Uhuru has heard a lot of Babu and other than visiting his teachers at his home, so as to each other is Pilau and chapati cook and in America.
And there is no big difference between politics and the policies of Raila and Uhuru, that made it open during the two debates of the presidential candidates that was done before the elections.
The debate will also come out, those involved in Raila Odinga with the Uhuru of Raila Odinga like she is proud to do things, they will be true that Uhuru is not true.
The freedom made it all the time without wanting to MOI is the one who accompanied him to send to marry off the mother's mother, Mama Ngina, and his fellow people were the first to have blamed and leaving in the end following the politician.
Earlier on the beginning of Uhuru seems to be afraid of politics but in a period of five years since the end of last year, my son of Jomo has confirmed that he is leading his talent.
I don't think this is the reason that made him be that, I believe he has done well in Karume on his wives or he has performed well as he was told to play with his advisers.
As a few months ago, one member of parliament of the previous parliament explained that Uhuru and another political leader of Kenya told Bongo, "Uhuru has changed how he will do something then he works."
