
Kikwete is disappointed the CAG of January 18th, 2013.

President Jakaya Kikwete has been reported that he has been questioning the advice of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) Ludovick Utouh has said that despite the fact that he is the first leader to allow those reports to be discussed with transparency in parliament, our citizens have noted.
Several times the report of the controller and auditor general of the government have been cooperating with members of the board of organizations or public institutions, but also President Kikwete who in September the year 2011, had appointed the Member of Parliament of Jambo Tanzania Limited.
In line with the appointment, the former Minister for Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives (at the same time), Professor Jumanne Maghembe according to the law of air crafts number 18 of the year 2009, section four (4) had appointed other eight members to lead that board whose end is for three years since it was appointed.
However, as it is for President Kikwete, and the Minister Maghembe at the time he did contrary to the advice of CAG, he appointed the member of parliament of Lugo FEST, to be among the delegates of that board.
As a result of that trend, complaints were touched by advice of CAG about registering members of parliament in the board of organizations and various public institutions have been arising every time when they enter the report.
That situation to assume the recommendations of the CAG is different from the especially the ones of President Kikwete in the international platforms on performance issues in the government, including its institutions.
For example, in his speech at the opening meeting of the local government meeting, Tanzania (OGP), Baamar, in Brazil, April 17, year 2012, Kikwete entered the work of CAG in front of the delegates of that international meeting.
At that time the Parliament here in the country had a big debate about the report of CAG, the debate brought the history of members of parliament to collect the signing of votes for not having faith in the prime minister, Mizengo Pinda.
But apart from the attempt to vote for some members of parliament to vote for him he had faith that the prime minister was coordinated by the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, approximately four ministers who were left to the ministers after the council is appointed afresh, due to the blood of those members.
At the time I got up that came up on the report of CAG has shown the corruption that has shaken the country, President Kikwete with entrepreneur, in his speech, he said that for Tanzania joining the local government plan (OGP) is a solution.
