Sengerema to kill a letter from the prime minister.
APR of 18, 2013.

While the government in Sengerema district has reduced the scandal of the council of that district to comply with the law of procurement and evaluation of the office of the prime minister, regional administration and local governments (TAMISEMI), that supports the financial committee and plans to make inspection for projects, the committees that are not involved have continued to inspect the projects.
According to information from within the council, the committee that are not involved have continued to do inspection of projects contrary to the law and procedures of the purchase of the council.
Reports indicate that, the health and water committee visited various projects in Buchosa County and Sengerema, April 8 and 9, this year and in accordance with the tour, April 10.
The other committee that performed projects under the law, regulations and procedures are the economy committee, construction and environment which is mentioned to inspect various projects in those regions, April 9 and 10, this year and to end up on April 11.
Two weeks ago, this newspaper written about the violation of the law of procurement and document of the office of the prime minister of October 30, 2009 that was done by that council.
While those on going on the head of that district, Caren Yunus, told Citizen newspaper that if there is violation of the law, procedures will be followed because the law is open.
"This issue has never been heard, now I am happy to answer, I would like to answer you, but if there are law or regulations be dealt with because there are laws or regulations that will be dealt with through that procedure," said Versi.
The local government officer in the ruling party's office in Mwanza province, Christine Ishengoma, when he was asked, he said his office does not have information.
"The document explained how to do inspection in this projects are now I don't know that there is a executive director now I don't know if they are using his skill of doing so, but we will follow up to know what is going on," said Bowman.
In the news that was written by this newspaper two weeks ago, it was explained that Sengerema council is going against the purchase number 21 of the year 2004 and the regulations of the local governments committee to inspect the implementation of projects and property that are received inside the concerned council.
According to our investigation, the education committee, health and water visited the projects on March 14th and 15 this year, the economy committee, construction and environment visited the projects on March 16th and 17, this year, at the time of money, leadership and plans are in an inspection tour of March 18 and 19 this year.
The 17 (C) of the regulations of the local governments board, gives the authority to the financial committee, leadership and plans to visit and inspect the development projects in the concerned councils, but that regulations doesn't state anything in another committee.
While those on going on, the head committee of the department and the department of internal auditors that are required to inspect the projects before the councilors committee to conduct inspections and provide information every year, it is claimed that for more than ten months now it has not implemented its legal responsibility and process of doing an inspection in the development projects in the country.
"The Controller Auditor General of the Department of Department, who have a legal responsibility to visit development projects that are being implemented inside the council of public funds, they have not done this for 10 months now, but these are important for the presence of every quarter year," explained our website from within the District Council of Sengerema.
According to our source, the action of the head committee of the department without inspection of projects led by the office of the prime minister, on October 30, 2009 to all councils in the country, an act that has insisted to the inspection of projects in the councils of the council is to be cleaned.
That document has mentioned institutions that were approved to conduct inspections in development projects as well as an inspection committee of projects that should be directed by the executive committee and the internal auditors of those institutions, according to the document, are supposed to inspect and prepare reports of inspection of those projects every year.
