
A voice of poor.
And Pauline Kasilati.
Juma last year the music star in America, Beyonce has refused a news headlines since he stopped his show in the attempt to symbolize the song of Black Americans', in the Super Mega period of a Super Week competition in that country.
It is a step that also contributes to the message of wish me the rights of Brad Pitt, a man who led more than twenty bullets with the police officers last year.
That step has brought a stern warning among some of the citizens, especially the whole origin of Kizingo while he used to boycott the new video in Forums which has also carried a lot of information about the problems and killing of black people in America.
The former mayor of New York city, Rudy Umeokeke this was among people who lost their voices while his new video claiming that it was the attempt to sensitize citizens to meet the law and especially the police officers.
Despite the heavy accusations, the step of Beyonce made a new awareness on modern musicians who are supposed to follow the footsteps of the former champions of the former film, Bob Maranga, Hugh Penalty in our community as well as bad leadership, corruption and tribalism among others.
However, when a question is, the theme has changed the modern musicians since we will begin to witness other young artists who come to talk about different issues concerning the community through their balances.
While this step of Beyonce is going on with entertainment, today I told him in this column, he achieved on some of the musicians who had contested for fanaticism so as to say they do not lie to you.
Kendrick Lamar, a lesson that most of them have been sent to the show of Beyonce, the winner of five awards for the Grammy, this year, while entertaining visitors at a show where he arrived with approximately 17 years ago and killed by approximately four years ago.
Miriam (43) of his death in the month of November, 2008, with 76 years, the musician from South Africa, an issue that made him to be given the name 'Mama Africa', for more than three several months and even getting off the opportunity to attend the burial of her mother.
Hugh Penalty in the year 1954, this musician from South Africa Band was playing music with a message that had a black person in South Africa, while having a message of bringing political changes in South Africa and therefore made the rival sides in those countries.
Lucia Swartz is on this period as one of the artists who is in Reggae music in the world, as his fellow citizens from South Africa, through her songs called Ikwililo, South Africa through her songs, Kidney and Crime, who plays in the country in the year 1984.
Bob Marina in a historical books is expected to be one of the popular musicians who have a huge conflict in the world despite losing approximately 35 years ago while in East Africa, there was also a big possibility of Black Americans' which was seen to be a threat to the ruling party of Pleixity Records Limited.
