She doesn't know that.
APR of 18, 2013.

Among the questions that I have been asked for a period of four years now, is that when the Controller and Auditor General of the government (CAG) will decide to release a style to be afraid that I had not heard very close to my thoughts that I have decided to resign.

When I say that Ludovick Utouh has not involved the position he used to state so because he has done a lot or I don't know if he does not know whether his intention is needed because they do not use if you are needed, do not use if you use if they use the exhibitions so that he didn't know if they are not involved in the exhibition.
.

I will give these examples.
In his report of the year 2007 / 2008, the inspection of the public organizations, Ludovick Utouh has clarified that about the water company in Dar es Salaam (DAWASCO).
The management of the water organization in Dar es Salaam (DAWASCO) is supposed to invest in the mining of water at the ground so that it is used for a large area in Dar es Salaam city which has no water.
The year 2011 / 2012 (the report that was released the day before yesterday) the CAG has told us these about DAWASCO.
The management of the water organization in Dar es Salaam (DAWASCO) is supposed to be careful on its investment by investing in the mining of water at the ground so that it is used for a large area in Dar es Salaam city which has no enough water.
And that is just the beginning of this report the CAG has explained how the government does not like to listen to his recommendations.

He himself asked for example the recommendations that he has given out and touched for a long time now.

One example and the ones being held are expected to continue with members of parliament to be the delegates of the board of public organizations, despite the directors of the board of directors of the Tanzania Tourist Board, the University of Diplomacy, Dar es Salaam Port and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (in the United Kingdom).

At the moment he said on his the year 2007 / 2008 for these words, in order to avoid sexual violence (to the rights), concerning the responsibility of the management of public organizations and other institutions (U57,356 votes).

We need to ask these people who have appointed the board members (many times he is the ministers) these are doing this report or when I believe they are proud because it's not true.
