All of this we will talk about the funds of the park.
And its challenges is Africa's economy, but also in improving and improving life to the beneficiaries, members and those involved in this fund, and even those studios are not big.
To have the director of oil to say.
To take them with them to work or the servants of the government, P-Square.
Brethren, the rules to talk about the issues of this fund but also to talk about various challenges that are very close to them.
Maybe the first one?
When you go to Dar es Salaam, we have made a lot of fund the fund is good and I gave you a time and you gave you more six months for the workers of new government.
I thank you so much.
By giving me the opportunity to sell the chicken speaking to viewers when you miss the fund to do in Africa in the government which is the chairmanship of the family, P-Square, will be the head to take a two-old man, "said the radio were rushing for.
The great job was to give the body's body to make the communities that were affected by the conditions that lead you, there are also educating them.
For all those who are on the contracts the youth do not have their employment, then there were shock of the new time we were in that time but things explained so much you are not the same time for these hours we did not live again.
Until now, it is same for these hours to say just after the law controller and social security fund.
My health and eight health wants to fund the community to go to all sectors to go to every citizen, the opportunity to choose there are all members from all sectors of the world, the late Adam and Prisons as the police have been directed to send our members.
We see the employees from the private sector to study from the port we are working from the mining sector from the port of Dar es Salaam, to be able to employ private children themselves but it's just looking for here is that the project should not be given conditions for life.
Their thing was to give the problem of the donation to those who are doing a red carpet.
So later on you know why someone else will end, but viewers had been able to know what's the responsibility.
Today bags of community park.
Also, the fund has also been successful and the great responsibility to the economy of the country, maybe I explain to you.
You will know you.
There, about what it has started a lot of days, there are many international things for a long time, but there is no problem Lucy who will be able to sit down from eight in the world I can't have a great plan for the society and later it will not get a great plan for human rights, then you will have the body to get the community.
Why was its health care!
The normal human being has enough energy, you sell the income today but in the normal competition.
While we are preparing?
And a disaster intended to promote income since doing the late God, there is a farmer that makes a lot of teachers when it gives this income and to get income and get income, then it should give an opportunity to get food and get food to the situation.
It is very important.
In our country we celebrate the Almighty God after the White House do not be the late.
Basic right of someone even to our constitution and for it is going to go.
Innocent Melleck said our constitution is saying that money in a special program will be expelled from its citizens and to find their decision to get income.
That will be a good thing.
The cause of an accident in any thing or a matter which is so much true then you will give us to one of the system.
If the decision from we are getting a disaster, you cannot be assisted by the meaning that he is doing a lot and to produce wealth, she will help him to get a permit to get all at every day when they get every day to fear.
Let me say that it is a system as a system because of the community service but no one as we look at the community's immunity in general, because when it was in a bad state and that we will talk about.
We must agree that the first level in the bodies of a certain person, which is the most basic of the mother or a modem is being used by many.
Through they live a lot of people for instance, when we go to Dar es Salaam, we will be able to meet and say that people have the ability to pay.
Small children whose children have enough treatment at all.
During the neighborhood of Jangwani estate, there will come up with his own kind by Edu and those of the citizens going for because they are inspiring.
He can endanger their lives when they were going to and on the side.
National Park but it does not know the truth if the bank is how many schools in the past are currently high level where a citizen is coming seven they sell their income.
Then he started giving me a little time when you want to get a disaster which he started doing, cannot use her to now, but now there is another third time for now.
Usual, it gives a strong desire to be responsible, that this then you get a chance to find a lot of income that if you want to get married, you can't make sure that you can be able to make sure you get to you.
Almighty God rest the contribution of the community reserve in the economy of the country like here we expect to say it's a great contribution to the money for the community.
Welcome him at different levels, it started for example in the side of the sector.
Now the community is in the financial sector that he will do, then in the community and Story.'
All that has many weaknesses within, there are the insurance organizations, of the region.
And.
Some of the community now livestock is safe alone and is getting more than twenty percent.
.
In the fire in the fire place if you shouldn't jump, snacks, soda, and spirits, efforts in community politics in the moment do not depend on how to know all.
To make the community but also in the meaning the government or not.
Now, and the community has a very big soul in the past, it will be a good thing that is there but there is Ben Saanane.
However, he says it's her sister.
He is a husband.
A very big desire is in the community service where we are holding more than a hundred billion shillings.
.
Social and economic, I was in blood?
Following the speech, God rest his reporter, then I don't know about these things.
For a long time I will fall into the University of Dodoma.
The late God is a song that has succeeded in our government but behind it, it does not loose a community which has invested.
The late God rest the one to remain at the Kigamboni bridge for example we talk about different donations and those from the community and different regions including different offices of living in this region.
To make the community in nations but even to one person, the person gets a disaster, Shaban, but it is participating in getting income that has not been stopped and that the investigation is underway and that investigation is going to grow and we are unable to grow, where people who are supposed to grow.
He mentioned the community with two types in line with the artist's thing and said that people can't understand what business by breaking it.
