
State House to decide the use of RC.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published in October 17, 2016.
The Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said the office of the president at the State House will decide the use of the office of the office of the Provincial Commissioner for Dodoma when it is completed.
He said that in this town yesterday when he visited to inspect the construction of that building and thanking the steps taken.

I have arrived where I did not believe that I had seen him, the great job has been done and if the building is completed, the head of the province, "said the Vice President and added that after seeing a huge visit to Dodoma's office as a way to welcoming the guest of honor.
"The building is handed over the State House that will decide the use, have planned to fulfill that building." Previously, while giving a report to the Vice President, the administrative secretary of Dodoma Province, Rehema Madusa said that the construction of that building started on June 6, 2009 with the construction of the budget of the year 2009 to 2010, and that was estimated to cost 600 billion shillings and be completed within three years.
"Up to now 4 billion shillings have been paid to the contractors and an amount of 38 billion shillings have been signed in the contracts to be paid in the fourth phase," he said.
He said, the construction of that building which is in the fourth phase started officially on June 25, 2014 by partnering with two budget of 2013 / 2014 and 2014 / 2015.
That fourth term contract of 581 billion shillings was signed.
That phase which was scheduled to be completed on January 24, 2015, but it was not completed as it was planned due to lack of money where up to now, 455 billion shillings are the ones that were received.
Madenge said that the building has a fourth floor and one floor of land.
He said up to now, the progress of the implementation of the fourth phase are only a level of 60 percent just after a period of close weeks which is equivalent to 38 months.
