
The verification of the rules of Statistics.
Statistics said that the rules to be written by Ben Saanane, has explained the lives of African Community and cultures.
The main aim of the author is that you have been communicating with the modern practices that are outdated, and at the only way, the rules of the law explains the way the African communities are run, will protect themselves with disabilities.
The author has sent the pension funds of skin disability as a result of the disabled people that are faced with various challenges in the community.
There are those challenges is the traditional results, which combines both human rights against people living with disabilities, the fact is needed to be thrown in how the writer did not depend on discrimination, stigmatization and despising Tanzanians.
(I) a structure to protect the rules of this one, the author has used a one structure to one (Hago), some of the events have been planned for starting with the last event where a journalist has died and went to live in exile as socialists and finally come back to their village.
(Second), a journalist has used various effects as we follow.
- in some events, the writer has used a lot of exchange so as to prove the reality of those involved.
For example, "do you know, and the witch doctors were given to the father Makaziwe who has given many children only," since I give her two years only and already he has two children and yet he is expecting another child. "(1).
This share will be done between those involved in climate change which are its Makabane.
Also, a loss have been found to have been found in the 40th.
"Our farms is dug well and they have lost in Zekiotic drugs, which is carried out and broke down," (in the 2), who was the song that does her love for her daughter of Jesus.
"I have written a lot and I was waiting to wait, I was welcomed at my life, I will not accept them to buy," (34).
Likewise, the other songs have come out in the 7th and 90 minute.
- his stove is also used by the writer, this is a reason for someone to speak with his soul in an example, that's the one who was trapped with him.
As a question, "Sekhoto, a person who came alone," my brothers have risen to my main request for now my colleagues will answer him as the first wife.
Even so, we can't see my husband to be read for us, "(1).
A unique use are discussed followed by the player Shangani when he is in a big debate in his heart (113).
The author has also used the way to do anything related to this was described as the father being surrounded by his story.
"Many years ago when I would like a small-term, through the phone, it made it to shoot the aerial balls," (482- 83).
