
Ruge Mutahaba speaking at the moment some of the artists of Elba Lobo, lady Jay Z who is Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani.

Ruge Mutahaba said that he has been named in a lot of opinion polls like artists, while they have been blamed more than any person in the music industry, but it is three things only that he has been married.

Mtaki Mutahaba said, when I get lady Jay Z and how I get Q Chief, you will make sure that the director of Clouds Media program, who has also done the work of managing many artists and is the leader of Tanzania House of Talent group (THT).

In this article, KINAPA is talking about different issues in art and mentioning three conflicts that he will not forget yourself since he started involvement in entertainment activities.

Continue to pass.

A question are some of the artists who have ever worked with you have been complaining just after getting into your leadership, that they warned them that they were used by many others about this?

Upcoming lady I don't see if there is a person who can say this matter so that THT doesn't have a difference with another university.

It is supposed to take the students' to go to you to go to the time when they decided to continue doing your things when they are not born and there is no one who defected from him, but it is a must for me and the others to get a chance.

Now if you see a person who is born and then he is retiring from him, he himself is unable to make sure that I have done their houses and how you can get your home, how can you see me?

How do I think why do not lie?

The listener is feared, it is that these artists who go to complain until they are unable to supervise because the issues they are doing so many of them is like that children are looking for someone to talk with him but they don't know someone to talk with him but they don't know.

Another he said that he gets 40 million shillings in the month he urged the media that every week is making 10 million shillings, you can be someone to get those per month is to listen to me?

Now if he got 40 million shillings for a month, for a whole year you are expecting to invest, it is blaming each one for a year is 480 million shillings, I personally cannot get that benefits in my business.

When I see many journalists, they don't report about these people who protect themselves, there are big people who have ever worked with them, today I wish them to pay for them, today I wish them to pay those funds or others?

Juma Nature has told him that how many times you have Kenja, MB) and have talked about how many times (MB) and helped me with work here and his song 'Latifa, "Tale said that we are not using this youth.

A question is true that artists of leaving with supervision are allowed to get in radio stations and other parts?

Ruge Project is reported to continue to organize themselves because others do not forget where they were found and they did not get married.

When in the end we go back and said that they were given to him, they are forced to think because of a certain person, it is not right to me when I see someone who is another, I look up until others easily.

This is everything that is every place, it's more news from Bongo Fleva music because Clouds TV why it does not play with Ali Kiba and Ray C because it does not go to the disabled group, why did not meet Diamond for two years?

Why if we decide that we will not make sure that my artist does not make a big issue and that is the news reporter in the city because it is the first policy for Clouds FM why Ruge Mutahaba is the first to be blamed?

A question is how many five types of artists which were misled?

KINAPA is I take me if I have no problem because I have never been a conflict with an artist, but they be my close to me, I don't have a conflict that is surprising me or let me know the name of the virus.

It's not because of Sugu, but those who stopped him are because there are people who came to an extent that I am surprised even if I was surprised even if they were told you are.

When I was surprised, it's a person who can get into a fight with a person you don't know what we are in life, "and you know what does it mean to be the source that (those people do not know themselves and do not know themselves.

And because I have heard the problem of Sugu, it did not understand the problem, others who did not know where they come from.

To me, I was not a conflict with someone who had a conflict which is there all the two sides, if you do not have a conflict there is no doubt, maybe if the second side has decided to have a conflict.

The second conflict is against lady Jaydee was a very important reason because many words started in the internet and we decided to open a case, which until today it has not been able to apologize for now, he is not ready to apologize for him, but the court will not turn back.

This issues are bad luck when you came out, because anyone wanted to say anything with complaints we have to say it's something to be known.

Also Q Chief has ever been very disturbing during the funeral of Mangele, I went to him and told him and told me that I will avoid your desire to be here here and I ever told that I had conned a permit for a singer from Nigeria, Davido, is not true.

When a person can do something, I was born with BASATA, I went back to let me think that I don't want to bless you, so he doesn't know the law and borders of BASATA is you and elsewhere.

We would like to find him a permit, we cannot see BASATA that if you are loved we're going to front of the minister is the procedure for now, what we think we have separated.
