The CCM party, CCM seems to say that our small Q!
Kristen 14, 2014.

These weeks do not tell you that some of the issues I have written in the past, and the opposition being removed from the internet, now the truth depends on what is done by our research conducted in the country.
Last week, we have been encouraged again after reading the research that was done by that institution Twaweza in various parts of the country, those research emerged with the outcome of the surprising fact about what we go and so, that is our habit.
For example, together with the corruption of IPTL, to be written by the announcement of news agencies here in the country for close to 10 percent of people who were interviewed they said they don't know anything about the issue, same as part of EPA, Richmond, purchase of fees etc.
Let us think about more than 100 billion shillings were kidnapped and the corrupt people who are not signed EPA) but a big percentage are not knowing anything about the corruption, despite being written by the media!
Recently, how can I be able to take action to know the government by controlling the corruption if even the issues are not aware if these issues do not come out on elections to vote and choose good leaders if they do not care about such issues?
This is really used to agree with my dear reader who said if we reach you, we have the ignorance of inheritance to make sure we have a dengue disease.
I am sure that is the ignorance of money that is making many Tanzanians (especially youth), not so much about what is happening at the constitutional parliament despite being impressed by the parliament.
The youth are very humiliating.
They don't have time and the issue of new constitution despite that the future of their private life will depend on so much in the future of the sections of the constitution that we shall be decided by that parliament.
This habit of ignorance of stem cells, which now has been confirmed again by the research also Twaweza in order to write this article on May 2014, on this column which explained that Tanzania is holding the third position in the world in the list of countries with a small ability of thinking!
That article made huge debate on social media while others interrogate and believe in that research, that was done by the White House, "I remember even the deputy speaker, Honorable Ndugai said he desires for the issue while he was unblocked in the parliament and one of the opposition member of parliament.
While confirming the answer to the member of parliament (I am not told the name) Honorable Ndugai said that it is not true that Tanzania we will hold the third position in the world with the small ability to think and they had conned the member of parliament for they were displayed "reports of the internet.
Now, after the research also Twaweza in addition to the results of how Tanzania does not give birth of important issues that involve their lives in bad ways, and Ndugai, will continue to refuse that we are leading in having the small ability of thinking and experts should come up to assume the results of the research on claims that they were affecting the internet "?
My brothers, I'll take a repeat that I got to emphasized in the past, if things are going on how they surprised her as a constitutional parliament, not because of the reputation of the ruling party, CCM or his government, but it is because of our ignorance of us!
After the results of that research also Twaweza, now I believe that any problem of the truth is that Tanzania will hold the third position in the world in the list of nations of Tanzanian citizens with the low level of thinking that you called IQ, that is Intelligence Unit.
For the benefits of those who did not read my articles on May 2014, I will repeat that again that IQ is resolved by checking the ability of the brain of not knowing the different types of information, and that in the list of the top 10 types of information, and that in the list of the top 10 types of information.
We are taking the third position with an average of IQ-72 in the 10 position that is being held by Sudan which also its level is 72.
