The public has never heard the answers of our leaders.
Mr 11, 2015.

In issues that have caused an error in various media houses, transport agencies, in the market and on the village stones as part of the politicians and the government officials have been given to the ethics council when they were questioned on allegations of corruption.
It is not great again that some of the answers were wrong in another country, where citizens can't jump and Chapati, some of the statements can bring problems.
Those statements are not very different from the ones that has ever been released by the former queen of France, who is alleged to say the king gives citizens a cake after seeing him for lack of food.
Queen of that he did not know that those citizens were waiting of hunger and when their cake was, it was not a problem, queen did not know the problem, queen did not know the problems that his citizens were.
The answers that some of the selected people and politicians of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have been given to the board and even the queen of queen of France.
While Professor Anna Tibaijuka was claiming that 10 million shillings is money to buy vegetables, she does not care that more than 80 percent of contraception will have a income of 2000 shillings per day.
He said you should not understand that with the least being in the country, those funds could be enough to pay a total of 40 employees of the government, that those funds for vegetables are paying for people that did work for 30 days.
On the side of Mesa at State House, Shabani Gurumo, 80 million shillings he claims that it is little and he has more than that money, he did not know that the money is a salary of 320 employees from the poor.
These statements have been said when most of them have ever been told to be a one billion shillings is "antation" and when he asked about their president getting into a luxurious plane with huge costs so that the government is ready to see them but the leaves, so that their leader can get that transport.
Considering that President Jakaya Kikwete has now made a step that the British have known as' Fulfill Your Goals (which is a person who doesn't have teeth) and maybe they have CCM members and the government's workers have started to see that they can do anything and he does not do something because his time is found.
However, we thought that on these people they will have fear to their citizens, they will have fear of their votes and their employers in this financial year.
We think that our leaders and those who have the authority have been faced with bad behavior, so that this habit of switching off the poor will come to have a bad end.
If you want to know, followed the sudden queen of France, Marie Antoinette.
One primary thing that Andrew Chenge, Gurumo and Professor Anna Tibaijuka are supposed to know that citizens have made their statements about their words that will not be forgotten in the history for a long time.
The really appropriate is you put a spirit of words.
