We have forgotten your opinion, we should learn to review afresh.
21st of 21, 2013.

Last week I wrote on printing work in the country and said that this development that CCM and his government are unknown because, at a large extent, it will not be taxed.
I want to bring up a little this debate because of you this period of borrowing of the government of President Kikwete up to the banks in business and social security agencies in the country, a situation that is controlled will be great effects in front of the journey.
Last week when I talked about this situation to the parliament to put an end to the headlines, you will have no reason why it will not have no longer borrowing, the debts that will be reduced even by 50 percent I think I was understood.
The foundation of my motion is that the development that was completed will be proud of especially from the ones that come from printing our work in every sector of production in the country, from agricultural, offices, tourism, minerals, and others.
The fate of getting that work is to grow to our economy, a situation that has put it in a good environment for bringing themselves development, we are required to improve infrastructure, construction of industries, education services, education and others.
Although I am not an economist, I don't need to understand that if we will work more in the tourism sector etc, we can reduce the use of the government and especially the size of the government, we can bring themselves so much, or learn from business banks here in the country and even to the community institutions.
But because we have decided to work hard, and because our leaders have left completely going round in the country to encourage work, little, little of them and the nation that depends on donations and money to borrow the these we are told by CCM that it is "great development."
For the reason of this culture that drive out laziness, we shouldn't understand the problem by depending on foreign loans and outside the country, and that is why within five years only, the government of Kikwete has added a national debt from 6 trillion shillings to 21 trillion shillings.
It is my motion that if we want to be true and we want to be proud of, we must be able to review the culture of working and to remove it from the culture of preventing themselves in the country.
Private, I did not remember the last time to listen to President Kikwete or the prime minister, Mizengo Pinda giving a speech to urge all the work in the country because that's aiming to save Nyerere and Sokoine.
And brothers, most of the DC in the district are therefore, those who doesn't work is very few, most of them are not available in the villages.
Certainly, since Mwalimu Nyerere passes away from power and later died, the issue of our leaders to urge them to work in the country, "he said.
Now I wish you a nation in the world that is going on in the world that is going on fast because of learning and borrowing, and not because of printing work that is called, Tigo, and not India or Brazil.
