
We prepare to end next season in 1002 votes.
It is a difficult decision, a lot of money that can be dealt with.
Leicester City coach, Claudio Ranieri's coach, Claudio Ranieri.
Rwena from Italy after succeeding to give Leicester City the first championship after 19 years since that club its establishment, Coach Claudio Ranieri is not sure of those achievements and return the next season.
The day before yesterday, Claudio Ranieri has witnessed Chelsea looking at the fight against Tottenham in a draw of 2-2 during the premier league game that took place at the Stamford Bridge field in London.
However, the decision is not enough to make the coach a person who is happy in Tanzania after confessing that the war will be hard in the next season, which the club will fight against ten best.
Claudio Ranieri, who will lead Leicester City end this season for a game against Chelsea at the Stamford Bridge stadium, May 15, a game that will be preceded by an ancient attack from the western part of London, explained that the contribution of his youth end in the season of its kind.
The coach who is 64 years old, explained that he is him who was chased away with the coach of the national team, Greek last year after one match.
The coach of Chelsea, Guus Hiddink said that after the game against Spurs, the first win, Leicester's first championship was shivered when he spoke with her with the phone while in Italy with the aim of congratulating them.
He said last season, Leicester finished in the 14th position, has been fighting against finishing the champion club but all the days it is difficult to repeat the success.
A draw of 2-2 goals against Tottenham got enough to give Leicester's championship with two games against Everton and Chelsea, but Claudio Ranieri, admitted that the other day before yesterday was a historic match from Italy where he went to visit his mother aged 96 years.
"What happens something like this, we must inform you that Tottenham were winners for the first 45 minutes, I found himself a certain amount," explained Sedoyeka, while he started doing a goal, I started believing that it would have happened different times, "he has already shook with the goal by Eden Hazard.
"This is the year that you cannot get married, next year, we will try to end in the best ten, I have hope to succeed and we will continue to fight and grow and also doing well."
This season has been unique from Claudio Ranieri, who has never played the premier league despite playing soccer for many years while Chelsea, Valencia and Juventus.
His former coach, Leicester's coach in July last year was received by Leicester's fans with different feelings.
He started work at the King Power club after being sacked after four months of a task, while he was witnessing the team joined the Greek team, results which were enough to be given the establishment of the work.
Speaking through that club's network, Claudio Ranieri, confessed that he did not have a dream of finishing the first season as the winner of the premier league and got tickets to participate in the European Champions League.
He happy about his players, explaining that their view, himself has enabled the availability of those achievements, he explained that every game had a fight to them and added that every game had a fight to them and added that they were supposed to be the champions.
