In going to you international business and the Tanzanian board there is a union.
You will be like I see I hope even to reach even one day, then you should know that we will play and not but those close to Oman are doing well, you have gone up with me, let me get the names.
He did his detention.
They and himself.
I will love you so much if you can use the way you are using a lot of mind, we know the meeting between the game for example and Libeneke.
The father's preparations have been closed together with someone who is at least any match with someone who is using much in the game, I will be like a lot of time if you get in games but 'Imebaki Story.'
Third, I have said that when he was at the field God bless you all.
Our things can return to here?
Use without father is using another thing that even when you look at television when you look at the television you are fighting and saying anything that I can do something or just someone is doing?
We request that we continue to listen to our students for a short time.
To teach you that game remember every time we got from Western you know that you came to control the game, maybe a person entered the bus then they are not seen.
It should be known as a result of the fact that he had to get the creation of training and taking care of them.
The roads and the teachers of different issues, know you in general.
Therefore, that is why it is by scoring due to the teachers, the actor who is known is doing this week and I have never been in the field.
That work has enabled us to write a problem to write a lot of faith, they feel that it becomes a way for people that make this time from doughing, later, there is the national team.
Some of the people.
You can also be satisfied with that we ask ourselves that we ask ourselves that we did not want jokes, there is no lot of people that you have written about what is okay and how they are inspiring.
View such as we viewers.
Therefore, let us learn in their countries it has been good for what he has been good in the game.
In making and you to fight recently, he has been forced to get a lot, I asked him.
And be able to get problems.
At the end of all, we can have a problem and gets the problems that has no longer a member of Mtibwa Sugar, is there to hear a lot of pain when you get married, when you are still the first person to lure us to enable you.
You will help him say.
Almighty God should be ready.
Welcome him know the problem.
So, but so much by getting the studios in Nairobi city, the host, Tom the last word is a pipeline from the fight to say all the ten players from Temeke have faith that my fans from Temeke have faith, what I will do.
We will also be a model of her own kind with you to look at a mobile phone, most of them we shall talk about me, I don't answer my God, so I want me to say that it should be of the website of elderly women too.
