Those organizations have defended human rights together with land rights for small-scale farmers.
They have urged the government to make sure that the free commission on investigation on the killings of five people that were implemented by the army police force starting from ten and seven in the month of three in the county of Ulanga Morogoro province and reports were put in public quickly.
David Ramadhani asked me.
In line with that, the organizations have also urged the government to cancel some of the natural resources that are in land in the villages in order to get a lot of sure of the land grabbing to the community and stopping the operation that aim to lead people in those areas.
Without the reserve before making enough preparations to plan for land use and to make sure citizens get land ownership in those areas.
That step is after the organizations should follow up on the real situation in events and ensure that the death was done in the area where it is unknown and the other villages in the district of Ulanga participated in a better use of land.
What does it mean?
Procedures of the law are underway.
People should know the fact of the purpose of use.
Day to avoid the effects that can arise.
Here in general we will talk about the questions that we will not talk about one event, regarding you were taken to court that we will talk about the real situation in the country.
Media houses especially our district heads.
In addition to a car and I cannot get you up to the police force starting to do that follow up and give information like this.
For all Tanzanians, it will be easy to protect themselves.
The truth that they felt it was done directly for reasons?
The end of the day.
They are police and we non-governmental organizations we need to have.
Those activists emphasized that the importance of government to pay compensation were injured by the deceased's family and to make sure that procedures and regulations are followed when people are supposed to be removed because of other expenditure so as to avoid the effects that can come out as it happened in West Ulanga and elsewhere in the country.
From the meeting, David.
