People should learn from Scotland?
Sep 18, 2014.

On Thursday, September 18, this year, the residents of Scotland in England will vote to remain in the United Arab Emirates League or from being free for more than 300 years since Scotland, Wales, and England to join with the king.

It is important to recognize that this decision to establish, you can have a great results in various European countries especially if the truth is the citizens of Scotland will decide to relocate from Race of England.

A question that Scotland and Scotland will be asked and will need to answer it is one of one - Junction, Scotland and the answer that what is required is' yes or 'no' it will continue to remain in his union with their brothers, Wales and Mtwara together with Ireland in the northern region.

It's not my intention even to explain in details on the history of this United Republic of England. I want to show it is several things that can be able to help our union because it created the country of Tanzania.

First, even the union should have a long time to extent the feelings of one generation and there were many people who agreed to be approved from one generation and there were many people who agreed to be demolished because of blood in the pockets of the citizens of that country.

This is proud that in fifty years the feelings of Zanzibar that free has not died and has not been removed from the existence of a union because what is called "what is called" basically it is supposed to eliminate the feelings of those who do not return or think that fifty years of the union can remove those feelings.

Secondly, even if we go through the position of people to decide the issue of a union one day, we will be forced to give them that opportunity to Scotland for a long time, they have decided to do that opportunity and to decide the structure and the union system before all other things.

This citizens of Zanzibar can learn more instead, "the full authority" the citizens of Zanzibar can be able to decide the opportunity to vote in the opinion polls to decide if they want to continue being part of the union or not even if they will be told it will be just a beginning to reach where they are required.

Third, it's not all people want to come from Scotland and even if they are located, a bit of blood, this is true that in the voting process, you're divided into a half and not yet, especially it's the way you will win.

Most of the people believe that they are saying "no 'they can win though those who say' yes," we have been seen to have more than half million people who are not aware especially their direction for voting.

This issue can be very clear that in Zanzibar politics it should be remembered that in Zanzibar politics, there is a very high standard for a half time, this is not a recent issue and it did not start a chance to rule and also to conduct their things each other for now.
