
18 farmers, Denys Ntambala Rwena from China on May 31, 2012.

I have ever explained about China and how we have seen that country, there are small and we are ready to learn in reading the names of things made in China.
For example, we were with the heroes' lights to be written by: Madega.
That has been made by Shanghai, while the same time, by the smallness of us, we understood that the air lights used to be called Madega.
But we heard that there was a lot of things like such, food equipment, bottles that were written in Dar es Salaam as well as our weakness what were not only one thing.
At the time the bicycle that was done by people who were seen to have the ability in the villages was believed to have the ability in the villages, it was self-employed and I have never seen that if I saw the name Dudumizi.
And even when it came to a bicycle with the type of age, it does not produce a bally to Pickup,.
Those days we had been supported by various items from China and South Korea so as to see how our colleagues have made steps in development.

We've not seen good because she allowed me (ZTC) like we not just like Mwalimu Julius Nyerere here at home and in general we believe how China was to help Tanzania, for instance, in the construction of Indian Ocean.
But we don't see very close to the Chinese not only because they were able to help them in front, we saw them and politics that concern them, we saw them as we consider the truth that together with the support China was supposed to avoid the truth that together with the support China has not registered themselves from us to be the main market of Shanghai, their lives.
There is also another thing that was found together with the Chinese, some of us we were joined by the Chinese and the game to sleep and known as Bruce Zhang, a human beings who died as a lot as a result of two Karaegypti.
Sihana Nkinga, this week I heard the president of China Hu Juffali, has ever heard about how many people from China and Tanzania has last long in 45 years since our country started a true friends, reliable and permanent friends.
When we are happy about the arrival of explaining, maybe I will be able to give me one example of the country with many people in the world, how can I get out of poverty in the past years since China had a big challenge of people.
That system made sure that all the farmers are supposed to join the city.
And even when they were found in the city without permits (that were not having self-employed) were arrested and brought back to the power in their villages.
Farmers were forced to get into the farm in one of the community and every time has many farmers were forced to give a certain amount (as a pest) of finding out of them in the government as a food that was taken out of government as a food was taken to residents.
In his new book of China, Miss Asha Ambassador of the United Republic of Superior Company, Ted Cruz, (2006) says hunger that is facing China in the year 1959, has banned the millions of Chinese nationals (but it occurred in rural areas) that they were treated with a little food that is expected to last within the needs.
.
It was separation of the years 1960-1970, prompted changes to China in a way that many people do not know.
Many families were sent to his people and go to the road to ask for as it is today here in Tanzania.
And it is in that village where when they get out of 18 farmers, today there is a important part in the history of China explained that currently, they have gotten tired with this piece of lack of food due to a system that caused the community land, they were required to give an application that was going to the government in order to distribute water.

18 farmers will agree with secret, contrary to the law of the country, that they are raising the community of the community and give birth as usual in the government, but they have said that what will remain like the best will be selling or exchange with other needs in the secret.
They agreed that every person will be responsible for caring for his own kind and use them completely.
Those farmers saw the sun that according to the law they had was doing, it was sentenced to prison or even the judgment of his death in December 1978, farmers who gave their agreements with the thumb on it and even if they were discovered it would have taken the responsibility of protecting its family.
The results of most of them started in a short time, John Fisher (2006) says the farmers succeeded to produce and improve their lives for only two months which the repressive system that was unable to do for many years.
What came up to prevent the fact that the security people was not to get out on the documents that they had signed, but the great success of farmers and those who know now they have been able to buy farmers through the production of farmers and those who know now they had only 18 farmers.
After Denys thanked that plan, then we had the government to stop for trials within one year, it was obvious that the system had better results that would not be able to give a donation to farmers only but also the government itself.
According to China's book, it is like the real revolution in China was started by the farmers and not the scholars of the economy and politicians in December 2003, newspapers of China got the articles to commemorate 25 years of an agreement between 18 farmers.
There are information that before improving the agricultural system in China, the biggest nation in the world was faced with a problem of hunger every time when millions of people died from China was faced with a problem of hunger and it has taken China many years to make the revolution in agriculture that now has brought in a revolution in industries.
Recently in Xhosa village, every family has tractors, television, modern houses and important things that in the past have been found in cities, including vehicles of visiting this year's income and 4200 million shillings per year.
There are many types of training about China and its people, and if there is an issue of President Him on the internet you can help the president Him on how China wants to live with poverty and it does not do so without depending on the donation of someone.
