
A big veteran in the port is believed to do inside the holy month, where he got more than 30 million shillings when he was told me.

We have just left alone, this is a very important news that it is supposed to be hostile in their neighbor, Ally Mwamoto. who is a officer in the "containers' unit" the port of Dar es Salaam was alleged to have been mentioned by a name of Khadija AID.

Despite the two to live in Mbezi Ward, Doctor Kisanga was admitted at the end of last week at 12 o'clock in the morning when he gets a chance in Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Dar es Salaam city.

OFM entertaining people.
OFM was to be used to look for events in night at different stadiums of Dar es Salaam city when they take long out of that house, noise from "la Hoya!" He made OFM in that camp to listen.

OFM internal affairs.
Hoya Mtungi 'is where OFM when they decided to make corrections on stage and sank in that building, there is a must to meet during a year, two men get married, who claimed that he is a business person in bed and she believes that he is pregnant in bed in the house inside that house.

I am no one who did not have my wife and you cannot go to Mister Ally and then you are my neighbor, "he went on my son to be able to do anything at that time if not God to control the devil.

The suspect was given out for a period of time.
More news from her dear reader said that, Ally was announcing the wife for many days.

On that day, it is alleged that Ally was a lady who wanted to know, his wife told him not in Mbezi up, on her sister's house for her sister's house because her sister has gone to Mbeya. Therefore, he wants to go to Tegeta.

"The relatives from his home in Mbezi o'clock in the morning, a time when people eat it up for the purpose of looking for instance, he told his wife to go to work," said Cardinal Pengo, who used him to work with Ally her is a lesson.
It has a meaning that your information, your son was given by his wife who was wearing the charts with Ally!

The fights are taught.
The neighbors in that area after retiring from Claudio Ranieri, were inside and doing an extra work to find him and wanting him to give her husband's clothes.

One suspect has been fined.
After misunderstanding between him that took place at 3 o'clock, Ally confessed to do that offense and therefore decided to get himself by saying he will give his wife with a chance of 30 million shillings as compensation.
OFM witnessed, Ally when he released his instructions in fighting for falling, "the chairperson of" said she was watched by two witnesses who had lost consciousness.
