Through entrepreneurship this week we do not give you the second part of the debate by those youths when he went to discuss this issue because I'm talking to Flora Molel (standing) and this period she was taking courtesy of human beings and attractive International.
I also would like to take this birth and without any money, we have contributed to a lot of information.
Even when they serve the section, you need any thought that he will be able to do.
They will be able to discuss the truth, so I would like to thank you to fulfill you.
Now there should be their boss to be able to contribute to the topic.
The price is very on the red carpet.
Thank you very much, the chairman and the secretary allowed me to contribute to me in a topic.
I request me to make me feel much by name is called by a health person, the assistant leader of the platform of youth.
The youth live.
I request to listen to one topics that affects the fish, but as we follow.
Between the Lake Region, when you talk in the fish, there is a lot of families that do not depend on because it is vegetables, but the fish are not allowed in the desert in a small area where the fish do not receive him in our lake region.
The Chato district brought a state of destroying the cost of that disease, when it reached the small scale, one fish that is ten o'clock and the eight hours you can buy phones by using those call.
It is not youths.
I urge you to follow the mockery.
To do a poultry project.
I believe it is with the fish that come from.
Among the small businesses they do not have the fare for people, it would be able to buy the courses when there be a big price then other families shouldn't be bought by many people today, the market is very big in our country, especially in the location.
Fish.
We will vote?
How you want to pray for three governments because of other legal reasons.
There are water catchment areas so as to build itself when you start getting relief so as to evade fish, we will inform many youths who have found themselves so that we can be able to raise money to our markets or the neighboring villages and therefore they need to contribute to this debate, section of poultry farming.
Thank you very much, the message that you started contributing to our debate as the father should put more information about all the ways of alternative ways.
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome a member following so that he can be able to do our discussions.
Until close to this debate.
I thank you so much my brothers for giving me this opportunity, I am able to contribute to the few words that I wrote.
By the name is called Joseph Chibehe.
He is a resident of Mara Province, then he has refused a small village of gave him a holy martyr.
Chairperson, I take this first opportunity to thank all those who want to visit the youth platform and be able to talk a few people.
