
Witness the case of B@-@ 7 / - he explained his dollars.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The 19th witness of the case of verification of funds and theft of more than seven billion shillings involving 13 employees of the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), have discovered that he is the former head of research in Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), that found the government transactions that was paid in that bank did not get into the authority's account.

He has said that in court that it found the report of NCAA Bank, it did not give credit to 750,000 dollars in his account number 43890,61 that is in Barclays Bank, while the tourism companies have a payment of payments in that bank.
Madega who is the assistant director and appointed as the head of research unit of loss of those dollars, was giving out two days yesterday and today when he was led by the attorney general, Paul Kadiliana before the resident magistrate of Arusha District and Arumeru district, Deusdedit Kamugisha.
He claimed that the investigation he held in collaboration with three colleagues, they found out that financial transactions has been paid by the tourism company and given a certificate of payments that led by the bank, but those phones did not enter on the NHO account that is in that bank.
The witness has claimed that there was a difference between the report of the bank's information, NCAA) and laying of payments for several tourism companies that got to dollars in that bank so as to get the tourism service to their visitors.
Madata to be presented to the court for voting for the bank, a report on Nicrox, and its investigation report to have direction in that case and accepted by the court together with the defense lawyers, David Chikaka and Moses Mlabu all, but their topics which were presented well.
He has claimed that he started making the investigation on the theft of those dollars in October, 2012 and brought the police after being required to do that by the police and his big leaders.
The members of the citizens at different times between the year 2011 to 2012 was alleged to make the theft of moving to various tourism companies and the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority through Skype documents.
