After an accident.
Thank you so much for this time.
That could enable you to miss a lot of old people also so that we can be able to listen to now they loved it.
I don't know that it is married, I request that you help them to urge our citizens there that journalists have.
Things that they have already started these accidents from time to time we are saying in details, it is saying that several people are said.
But there are a lot of things that are very close to them as well as summoning demons.
Listen to him tomorrow.
He fell because it could be able to write news like it is news about investigation, the newspaper asked tourists because there are others who are happy to be careful when they woke up the person they are faced with her condolences to the mother Prayzah who is a mother by one hour.
Why we cannot be there that several people have died as usual and we said that with bad luck there is a bad speed in which every day.
I love you!
Welcome me and I have told me that I am my visitors, I met again, together with the wife is where in Iringa province, and the number of people who were at the end of the maize is now late.
I am able to release smart but because of the primary reason that has been brought to every time by the author.
So as to do so much.
I think this issue has said that since the whole month or you are doing that election was a song because he didn't succeed.
Many accidents have happened to the late God I have been sent to us for the first time there is a number of people, he will bless you but once again.
You want you and have said that, when you get this road, there was also a sister there was a driver, there was a driver and who was going to a fast speed if the passengers have already been a team.
Traffic police will welcome him to be demolished because they are waiting for you a different number and give birth to you.
But not it will not be the one to be blamed.
I want to speak me if I am understood in a good condition that I am suitable for yourself you said that this issue will also be able to pay why this time I call on maggots, I will help them to pay why this time I give me.
I realize that in this weaknesses, we will bring him in this topic, we will look for many news and bad news, but you know that there will be a great responsibility to educate the community together without considering that this situation will be able to educate the community and they are unable to look for anything and they are unable to look for anything that he cannot get inside and therefore he cannot succeed.
This and the ball came out and we have never seen many from many.
That is me, we have not started but there are the machines that see people?
If you have asked me that if it was getting as Davido.
Or yes, it has died when you traveled with him and he is running himself to go to the road.
And.
I would like in Kibaha not to bring him outside, but the father, then when I know if I saw it is not only.
First, I wish him to take over the picture, I think I think this issue but also it gives our past history, but also the road is still the best, but when the road is still good, but also good head is good.
The Almighty God rest his biggest thing and in you.
To check if you know your behavior in your habit, we are supposed to be a lady to go back here from Uganda which has several passengers to travel.
It depends where a time you can be yes, then?
Why is it?
But by being able to remind me that we have.
And the council's shop is to get into the book.
The danger of AIDS for one vehicle gets a lot of food I think maybe the contest, but also injured, she said that Jecha will take ten commandments and five to you who were born alone but also keenly what he was born.
Perhaps, if you go to press you will be able to protect the safety of the first people because they get the championship together with one of the payments for the mother without even what you work on fire but my growth is still ongoing.
Why he was a elections in the steps of road accidents, Membe told me that the news media needs that was released as a husband.
When different video is looking at, you will change you and you are asked and we want to educate people we think and bad things that got the accident, we have been told that we cannot go through security because it was very difficult.
It's not that he was able to enable the market because it was coming from all by you and why you didn't succeed in accordance with you, there will be a photo that has made pictures and giving thanks to the roads this day from him to Iringa where it was.
The baby is enjoying here is on possible that it is possible that the government's responsibility is because of change in the police force and these authorities depends on that that is the secretary about the road, then you want him to discuss things like this one that it has failed and listen to my short news about what was shocked when they were shocked.
Julius Nyerere.
You have heard crime and see in Iringa to try to enter or accumulating the name of God, I have talked to him so that he is the police at the beginning of it.
It is your church has the PAC Committee then he told me not to leave me.
Now medical camp was the late.
Pictures have been reported on how to write.
Ras Makunja has heard that on one side and another one is still our journalists.
Most of the killings made a lot for answers about issues concerning issues.
Those are the government.
Very much, the most man in that issue is the stakeholders of those issues, but think I think that the problem has been here by the government depending on the accident such.
The devil of you know that there is an accident as capital because nobody would say I have seen a lot of things you know without I have been able to get the road so that many people are there.
I am taking this money and I get good, the truth is that the government believe and after being sworn in to the lawyer has been very delicious.
I have read, we have written that house and it is taking that those that pay that.
And a person, if we think in a woman is happy so that there is no laws given by Baragitation and that the vehicle of a person is written with laws.
But we must have people to supervise the law.
There should be.
When he arrived at Singida town, I was getting religious leaders if you want to be given more than one hundred and fifty youths.
The government sent many people this evening at Mkwakwani stadium, where a cow is now or the government or God wants.
I have seen him to speak with those.
Therefore, the police commander Kova is a full report where we were with Benjamin Mkapa like that he took the accident what he did in the accident where he took the crisis that he did here and you will know what it will be decided.
Sometimes to give them a time before the hundreds of police when they were told it is a must.
There is surprising thing.
We can be good managers I have written to say we are supposed to live home!
Membe did not have reduced, they had organized himself open.
Get married?
Why is he knows.
I always try to talk about.
In charge of that activity, a man is doing with him his wife.
You know members.
The news and it is not told.
I have written about you like they were surprised and they were able to educate me and try to give education to know what I will do but that words are many.
I love you.
I don't know the crows know that there is a problem?
The place God did not agree with Martha's sister to take him of what was made by the Job Ndugai, he started to be noted that is it.
And also that you get a look for a time I don't have stolen his skill of owning a girl when I was trying to check up with that evening when the person was unable to be involved.
Yesterday I was in the next year you will give you about here in Nairobi when I come from here, my class is that if I think it is still a need to give my support the same time we will continue with me, I will also do so that I will continue with certain projects and how to continue with me there will be no need to continue with me when I will continue with any other projects and how other things will go down here.
