
When we are on a way to reach the political unity.
Only in the journey of a very long journey, the journey of liberation and the opposition is not political.
It is a journey that will give you a point where there will be no longer a political party and any community. "There will be no problem who will be 'our' lice '," during the time the Kenyans will be listening to a lot of leader according to the process of liberation and resolution of their problems he has planned.
I believe we will end that time when the real union will be found.
That journey has already started.
View the Kigambini bridge.
For close to the century before 2002, the name that was approved by the politics of that area is his former President Daniel Sturridge.
From 1955, he was chosen as the representative of that area in the colonial parliament (LegCo), Mister MOI to leave the work of teaching and improving politics to an extent that everyone who is going against the wave of politics and it was seen by the whole community of diaspora leave the country, which is many in the area.
Politicians want to be praised, Nicholas Kay, Joshua Nasari, Joshua Nasari, who would send himself, Mark Majige Mabumba, among others found the building of the name Mister MOI and they were able to build the name of Mister MOI.
However, 'the political leader of Mister MOI started to be locked.
The first wave was in the process of looking for many political parties in the year 1990, 91.
The wave was continuing to have a huge flared up to the year 2002, where the politician to oppose the FGM who was not a saying, or the reputation he was with Mister MOI and where they completed it.
That was not another one, but William Samoa Island.
And despite Mister Ruto, continuing to be the king of political parties in that region, the voice of forgiveness, the king don't know if it is evident in various leaders like Mabisa, Alfred Khajida Kopa, the governor that is ongoing with political parties.
The same way, went to a time when 'the political leaders' of Uhuru Kenyatta, and Mister Raila Odinga, will fall in the central areas and Nyanza.
Decided to come at a time they thank you very much in those areas, and the community of Who Lives Fores have been directed to the voice of those leaders, who have been redeemed by the voice of leaders that do not be heard, where we will join and be one.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
