Professor Lipumba went to voluntary or power to be used.
May 31, 2013.

Let me start this article by asking for fish by not having you in the previous edition of that situation resulting from the reasons that were outside my ability.

The week which he has left two records that do not lie in the country.

The plain truth is that the Mtwara problem which essentially has not been opposition against the construction of a gas pipeline to Dar es Salaam and it has already been completed and it may last for a long time because the main reason to continue with that problem is "the current treatment" that is given by the government in conflict of that problem.

All of us know that not every problem is resolved by strength because there are several problems that need more wisdom, more than bad luck, our nation at the moment is facing and not only a request for the leadership but also a huge shortage of wisdom in various decisions.

I have noted that the Mtwara problem can continue for a long time because one of the effects on the use of the force to end violence is the state of leaving, "he said that despite making noise, there are reports that some of the police registered themselves with criminal acts such as unnecessary deaths.

But the danger of most deaths arising from the violence caused by the violence, maybe to create a good picture, I request to use the example of the conflict of Jews and friends in the conflict, they can continue having a very long time, therefore they can continue having a very long time.

When you put aside the issue of Mtwara, at the end of the week, it was found a report of switching off by the national chairperson of the Citizens Party (CUF), Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, one newspaper reported that he helped President Jakaya Kikwete to get victory in the last general elections but also making religion to prepare themselves for the next general elections.

Previously I was expecting two things, first, Professor Lipumba got the courage to speak about that video and secondly, a report from the State House so as to try and explanation about "the support of Professor Lipumba by President Kikwete." Until when I write this article, all that has not arrived today, and therefore spoken by Lipumba still underway.

We will remember that recently, President Kikwete explained that the presence of religion's problem is the support of foreign countries, "I am proud of believing the explanation of my president about the relevant problem of religion especially because they did not mention though one country that causes the problem at home.

And on the other side, I didn't mention the concerned authorities of foreign nations not to not get enough information since there is still a question from the country, it is the policies of a certain nation against us or to be actions of private individuals who are outside the country against our nation. "
When you listen to keenly the explanation of Professor Lipumba, you can understand well the way religion was used in the 2010 general elections where Kikwete emerged the winner Professor Lipumba has noted that Professor Lipumba has revealed that he had not decided to solve their problems.

In a way that doesn't know very much, Professor Lipumba has tried to make the agenda of the wealth of the human resources we have, which is affecting us because it has a relationship with "our colleagues" (Christians).

I was expecting the registrar of political parties, John Tembela, that the first person has called on Lipumba to release one level, if he has been a strong man "to CHADEMA, an extent that the registrar did in order to be a leader of CCM.
