
Members of parliament did God bless Tanzania Movie, SEMA and asked.

The heavy scandal of Bongo Flavor has been unblocked by some of the members of parliament who are in Dodoma town following the killing of his artists that, they were dirty and shot, on Saturday it has a whole tape.

According to the members of parliament who wanted their names to be employed for now, some of the artists who have many stars have been looking for them and they had a big possibility that is seen especially considering that, those attackers have great names and he didn't visit their luxurious vehicles.

"When you are doughnuts, you are unable to completely stop this behavior of the stars of Bongo Fleva but these people are very disturbing.

"We have been a very big screen and we are saying that others have great names, they visit the luxurious houses but still give a small money," said one member of parliament who is going out in one of the regions of Dar es Salaam Province.

Creation of masturbation.
According to the members of parliament, that surprising thing is that those artists who are their husbands, have been discussing a small amount of money instead of asking for a lot of money with great strategies.

"Someone does not come up, he says that she gets suffering from house taxes or he says that she's true the truth of the big stars like the women," asked another member of parliament to ask for forgiveness from five houses, "said another member of parliament among the five people while talking to this newspaper.

Those honorable continued to address those stars and claimed that what they are seen is that when it was given a lot of money, he used to sit down from the bar up to night, and the morning when they were given.

Mwakifwamba has visited the tent and shot.
In order to put up the heavy allegations and a great shame for the popular industry in the country, shot on Saturday they looked for President of the Tanzania Film Federation (TAFF), Simon Mwakifwamba, who confessed the existence of those complaints by his fellow artists.

This is here?
"It is very true that, me I have ever heard that the complaints, but you know that there are private things, the person and the individual is not easy to marry off," said the president.
He continued to say that, in various topics of the artist, he has put it open the stand of the institution that every artist is living a life with honor, while apart from the environment causing a shame to the community.

So he didn't bid farewell.
In showing his reputation on those accusations that are facing the film industry, Mwakifwamba has went to the front of saying that, in one of his talks with the president of Tanzania, Honorable Jakaya Kikwete "JK has ever complained to that, there are many stars who work with productivity.

"President himself ever told that artists are communicating with him and he told things of money to eat.

"There is an artist once using him, JK has told me," your grandson today is bad, "said Mwakifwamba.
He continued, "you are now," you are meeting with the president instead of telling the big strategies and what to be assisted to make the industry can continue, you make a very shame. "

They are the Jehovah's neck, "the child of the farmer.
Mwakifwamba has not accept to be open his own kind without hiding everything that he wanted to claim that, he did not have a lot of artists for those artists because they had lost the ball to the prime minister of the United Republic of Tanzania, Honorable Mizengo Kayanza Peter, "the farmer of farmer."
I have ever met with the Prime Minister Pinda, I asked how to help the film industry in Tanzania, he said that I have talked about the things that my colleagues met with them "said Mwakifwamba.

Shot dead with stars.
Jacqueline Wolper is the star of Bongo movie star, his first film is Ama Zito Zuniga scored when he was asked about those allegations, he said.
"It is true that if that behavior is there again, but the ones witnessing are the male stars, those are the one who used a shame to know what we are.
I request for him.

Steve Nyerere.
He is the chairperson of Bongo Movie Talents Competition, he said that if he knows there is still a friendly match with Honorable and not knowing the agenda.
"The habit of asking for money to the honorable president, but when it comes to the issue of our industry to take their motion, we start a motion after there are many honorable members who have a friendship with artists, we are on the front line with a trap.
"I cannot be able to sit with the honorable as the head of Aziz Abood, William Ngeleja, Honorable Gauck and Nmrod Mkono and Nmrod Mkono and Nmrod Mkono and Nmrod Mkono and let me leave this recently, the reason for me is the chairperson of Bongo Mijac Music," said Steve Okumu explaining to the journalist who joined the phone of the news.
I call him.
Jennifer Lawrence, "signifies or" he got a great popularity through Tamfi, which was being sponsored by the National Television (T-T), when he was called for a long time without being received despite being presented before several times.
QS Mhonda J.
Shot, they looked for another veteran star in Bongo movie star, Aunt Ezekiel who says the film which took a lot is called Miss Tanzania. His mobile phone seems not to have a sim card at that time.

Ray has opened up.
The veteran music star since the Kaole Art Group, Vincent Kigosi, "Ray" said he was asked and asked about the claims by the artists to be pregnant, he said.
"Many artists do not know the life of here and not later, instead of someone to put her problems in the tender process, he will put in an issue that you make noise.
At the end of the day, he is requesting for three million shillings to give him a car or he will make sure that they get a chance to meet the honorable president and to finish the industry we are warned by selling his title, "said Pickup,.
