
JPM reduce the value of parole.
Tanzania Electric Supply Company with Julius Mathias, The Citizen, popularly known as BISON.
Dodoma.
The decision by the president to reduce off from 11 percent from 11 percent to 9 percent), made noise, smoking cigarettes in the Jamhuri Stadium in the city, but its decision means a reduction of 1,100 million shillings for their salaries starting from 360,000 shillings.
President announced that decision yesterday when he was addressing the World Women's Day that took place nationally in the province.
"I thank me that my government as it promised during the campaign, it has decided to reduce poverty from 11 percent of the moment up to nine percent from the financial year 2016 / 17. I believe that parliamentarians will follow the government's budget.
He said the decision will reduce by a large extent on their salaries on their salaries and that he has decided to start with that so that the workers can be able to reduce economic challenges while insisting that later things are good, the government will look at the issue of increasing salaries.
"It is a must you tell you the truth and all the days you should be careful, the lover of God.
"I know that the workers are there on the way to evade tax because they can see what we are going, but in these steps we urge you to collect a big level of money we will continue with Tucta, but this economy will be in a place, we will look for him.
He said there are employees who are getting small salaries but there are some who receive big salaries while those who do more work are low people.
"Those who receive big salaries are 15 million shillings so that that remain will not affect the servants who receive small salaries," he said.
He said that they should not want to work because they are used the salaries of 30 million shillings to stop work.
"It's impossible for a person to get 30 million shillings and another to get 300,000 shillings. It is not like we gave up the laziness who receive big salary but it is a must for all the side to go together so as to build the economy of the country and the poor people," he said.
Stakeholders speak to stakeholders who spoke to Citizen after the speech of President Magufuli added that decision to reduce weight.
"This is a solution to the workers at the front line, it will increase production after the servants see how the government cares for them," said the senior lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Professor Lettice Rutashobya.
That statement was supported by the activist and economist of the institution, clarifying, Professor Samwel Wangwe.
"Employees did not have the way to evade taxes," said Professor Mbarawa.
He said two percent that are reduced, will have great contribution in the economy of the economy because the income will have increased, though it is little, and give an opportunity to invest or increase the needs.
The chairman of the union of traders, Johnson Minja said the reduction has increased more than low-income employees who are many and are the customers of products and services that are in the market.
He said President is showing legal action of improving the lives of citizens and wanted them to strengthen the economy so as to reduce the cost of tax in all sectors.
Speaking about the reduction, Bushiri Mboma, Mwageni has been sponsored by CPA), he said that in every group he is proud to have a relief given, he said even though the percent of payments for those low-income citizens as well as an amount of starting with them.
The ghost employees of the Decision Council which is due to his promise in the general elections was captured by strength, but a big part of his speech made its intention to stop ghost workers and explained that the information that he was given the day before yesterday show ghost workers that were found to reach 295 workers.
He said that the number means that the government has paid 16 billion shillings per month to ghost workers, money which could be used to increase employees' salaries and implementing various development projects.
"If you take over 295 employees, it means that each one was paid 1 million shillings, these funds would have given employees who are no bad weather, how many would do you assisted and bad behavior of workers are their employees, that we support him," he said.
He said the procedure that was there is a person to employ employees and to be easily read the ghost workers and at the end of the month to receive their salaries while giving a good example to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), who had given it 17 salaries.
That veteran has already succeeded in court.
"Who died, who had been supported by the government, were paid to the salaries of Tanzania's salaries and we have already been encouraged by few workers who don't have bad luck.
"You don't know that you have no money to pay electricity (and water), they live a great life and I want this one to talk to them, I request you to support him."
He said every month the government is using 573 billion shillings to pay the salaries of workers and that there are ghost workers who are paid the money through the contributions of community services, medical equipment, treatment and debts.
At the other time I am asking yourself "right why I asked the presidency," why you are waiting to look for money to pay employees, children get pregnant, to buy desks and give loans to the students, then a person making strategies to pay the ghost workers, "he said.
He said that the government has begun to deal with those servants who for a long time have warned them from legal workers and put behind in development activities, "said lazy workers are very happy and I am happy to hear the parties' parties be supported," he said.
He said among 10,595 employees, 4373 workers are leading in the vice president - Tamisemi and 1,922 students from the Premier League.
"For this year, these workers are paid 970,02 billion shillings in a draw for five years if it would be paid by ghost workers, its meaning they could be paid 55,731 (1 billion," he said.
He said those funds could be used to build three levels of the Julius Nyerere stadium.
Interests and environmental environment responding to several issues that were involved in the life of the Federation of Union for workers (Tucta), President Magufuli said that the money that they were paid ghost workers, lazy workers, while dealing with funds, which could be used to increase salaries for legal workers.
He said his decision to deal with the problem of ghost workers is aiming to improve the interests of employees and their working environment.
"Since I got into power, I have increased the collection of revenue, but it's not our intention to see the money we offer is using it, most of the income we have been improved," he said.
"I think that money we think we are directed to have important areas like to workers.
We have launched all the issues of Tucta and we shall work hard. "
The Social Security Fund about Social Security Fund, President said the aim of the government is to ensure that every citizen is joining the fund and get health services.
"We have praised this fund to stop investment on projects without productivity and to invest in areas like industries so as to produce employment opportunities and increase more members.
He warned against the actions of employers not giving donations to employees in the Social Security Fund, "there is a period that does not get money from the PSPF fund and it has already given instructions in the ministry of finance and scholars and they have already paid 500 billion shillings for their contribution and found to get the ghost workers," he said.
Regarding the request of Tucta, reducing the bags, President said the issue has been received by the government which he completed in this financial year.
President Magufuli said employers are supposed to allow employees to join any party's workers and not to be patient while insisting that the winner will be found in the end of the week.
