
Despite the big business opportunities, the farmers of cassava from Mtwara failed to loose the answer "Masau boasted.

From cassava is an important thing to uplift the farmers of that product, but also from cassava is different from many crops, has had a qualifications to cause a drought.

These are an important reputation in the investment of cooking oil, it is reputation which will reduce the cost of investment in the agricultural sector of that country.

In Africa, from cassava was sent away by the Ugandan traders who were coming in Brazil so as to take the 16 century, their arrival had introduced the maize and cassava leaves, later it was popular as an extent of being recognized as an increase in dealing with the food problem in Africa.

Here in Tanzania, Mtwara Province, it is among the provinces that are being carried out of cassava bone in Mtwara province, agriculture of flour is among the important activities for some residents who engage in agricultural sector in the country, clean up of food and not a high quality.

Those farmers in Mtwara Province have reduced the necessary guidelines about the way of cassava can uplift their lives of life and they are faced with a lot of challenges, despite the fact that, 75 percent of the cassava bone in the country which is approximately seven million tons in Mtwara province.

The biggest challenge to the farmers of that product which is a good food that has great help in the human body, and especially due to having a huge number of soap for more productivity, including the best way to process that product.

Poor production of that product of cassava led by those farmers from Mtwara has been an obstacle to benefit more economically.

They are unable to benefit from the real value of their efforts in the agricultural sector, they would have been able to benefit more in business market like the ones, together with other things, they would be educated about agriculture professionally and processing that involve easy and correct technology.

This situation is not yet confirmed by the national coordinator of cassava flour and Huruma Social Welfare, Doctor Geoffrey Mkaidi during the according to Doctor Mkeya, poor production of flour which includes bad and poor infrastructure is the main reason for farmers to benefit themselves as farming and clean farming.

But when the situation is so that in Mtwara Province, from cassava is a popular world in the world and again it is a product of bringing a lot of foreign money and this situation is due to the importance of that product in the health of a human being.

According to various reports of specialists, together with the information of the World Food Program (child), from cassava is the third level for having a huge number of cement in countries of the Sahara Desert, that is together with the ones that are in Southern Highlands, Tanzania including Tanzania.

The flour is dependent, so much in the developing countries, it is estimated to help specialists of food issues that approximately 500 million people are looking for that product as food.

Research, Nigeria is leading in producing a huge number of cassava in the world, although despite that situation, Nigeria is not a country leading in transportation and selling of cassava outside that country.

However, although a clean flour is enough for human beings who are important in human health, but it is also food that has a little amounts of food, different from other crops like beans.

The instructions indicate that the cassava needs good preparations because sometimes you can cause health effects.

Advise that the flour must be done well before being used as food, being together with its processing, it is a advice of this kind that should be implemented by the farmers of Boko, Mtwara, so as to increase the value of that product.

The evidence of the farmers to enable the implementation of that advice was confirmed by Doctor Mkomagu says that, "though the Mtwara Province are estimated to produce 28 percent of water from Mtwara due to many challenges that faces the whole system of production and processing of that product."

He is continuing to say that the word that aims to bring back the farmers of this river from cassava from Mtwara is to go hand in hand with the speed of better production of that product and especially from different restrictions that are facing, especially in the production of flour and good standards.

That expert says that the farmers have remained to be poor while that product can be able to sustain themselves from poverty that prevails. "

But because of cassava can be able to sustain themselves economically, the farmers have many reasons, but some are the real situation of production and business of cassava in the world.

For example, the production of cassava in the world is estimated to be 24 million tons in the year 2002, the level that later started to reach 230 million tons in the year 2008, these statistics are in accordance with the World Food Organization (child).

The translation of this situation is that, by the extent of the production of a flour made up, it is how the business contribution is growing by considering the truth that, food needs in the world have been increasing due to the threat of climate change.

In Mtwara and Tanzania in general, it can be able to enter on the list of countries that benefit economically due to the farming of cassava, because the real situation shows that, in the production of the year 2002, a big amount of cassava led in Africa, Asia and Latin America.

In Africa for the year 2002, 700 million tons produced by depending on this business picture in the production of cassava is why Tanzania and especially through the Mtwara farmers get to get into a special campaign to improve the speed of cassava?
It is possible that Tanzania and especially Mtwara will go through the strength in the farming of cassava can help Africa that in the Asian continent which for the year 2002, it will produce 55 million tons produced in Latin America and Caribbean Islands.

By considering the weather, Tanzania through its provinces like Mtwara can compete with Nigeria, the leading country in the world in the production of cassava although the level is used in that country and not being transported outside the country.

However, in one way the health statistics show that China is leading in selling outside the country, from cassava when it was aired, and those statistics show that one percent of cassava was sold for a year 2005 and from the year 2005.

The weather allows for Tanzania to enter into competition in the production of cassava, farmers, there are the previous experience but not professionally, this is at the time to uplift the youth they can make sure they get into farming for subsistence while growing farming.
Land is there, farmers are still needed special guidelines in order to attain that goal.

We need to uplift the farmers of cassava flour in Mtwara province and other areas in the country so that we can be able to compete in the record not only by Thailand, but even the record for other countries that got involved in the selling of water from Vietnam, followed by Indonesia (58 percent) and Costa Rwasa.
