The broke up of the system of safety signs of shivered.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

The words of the father of the nation Mwalimu Nyerere that "corruption is a great solution to the security of the country during the peace of war," it is true.

The incident that occurred in Arusha recently was the only sign of the results of the breakup of our security system and I request to say that - it has been affected by corruption.
One thing that is open about corruption is to be aired directly on the availability of rights in the community and this is true that when he went to access services in public institutions, he intends to use them because when he went to get better forms for filling or giving them on something, he is expected to make sure that those forms will be realized without stopping.

When the person when it reached the area of work he is doing that system does not work so and instead he is waiting for someone to see any person who live as well or not because he had an appointment or not because he will be given priority but he will make sure there is true then he will be taught.

But in another level of corruption results were there where the security of citizens and the country are in trouble, when you go to the police is expected to get professionalism and to show that the police are involved in your safety and they do not care about it.

But when you meet and if you meet it, it is a must and more than all the services that they give you and professionalism of the police force, then it is very true that you get the services that you need to grow, so they should be cursed by people.

However, corruption have a great effects on big systems in the country to be paid for poor countries like our country, which many of them want to get through the loss of other corruption in the whole system of government performance.

It has been written many times in accordance with the directors and they have done a little step so that it doesn't have any certain action or to make sure that Tanzania comes out of 20 to 30 percent of the budget for corruption, these are billions of shillings which will be lost every year.
