
Malaysia Airplane carrying 239 passengers.
The professionals came from the remains of the plane that fell.
Malaysia Airplane with 239 passengers, January 20, Democratic Republic of Central Africa (car), Honorable Mayor of Bangladesh, Catherine Somba, being elected president of the time.
February 18, UKhajida Kopa, the soldiers who are competing with the demonstrators from Europe at the Cristal Arena area, Lungwani Market.
More than 100 people were killed by President Edgar Lungu is swelled to Russia.
May 25th, billionaire Peter Poroshenko, was chosen to take his position.
February 21, Italy, Upendo Nkone, 39, 39, age, is the former prime minister of European Union.
March 8 - Malaysia visits the Malaysia Airplane with 239 passengers until now.
April 14th, Nigeria, 239 girls of schools were abducted in the east of east and making the international community to intervene in efforts to save.
On the 27th of April, the ambassador of Vatican has launched a unique event to take place in the church Katani and the Holy Francis Francis, he has announced that Father John Paul II and John Wanyancha the most respected saints.
May 26-28th of Egypt, former prime minister, Abdelhamid Radnedge, who was chosen to be president, 11 months after the army fired Mohamed Mor.
June 19, Spain, a new bishop, Felipa partheid, 46, has succeeded his father Carlos Puyol after being the king of 38 years.
July 17, Malaysian Airplane from Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to Kuala Lumpur to rise in the area that is abolished by Ukraine fighters, and killing 298 people under the Ukraine fighters.
On August 8, South Africa, the World Health Organization is announcing that Ebola disease in South Africa as an emergency issue that has raised international fear.
Not to mention the 18th of England of England, the voters of Scotland got independence by 553 percent in the voting process that left England to stay, but it gives an opportunity to relocate the authority from London.
On the 26th of September, Mexico was the enthusiasm to be killed by 43 members of the college and remove drugs of drugs that comes from the police in the south of the province of Guillermo Otieno.
On the 29th of Afghanistan, Afghanistan who will be sworn in as the new president after three months of political conflict.
On October 10, baby Amne Salim who is a girl to shine, November 17, will be the first winner to have ever played for the Nobel Prize, who had been caught together with Lungwani Market, 60 years of India in defending the rights of children.
October 21, South Africa Rebecca Malope has been closed for five years in prison for killing her lover Reeva Steenkamp, 2013.
On November 12, 2016: The European Champions League is known as Philosophy will play for the first time, after 510 kilometers from the world, after 10 years.
December 1, Tanzania's 20 conference of the United Nations concerning the climate change, was opened up, after China, America and Europe agree with a plan of together before the important meeting of Paris in the year later.
December 15, the senior suspect of Iran will capture 17 people in one acre of Syville Smith. The police have arrested a tension between 16 hours and three people died and six injured.
