
Pastor of the church of God bless TANZANIA.

Rashid Mkonga.

Look for us.

A Pastor of the Catholic church who was known by the name Bryton Sambo (55) is alleged to buy sexually transmitted infections of two female students who are studying in primary and secondary schools in Mbeya District, Mbeya Region.

Those students (names are stored) of the age of 11 and 13 students who are studying in class four and class six were denied that brutal act from the year 2012, where he started building a lot of young children by giving them to surf.

It has been reported that the pastor who is running a service at the Catholic church with a few believers at the field of Upendo Primary School, Tunduma City in line with those children for a long time when they were getting to school.

In his efforts to arrest those female children, he had a player of the parents of the children known by the name Mavoco, John Mussa (38) and asked his daughter to help his home at home in the evening due to being the wife of the Pastor.

By saying that the pastor was a servant of God, Mister Mussa insisted that his child will go to live with any worker of God without knowing the fate of what he has forced to be his daughter for now.

According to the explanations from the parents and teachers of primary school teachers, it is that their daughters had a sex with the pastor for going back and that they started to know the problem after the conflict between those two girls.

"We have seen this incident after getting a conflict between them, looking at each other, one of the children was sent to him at each other, one of the children was sent back to him about their conflict," said the assistant teacher, Mrs. Lucy Kamenya.

He clarified that after the incident, the teachers in addition were forced to ask the more that they have been suffering from the pastor for a long time and that the beginning he had given them to surf and later he started giving money.

He said that they were forced to complete a special session between the parents of those children and teachers where they had explained the whole event of involvement with the pastor since last year.

"" I was forced to thank the parents together with the students we met in office of the teachers, children explained the whole event in front of their parents on the actions they were given by the pastor.

He said that just after the session of parents, they took those children to a small police station which is in a small town of Dar es Salaam where they were given a police form with 3 times (NB3) because they were taken to hospital so as to be given treatment.

The Executive Director, who had his fellow teachers in the office of the head teacher of that school, while giving this report to the head teacher of that school, when he was giving out this information to the nominated member of parliament where those students were given treatment at the chosen hospital Ify So Valid.

"This event has been impressed me with you, we think where we will listen, we request our writer to change the association of journalists (TAMWA) to educate these reports in details about how the society is blocking the support and legal rights," said Teacher Kamenya.

The teacher said that the efforts of the association of journalists in TAMWA which have been doing it is doing so they are hopeful of the party, they feel it's working on it and to help the community which is a place to surrender.

On the side of those children, the children who were talking to the receiver on the matter that was found said that the pastor started to do with sex acts since the year 2012 by bringing in money to surf the money and later they are used to go to the pastor just after time.

One student who is in class four said that he started walking with the pastor while talking to her colleague who was living in home with the pastor, where the day he released for him, he started to sleep well in bed and he started selling the toes in his secret part.

"The first day I heard very much when my colleague is in front, witnessing the pastor doing my friend" said the child.

He said that just after giving them the toes of his clothes and put him at his friend (he named his name) seated on his bed and asked him to leave on the right because after finishing they will be given money to use school.

The girl continued to say that he got a lot of pain when the pastor wanted them to kill him whereby after finishing 'he bought 500 to forgive him and later told her colleague in bed and doing her with her as he witnessed with her eyes.

He said that just after finishing with his colleague, Pastor Charles warned that they had come to talk for their parents and he gave them money and warned that they had come to talk about that issue to any person.

Speaking about the reason of not relating to the teachers or his parents who learns in class six, he said that the Pastor was forced to drop it to a hole if he will have said that incident to parents or their teachers.

He said that the pastor urged his parents to go back to his home to help him because of the mother, "the wife to Pastor" "the wife of the pastor," that he was in history and that in those days, the pastor started to sleep with his relationship.

He said that in the first day he was looking into the toes of his secret part and later he started falling, where he had heard a lot of pain but he had visited by giving them 1000 shillings which he was using school for buying who is not only.

"" He was seeing the toes of the toes (being the secret part) called me, I would like to tell me the father I told him to go to school and he started praising himself, I told him to get money, "he said.

He said that were faced by the pastor, more than four times and every time she was giving money to use the school.

On his part, the parents of those children Bwiru, Doctor John Mussa confessed to be called in school to get good information to their children when they were called in school where the children explained that they were destroyed by the pastor leading in front of the teachers.

"We say this issue was written so much, tears which did not depend on whether Pastor can destroy their children who are similar to what I performed well, we were found with a sexually transmitted disease," said Mister John Mussa.

He said that he abandoned his son to live with the pastor, after being requested for the pastor to live with a small child while his wife was on it.

Mister Mussa said that he did not know that if there is his day that she will not be affected by the act of violence and gender violence as they used to involve those children and that even so far there is no any efforts by the police force used to sign the pastor.

He said that for now, those children have been struggling with the pastor due to him that he was raping and claimed that he is requesting the legal assistance to supervise the rights so that the law should be done against them.

Her biological mother, Harrison Mwakyembe said that he did not know anything about the actions that were done by the pastor and that he stopped the incident after being called to school where teachers received their children and explained the whole event that they were affected by the pastor.

He said that he didn't know any changes to her child about the actions that were done and he has never seen anything until when he was called to school and teachers.

After the news reporters of this newspaper finished their journey up to house which is believed to have claimed that when he comes to the pastor and seen the child that introduced himself as the owner of that house, Mister Zacharia Gambi.

Bwamburakis said that she's proud to know his lover with one name of the pastor, a question and that apart from being the Pastor of the Church, she was a ambassador of ten houses in church areas.

Bwambale said that the Pastor was not seen for a long time and that his wife has had a habit of leaving the morning heading to the farm and going back on night.

Likewise, it has been explained by some people who did not love their names, the newspaper said that the act of Pastor Enerines was caused by strong faith, that by doing so it will increase the believers at his small church located in Catholic Church.

A biological mother to one of the children who introduced himself by the name Jane John (35) said that previously he was one of the believers of the church but later admitted to another church after seeing the movements of the pastor and not knowing the movements of the author.

He said many believers have left out in the church including the big female children who had explained to destroy the habit of Plasmodium falciparum.

The councilor of NHO ward in Mbeya villages Bwambale, when he spoke with the journalists this newspaper said that he was surprised that the incident that not being dealt with for the whole period while reports have been worked on the police station.

He said that the incident is the violence that was supposed to be dealt with by all strength and that there is a need to put difficult laws that could make the act of rape them to female children.

I Bwamburakis said that in order to stop the habit of preventing themselves, it will be a law to stop bad luck, instead of beating them for 30 years where they are confirmed to eat food due to the tax of citizens.

"The" Way will be defeated in prison, when they do not go back to citizenship, where they can be able to promote those actions, the only way to end them is clear, when they go to citizenship, they will continue to build a nation, "said Mister Mbembela.

The appearance of us made efforts to look for phone numbers of the pastor who just after receiving and asked about the accusations made by saying that this is a rumor and a rumor that aimed at hiding his services which he gives to believers.

He claimed that his Catholic church in the country has a total of eight believers that provide reliable services to the village, thus some of the supporters of the devil of people had been war so as to reach them and reach many.

"When I wrote on something, you can be afraid that you can lead you and when you came, I would like you to take difficult decisions with my body and you will not see the better decision by the aircraft and the animals in the country as seen as the pastor.

He said that the allegations have been directed to him after mocking the money for the parents of those children who had a task of building the ward office where the mother had to be self-employed and he started claiming that he started falling on those accusations.

However, he said on Tuesday last week he was followed by the six Israeli police who wanted to arrest him but on the strength of it.

"I live with the strength of Jesus, anyone with a bad intention and I cannot get to be like the king who gave me your body in the world, he insisted and got phones.

The police commander of Mbeya Campus, Diwani Athumani, said that he has got those reports of switching off where he has directed the provincial commissioner of Bwambale who he followed keenly the incident and that however, the suspect has not been arrested.
