The investment center (TIC) has said that it will continue to provide training to entrepreneurs here in the country as one way of enabling them to get into the competition market in business and grow their capital is a report.
Speaking soon after opening the entrepreneurs' training it aims to unite with big investment companies.
The construction of investment center in the northern region have said that it is the beginning of the center to reach many entrepreneurs in that region and the whole country in general.
He has said that doing so, they will be able to connect small entrepreneurs and time so as to be business of business and big investment in and outside the country.
The business people of the northern region.
They will continue providing training on this kind and problems and to see advertisements are able to register themselves in large numbers so as their colleagues have been unable to get a chance and the ignorance of who will get to get training.
Earlier on the Acting Secretary of the province of Kilimajaro Jitume, said investment station has given more income and distribution services and sell products and services that will be made by themselves.
Therefore, it is my hope that these teachings do not come from.
I think I think.
Not yet has changed.
Peter's
We change?
That is so as to bring success.
One of the entrepreneurs who attended the training Mister started business.
It appears to increase the investment station for caring for Tanzanians that have the awareness of doing business and big business people from outside the country.
Abdelhamid Radnedge, what I would have?
That is increasing a lot by partnering with customers with the name of acting, it is something that is good because of the right time.
Small-scale farmers are playing that we will be able to reach the label that we will enable investors in the way we shall reduce the six-day capacity building for small and small entrepreneurs so as to be able to cooperate with the biggest investors in the world of the United Nations.
