
That charge is being requested to submit the amendments of the constitution.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (UKAWA) has been requested to submit the amendments to the Zanzibar constitution that will remove those politicians in the structure of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) with the aim of removing conflicts with conflicts that came up during elections that are headed to the elections that is facing a political party.

The representative of Kilagano Ward, Hamza Hassan Juma has given that request when he made the amendments to the Zanzibar Constitution constitution of the year 1984 which has given the position of the president of Zanzibar, to elect two delegates of the council of representatives of the representatives of the council of representatives.
Juma said that the action of removing politicians in the Zanzibar Electoral Commission on a large extent will reduce the conflicts and regulations of the commission to avoid experts for the purpose of bringing success.
He said, the commissioners from the Zanzibar Electoral Commission have violated the ethics of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission, Jecha Salim Jecha to cancel the results of the general elections on October 25, last year after being shown to the existence of mistakes that resulted from procedures and regulations of the elections to vote in Pemba Island.
He said the action of the commissioners from ZEC from the Civic United Front (CUF) to oppose the decision by the chairperson of ZEC to oppose the election results which was announced by CUF's candidate, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, on claims of violating the election procedures, it endangers the peace and stability of the country at an extent of causing conflicts in political violence.
He said although the aim of the government to allow the Zanzibar Electoral Commission to be a good purpose, but the political fanaticism especially the side of political parties, its effects have come out to a large extent in the last elections, which was canceled.
The renovations of the eighth of the Zanzibar constitution that was done by delegates of the representatives Council of Pemba Island in the year 2012 announced the structure of the Electoral Commission to be played and get politicians in that institution with the aim of bringing political consent and end politics.
The Zanzibar Electoral Commission was formed by seven commissioners from three political parties including CCM, CUF, and Democrat parties, where in the last year, the delegates of CCM and CUF appeared to attract others about the results of the general elections of October in the presidential position of Zanzibar.
