The killings of their wedding is in South Africa.
APR of 03 / 2014.

After landing in Cape Town Airport in South Africa, November 7, the year 2010, the couple of Deepening Trust and Antwerpen.
The couple who went to that country for the purpose of getting married after scoring the traditional marriage of Mzindu said on 29th October last year in Mumbai cities in India.
They sat at the farm, Kekeletse Phoofolo on the five days and November 12 in 2010, they went back to Cape Town Airport and they were arriving at Cape Town Airport, they got a new model who identified himself by the name Zekiage, which was being run by a driver who introduced himself by the name ZekiTina.
At the evening the couple left together with the driver that has brought in a hotel in the area, Zito Too in the city of Gothernburg, where there is a veteran politician who visited Cape Town, where there is a veteran politician who visited Cape Town.
After getting meat has risen up to the scene of the pancreas producing 50 kilometers in the south east of Cape Town, for the purpose of getting married that evening left in that area and occurred in that area and going round with Swahili language in South Africa.
It was at a time when they were in all Swahili suburbs, their daughters was abducted by two men who were abducted.
Those criminals have identified himself under the driver of the vehicle and then they left out with the couple, while they were forced to fight against them in the past 10 minutes, they had a distance of 18 kilometers from the area where the vehicle being in a speed.
The rules of rules and talked to the police and told them about that incident and very fast, the police of that country started looking for that vehicle at the PTA hall.
On November 14, at 1 o'clock in the morning, police found an amount of 32-2, outside the capital city which had been made, before the killing of a bullet in the neck, a weapon that was used to make those killings were stolen from MTVEMA.
Later, the police denied that every mobile phone that he got on the same time was at Gioia Arnautovic and that she got a ring on his mobile phone, Blackberry were found and is believed to have all the things were stolen.
Who is a teaser?

Maybe, before I don't continue with this tragedy, you can ask you so that she is Debwa, who is why his death is tired of many people not in South Africa only, but also many news agencies for different nations.
The history of the parents of this girl started in Uganda through the Kihesa area was to live in Uganda until the beginning of 1970, where he was forced to leave the country because he claimed that they are unknown people and they have involved the country into the threats of poverty.
The family got reserve in Sweden and lived in Mariupol City, where that's where their daughter was born on March 12, in 1982.
He is unacceptable, as it was noticed if he was found earlier before he has gotten a marriage with the rules, Debwa, who had gone into the age of diabetes and was employed to the company of Ericsson.
On her husband's side, the management of Deuogratius Mushi, as he is a player who has emerged to the Kihesa Market when he was born in Bruka area, Manchester United Institute of Investment and Technology (UT) in England.
