
The government has announced the standards being employed.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, has called for the Tanzanians to be careful with a non-infectious agents who use people to go and work outside the country through a clean up and especially Oman, where recently, he has been claimed that the cases of killings and violence.

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Director of the East African Department from that Ministry, Ambassador Abdallah Kilimba said many Tanzanians are being transported with a non-communicable diseases through a permit for transporting it to those countries and to work without contracts and also without the embassy of Tanzania.
"It is important to be satisfied that all the primary issues concerning those employment have been same before leaving here in the country, and this is together with following the procedures in the country, and this is together with following the procedures given, he decided to do it," said Ambassador Kilimba.
Ambassador Kilimba has called for the institutions that they should do the journey at the airport or border stations, to ensure that they do not allow him to be safely outside the country with an aim of working without having involved in the country's offices in the country.
Ambassador Kilimba has denied reports of events of Tanzanians who were taken to work and especially the ones that are in Omani.
He said the reports were published by the newspaper here in the country yesterday and in social media networks that there are Tanzanians in Omani.
"The ministry has given reports of Tanzanians being killed in those environments, there are information that spread on WhatsApp, those reports were followed but we have not received the reports of that death," said Ambassador Kilimba.
While giving clarification about the Tanzanians who are going to work in Omani and the East African countries since 2010, he said that the government has set up a procedure in that exercise which if they are followed well it will help to put up a good working environment, he said up to January this year, 5,600 people are in Oman where 4,000 are doing internal work.
He said Oman has been receiving employees from Tanzania to work on the opportunity of teaching, lack, cooks, health workers, drivers, health workers and it's not for home workers.
"Following the wave of people going to work in Oman, the embassy started receiving various complaints that complained about the difficult conditions of work as well as to work more than one house, lack of misunderstanding and doing more than one house," said Ambassador Kilimba.
Ambassador Kilimba said that in talks with the relevant servants, the embassy revealed that the lack of their work procedure when they go to Oman, therefore it started to start a procedure for people who are being transported to work abroad and especially Oman.
Those stakeholders mentioned to be Immigration Department, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Labor and Employment, Tanzania Commission for Employment (TAA), the Police Force and National Security Fund.
In that procedure, the citizens of Oman wants to make sure that a Tanzanian is supposed to go to the embassy and fill in the form to employ Tanzanian shillings and he will be given a contract to cater for Tanzanian identity cards which is equivalent to five hundred thousand shillings, "he said.
Ambassador Kilimba said later, the employer will not return to the country because the concerned servant who will be presented and satisfied with an understanding of work he is going to do when the Immigration officers failed to travel after completing the procedure that was set.
He said that the ministry is also in getting a permanent solution to helping Tanzanians in the employment of foreign countries in conjunction with the concerned stakeholders continuing with the efforts of signing contracts of cooperation in the sector between the government of Tanzania and those countries which will also give security if the employer will go.
