Those who talked to him, Lowassa's leadership is not Tanzania.
October 14th, 2015.

One of the most important things from the political history of our country is that, where some of our brothers have been doing, when some of our brothers have been doing well that they want to be our president.
We are telling us that now the process of change has got a leader who is supposed to lead the truth and that the leader is not only happy and in this, our brothers are trying to believe that the only position of the person to lead you are presidential and in this seem to have the cotton.
Our brothers are happy about how we get their colleagues who we want to discover that we are people we want to change, keenly, and we are not seen, "this issue of changes have taken place and we believe that we are affected by what we want to cheer them.
His answer is one of the ones who don't believe that we are supposed to believe that we are telling us in the real change, where many people believe that we believe in this process when we decided to change as Lowassa also does the party that will lead you will be a member of parliament or Lowassa.
All the symptoms show (I was surprised early) that Lowassa was not a leader to be supervised by the political party of CCM together with all his ability and to control him to an extent that they had to be able to take them away from him and to see the others to deal with him.
Those who believe that you will have a lot of leadership that will get a lot of problems to control the person who even at the moment there are some people to ask ourselves what we did in the elections and even the elderly of the party wanted some people to know what we were not guilty, "that time will be late.
But if we love our brother's brothers, especially those who have participated in a large extent to bring about my advice, let's vote and we want him to help the parliament and I want them to support him, when I'll support him, I will help him to lead the party.
Because people believe Lowassa's true that he has been a person to change and he has agreed to follow the agenda of changes the only way it will be able to give his vision (we are told me he knows all the problem is to give him a good leadership for returning him in the State House.
And because Freeman Mbowe is the current chairperson of parliament, he believes that he decided to send himself to Lowassa's pursuits to show this faith, after Lowassa decided to take the position of Doctor Slaa to take the position of Doctor Slaa to take the position of Doctor Slaa to take them without doubt and their wives who today are activists.
We want to ensure that those leaders must believe that these leaders are supposed to elect another candidate (I am not very happy if he will be the leader of the party and the president at a time if Lowassa was using the presidency and to join them.
The idea of him to resign after getting the general election last week, will have been unable to be followed by all the members of parliament and emerged that they will be done in the whole country requesting him to lead them for the next five years.
My brothers, the police will lead you for the next five years and will benefit and if they are warned that he did not contest for the year 2020 even if I will give my vote and support him because I will give my vote and support him because I will go for a long time.
