
Mkapa does not prevent a debate by Msekwa Hall on 22, 2012.

The spread of last week for the fees paid by a huge price in the middle of the air and corruption has now changed the blame to the previous parliament that was under Speaker Pius Msekwa, BBC Mwema, have noted.
What is being interviewed now is in parliament at that time it did not hesitate to unite with some of the United members of England, including the international development minister, Clatchy Marimo and those against Tanzania not to pay the fees on the bad price.
In the middle of those opinions, there are also other views that come from the statements relating to other religious leaders saying the involved in the purchase were taken to the law and others saying those people don't know what happened in England, they had been made.
Apart from that the purchase was caused by the wave of corruption caused by big businessmen in the Tanzanian government at that time, business people and the sale of weapons in England was also saying that the technology of the fees had been outdated.
Furthermore, two weeks ago, the report of the British Embassy in relation to the issue of the fees said Tanzania has its laws and therefore it is not a argument that the British laws meet a matter, it can have been done by Tanzania.
Msekwa said this week speaking in an interview with Shamin Khan about the silence of the parliament at that time about the fees which has already brought up compensation of 78 billion shillings in the country, those funds have already been given many names like the use of fees and corruption, he said that the water has been affected. "
An interview between Msekwa, who is now the deputy chairperson of the Revolutionary Party Tanzania Mainland, was also the chairperson of Revolutionary Party of Tanzania Mainland, was also the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of England concerning the parliament of Tanzania that was silent and claimed that he didn't put the interests of the United Republic of England.
Elder Akilimali has said that it is true that if they were not married but there are not his colleague, we should look for water that had been killed, we do not do.
Writer, am saying that your silence was a very big problem and you don't know what we are doing?
Elder Akilimali has said it is very bad luck, and saw that those have been postponed for milk so as to resolve the yes again.
Writer, there are claims that President Benjamin Mkapa, who was serving the purchase of that fee by Divine Kweka, the former Prime Minister of England, Tony Blair, is the nominated member of parliament not to speak about that issue and even to form a chosen committee for investigation.
According to the question Mzee Msekwa answered that "there is no argument that was presented to parliament by any member of parliament and even the government never happened a issue in parliament and you know that there is his procedures to present a certain issue," he continued, "there is a present for a private issue and other procedures.
Those are not done, that is why I am saying water have been unable to go down and last, it will not be a great job when we believe that those involved will be arraigned in front of the laws that they believe other people especially young people.
Among those, he is a member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe who believes that the Msekwa Parliamentary Committee was supposed to be keen and do more instead of being silent.
According to Kabwe, the most noise from the British members including their minister Shanghai, who stopped even the resignation of Tanzania's parliament by building a investigation committee so as to be satisfied or save the funds of citizens.
In showing the mistakes of the eight parliamentary parliament, Zitto says they are eager to pay the fees paid for the establishment of a special parliamentary committee for inspection.
"Sigano Mallya said that the fees used to pass through it is unacceptable, that this debate of the fees has been about the spending by Andrew Chenge, (he has been accused of being involved), but the issue of quality education itself did not be given the necessary weight.
I think this issue to do now is the government to explain the public, the real situation about the fees and its quality and security of our country is what is Almighty God, "said Zitto and added.
"Even if you need to search if the decision to buy a new fees have to be careful, we should not think about the whole issue of purchase.
Now, despite being bought for a lot of money until up to the step of bringing up a amount of money that had continued, the fees are bad and there are two ways of returning to work.
Those two ways in accordance with the executive director of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), Fadhili Manongi said it is capable of making a new device from the company that involves their fees or to make corrections on how the fees used to distribute electricity (Power Supply Company).
The fees produced by 40 million American dollars and the government of Tanzania from the United Kingdom, did not work since August 3, this year, after a hitch in the device of supplying electricity.
In that scandal of buying fees, leaders and several business people have been associated.
The investigation about the purchase of fees done by the criminal Investigation (SCA) of England and discovered that Tanzania had bought that fees for a lot of money against the real price.
