
The presidential candidate of Zitto Kabwe, is on the CHADEMA ticket October 12th, 2012.

I have read it up to write this special article today so as to bring back a lot of evil deeds that it was caused by or not to understand or understand the whole process of contesting for presidency in the year 2015 to the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe.

In a very view, and especially for a person she can't make things to agree and believe that Zitto has no party that will give him a consent to vie for the presidency in the year 2015.

According to the argument of Mayemba, S. Mayage, in his article on the newspaper of Good Citizen, this article number 262, is that the party has already been a member until now he is a presidential candidate.

That is in an easy language, CHADEMA already had their presidential candidate whom they are preparing to elect the candidate at the general elections, 2015.

Mayage has not openly said that the candidate who doesn't know the sun through CHADEMA.

Although he listed several reasons for what to Zitto cannot vie for CHADEMA as he sees it in many places by saying that the executive committee of CHADEMA is the one that will decide who to vie for him, but he is supporting him by saying every member of CHADEMA has a right to vie for because it is his primary right.

In addition to announcing my political interests, that I am a member of parliament of CHADEMA, without stopping words that we help me, Zitto Zuberi to vie for presidency in the year 2015 through CHADEMA.

Through CHADEMA, Zitto Zuberi to vie for presidency and through that party, then I believe that we will continue to thank Zitto and put the responsibilities from the parliamentary and fifth president of Tanzania.

Argument of that, Zitto cannot be approved to vie for the presidency because they are participating in the changes of change, it is easy and so bad.

Zitto Kabwe is the only member of CHADEMA who is a small and small income who participated and participating in his party, different from the age of his income.

I say it is clear that CHADEMA is more than the change of change (M4C) in the process of derailing the party (M4C) in the process of caring about this party but it did not start with the movement of change and we will not start a very small place among the big part of outreach and construction of CHADEMA.

A strong party of the opposition is spread well with its strategic plan, policies, administrative, management and security for the citizens against the government and events that are being done by the ruling party.

Many times many times be done in parliament, therefore, when I don't like to Zitto Kabwe, they do not change the CHADEMA ticket through the movement of change, we thank Zitto Kabwe to supervise well the division of responsibilities by continuing to stop caring about their states in this and I don't know if I don't understand.

It's Zitto Kabwe who announced that the presidency of 2015 is the one who came out to return the presidency, especially the youth, to participate in politics, especially the opposition politics.

After Zitto Kabwe getting in parliament in the year 2005, many youths got a heart and see you they can have no reason to wait for him to vie for the parliamentary seat.

All of us have witnessed with CHADEMA that Zitto Kabwe is the deputy secretary general, members of parliament who some of them can refuse the truth that they are fruits and the results of the good work of Zitto inside and outside the parliament.

Therefore, if Zitto was able to open a parliamentary way to the youth, then he has every reason to be the best president in Tanzania.

The fact is the reputation of not being loved but it is a must for you to talk again again so that you should be understood by the records, it should be done well.

It will be remembered that after the small elections of Tarime to fill in the position of the late Chacha Wangwe, the year 2008, Zitto Kabwe was the campaign leader from the first until CHADEMA came out as the winner, CHADEMA had started the process of construction of the party to the citizens of the period we made operation Sangara.

There is no many not know, I will make them today that the operation Sangara was a way for construction of the party and will take it to the citizens by using public meetings and internal meetings if you see the economy of this changes today.

The operation Sangara that was organized, the invention and supervised by the first time by Zitto Kabwe, this one who today is blocking the presidency of Tanzania.

Zitto started operation Sangara (several provinces of the Lake Region as a leader and the founder of the operation, this operation started in Mwanza province going on constituencies and all the wards of that province and to spread in the wards and all the regions of that province.

With no wonder, this operation will be sold to Mbeya Province and ended up in the provinces and all the wards of that province.

Today you go to Mwanza, you will find three member of parliament of CHADEMA who is Elichilia Khamis (Ilemela), Ezekia Wenje (Nyamagana) and Salvatory Baamar (Ukerewe), where these are fruits in work, strength and mental disabilities to Zitto Kabwe.

And even Mbeya City did not end recently, if it is not mistakes of administrative which took place during the small elections of Mbeya rural, the year 2008 and caused a knee injury to Shangani, the presidential candidate was chased, or for sure he won.

And even so, the strength and work of Zitto Kabwe has created two member of parliament of Mbeya Region who are Joseph Mbilinyi (Mbozi district), I insisted that these are fruits like Zitto Kabwe in the construction of CHADEMA, which I don't know or he has decided to give an eye on it.

Outside the operation Sangara and fruits, Zitto Kabwe is the only national leader of CHADEMA who in the general elections (if you remove Doctor Slaa who was the presidential candidate) they were going on different parts of the country to arrest the parliamentary candidates and councilors.

I remember when I was forced to vie for the parliamentary seat in Kibaha Town, Zitto Kabwe, for his costs he was forced to congratulate him and he was presenting the front of the residents of Kibaha in the areas of Mwendapole (my votes were not enough to be announced).

Tomorrow, Zitto Zuberi to announce John Mnyika (today the member of parliament of Ubungo), then Halima Mdee (today's member of parliament), then I'm in the newspaper that he is in Mtwara, Musoma, Kahama, Geita, Mpanda, Sumbawanga Region, all over the world at its cost and without caring about it was the parliamentary candidate.

In the easy language, Zitto Zuberi to win the parliamentary seat in a three weeks time and another day he won the constituencies of other candidates to support him and pray for votes on this act, I believe and I will continue believing that in building a party is more than M4C.

Nasinsisted, the movement of change is not a measure of the presidency of CHADEMA.
CHADEMA is more than M4C) and I request that it should be understood that M4C will not have any logic if the party will not have members of parliament who are doing well in parliament like Zitto Kabwe.

Another argument of Mayele is the candidate of CHADEMA, he will be called by the executive committee.
This argument is also so bad.

How can I be able to say Zitto Kabwe went for a party and then it has said that he will depend on if he will continue with the executive committee of his party?

In his motion, especially here it was what he knows if the executive committee will give him to Zitto Kabwe to be the candidate?

The presidential candidate of 2015 of CHADEMA is a must for us to avoid the citizens of CHADEMA in order to protect yourself from CCM it is a must to give a candidate who will not get a candidate who will not be satisfied with the delegates of the executive committee, under 30 years.

They are all CHADEMA members for the capital city of their district (BAKWATA) and the ones that will fly their flag. It is good and important candidate of CHADEMA became government's property, especially the very few members to decide for the interests of many.

The good and stable party is that where it allows the competition and we are living with many people (I will write this article to explain the best way to get a good candidate of the democratic party as CHADEMA).

Engineer Mtei getting in the age of Zitto I told my son, Edwin Mtei, the founder of CHADEMA in the Citizen newspaper says, "there is no problem to show a lot, but it is making a lot of conflict, but it does not recognize that party and it is not ready to remove the party.

"Doctor Slaa (in the picture) wants, Freeman Mbowe wants, Zitto wants, even I could not want to contest. Here there is no wonder because he would like to vie for the presidency then it will be seen as a very big person, and it's not good."

After seeing Mzee Mtei, in my opinion I think it is a must for now to reach the period of our elders to know and agreed that they are supposed to give them the responsibility of the liberation of the party.

It's a strong people who will not be cowards and it's only the only person that can believe that the presidency is needed to cause conflicts or start a conflict in the party.

It is a must for Mzee Mtei knowing that these are not the era of candidates vying for the opposition, it's good and he continued to know that these are not the era of presidential candidates to be used to vie for a team to vie for a team to prepare for him to vie for him.

It is a must that you have no permits, democracy will be able to compete with democracy and not the party of CHADEMA, it is to choose one of the best out of many that are trusted by CHADEMA and not to pass one of the one that emerged.

It can be able to cause conflicts in the party which until today is Zitto Kabwe alone, he has already announced his interest in public that he will be vying for presidency?

Why people do not tell people that there are people who have the right to vie for presidency and others do not have the right to vie for presidency if we are not need for presidential candidate to be requested for him to vie for him.

History shows that the presidents who did well are those who have shown intentions, intentions and control of wanting the presidency early, it is a must for us to understand that is in the blood of Zitto Kabwe in doing things are very different from America and his ability.

I will partner with any youth that believes that they will participate in fighting for the age of the age of the constitution as from Zitto Zuberi to arrest him from that section, I will support him or any one that I advise him to support me.

Section of the age doesn't have a reason why it doesn't state so that the presidential candidate should have more than 40 years, it will not make sure relationship between the age and the ability of the leader, it is possible we should have several hazards from the colonialist.

The section of saying that in order to vie for the presidency is a must for you to have 40 years and continue being same as saying youths are allowed to vote for presidential votes but not to vie for him, it is okay and said youths are allowed to be voters for the presidency but not to vie for.

It is equal to say that those countries are not allowed to lead, this is due to the fact that the youth in Tanzania are using more than 60 percent of our number.

This section depends on words and it is divided into their age of their age, for their age and allows to be criticized for those reasons as from Zitto Kabwe, so as to be identified, I will be able to win the patriotism and defending champions of youth and a right to all people.

Presidency is not a big issue among other issues that will enable him to vie for the presidency, it is that he has announced early so that his time for now, for now.

My brothers, we are supposed to take a surprise presidency, we should partner with presidents who have announced to contest for three weeks before starting the opinion polls so as to avoid their evil deeds.

The presidency is a good work to be done by someone who is supposed to be careful so that someone would recognize him as he wanted to serve them as he wanted them to serve them and if he wanted them to serve them and they want it to help them because he knows it.

When a person is not pleased by the president, a person who is supposed to get the presidential candidate for Zitto Kabwe, and believe that he sees the presidency, without secret and he will not tell the public why we should not be the president.

Zitto I will not be a kind of the candidate to prevent a party not to pass without a candidate, he will be the candidate for allowing the presidency and be the president because he believes that I believe it can be an issue of taking someone to a few days of the campaign, Zitto Kabwe has announced that presidential is not an issue of taking someone to a few days of the campaign.

The writer of this article, has written about the writer, Mayage S. Mayage who wrote on the analysis of the decision to Zitto Kabwe to vie for the presidency in 2015.
