
David Kafulila has accused the electoral commission to bid farewell to ensure that she is unable to go through the elections.

Former member of parliament for Kigoma South, David Kafulila has denied the national electoral commission (NEC) to cooperate with a person who brought him a big veteran in the game to ensure they are unable to play in the premier league, to request the winner of NCCR-Revolution to be the member of parliament.

The results of the parliamentary elections in that province were stuck on the announcement of several days due to that conflict between Kafulila and he wanted to vote to sit down in the claims that the gun had banned the police without supervision, and Mwilima.

After that tension, the supervisor of the elections announced the candidate of CCM that the winner by getting 3453 votes, results were announced to have 33,398 votes, a day before yesterday.

Yesterday, Kafulila has said that NEC gives the ball about his request for forms for the results of all the remaining stations which are in that province with 16 wards so as to take them as evidence in court.

Kafulila, who has given her popularity after raising the payment of money in Tegeta Escrow account, he said at different times he has given his complaints to the Director of Elections, Ramadhani Kailima and the former assistant supervisor of the county, Kassim Majaliwa but he has not succeeded in getting anything.

Kafulila said that in that case he wants the court to make sure and announcing the winner on claims that the form number 21 B of the results of all stations show that he has got 34,212 votes against 33,390 votes.

He will take!

He said on November 12, he sent a letter to the supervisor of the constituency as he wanted to be given a form on behalf of the votes and to be presented to that it had already been sent at the NEC headquarters in Dar es Salaam.

He said one day later put a letter to ask for him to be given those forms because he was given an answer that it has been sent at the headquarters of that commission.

"He got 10 days without the answers of November 24 I met with Kailima and, he was given directions by (Judge Damian Lubuva, (NEC), Ramadhani Kailima to the phone the assistant supervisor of the constituency and wanted them to fulfill those forms through my assistant," said Kafulila.

He said despite the directive by Judge Lubuva, until now he has not given those forms and read me who after being transferred to the new council, his position had been taken by Daniel Kamoga.

"Majaliwa said he participated in the whole process of elections and became the official guest when I remember Majaliwa he told him that he has been given instructions by Kailima to the form.

"He told me that he has been getting after three days, the answers that I have made him from Kailima Ramadhani, how can they prepare forms during those forms is not for being held and there are already elections that are not done?" He asked.

He said that the days were three and everyone knows that issue with a letter, there is no reason the one was given and claimed that there is a order has been issued to be given forms for results.

"Right now even a meeting for giving thanks to the citizens have been denied to do in Kigoma South region and they don't want to give those forms because they know that the results announced is not correct," he said.

He said that there is a game that "was played to make sure that they have been sacked while giving an example to be transferred to me, NEC will be demolished and ignored with the order of Kailima.

"What is surprising me is the strength of the cooperation from NEC and for now they did not help me and they have no cooperation," he said.

He was a statement of NEC.

Speaking about that issue, Kailima said, "every candidate or party has put an agent to the voters' stations, bribing the votes where the agent or the candidate will be given a form number 21 B and at a center to vote for 24B Primary school.

"Those forms have a result of every station and at the center of standing all the station and its agents (AG), they were given now, wants we have to know what is there if there was no case, he decided to present his complaints by the supervisor they will give that evidence."

Kailima said, the supervisor of the elections cannot give him a shame, and if they do, he will fail to present the court.

"If he did not put agents it's not the responsibility of NEC, it was his responsibility to him and his party," he said.

Kailima said that the issue can be presented in details by the supervisor of the election that was scored in the election, broadcasting of results.

This newspaper led by Majaliwa she didn't accept or refuse to try about that issue, claiming that he is not the party.
