Appointment of ministers and hope.
December 23, 2014.

What you want to conclude that Tanzania is one of the easy country directed to the world especially though sometimes it is being contributed by the law and it is not true that even if they are not aware that they are not treated for a long time, because many of them are not something to prove that their differences.
And maybe there is no easy example to lead Tanzania as a result of a high standard of electricity, here there are saying that one of the things that concern it is on the internet to face people who protect themselves from the level of electricity (others in the language it cannot be heard in the newspaper) every day.
Complaining is not a problem and those who understand that they have the right to do so.
Basically, who will set aside this kind of electricity, he will not have a mistake, we did not use this unique example, who we did not want to get freedom because we did not like to get freedom because we did not like to get freedom because we did not like to get freedom because we did not like to get freedom because we did not like them, "in line with the activities of finishing their thoughts.
Maybe another close example is the complaints by many citizens about services that do not meet the requirements of some of the services at home, especially mobile phone users, though the mobile phone users will meet if they are not involved with contracts with conditions as a result of 'payments after a check after an agreement.
Private, I am in a 24 months contract of mobile phone services, and in that period, I decided to leave a company that is getting to pay for compensation, "said there I ever been a customer of" Pay 'as you leave it.
The aim of this article is not to discuss a unique problem of electricity, bad services of TANESCO and some of the services or even our senses be remembered, "when they were waiting to change the council of ministers announced last Sunday.
As it is before every session of parliament where different media stations is adorned with the news headlines if the parliament depends on fire "and" the parliamentary sessions to end without any reason, as if it happened in the previous meetings, it's how many media stations will be done, "in those changes of the ministers.
I don't know that the weather had come from especially considering that the procedures of the appointment which in the past are seen, they are not the same ones.
I think that I was very popular, "the hopes of those hope but at least some hope they did not have climate, because I have written a lot of things to be followed by his fellow politicians, and if I saw a lot of patriotism in the same way to avoid the meaning of the interests of the nation.
"What was what has raised me," in the changes announced by the chief secretary Ambassador Ombeni Sefue (there is an appointment of Mwigulu Nchemba as the Deputy Minister of Finance and maybe my thoughts after seeing that appointment is "Matatizo." (A BN).
