What is it?
He has said.
If the society is going to respect the Major General, people from life followed keenly.
They have faith and not to sit with someone who is also bullied.
People have people live and later on day.
He has not arrived in Kigoma Province to be careful, he can be careful so that we can be fast, they can do you shortly.
If we can we be used to strategies?
When he dies, he did not die with the first sitting because they were at the net.
But to pay it not to get that he was funded by those buildings.
By going to repeat the procedures that you want to communicate with clothes to inform you, Jerry would be able to meet him from getting the way to maintain the sun, by saying someone does not tire you from until the month others are doing.
That business and we are saying that there are two weeks recently, we are making a total of five million.
Language.
We go through a lot of him to be identified by people that call the person known as America if the action was still doing so that I have been unable to do when I have been destroyed badly affected by a child when a person is found.
It has died.
It helps its help that it will help to end the funeral of a person when he was buried and left some.
The visitors going to be buried.
That will help.
Therefore, why do you know that we have caused the parliament to confirm that police every one.
Two.
The ones that are seen to be demolished.
Secondly, the good thing is only that its programs will bring back to Ambassador Seif which is the same as the same as the one that was born in February.
There is a procedure.
.
There are people when he went up until he died there they were going to plan the picture there instead of drugs to do another big procedure.
That compensation comes just to get into the amount because.
What is this reason for praising?
Amina on my part, I think we have written in a difficult time, I am saying in the district to use that network and to talk about the truth because my person who died in success for your long time, apart from someone she is supposed to address the citizens it seems to address the citizens.
Four years is surprising even a small child drinking the father, but a large number will not be able to fight for a room, a little time when I read it is a normal thing.
I desire today when I was a very small man and people like it appears to be informed because the damage has come at a long time, that is, what is, what is, this is, a person when he is in line with the meaning of taking the tests in England.
Most of the names like you like.
The United Republic of the presidential board and Belle 9, the truth is.
Which Tanzanians are many Swahili and behavior to follow me.
Ramadhani said by touching on earth, the bodies of us did not have.
It should start three shops if the victory of a person who again does not know what is happening at the station every day earlier today.
Prime Minister.
How have been said, it is a responsibility of something that is bringing you very fast, see me, pour your gold and quality.
Almighty God rest until you know your tax.
Because the things that I met me comes to my brother there and therefore, you're very happy so that what disease is in the home of my brother when you love me.
When you go to the field there and if you know your opinion polls, I know you will know that those things should know where your brother Ras Kiduku was seen, when it appears from a car which was sent away from his talent in front of the driver.
And if a customer can give Eastleigh neighborhood since I am getting to me, he said that she has not found and he has not yet met and even so that I have never done this picture before you get problems and later to see the wind.
For a house.
And?
And also to bring Boy that is why you are called to provoke each other.
I am back now, our topic is still ongoing between Mister our reporter to continue with the topic, he will know how our education has been affected by the government and there should be a suspect because every one of us has been affected by the same time so that everyone can be able to see if you want.
I took her to you, when you want to get a big issue when you listen to the teachers who are required to come out to teach those students who are supposed to come and be a lesson to a human being that you can be able to come, so that you can be a lesson to a human being that you can be able to know them.
I will come to speak with him that you can come and get the problems of looking for robbers who do not know because they do not have human education and we think it was a must to control this situation so that we can be able to control this situation so that we can be able to address this situation so that we can't succeed in the country.
Or then?
On social networks.
Human resources or after seeing the person of the service provider.
In the near future?
In the past we had the ones that is looking at the time of condemning that you do not do when you do not tire you, I will do not lie!
He is doing a prayer then administration.
More than 600 million mother's money while for a long time.
When the late Margaret.
They do not see the shivered because they are going with.
If the difficult state of economic growth is why he is expecting to give a child to have a decision to take them so that we can give them a lot, but when a long time you will give them much, but if I think you get married but even if you are still getting.
Why do you help someone to get a new picture, it has been thrown out on the issue which is dangerous to its youth, that behavior are not available on social media like Facebook and all for those who want to get married or those who you want to get married without problems.
What is he says then to give.
