03 December 2013.

The solar company on health.
The company and the institution.
Different countries in the country have been advised to know the state of health workers.
It will also help to increase their contribution in production in their work areas.
Our reporter.

This statement was given recently in Dar es Salaam city.
The administrative secretary of Dar es Salaam Province.
(Ras Makunja, a resident of Mbiku during the commemoration of the World Diabetes Day.
The headquarters of Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL).

Bihindi Mbijima said that the issue of HIV / AIDS.
It is increasing a good thing to the company and the institutions to take action of knowing the situation.
The health of his employees saying that for doing that it will be.
The process of the government's plan against AIDS.

He said that the government has been on the forefront to eradicate terrorism.
That is saying that by the slogan of this year's motto, in the commemoration of the day.
AIDS to "reach 70 percent in new infections, stigmatization and destruction.
The number of deaths from AIDS, shows that more efforts have been directed.
In the fight against that disease.

Mbiku congratulated TBL for putting front of the health issue.
His employees and urged other companies and other institutions to follow that example.
Because by doing so, it will reduce by a large extent of infection.
New.

On his side, relations manager of TBL, David Magesa.
Since the year 1990, the company had a plan that is enabling them.
The voluntary contribution service and counseling for advice.

Magesa and also 80 percent of employees of TBL.
They know the condition of their health has noted that this plan is taking place due to the problem is taking place.
To be supported by the administration of that company.

"Apart from voluntary testing and counseling, company.
His clinic which has improved on the Christmas is free of medicine, doesn't use life (ARVs).
And that plan is involving more than 40 percent of the family members.
Employees, "he said.

Furthermore, Magesa said through that program they have been able to reduce.
The number of deaths by 99 percent of 9 percent together with reducing the cases of infection.
Sexually transmitted diseases (FGM) and added that the program has been beneficial.
Big only is not only the workers but also the employees of that company.

Apart from that, he said that the company had a company.
Up to now, they must for 116 passengers who are participating in giving advice to workers.
Their colleagues in order to make them be able to understand the importance of knowing the situation.
Their health.
