What does it mean?
December 11, 2014.

The victory of Tuesday this week in the case of the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, against his party has raised the name of a new star in the field of law here in the country, Albert Msepwa.

In that case that was decided on Tuesday this week at eight o'clock in the afternoon by Judge John Pombe Magufuli of the Supreme Court of Tanzania, Msalika as he stopped after defeating the famous lawyers of CHADEMA who are Tundu Lissu, John Mallya and Peter Kibatala.

One of the lawyers who talked with this newspaper about the trend of that case, he said that "Dibogo Wenje, Msangamkuu and Msepwa.

At all times of the case, Msepwa did not show a lot of joy even though in the first day and the second one in that case he had a challenge of being filled by people who are believed to have lovers of the senior leaders of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilfredy Slaa and Freeman Mbowe.

Therefore, the peace environment is what attracts people and there is a time when the three colleagues were talking to an extent that I had asked for Maxwell, "right now I think to listen to who?

According to his details, Msalika says that he has never been unable to remain in any case in court since he started working on the lawyer in the year 2007.

"If I see you, I cannot win a case in court, I'm talking with my opponent outside the court and my big faith is that someone is married or failed in court, to know that the case will win," says Jando, who is the first of 34 years.

The CCM case against CHADEMA was not easy to Msalika as a member of CHADEMA as the councilor of Mabogini village, in Kilimanjaro Province, when she was scoring in the year 2009, his supervisor was the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe, who is currently the rival sides of Zitto Kabwe.

To Jando, this was a case that touched me his personal life and his political ideology. Mbowe is a person they have known him well but Zitto Kabwe is his friend for approximately ten years now.

It was that I want me to Zitto Kabwe in this case is not our friendship but it's my faith in people to obey them and to follow the law, Zitto wanted justice to keep my differences with and Lissu was in a broad way of law.

"In a party or any political processes, it is a must that there will be no other thoughts, but what is happening in any other, I don't have a problem, but his leaders go against the law, there is a problem," he says.

This lawyer, who at the moment had a private company of Msolwa and Human Resource Mobilization which is its headquarters in Arusha town, told BBC Mwema, although it is his first time to deal with three lawyers at a time, he did not have any fear and he did not have no fear.

"Before I was not a lawyer, already I was the director of the constitution and law of CHADEMA and in the year 2004, I am an elder Victor Ketance who has come to hold that position after my and therefore, I was not worried with him.

The friendship for Zitto and Msepwa has been rushed to the mountains in the valleys while they were students at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), all they ever been denied for studies because of leading the number of students.

There is a time, Zitto Kabwe, the prime minister of the students of the students in the college (Tadu) and Msalika as the speaker of parliament, Zitto Kabwe, to start falling on his position contrary to the constitution.

And although Kabwe was not correct for that, Msemo was able to lead members of parliament and build a motion that the government of the students (through the prime minister, Zitto Kabwe, was walking on parliament on parliament and this position gives the revolutionary party to Zitto Kabwe.

"During our university's day, I am and Zitto we heard before some of the schools but our differences were in Principe and not private and that is why we have been friends until today," said Msepwa.

Zitto Kabwe, a close person to an extent that she is the first lady who deals with the name of the first child (at least now) of his former member of parliament of Kigoma North constituency and the name withheld, popularly known as a scholar and the famous member of parliament of UDSM, Professor Lyoka, Sethi.
