
Huawei be the head of modern phones in Tanzania.
Huawei Tanzania has continued to expand its customers to meet its customers' needs by bringing close to the phone and international standards in order to serve its customers in the best way and better healthcare services in the country and to make sure that the real products and good healthcare services are available to customers easily.
This is the third shop for this products in the city of Dar es Salaam, while other shops have been launched in Mwanza, Arusha, and Mbeya Regions, the shop is intended to bring an error in the Huawei products to the customers, and improve the level of services to give their customers in the city.
Huawei Tanzania has managed to be the head in modern products and with the biggest challenge in Tanzania, by giving them mobile phones with reliable use of Tanzania in the year 2016 because Huawei Tanzania has taken the second position with 22 percent shares of the year 2016.

Speaking about the strategy of Huawei Tanzania, the Executive Director of the Huawei Tanzania company, Mister Bruce Zhang said that this year the Huawei Tanzania company intends to increase the scope of distribution of Tanzania, at the northern region, Northern Region and Central Region.
In the same way, we thank our scope from 250 agents that we have now up to 700 agents, we aim to have 10 percent of the Huawei Company Tanzania has intended to reach 90% of Tanzania, the Huawei company has planned to reach 90% of Tanzania, an indication that the executive director.
Due to these shops, Huawei Tanzania gives a big number of Tanzanians to come out with the problem of lack of employment.
Speaking to the participants at the launch, Honorable Raymond Mushi, the District Commissioner of Ilala, who was the guest of honor at the event, he said, when he congratulated Huawei Tanzania for a step that took place soon after recognizing the contribution of agents in all the provinces and present the certificates as well as starting the plan to increase them.

Technology has continued at all time to get the important opportunity of the way, we communicate with human rights, we have continued to change during the period in the several century where Huawei Tanzania launched the modern technology with modern technology, Y648, Y648, Y648, Y648, Y648, Y65, and Yellow Fs.
While speaking about the new equipment that were put in the Tanzanian market, Mister Zhang said that when he gets our responsibility to the customers maybe be more than the quality of products, the Huawei company results from the involvement of our customers and understand their needs and need for your needs.
In celebrating the opening of the Huawei products shop which is in City Mall, Huawei Tanzania is giving an offer of a special offer of phone starting from June 14 to 20 May with different prizes including a red card, speaker of blue copper.

Recently, Huawei Tanzania has planned to open a lot of shops and service centers for customers across the whole country so as to ensure that every Tanzanian is getting better services and the real communication devices and also from many employment opportunities for Tanzanians.
Huawei shows the cooperation that they got from the government of Tanzania for many years now, by confirming the intention of Huawei on the availability of original products and participating in its shops in the whole country and more than all users, we have begun to provide reliable products and Huawei phones.
