A constitution does not mean?
Jide 31, 2014.

The special constitutional parliament (SCA) is expected to start next week in a environment that some of the stakeholders and delegates of the parliament see the process is being stopped and not to continue until another time.
The big problem that is in the appropriate time of political groups between the two groups in the Democratic Republic of Tanzania (Ukawa) together with the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Already the chairperson of BMK, Samuel Sitta, has announced that the parliament has been extended up as it was planned and even if Ukawa will be discussed, so as to give citizens an opportunity to know what is in the draft constitution that was organized by the commission of Judge Warioba.
However, different stakeholders including the forum for constitutional changes (JUKATA), have claimed that there is no reason to continue with that parliament because it is the first to get an appropriate time.
The decision by Sitta was due to the session of the Marvin Records committee that was set up by that chairman in order to try and remove the process of getting a new constitution that is now seems to have a red carpet.
Mwema should understand that the members of parliament who are outside Ukawa have a official plan to continue with that process without involved the group made up of many members of parliament from the opposition parties.
The plan involves the parliament to continue and as required to make decisions that will not be shaken, BMK will give out his recommendations to the Parliament of the United Republic which involves itself out in the current constitution.
"Contrary to the thoughts of many, the desire to continue with BMK has been fulfilled.

"There is now need to have two-thirds that if Ukawa will continue with their stand, it means that it will not be reached where there are now recommendations that will be discussed if the decision of BMK and later taken to the normal parliament committee," said one of the delegates of the Mashada assembly.
At the time the delegates of the Masimba committee met your opinion about the way to get married so that finally the constitution is required to be taken and taken to opinion polls, some of the members of CCM have started making a strategy to get the opportunity to get two-thirds.
Mke Mwema should know that the members of parliament who want parliament to continue making sure that you can be used to make the available opportunities in BMK.
This newspaper has been told that the secret of the issue is in the 67 members' group from Zanzibar who were chosen by President Jakaya Kikwete among the delegates failed.
"In Tanzania mainland, the members of parliament of CCM and 44 delegates who were sworn in by Honorable President can meet and get the required opportunity for the decisions of the new constitution of the new constitution.
"The problem of getting information is to our colleagues in Zanzibar and if the number of members of CCM who are not in Ukawa are required to get 16 members from the 67 people who are in order to get 16 members who are in CCM who did not want to be mentioned.
The member of parliament for Wawi Constituency (CUF), Hamad Rashid Mohamed, told Citizen newspaper in Dar es Salaam city the day before yesterday that we should have the right to know what is inside the constitution and therefore it is important to BMK continued.
He said it will be a big offence for the nation to accept to be stopped from BMK without knowing what especially in the draft, especially considering that a lot of issues that are not on paper.
"Up to here we reached, this process has used billions of shillings and we cannot stop now and therefore we have not been reported, and I am sure that in front of the journey," our colleagues will come and we will continue, "said that member of parliament who was a minister in the government of Tanzania.
The chairperson of JUKATA, Deus Kibamba, when he knows the concept of giving an opportunity to the citizens to hear them the explanation that they are in many ways that are not high as the aim is to take information to the citizens.
