Ummy has banned the teeth that had finished.

It has been written by us.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The government had warned the parents, guardians and community as a whole of not knowing all the female children who have graduated in class seven this year during this period of waiting for their results, it should be for any reason or with the aim of getting the property through the internet.

Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu has said the support of the legal government is long, therefore parents or guardians who will go against they will ensure that they are arrested and arraigned in court.
Ummy has said that yesterday in a special statement that was given to those students who have graduated from primary education countrywide.
He said parents and guardians are supposed to recognize the importance of his child to continue learning in education, growth and mental disabilities before getting into marriage since the education of female children is one of the best way to reduce poverty in these nations.
I call on all citizens to continue providing information to the relevant authorities of the local government, ward, district and even in the gender and children concerned in the country especially in controlling the marriage of children who finished primary education especially during this period of waiting for their results, "said Ummy.
Moreover, he has urged the class seven graduates who had completed their exams the day before yesterday, to avoid behavior or any actions that endangers the health, security and their development.
Statistics show that 761 boys (61 boys) 3890,536 girls equal to 467,888 girls equal to 5338,667 that are registered and do the class seven examinations this year.
Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity to urge the children who completed class seven to get into behavior or any actions that endangers the health, security and other development because of being involved in sex issues, use of drugs and others in this period of waiting for the results of their exams, "said Ummy.
He said that the female and male children come out, and know that they are a only treasure in development of our country during this period of using well by having integrity, integrity, hard and consider the regulations of discipline and good behavior as they prepare for the purpose of continuing with their secondary education.
Ummy said the government intends to give every child a chance to get in secondary education and already the foundation has already been placed by the fifth term president, Doctor John Magufuli of providing free education and therefore he didn't see one of the children who had completed their primary education the day before yesterday he knows that position because that can't be avoided.
I advise all the children to use this period by refusing to protect yourself and enter into issues that can endanger the health, security and their development, "said Ummy.
