We are inspiring.
Mr of 15, 2012

In the 18 matches he started this season, Azam FC striker, John Adebayor "Bocco has scored the 15 goals in the Tanzania Premier League.
This is the best record for the Tanzanian striker this season, but two seasons ago, Bocco won 12 and 14 goals in one season and being among the best goalkeepers of the last season.
In the beginning of this year, Bocco - who is the first one is 21 years old, was the best scorer of the Revolutionary Cup that was held in Zanzibar Islands where his team won the cup. Maybe there will not have a full picture about it about this player!
In the first round of the premier league this season, Azam has brought back to the dangerous striker from Ghana, Abdul Hama Yahya, to play in their team.
By not knowing, they don't know the best top scorer in the Ghana premier league last season, even so, the citizen of Ghana did not produce a big vehicle for John Bocco and that is why he has returned home after lack of number one in the first squad.
Michael Kipre Tchetche, a vibrant striker from Ivory Coast who was the best scorer of the CECAFA Cup the year the day before yesterday, he only plays one team and Bocco but has not completed the half of goals that the Tanzanian has scored this season.
Bocco is close to all matches which he played against the champions of soccer in Tanzania, that is Simba and Yanga John Bocco will also be played at the Revolutionary Cup finals when his team is taking the cup.
One reputation of a big player is that he is doing great things in a big match, this is the youth already has the reputation.
I request that to repeat, Magufuli is the first who is 21 years old but even so, I've been being interviewed by those who call the fans of soccer in the country.
For going to the National Stadium to witness the match of the national team, they have noted that the soccer fans have given you a difficult time for this youth to serve his nation.
Bocco has been suffering from fans in all the matches which he has been given a chance by the teachers to play for his results, his level in the national team has been affected.
And here is when it comes to my big question about this article of today, we should support John Magufuli for the benefit of who?
Bocco is sign in Tanzania.
In my opinion, Magufuli is expecting to sign Tanzania for more than 10 years if they will be used well by those who are blocking John Bocco and alternative treatments is why we get into the past?
The head coach of Taifa Stars, Jan Petrie, has been insisting that the big problem of Tanzania for now is to lack the striker's striker.
And this is the problem that he was in with his predecessor, Marcio Maximo, the Tanzanian did not know 'to be his attackers as it was in the past.
For good luck, there are three youths who have showed up here in the country who have shown that every sign that it will come to remind myself from time to now.
Those youths are Bocco, Mbwana Samatta and Thomas Ulimwengu all of TP Mazembe of DR Congo.
I know you are many youths who are suffering well on the crime of attacks here in the country but the three are more better than I was supposed to prevent these youths but instead they get to them.
I have heard John Bocco scoring difficult goals in his Azam club, but I've heard a easy goals when he was playing for the national team, all of them is because of getting married.
And he cannot get married when his fans were forced to study from his first offense in the first minute of the game, when he comes out, I request to repeat the elections that is the first of 21 years only.
The mistake is class.
People are expecting to do from the 21-year old boy who is the first of as a player, but this is the age of John Bocco will be allowed to do mistakes and learn.
The true fans of soccer are required to give this young man every kind of being required to be supported through the ideas or advice and instructions of the technical way to give them support.
In my opinion, this is a player who is supposed to be looked upon and the improvement of our nation's interests in this next three years where he will be proud to be like a player as he is.
But if we will continue with our current procedure, our nation can be able to get a very important player in the Tanzanian soccer where the psychology lecturer is like there is no easy job to release a player into the game.
