The big secret of a sharp object in a pose.
Petit 25, 2014.

May 17, this year, Francis Dande the president of France made a meeting of African leaders in Paris City to discuss the issue of terrorism in Africa.

That day, a French player who is in France and Africa's relationship with African relations, told BBC that you should not forget yourself "said Mrs I see your presidents have come up quickly in Paris, to play for him by our president."

Those words came through a pain and even so, I heard it quickly, I told me that though the African leaders went to play and maybe by the president of France and maybe be playing with a lot of her colleagues.

I was not my friend that I was not involved with those leaders for a few days after that meeting in Paris, the president Paul Kagame of Rwanda was ridicule said it is not a matter that makes them see the issue of terrorism and those drugs in the race have called President Hollande.

Kagame said that maybe he went to Paris he went to Paris so that they want the picture by the president of France but he may be a fact that because our leaders have this disease to love you have made pictures and big pictures of this world.

When a question I was asked, I met and I went to ask ourselves what Hollande does not want him and others go to the cause of terrorism in the West African continent, because we are Africa to go after it?

What's it's determined to prepare for that meeting? This is an important question if we remember that France is the one that was on the front line in the violence of Cibitoke village in 2010, in fights that came into power due to the cause of its death.

France has also been involved in the fighting and violence of Mali which came back after being launched in the Kigola.

In today's world, there are countries that don't like to marry off the work of their big police are America but France it does not affect the British. This day it does not have its energy, "said America when I give a lot of guidelines.

The three awards are successful in the whole world to be under them and the danger of them is that you have the right to be afraid of other countries because of approximately many times the reasons are usually giving out false accusations to legalize the legal action against them.

The good thing after time usually comes people that do not understand the real reasons that you made in those areas do that we do.

A good example is the first step of the year 2013 of Mali in the northern region of Mali and now we know that the reason made by Hollande will not be true. What is believed to enable them to donate those who are a new book called "La Liga, France or Mali" (France) which was held recently in Paris.

The book makes a lot of money, he was called Jean Marie Antoinette who is a writer in the historical festival, especially of being involved in the war.

However, the rules and we leave you to look at the way he knows about the real issues that happened in history, or in the past, there's no doubt that what makes the books to follow up on the issues that we shall get a great Mackay award until they get the cause of those issues.

Among the many books that he wrote is about Afghanistan, Libya, and Cedars-Sinai school, this last time it's called "Le Pen from Ihenga town, without doubt that he didn't write a relationship between France and Cedars-Jorendal has decided to write the relationship between France and Cupertino in 1999.

Among being arrested in that book, it is an explanation about the last attack that was done by Laurent Gothernburg, the president who lost the elections and who has refused to leave power and who now is a suspect in front of International Criminal Court in Mwanza City to inspect, Holland.

If I have written several times on that in the past, he has revealed some lot about the France's plan to take the army in Mali, a plan that France seems to get the name Nimelewa.

I would like to see if he was lucky when writing the book because the employees who were involved in that scandal of Mali agreed to speak with him and to tell them from the ministry of defense of their country, the army of the country, in the ones that saw the security department that is in the security department.
