
Miss Tanzania have a look at home.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Right now in the country one of the major events in the sector of art is the presence of competition to look for the Tanzania's 2016 model for this year, Miss Tanzania 2016.

This incident is historical especially from the presence of its existence in the country for a period of many years up to this year, being under Lino International Agency company which has organized that competition since the year 1994 and has continued to have an attraction to achieve the step of non-compliance with their participation in this competition.
Despite the several weeks that are being reported that this competition has continued to strengthen themselves by continuing to look for beauties in the whole country who are coming to represent the country at the World Cup competition, Miss Tanzania is held, being its second year without being the main sponsor.
Compared to the previous years, where there was the main sponsor who was Vodacom Tanzania in collaboration with the BMM Company, has continued since there without having a big sponsor who carried the whole competition this year is being held while everyone went with the private efforts to look for his fellow sponsors.
That step can affect the success of the success of the competition and especially if the sponsor will decide to intervene in the decision by the judges by electing the winners of the competition in the relevant area.
That is as a result of the permanent sponsor of the competition, where basically the sponsor is expected to place a lot of money that will help reduce the availability of beauties from the village level as the leadership of Lino International Agency as they still have a great opportunity to do a lot of challenges in that sector.
Because it was sponsored by beer company together with the phone, they still have a great opportunity in that profession and especially if the organizers as they decided to show his value.
There is no fear that even if the organizers of Miss Tanzania competition which primarily they are helping for other high-level competitions, they decided to increase by involving themselves with others from tourism, drinks, and even the transportation is still an attraction for the competition to come back and be the best to attract more people as it was in the past.
Private as compared to if it was in the past, the competition will be creative and do better better if there is no need for the organizers of the competition to give up because there is still need for the organizers of the competition to give up because there are still need for the enthusiasm to continue to follow up on them.
But also I don't see what is the director of the competition, Hashim Lundenga the use of another company that can bring success quickly.
It is my faith that if the concerned parties decided to building afresh the competition then it will return his honor in the country.
