
Don't expect names of your business?

It has been written by.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

Recently, the Executive Director of Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA), Frank Nyabudenge gave the statement of wanting the company that have not been paid for business people and they have not completed their businesses, to be arraigned in court to make licenses due to lack of lack of running their businesses.

We are supporting that statement that wants the business people to register their businesses and maintain their businesses before the three months ended, we are supporting them due to the fact that many companies and 35,000 traders are doing those businesses without informing them, an act that is against the law and which causes the government revenue.
We see that there is no reason for the owners of the company to register names of business and paying for their companies to sustain themselves in court, due to the fact that business people know procedures, regulations and laws of the countries to run their businesses.
It is possible that unfortunately, the business people are doing without registering names of business or doing business without considering that, but now they have no reason to fail to fulfill the conditions for a period of three months he was given.
As a result of doing business without having names of business and against their businesses, those companies have not been giving information of their mobile phones by breaking every year and they are supposed to take place every year.
The action of the brutal act of breaking up to say that he is expecting to see the registration of the registration and that it will be able to remind the procedures that were taken to court because of violating the law it aims to remind the regulations of the business, without following regulations, procedures and laws of the country.
For business people who registered themselves not to register names of business and tranquility, they are reminded that the making of doing so by using the time given, or not waiting to support the law to recognize those businessmen, and also helps various financial institutions to get information on the legality of the concerned business people who want to open their accounts through the electronic network.
We urge him to register names of business and stability, because this good thing is improving the business environment in the country because the patient gets affordable and will be the time to do other development activities.
Business people should use that opportunity given by the killing of encouraging, to register and maintain their businesses so that it is supposed to be availed to how they start doing so in the planned time.
BRELA continues to improve its services by making sure that the information of those business people are found in various institutions easily.
In improving that, starting from March next year, he launched the registration system of a company which will involve other government institutions including the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in order to ease the sponsorship of the company as an effort to help the government in making good business environment in the country.
In that system, the customer will give an request to open the company, the electronic system that will connect one and TRA to get a taxpayer identification number (TIN) for a short time and a customer will complete procedures and continue with business.
The time has come for business people, to avoid the support of the law to use a period of three months that was given out by breaking up, encourage their businesses to build a good environment for doing business and the government to identify their taxes.
For us, it will be a great comfort to the business people and 35,000 companies which were reminded to the breaking of, to take action of going to register names of business and maintain their businesses, or not how it is in the first three months so as to be supported by the law.
