
Sponsors of the Social Security Fund should be under one ministry from 1st, 2012.

In the beginning of this month, the pension fund of PPF organized a meeting of the members and its stakeholders in Arusha town making more than 500 participants from within and outside the country and many topics were discussed, these are our correspondent.

The government to revise the possibility of all the Social Security Funds supervised by one ministry so as to ease the coordination for the resolutions passed this month in the annual general meeting of the pension fund of PPF which took place in Arusha.

At the moment the funds are supervised by various ministries including labor, finance, health and regional administration, the situation explained that it causes the coordination to be difficult.

Other resolutions of those members are required to work starting from this year so that its submissions will be given to another meeting in October this year, including employers to give special opportunities to their representatives who participated in the meeting of this year to meet their fellow workers so as to provide information which were discussed at resolutions.

Furthermore, the members and the stakeholders have requested PPF to cooperate with the Social Security Fund (SSRA) to increase education to the public about the whole process of pension funds so that together with other things, members can be able to know their rights and responsibilities.

Another declaration is that regarding the education benefits that PPF continues to do research about the way to improve the benefits so that the children of members who live in work will be the cost of their studies to form six.

Others are PPF to attract more people to join the system and therefore increasing the number of members to join the system and therefore increasing the number of members and the public on how to use teknohama in providing various services offered by the SSRA fund to promote social welfare of the Social Security Fund.

The government to revise the possibility of 400 percent of revenue that will be caused by the mining of natural gas and oil through the Universal Social Security Fund (Universal Social Action Fund (Universal Social Action Fund (Universal Social Action Fund (Universal Social Action Fund) and various types of diseases allowed the possibility of getting diseases like cancer, diabetes and blood pressure diseases.

Speaking at that meeting, the Executive Director of PPF, William Erio told the members and the stakeholders that the fund has continued with efforts to move the services closer to customers by continuing with the preparation of the opening of the Southern Region's office in Mtwara Municipality and the representation of Tabora Municipality and Moshi Municipality.

The fund has already have other offices in the region of Kinondoni, Ilala and Temeke in Dar es Salaam, East and Central Region of Morogoro, northern region in the lake region and the southern highlands in Mbeya City.

Erio said that the system of PPF has continued to work well, that a member can get into that system and get its reports of contributions, claims that the benefits and payment of the pension funds through mobile phones and computer.

Speaking about the benefits, Erio said that the payment of the pension funds and other benefits built by 1266 billion shillings per year 2011 and that from 2008, PPF was appointed to be the government's agent in paying 6 billion shillings per year 2011 and that starting from 2008, PPF was appointed as the government's agent in paying 6 billion shillings per year 2011.

He also said that as a result of the good performance of the fund, the value of the increase at 78 billion shillings from 747 billion shillings in the year 2010 to 8949 billion shillings in the year 2011, with the number of members of the fund, by 183,049 in the end of December 2011.

About the members and collection of contributions, he said the fund has continued giving information of contributions to its members and strengthen its ability to sell the fund's activities in its regional offices for the intention of registering new members.

Efforts and strategies have enabled the fund to register its new members of 55,717 in the year 2011 to compared to 735 members for the year 2010.

In addition, he said the collection of funds were given out to 27 percent from 14769 billion shillings in the year 2010 to reach 5769 billion shillings in the year 2011 to reach 5 billion shillings in the year 2011.

About investment, he said that fund continues to invest in four areas of property with benefits which is known before investing, companies, buildings, and investment fund in the year 2011 had 8358 billion shillings, a total of 8358 billion shillings.

Speaking about the challenge, he said that together with the success made in the year 2011, there were several challenges that involved the fund, to drop out and interest in the development of investment, limited collection of investment, and competition following the legal procedures by registering members.

In dealing with those challenges, he said that the fund will ensure that there are other economy which will be removed from buildings, shares and pieces of bond so as to solve the policies of revenue collection in the financial market and the fund will also request for the regulations to reduce the membership benefits when a member changed the employer.

Normally, the members of the party members and stakeholders should discuss and listen to different topics about the topics presented by entertaining this journey is the preparations to return to his retirement.

So, has got yourself the way you will not have your life after retiring from if the Almighty God will continue to put yourself?

You will welcome you to run your family in a condition that you will be your employer?

Recently, we know that there is a life after retiring from which we will need and therefore it is supposed to be prepared so as to continue enjoying life and it's not expected our place?

We got to hear the brothers and the relatives who passed away after retiring from people, it's not the ones who were living well in houses for organizations and various institutions, having every modern thing?

She has got to think about the thoughts that you're facing you and your family members when you're told by suddenly that your wife can take a dummy check and therefore you are required to release a house and property of the organization within three months while you are not going to go?

Those with numerous questions are that, Juma Muhimbi, former employee of the PPF Pension Fund, who he retired from now is an entrepreneur, he was impressed by other delegates when he presented the topic before retiring from him.

He said Muhimbi, "this is the one that makes some retired people or died or put shortly after retiring from because many are not ready to retire from."

He added Muhimbi, "is for the purpose of such things that made him Malcom Turner to say this following the following," retiring from many people more than the difficult work he gets to manslaughter.

He said that one of the journalists speaking about his retirement's life, he got to say God "a good time to start thinking about retiring from his boss, he has not started and he should not retire from."

He said it is important that every employer does not have his own life before retiring from early so as to leave, then the long time has been successful.

According to Muhimbi, preparing to retire from not a small issue, most of them don't know their lives they want to do so before retiring from.

Most of them are unable to start working on their lives before retiring from, the problem is, how they are starting to prepare?

Importance of preparations to retire according to Muhimbi National Hospital is not supposed to retire from suddenly because of doing so, there are many effects, body effects and even social networks.

He said the concept of retiring is based on the fact that the life of communication has required to be sold to different sources of revenue including the pension funds, retired, he was set-employed while being in employment.

That is as a result of his retirement and not retired to leave the primary use when he is in employment.

He said Muhimbi, "although it gets to say that the work he comes after retiring from life, a must he will need to eat with others, therefore, retired still need to eat with others with others and those so that someone should be able to pay for some of the cost of living.

"It is not enough to think it is normal to do, but it is important to put a structure to how retired she doesn't like to live after retiring from this.

Muhimbi's private experience retired from May 2001 in the age of 47 years due to the reasons that he said were out of his ability, he said that during that time he had organized himself to retire from the fact that even the voluntary age of 55 years had not completed.

I was and the job that had already lost well, I was living in good house of the organization that had everything done but I did not have a plan to go there and for sure this was a big challenge to live in Dar es Salaam, "said Muhimbi.

All of all, today 11 years later Muhimbi is still preparing himself, again he seems to be good, now when he is a member of the board and he running different professional activities that may be paid well.

He says that among the things that led them is that for all the employment time he was a member of PPF (for 21 years) although in that time he has changed the employers.

He says the challenge was to come in the year 2002 when PPF came out to pay for every month due to the changes of laws that were emphasized to the ones who had been made for 55 years.

"December 2002, PPF was unable to cater for every month to all the retirees who were under 55 years of that was a lesson so that even inside not, you should cheer your things," he said.

He has urged religious leaders because it is important to prepare early on how to retire from someone we shouldn't wait until when his retirement came out, they shouldn't wait until when they received 50 years.

Social funds will help during his retirement and that is just one area, instead of retiring from themselves and other areas to increase their income as a person, even if he will be addressing employment every time.
