
25 companies to participate in the conference of Tanzania, DRC.

It has been written by me.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

More than 25 companies in the country will participate in the first business conference between Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), that will make the increase in business, opportunities of investment and cooperation between the two countries.

Moreover, big investors and small investors including government institutions have been urged to participate in the conference because DRC has been mentioned to have a lot of business opportunities including food production and industries.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the acting director general of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Louis Venter said that the economy of DRC has reduced from 77 percent last year, results have resulted from the energy of minerals and investment relationship.
That conference will take place on September 22, this year in Lumbumbashi town, DRC with the aim of bringing together with big operators of the private sector from those two countries.
"The conference will bring about investing in business agriculture, it will also look for great ability for improving business so as to put a good environment for business people and attract investors in the sector of industries and transport services," said Accaro.
He added that Congo has shown an intention of looking for energy and minerals in the oil and gas sector in Tanzania so the investors of that sector are required to take advantage of the opportunity.
He also said the expectations of that conference is to increase the speed of sales between those countries and strengthen the relationship and even so, he made fear from business people about the state of security of that country, but there will be an ambassador of honor with the aim of enabling various business issues.
The senior business officer from the Tanzania Business Development Authority (TanTrade), Getrude Ngapa, said that their aim is to capture the Congo market because many things use the country to be reliable and market thus he urged business people to come out in large numbers in that conference because it will help to put business contracts together with Congo.
"Government institutions including the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Roads Agency (Tanroads) and the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) has participated in the conference to ensure the challenges facing the business and look for solutions," he said.
And the projects officer from business companies of 361 Degrees Tanzania, Naomi Godwin said the conference has a slogan of "strengthening business relations and opportunities of investment between those countries," and it will have more than 100 traders from private sectors including entrepreneurs.
He said the conference is organized by partnering with TPSF, the Tanzanian Embassy in Congo, the association of traders, industry and agriculture (TCCIA), the Federation of the traders of Congo companies (FGM), the Association of Malampaka Ward and GSM Foundation.
