
Three debtors started paying tax tax.

It has been written by.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

If there are infrastructure that a human being cannot be avoided, they don't know or not they need for accommodation, because of a house to live and office to be able to implement its work responsibilities.

A family is a must to live in a house in the normal procedure of life and a employee having a office for the purpose of wanting to implement its work responsibilities, due to the importance to the family, the company, institutions together with private and local governments, a budget aimed at paying tax tax.
It is as a result of the fact and the importance of that infrastructure, the budget for the purpose of that service is set without hesitation.
Recently, the Executive Director of the National Housing Corporation (NHC), Nehemia Mchechu was forced to give a period of one month to 29 companies from various government institutions, that were discovered to pay the debts of tax taxes, that is claimed to have the organization without hesitation and contrary to its offices they had planned to face.
Already the concerned company has not given the intention of its intention to be released outside house and concerned offices, something that also President John Magufuli emphasized recently in his speech in Dar es Salaam city that the funds are alleged to be NHC, otherwise they should be given to their stations outside.
We would like to thank the company and the concerned institution, to do everything possible to pay their debts, without waiting to deal with the shame of being evicted in that important infrastructure for the lives and life of the institution.
There is no objection that the budget for the company and the institutions that are implemented by the government, are required easily, for example the standards of tax services of electricity, payments for water and electricity services is unacceptable, to ensure that they are not sold and then covered by big debts.
We are grateful to the companies and those institutions, they shouldn't take this action of paying tax of taxes, it's a challenge and therefore try to pay every month as to stop the congestion from now.
Let us know where the problem is where a budget has been set for tax tax, but it's not mentioned because the involved in making those payments, are where they are required to avoid any problem, which in a normal state can be controlled.
When we sell to the concerned institution, the day before yesterday wanted to enable the NHC to be able to deal with its responsibilities of performance, including building more houses for the purpose of preventing others from the company.
Among the institutions that are leading to have collected more than nine billion shillings is together with the office of the president, that is claimed more than 10 million shillings from the Ministry of Works, Transport, and Communication, organized more than two billion shillings.
Other institutions that are in this list are the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, is expected more than one billion shillings to the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children more than one billion shillings in the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children more than one billion shillings from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, a good administration that is claimed 1 million shillings.
