Athumani we want to explain how the research on the old issues is taking place and this is the same opportunity, a class that you can learn today or even if you want to know how the research is happening and is called Bergh.
We know where we are from the University of Dar es Salaam, Ras Makunja got that we will do even to know this research, giving thanks on the old issues going on how we see here.
Mchaga answered Yesuu!
Are preparing the map of the area where let me know!
What we do is that we need to have peace in the area so that we can be able to know your questions, and if we are doing everything you are doing so that we are making our report that we are ensuring that there is a map which shows inside.
On the side, especially for investigations and if there are other things that like a house is basically we can be found after a long time later, so that sometimes he can be seen, then I was seen on the map.
It depends on us because they should come forward and listen to them.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will make sure this vehicle are poor because of the purpose of making a map.
To be taken, later we are going to use them, I want to make our map for a week is a machine that will use it.
.
This is not a problem.
It is a must.
For the purpose of learning who study at.
Different like the length of a distance from the vehicle when the machine was found.
Basically the give you a machine.
Where the we pray together with urine, it is like a place which is used for a long time, in order to know what you are in the house so that someone can be able to know whether you are in the area then he is supposed to come out in the area then he is supposed to come out in the area then he is required.
That in the map of we, when I realize that I have stolen her close to all of it started, where I have done investigations that you said that a Swahili has done a long time in the east of the weekend.
Therefore, all the things they have already started getting in the office is bites from any objection.
