
The leaders of CCM dealing with millions of passengers.

Rashid Mkonga.

More than 300 million shillings from the project of 120 million shillings from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Chamwino district, Mbeya Province are believed to be forced to buy and put in accounts of private individuals.

Internal reports of that party are making sure that it is one of the big party projects in that ward where its start intended to increase income to the party so as to deal with the death of the opposition which was fouled at the Mbozi region of the western region.

However, they are close to the Bagamoyo police station near the border of Tunduma and neighboring countries of Zambia, it was claimed to aim to give the party the millions of money whereby however, the money raised from the illegal people are believed to be responsible for the people of a few people.

The controversy that was caused by the financial funds in the country have been described as a result of leaders of the party at the county level, to prevent business people who need to go and therefore, an amount of shillings 100,000 shillings per hour where even those funds were believed to be involved in the private sector.

According to the sources of this news, it is that a total of 100 business people came out to ask for them and pay an amount of shillings 100 million for every one and therefore contribute to an amount of 12 million shillings that does not affect its use until now.

Moreover, just after six business people should be accepted to sell their wives every one was required to give an amount of 3 million shillings for the purpose of starting the construction of those equipment which were collected a sum of 360 million shillings that were paid to the party's account.
This news reporter is witnessing the state of those agreements that started in the month of March 2012 which was expected to end in June this year and even so up to now, the construction can be used as park which had reduced and a place of short call and small.

This newspaper witnessed those events that have been infected with mental disorders whereby construction which has cost a big amount of money, it does not have construction costs, a situation that continues to increase questions about legal use of the project.

Likewise, the investigation of this newspaper has revealed that in all the activities of construction, there was no problem of data that will be presented to the revenue collection and use of the party though the money that were found for the purpose of construction costs were put in the private sector.

The account that is used to bring in those funds are together with an account number 46,000,000 shillings from NMB, Tunduma City, May 5, 2012 were put in a sum of 20 million shillings and another account number 666 of 155 which was used to set aside money worth 30 million shillings between May 11 up to May 16.

According to the news reports of that party, it shows that those accounts are private individuals and that the money to an amount of 50 million is unknown.

On his side, the chairperson of CCM, Tunduma City, Mister Daniel Chongolo said that the funds that were collected because the construction did not be involved in the party's account but they had to listen to the contractor as the purpose of continuing with the construction of the equipment.

And the secretary of CCM, Tunduma City, Mister Hemed Steven said that the project of 120 million shillings was expected to cost an amount of 270 million shillings, whereby everyone has paid 3 million shillings which has been paid by the Local Governments Company Group.

However, the statement by the party's secretary, Mister Steven is competing with the real collection of money for empowering them and that the amount of more than 270 million shillings per liter was equivalent to 360 million shillings which is equivalent to 90 million shillings.
