
Take your soul in Nyerere for work.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.

Tanzanians have been given priority by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, for working, in order to defend the development of the country.

He made that statement was presented yesterday by a veteran politician in the country, retired Ambassador, Job Ndugai, when he spoke during the commemoration of the 17 years of the death of Mwalimu Nyerere, that took place at the Nyerere Square grounds in this province and according to the cleaning activities.
He urged the youth to stop bias against him instead of working hard, so as to expand the nation by considering the ethics of work and serve the citizens.
"During the teacher people were working together, even at the press offices, we are still there, even when we get Uhuru, Uhuru and Labor, faith and the union were led after Uhuru and Labor," said Ambassador Mbelwa.
He said that Teacher was other than one person to work, she was a big person, he did not want jokes and that he did not live as a normal person and he did not like you so much.
"If you want to remove the teacher, you can leave a lot of us, she was a person who don't know, we are doing with him well because they get a understanding," he said.
He said that he would like to give them the leadership to work and make them to believe that they help him in building the nation.
"I got a minister in the first cabinet of ministers with 30 years, we were 12 years including Mwalimu Nyerere," he said.
He said among the 12 ministers, 10 have died and seen him by Sir George Kahama. On his part, the head of Dodoma Town District, Christine Ishengoma said, "this is not the time to sleep but everyone should not work since even the father of the nation assured freedom and work."
He said the government in Dodoma and the police force in the district are stable to ensure they face all criminal acts.
He said that they will be arrested when they had sent him or an agreement will be charged 50,000 shillings for every offense.
