Do not tell you that this topic in a second time and the budget for instance, we have seen police in their homes, we have seen police in their stations, they have ever made their studies so that the fights are forced to walk together with mother, but here I have found it.
But the dream of everything but we expect the police force have been affected, it means that everyone has to be afraid from the army so that I don't understand themselves on their hands and I see but bake.
Or we expect to do?
The squad that has people and to be able to maintain peace.
Who does not desire to make sure that property will be observed as we say that there is a responsibility of looking for peace in the country, has made those reasons for the purpose of helping the community.
There is no there and you will talk, but we are looking at anything according to one procedures, he said that in the community they are happy to see why Tanzanians have the responsibility of being able to protect him again in the court we have been a reason to be able to ask him again in court we have been a reason to be able to ask him again.
I see that we are cooperating with the community said Jokate has because she knows it, has built the community that it will come at home to the father but going to the price that was still the news reporters.
But they have been able to get your wedding on a short time, we want me to tell you for the reason.
We have never come out.
It does not have no merit and some of the blog that are to be prosecuted?
He is here, he has said police?
If the station has taken place and lives to give a report early, it does not understand the little of her sister as five even if he was giving a topic at a public rally, "I believe I have a special panel of peace and also other people in religion to ensure that very close to the community.
In a question?
That all of you are safe from there is no longer.
This is this after
To listen to Dodoma we can have better service according to the.
When he was, if he knows the first goal of dancing in talking to his community.
You know what?
One child in the event is still serving, there should be happy when I don't hear the answer that it makes us other.
If you have tried a big cry for his heart and how to know new?
Close to the police heading to your brother, there is lack of the rich and when we go without any cooperation.
What is it?
There is still a soldier for the purpose of preventing things without depending on the attempt, I know that you want to continue to stop, therefore, we find a little light on how.
