The killings of their wedding is in South Africa.
December 11, 2014.

That is the first time for their first game at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Exhibition which is located in London City, England while they went at the hall to look for a match between two cities, that is Bromwich, in England and Stockholm, Sweden, everyone wanted to visit his partner on his time.
It was in June, in the year 2010 after getting permission to his parents, to the rules and demonstrations, he was in France at the Paris Hotel which is in Paris, where they went for a short time after failing to accept his objection.
Few days after he was forced to get into courtship, moved to England to Bribian, she is participated in the competition of fashion designers who live in that town of Bribes and gave them popularity.
Those lovers have wedded the traditional marriage of the Lake Victoria Kimani, in one hotel that is in the shoreline of Lake Points, out of Mumbai cities in India on 29th October, in 2010 with 500 invited guests who attended the traditional celebrations in the year 2011 to England for the purpose of friends who did not attend the traditional celebration of the wedding in India.
As a result of his killing, Mwarija is to be taken to a hospital located in Cape Town for the purpose of investigations professionally as the results of the repetition showed that, died due to being shot dead on the neck, but he was not guilty, except that she was found with sharp teeth.
More investigation showed that before she was shot, there was a penalty he was shot dead in the murderers, who had also attacked another injury during his hand, the brother of Shangani areas they went to South Africa to join with him in addressing that issue of killing his wife.
The rules and regulations was questioned by police and he spoke to the press about the incident of the body and killing of his wife.
In his interview in the police and also to the news media, he claimed that the decision to go to the Swahili area which is alleged to be dangerous for tourists visiting the Cape Town city is the idea of his wife, who wanted to see the real environment of Africa.
On November 17, the South African government allowed the family to cater for their body for the burial, after the completion of the burial, his body was burnt in London town at the burial of the funeral of Aga Khan Organization (British Airways), later on the basis of his body found in the lake and at their home at Mariupol City in Sweden.
The suspects were arrested.

The case of the murder case was able themselves popularity in South Africa and because that was appointed the team of investigators led by the old man, Captain Paul Henet, and two days later were arrested in accordance to the rules and his wife, Ansudane Soulaimane.
Three of the three were presented to court on November 20 and is taking place with a mistake of robbery, raging water and raging water.
That day after those suspects were arraigned in court to him, the police speaking with one television station in that country claimed that, those killings were not set, and they found that after losing another person known as Zito Telecenter.
However, Mbizo said, when he had an agreement with the police and became a witness on the charges of the attacker of Draw, who was accompanied by Zekij and the murderers had left the job that was done on November 30th.

Later, those police denied the rules and regulations he will go to South Africa for an official parade to identify those killers.
One day after the family of the ball to employ the family's spokesperson, Antois Van Der, gave a report to the media outlets in the country to get his running mate and to build a family of his wife and to build a family of his wife.
