
Peace will lead in the stronghold of Jubilee, Attribution.
And Mary Lugusi.
Many Kenyans are saying that they think about their political view following a win that is not meeting of the United Republic of peace and the stronghold of capital city at the small elections that took place on Monday.
The leader of the United Republic of peace who is also the leader of the BDF of Revolution, Mister Musaizi says, congratulated the referees of that union for the best results, whereby they took two positions for delegates of the county council of he said MTVs, in areas that are expected.
"We have won two capital unions in their strongholds.
"We said that we launch afresh this picture, where in Kenya they will sell the leaders that are involved with direction and that are involved in noise, so that we can even tell ourselves," explained by Angel di and Diamond who got poor results in his stronghold.
The party to BDF of Arusha has caused a huge changes in the Meru Council that brought together many followers of Diamond Jubilee, where they are giving out donations they received two candidates on the party ticket of Tuface Idibia.
The presidential candidate of Ukura, Mister DfID, Mister Duncan, emerged victorious in a goalless draw, where the repeat of approximately 825 votes against the candidates of Tetemesha Entertainment, Safina Atick, who emerged victorious in 268 votes, 752 and 46 votes.
The shivered in the Igurubi County, a bridge that is supervised by Mister Mihanje.
In addition, he from Bwandui, in peace, peace, Merlin Roosevelt was the entrance in the ticket of New Ford, Kenya, Khajida Kopa, when he got the seat for New Ford's seat for a great win of Luis Suarez more than 2000 votes, against Utah Jazz.
Mister Uhuru got 4,000 votes against 1,970 votes out of inhaling and offloading capacity in the ticket of ODM Party, Aron Masimba, who had paid 184 votes.
That big victory of the United Republic of peace was seen to be a big blow by Senator Moses Wama, who had gone about his resolutions to rule that he was in his position after winning again in his seat in the recently.
During the Old Trafford campaign, the Secretary General of Ford, Kenya, Doctor Estrada, and the Member of Parliament of Tunduru District, Mister Chris Myovela, claimed to be the victory from Shamsa Ford, claiming that the driver known as the head of that area.
However, ODM Party is why the party seems to continue losing popularity as well as poor results.
In that small election of contesting for positions for the leadership of Muembe Makundi Ward, ODM Party was not able to get more than 100 votes out by losing the parliamentary seat of Boncour.
