
They should vote?
By Mwangi, professor.
The board of dealing with VVU here in the country yesterday emphasized that, it will not allow his stand to oppose the cases of female circumcision against women.
It said that his view is that, FGM is the cause of human rights and anyone who will be involved in those cases in the community will be taken against them.
In a report that was given by the board chairman, Miss Shamsa Ford, said that female circumcision is called and when they have found a lot of views that doesn't have any truth about science and then.
"There is no plain truth that a woman who doesn't have great benefits and there is no evidence that the girl will do a woman to have a value in any social relationship," he said.
Miss agriculture was responding to the protests of women in the Maasais' where last week they joined against the ban of female circumcision in their community.
He warned that anyone who will involve women in the activity will be charged with the mistakes of violating human rights.
"Especially I would like to urge all those who use small-scale girls that, they will be accused of violating the rights of children and which its own punishment is very difficult," he said.
In those demonstrations, those women said that the community have been built from their culture.
They were told him that, their women have started getting rid of those women, they did not accept the husband to live with his wife whose sentence is against the elderly.
However, Miss agriculture said that, the view has no place in the modern world and which affects every human rights for basically.
"We said that for now, it is not supposed to be stable that some of the bad culture of denial of it is our responsibility as the government to lead the community to prevent food which were put without considering the rights of human rights," he said.
He said that the board is in the race to prepare training on awareness in the community which have been successful in the female child.
The training will involve religious leaders and political leaders so as to educate those communities about the effects of FGM.
He said that female affects the reproductive organs for the main level and P.
