CCM does not turn back to the Zanzibar Electoral Commission on the same way, he urged his members to come out for votes.

The special committee of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Zanzibar under its chairman, vice chairperson of CCM Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has urged citizens and members to be ready and finally come out in the general elections of the repeat election.

According to the report of the secretary of ideology and propagation of Zanzibar, Mrs. Bakari Shime has said citizens have been urged to prepare for a repeat election and to leave the services offered by few people with an aim of misleading the truth.

"The session of the special committee of CCM Zanzibar that met here under its chairman of Zanzibar, Doctor Shein wanted the citizens, members and the followers of CCM to prepare themselves for the repeat election which will be announced by the concerned institution," said the statement.

The results of the Zanzibar general elections on October 25 was canceled by the chairman of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) Jecha Salum, for what he explained is the existence of regulations and law of a free election.

In the last session that was attended by several national leaders, including the Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania, Samia Suluhu Hassan, planned to discuss two agenda including political situation immediately after the general elections on the side of CCM.

In that report, the party said that it is impressed by the trend of political situation and has thanked the members that came out in large numbers to participate in the general elections of October 25th.

In addition, the party has added and helped a lot of talks that are going on with political leaders with the aim of bringing permanent peace to the president of Zanzibar, the first vice president of Zanzibar, Seif Sharif Hamad and the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein.

Speaking yesterday at the State House in Dar es Salaam city, the President of Zanzibar, Doctor Shein said those talks are going on well and full reports will end when he was asked about the fate of CCM as the general elections of CCM, Mrs. Waride Bakar said that the party is in stable and it is not unyielding.

"There are some who know that CCM has been forced, it is not true or CCM has not gone out of constituencies because the votes are not completed and counted at them," he said.
