Majaliwa to witness the match of members.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published today, September 2016.

While the electronic tickets will start to be used today, different companies have contributed a total of 20 million shillings to sponsor of Yanga soccer fans and those of Simba that will be held today at the National Stadium, where the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa will be the guest of honor.

Those companies are The Citizen that gave 10 million shillings, NHIF Health Insurance Fund, NHIF and Jubilee Insurance, which all have given 5 million shillings each.
Speaking to journalists yesterday, the chairman of the sports club of parliament, William Ngeleja, who is also the Mnazi Mmoja of Simba said the results of the tomorrow's match is a sign of the results of the game on October first.
On the side of the electronic tickets, they will start to be used today in the match between Simba and Yanga fans like trials, before the start of the start of October first in the game of Simba and Yanga.
While speaking yesterday, project manager of Selcom Company which is the responsibility of managing that system, Gallidum and the card will be given free in today's game being trials and look for irregularities that shall come out before beginning to use them.
Speaking about the way to use that card, Risture said, "you will be able to pay for 150 billion shillings and then it must have money for Airtel or M-Pesa.
He added, "apart from those cards to use the field, also the one who can use it for other uses like protecting and providing money to the agents, but it has also enabled the person to pay products and various services without having the pocket," he said.
According to the chairperson of parliament, Mussa Azzan Zungu, said the nation has been a huge disaster and urged Tanzanians to come out in large numbers at the field because the entrance will be taken to help victims of the earthquake in Kagera which for this period they live in a bad environment.
