
Chamwino District, an example to be followed by October 13, 2012.

I tell you about this article as I was in Dodoma province. It is my first time to sit for a lot of days in this capital city of Tanzania, who until now it has no place in the city and efforts are taking place, all roads are being brought up at different levels so that eventually Dodoma will be announced as a city.

I have seen a lot to witness a lot here in Dodoma. It is difficult to see all in this article, but the University of Dodoma is the gift to our nation because it is possible for the first university of East Africa with the size of good infrastructure.
It is difficult to explain the words of this college, but someone with yourself how do you know who for this good work of the University of Dodoma?

He is the honorable president of the White House, Benjamin Mkapa, what is the Honorable President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete? Is the Revolutionary Party (CCM)?
Anything that the case, the work that took place at the Dodoma University, is the one to be highly commended.

However, there is no good thing that seems to have errors in the university, electricity is available within the university and water services will also be done inside the university and the water project is a must for the citizens who are affected by those universities.

As I said earlier, there was a lot of discussing and write about in Dodoma.
Today, I wish you just about the police force in Chamwino district on the recent days, the reputation of the police force in Tanzania, have started depending on the concept of the police to protect the safety of citizens and their properties.

We have risen up opinions and issues that the police are security guards and the lives of CCM, by the truth, it is a must that CCM continues to power, because of the killing of criminal acts that are run by police, have no good reputation for this army.

Some of the journalists, especially after the killing of David Cason and other killings that are discussed while police received and demonstrations by the citizens, have been writing a great strength to deal with citizens that do not have weapons instead of using wisdom and wisdom.

The Chamwino police in Dodoma province have shown a different pictures of not suffering from the police force is only a few officers, otherwise, our police have a high speed and they are standing on the foundation of protecting the lives of citizens and their properties.

The first reputation of Chamwino district is to protect themselves and care for the environment.
When you go to the Chamwino district police station was announced by the real situation that was affected by that center, you cannot believe that is in Dodoma province, there are drought and all of the Sahara Desert.

My first question by the Chamakonko District, was to know the secret of the current situation as they appear in Chamwino district, he answered me about my question, "said Mrs Julius Nyerere, and we talked to me."

With the explanation of ZEC, in collaboration with the police, they have been able to maintain trees and in the way to change the environment of Chamwino, this is an example to be followed in Dodoma, they learn from Chamwino, the whole province will be if they are.

The second Vice President of Chamwino, is supposed to make sure that the police force are preparing to protect the security of citizens and their properties as the guardian of Chamwino district, involvement of discussions with conductors of the new thoughts, it is among the issues that were sent to the police force in Chamwino district.

It's not just to hear, but if we are not less, there are my colleagues when we are doing research on children living in dangerous environment, but also police have a gender desk, we decided to visit the police stations.

The bad luck and good governance (OCD) Chamwino, was at a meeting with his commanders together with the police under a shadow of the tree, because the Chamwino district is adorned with a lot of trees so that we had been told we should not depend on with his session, but it was not like that.

We met with him in the meeting.

The determination of Chamwino district and his lawyers to listen and discuss and discuss and ensure that police have given us a new picture of the Tanzania Police Force through a dangerous environment, because children who graduated in the streets and taken to the police stations.

Those children, while the stations are getting the food services, accommodation, treatment and advice and sometimes are being transported to return to their homes.
This annual meeting will commence on Chamwino and his commanders, it was its own kind.

It was done democratic, different from what we believe all the days that police are following a order without even having a long time to use their brain.

ACP of Chamwino, was leading a discussion about security issues, ethics and social services, we have witnessed the freedom of every police to explain the challenges that were made by giving his ideas.

In that meeting, police emphasized the importance of them being involved in all social projects in the country because there is a culture of leaving outside the police.
Haazu taking charge of social projects that are going on in their districts.
Non-governmental organizations have been doing their work without involving the police.

We believe this is that these police who receive a chance to sit and discuss with their leaders, discussing with the police, police who receive an explanation on various issues and not to consider ethics and stop the lives of citizens and their properties, can never sign bad people and killing them.

But we have also been able to realize that education has contributes up to a great extent, (OCD) Chamwino district and the head of the station, all of the scholars and technology, the police force have reduced and lost its reputation, we cannot make sure the youth have flooded the culture of working as usual.
