They are trying to inform us and obey them.

It has been written by.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

There's no objection that Tanzania is one of the other countries in the world that run its issues by following the rule of rights and laws as well as considering that the system of democracy in getting various leaders from the levels of the villages, villages, wards, districts, provinces and the nation.

As a result of that fact, Tanzania is respected in the African Continent and the world in general, as it is speaking about the issue of peace, calmness, solidarity and fighting discrimination of any kind, including discrimination, tribe and religion in the world, you cannot end Tanzania.
In the view of that view, the police wanted to respect and to respect the culture, culture, which combines both religious faith, the keenness of the organizers from the past years, issues that have the importance of its kind in development and solidarity of contraception is in the process of dealing with sustainable development.
The news that are with the 11 public institutions in the country which have succeeded in running awareness of acts of discriminating each other and you want to disrupt the solidarity of our culture on the side of respect the traditional culture and our culture of Africa in general.
According to the Minister of Constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, those institutions are in the provinces of Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Shinyanga, Mbeya, Tabora, Tabora, Dodoma, Kilimanjaro, Njombe, Lindi and Morogoro.
More information that those institutions have been doing good meetings with the celebrations, to prepare and printing publications in order to investigate and take advantage of the education in primary and secondary schools in the country is sad and no legal action should be taken to the institutions that are doing it on any facts.
That, this is being done under the permission to help the HIV virus and AIDS, when they stop the ones they are doing, they have another agenda in spreading them and those things should not be emphasized.
We thank the government for questioning the government that he will not tolerate people or any institution, who are found to be involved in awareness of the marriage activities in the country because those acts are criminal offenses.
We are supporting that decision by the government to involve yourself with institutions and people who are involved with caring about the sex of the same sex, by following the law and our procedures so that the concerned parties can destroy our community.
It is good to protect our resources all the rights, culture, culture and our history, without caring about the donations that is given to the conditions, with an intention of wanting to be responsible for our downfall.
If our colleagues in Uganda, Zimbabwe, Kenya, and other countries in Africa, have harshly opposed the plain truth, because we do not meet their husbands?
