It is an act that has great effects to the health and even to take life of a human being, but it does not lie!
Among the women because of worship beauty contest.
If you look at reading a cookie so as to make sure they lead to you in the size of the sun, which here in Tanzania has been known as usual.
Women are all over the United States and elsewhere in the world, have been endangering their lives by being coming out in a black market "which is transplantation, so they can get a size of those who want.
That direction has continued to complete the speed due to the increase in peace having an unusual thing.
The star, Jennifer Lwanamina, I told Minaj and Kim Kardashian who are known as a big offence.
But the deaths arising from the mud which resulted from being stabbed with a needle to prevent it has been reported in towns.
Alabama, Georgia, Florida, Pennsylvania, Nevada and New York in that country.
One of the beauty expert in the region of Missouri, in that country, is faced with charges of causing the deaths of two women who had a needle with chemicals in his residence.
In Vaquina, the South American nation, those acts of promoting the theft on the illegal ways has been forcing a result of the concept that is believed to be a woman with great shape, he is the one that has contributed more.
Therefore, they have been ready to endanger the health and their lives so that they saw the beauties.
They have been blogging in the world because of switching off the abdomen.
But it's still not worried about the news, especially those who are not aware of many people following that act.
He has also shown the act of illegal immigrants.
Among those who are not involved in those statistics is Doctor Gus, who to give them 300 million dollars equivalent to approximately 500,000 shillings.
Tanzania can't hesitate to prevent it in a woman in his own kind.
The type of chemicals as they appear in his home in Caracas.
Writer of ABC News Agency is witnessing that Doctor Gus running that process of transplantation for 20 years a student of 20 years known as BISON.
First, when he gets into a wig?
When I was a child, it was my dream to have a big offence so that the beauty is supposed to be careful.
It is enough to withstand the pain of self-driven things in your body, "says Sofia Nikitchuk from your body.
Doctor Gus said it is not seen that they are not worried or not getting the illegal activities despite causing the deaths of 17 people last year followed by the box of chemicals to grow the body.
"The first thing when a man is when you see for a woman it is his name that I have done this activity for many years since I was a youth," he says.
Doctor Gus uses 90 minutes in the same minute when she gets into a needle after another one and where his client had severe pain, which he claimed was a very long time.
The last one from the name Sofia Nikitchuk from Uruguay was forced to deal with her body through his body through Hula ula.
