Koga wants electricity in the villages.
May 31, 2012

Do you want to say God seem to be careful.
The truth of the saying has been discovered recently in Kyela District, Mbeya Region where citizens in that district want to be paid to electricity in the villages.
The cry for those citizens has been presented with the tour of their member of parliament, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, who in his tour in the villages and usually have a small machine of producing electricity (IMR).
One resident of Kyela, Ally Kinama, says that the step by the member of parliament to use the ship in the villages, to a large extent has changed the thoughts of citizens in the villages, especially those in the villages, but if they believed that they are supposed to get a electricity service.
Several citizens, especially students who talked to our citizens in different villages in that district, caused several changes that are brought to the existence of electricity production in the villages.
Those changes are as a result of reducing the wave of youths to go to the city, revolution in education, environmental conservation, to reduce the infection of HIV in the villages, entertaining economy due to the increase in investment and eradicate witchcraft.
A three student student in Luseko area, Yona Sasi (21) has explained the situation.
"Electricity will help so much to reduce the wave of youths from the villages to go to the city, because that depends on many that there is that electricity, that is what we went to him because we are tired of darkness.
"It will cause us with us while in the villages to get entertainment that are currently available in the city, we are very happy, he created light, others was the first time to see electricity.
But in addition to entertainment, a young man coughing, explains that electricity will help to grow in the rural areas because people will be able to continue with their businesses up to night, different from now, it will increase investment such as small industries as well as to ease a lot of pregnant women as well as to look for Ebola.
Deputy Julius Nyerere (18) is a resident of Ipinda district in Kyela district, he says that electricity will stop using witchcraft in the villages because of the lot of sins done on the darkness. "
"You know, there is your witches in place, do not change light.
But on their part, all the students of primary schools who spoke to our citizens in the district have talked about how electricity will make their dreams of getting far in education.
"The electricity is when you get in the villages, you will enable students to study more so that we can be able to study even at night, we are preparing well in our exams and we are preparing well in our exams and we are waiting for construction of classrooms in the first grade.
However, a class seven girl in the Lupimo School, tobacco.
He says that the community should be able to inform us that we will be able to inform us that we will be able to help us to do the laboratory that will help in buying time, but as the way you will bring in the environment.
"A big part in the villages, we use wood for cooking, but we stopped electricity, we will reduce the use of wood, therefore, we will bring in our environment," we will bring down our environment.
The environment in Kyela District is something that touched me every family from the weather state of that district, that amount of trees to the residents of that district is huge more than what they invented.
In addition to order to prevent the haphazard selling of unplanned settlements, still the residents of that district are forced to pay trees because of the needs of wood and reading bricks for the purpose of looking for electricity during the tour of their member of parliament, there are many who see them being a savior in the same way to be distributed in the villages.
