
The headquarters of the EAC have been following.
28th of 13, 2014.

The sacred heart which is still ongoing in Tanzania and Rwanda, has continued to expand until inside the East African Community (EAC), our citizens have started to be informed that some of the workers have started accusing the Secretary General, Doctor Richard Sezibera, he urged them to cater for itself more on the requirements of his country, Rwanda.
This newspaper said that some of the communications equipment between the workers of that community participating in that debate while Doctor Sezibera, he wants to continue with that debate and at the same time, Doctor Sezibera, he praised those allegations and at the same time.
That situation has come out as more than six months now in Tanzania and Rwanda, have been involved in the breathing system, due to the advice that was given by President Jakaya Kikwete of urging the country to sit at the high table with the rebels of the Fm group.
President Kikwete gave advice to Addis Ababa city during a meeting of leaders of the African Union (AU) but he found himself being attacked by President Paul Kagame of Rwanda, together with the media stations of that country.
The news that was found out in the secretariat of the East African Community shows that, the employees of those two countries have been fighting "while every part of the stand of their country.
The conflict between those workers is also claimed to be faced by the general secretary of the EAC, Doctor Richard Sezibera, who is also a citizen of Rwanda, while talking about some of the workers that he has been implementing his responsibilities by relying on one side.
More reports are indicating that DSeeing is unable to give direction to top leaders of the country, especially in the implementation of infrastructure projects including road construction, between the countries of Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda, which Tanzania and Burundi have been built.
The construction of the project was launched last year in Mombasa with leaders of all the three countries while Tanzania and Burundi are successful without being informed, a step that caused the two countries to ask for explanations from the community welfare.
"The implementation of the project was followed by the head leaders of three countries for political requirements against the end of the contract that makes up the community."
"The expectations of many is that the secretary general and his skill could have died due to leaders of Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya," explained our source from the EAC.
The topic giver, explained that 7 (3) of the contract of the East African Community, which allows for the party members to make projects that will be available in the planning program but it has benefits to be stable for the community.
It is known that the leaders of Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda are recognizing the projects that were paid in the plans of the East African Community, again without requesting permission from the countries of Tanzania and Burundi which are members of the community.
For example the issue of construction of infrastructure like roads and road, the expansion of the port, a contract to collect tax in addition to one of the ministers, documents of getting and going to the party members for a special time (high level) and even a political federation.
"All these things are in the plans they agree with the party members and every country was working, but suddenly Rwanda, Kenya and Uganda will go back and agreed to work on quickly, this issue is needed to end the community," he explained.
Basically, the secretary general of EAC appeared to warned those three countries by breaking the community contract, but it is claimed that without any reason his country of Rwanda is that they benefited from that projects.
The chief executive of the community has been accused of working by relying on one side in that issue, contrary to the contract of the community that wants the secretary general of EAC and its employees not to continue any side.
That situation caused a lot of losses among the workers of that community through the communication network of the email news when they also also the secretary general.
The communication officers in the country, Basil Mramba has stated that many of the servants wanted the constitution of the community to make efforts to save the community not to save but Doctor Sezibera, he gave that debate to be open.
One of the high-level servants in the community have warned against the privacy of writing the constitution, we cannot sit and look at the areas where we go and endanger the lives of the community if we have already seen the benefits of this community, "he asked.
Another employee who is a citizen of Kenya wrote, maybe the secretary general (SG) should make all employees that are outside the center so as to unite and give direction. "
"We cannot inform our news headlines if there is no happened, we are supposed to permanent secretary general, retired presidents, Mwinyi, Mkapa and MOI and the panel of people feared in the community to put a strategy to bring in the community."
