
MO Dewji leading the economy.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

Famous businessman in the country, Mohammed Dewji 'Mo Blog has been named as the growth of the economy "African continent, he held the first position among the group of 100 youths who had been identified by the Institute of Actors of Paris in France.

For three consecutive years, that institution has been forced to recognize the list of 100 youth leaders of East Africa who are expected to shine in the next five years and this year, Dewji who visited the Mohammed Enterprises Limited Company (MeTL) who emerged victorious.
For the awards of this year, if you've put aside compared to those African business people with criteria of citizenship to one of the 54 years of Africa, who had 40 years of age or under it to January first, 2016, but those with business people have been contributed to the pace of development of the African economy.
Speaking about the award that was announced recently, Dewji said that I am happy and I have been happy and I have been happy with the great job of improving the economy of the company leading the economy of Tanzania and Africa as a whole.
"In the whole period what I continues in business, I have done great success and through MeTL Group, I will continue to be part of the economic revolution in Africa through the private sector" however, he explained that the victory is an illustration of how Tanzania and his people are planning to improve their economy and Africa as a whole.
Since he started leading MeTL in the year 1999 with the wealth of 30 million dollars (63), the company has got great success in and out of Tanzania, and by the year 2014, estimated to be wealth of 1 billion American dollars (3 trillion shillings).
There is no doubt that due to the age of 41 years only that the young man in Africa, there is a big possibility of continuing to keep in success through its business in 11 countries, including banks, sugar, clothes, big farms and so on.
