
Friday, February 6th, 2015.

The workers are asked, President Yoo Her is "during the national disasters?

News reporter, Nasir IHI (Alayhi Salaam) with the meaning of the president is where in the Kitonga language, it was a very big topic on the radio network of the world when pastoralists were shocked when they were in the reception of honor of the bodies of police who were killed in special operation.

Sifuna Mchome, attended the launch of a new modern factory for modern cars in the south of Manerumango village, instead of attending the reception of police bodies from Claudio Ranieri, after being transported from BADEA.

Twenty four police officers of the police force of Upewe Promotion, a special squad (PNP) has been killed in an operation to fight against terrorism in the fight that took 11 hours between the government forces and the rebels of Moro United who want to celebrate and do their activities in the area of Agnetta.

The deceased being part of the 400 police who had been forced to arrest a person who is alleged to have to plan events of bomb attacks, in the year 2002 which is said to clear that the area of the American government made an amount of five million American dollars as a gift to who will give information that will enable him to arrest the suspect in the past.

A series of message that was spread very fast through the cause of President Barrack Obama in the reception, you are going on on social media like Facebook and Twitter.

Lack of these networks are another one way the president used to do a lot of time to attend the activities that are being prepared by big companies when you lack from many major accidents that had explained in the nation.

Others heard about how the president had ever said, "Sikunjema receiving the activities of people to get to you," when he was asked why did not attend the burial of Jennifer Larger to be handed over by the American employee last year.

Writer Katrina Rancho Parrish has tried to resolve the importance of performance by other heads of the country in providing their respect to people who are praising the nation and not to be seen by the president at the reception area of the Facebook page.

While the bodies of the victims of the 17 airplane has arrived in Holland, the king of that country, Wilfried Baamar, together with all the close relatives of the country, there was no important thing to celebrate the deceased.

President Jakaya Kikwete gave a speech during the funeral of the funeral of police who were killed one day after arriving at the same time, but at the time he was said to be late and to do other activities if he will arrive.

The speeches of the interview at the time of that service brought down the internet by being said to talk about his private issues than the late Sajuki, the website explains the way to be the words of George Lucas of the Star TV Stars.

The president's spokesman has defended the absence of president at the reception of the police bodies, saying that that was not part of his schedule and he also claimed responsibility for, to recognize the network on his report at the State House, saying that the criticism he gets in the opinion of many.

It took the earlier on the website of Global Partnership.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
