Diamond, diamonds in Africa.
Seasons Hotel, 2016.

It's a few musicians in the world that they can be written about weight and reputation like the king of pop in the world, Michael Jackson, who is a musician who had everything, who cared for music with the music message to his community while everything he was doing, he was born with the Hispanic origin, "Masau boasted.

It's not that I want to thank the musician in this column today's day and my intention especially is Diamond Platnumz whose real name is Nasir Abdul Juma, a famous musician of Bongo Fleva in the country, music, and known, these two musicians are very different and I cannot get it.

Its very few times, I would like to speak a musician, especially the Bongo Flavor, because how many musicians get to the extent of being difficult to differentiate these but not to Diamond because of a big part he wants to see what he wants to see.

For this, he can be separated by the king of Pop, who is known as if he used to use a lot of time to ensure that what he did is using the quality of its own kind so as to fulfill the video of his songs to have the highest quality and in the content of the body.

Since the my dear song Number One apologized to the music industry in the country and the whole African continent in general, the musician has been doing the hearts of the music fans on its obligations in order to give him popularity and great honor in Africa.

It is many to agree that domain name that, this youth has been able to pay our nation a great respect, especially after this nation failed to perform well in various fields of sports and even entertainment. He has been following the flag of our nation and put it on the map of our nation in Africa.

Recently, the legendary musician of the new generation star has done what many of us did not understand that she could make sure that she could make sure that she could make it, and will perform at the famous music festival in the country being organized by Clouds TV Online, which was held in Mwanza town.

As it is not enough, that musician of Tanzania has succeeded to collaborate with the American musician in his new song with you, this is a very big step by any musician from Tanzania in any period in the history of our nation.

The popularity of Diamond in music is the one that made him to be among the few musicians who are very many followers on social media networks through Twitter, this musician has a total of 3833 followers who are doing well among the musicians from Tanzania at the moment.

Among the most popular musicians who he is self-employed on Twitter network is together with Lil Uzi, Vanessa Mdee says Vanessa Mdee was represented by Kanye West, Sean P Diddy Combs, which is among the most popular businessman in Africa and Africa.

On Facebook, Diamond has about 1,067,888 followers and made him be among the few people to succeed to cross one million followers, this is not a small thing and that this is a big possibility of what this musician was among the youths in the country.

In addition to using social media for the purpose of educating its fans in the country and even out of the country to be able to attend music activities that he is performing, but it has also been using the networks by giving advice on how he saw the life in general.

Among the things that I have written on Facebook which for sure you ever touched me, 'Siri ya Mtungi' is not giving up and agree with your shortage, to go to work, to ask the Almighty God to be able to pray for creativity and more knowledge so that tomorrow and tomorrow to see your goals. "
