
What do we learn what loss of TANESCO?
Maximilian Arnold, 2012

"Know you talk about TANESCO, it's good for Tanzania to take it in 1930 when this was a organization that was started in 1930 when this was a company that was started in 1930 when the minister has touched me what is being done in the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
In his book, "Kvitova in Africa" - there are Sir Andy Chande, speaking on how he met Julius Nyerere and talked about the issue of electricity, it was at the beginning of Uhuru years before the stadium of Arusha.
The teacher wanted the Sir Andy Chande to lead the board of the new electricity organization after the government can be owned by Bottling Company which was involved in the management of the electricity issues.
Surely, Andy Chande has advised Julius Nyerere to thank Julius Nyerere about the request that he can be Sipho Makaka until now, they don't have the ability to run the company. Nyerere decided to continue with the government's plan.
50 years has been identified and today we can be able to say that, Sir Andy Chande had a good argument of wanting the issue of electrical energy to be in the hands of power, but the nation has already built its ability to run electricity activities at that time.
Its results, we can say that the problems of TANESCO was founded since that time.
It is seen now, the public organizations, including TANESCO and they have been sold.
"
And the members of parliament we have given a bond of non-scale resources of the nation, some of them have gone to the fact 'for the public property, we are told our members of parliament they are looking for themselves in order to change the truth.
There is a need to learn from the Prime Minister Professor Muhongo and his office of leadership and this minister is an example of foreign ministers going into this country.
He tells us the importance of our next constitution to be clear that those ministers stay together with members of parliament and as a member of parliament he was appointed to be the minister then he should leave as a member of parliament.
Professor Muhongo has been associated with the ten positions of the president of parliament and he is a member of parliament, he does not live in depending on political politics and as he knows it, I don't see if he has a dream of being the president. "He did his work, then.
However, this country we have people who stop their professional work and rushed to parliament for their dreams of being ministers.
We should wait for example, in the coming constitution, making the ministers to be people from outside the parliament and the work of the member of parliament should be satisfied with the government and not to stop hypocrisy so as to be the minister, and their member of parliament.
We should also recognize that the possibility of chief executive directors in organizations and public institutions should not be selected to be the president, but we request for work as other people to work with their performance and free agencies.
This can be able to reduce the partnership of theft, which aims at taking place between the directors of the government and public institutions and some of our members, especially those on committees related to organizations together with those institutions.
For another time, I praised the Minister Professor Muhongo with his courage.
I urge you to help us to know what they would have taken a long time to know of them because of going to him in the fact, Minister Muhongo has given information to our country that we were born.
And we are at the end of here, it's only the truth that will be able to evade a lot of bad state that we have as a nation, this is not time to put our party politics but to put our country that we were born and we love me.
Today we have gone down to hear that even some of the religious leaders are self-employed in parliament, steal from their colleagues.
They were stealing while making the word of God.
Today, even those who came out as the defending champions, they have started making sure that their economic ability will be involved with buoys like TANESCO.
And there is also even those who agree with their colleagues who have the ability for the money that aims at beer to the ones who are not knowing but they are blocking the hunger of the sins of those theft.
What do we do to join the parliamentarians?
We have a must for you to wake up and control our salvation, the time a penalty is only a penalty, even if it is a member of parliament for allegations of receiving bribes from our members of parliament are allegations of crime.
Those involved be taken to the law.
If there is evidence of receiving bribes, then there is no another thing to do but the legal action will be taken against them because of the member of parliament receiving bribes and being left to walk down, there is a bad message to the community.
For sure, the action of members of parliament receiving bribes has not been impressed with the nation.
Leaving the members of parliament, action can be taken against them and the legal action is to build a environment of existence of the nation and they should not accept our nation as the country's nation.
