The revolution of agriculture or revolutionary agriculture?
Maximilian Arnold, 2014.

This is the second part of the topic on the World Food Day that was organized by the Network of Natural Resources of Tanzania (M4C), on October 16, 2014, in the whole last week, it is advisable for small-scale farmers and requested them to sack the small farmer from the face of the world.
Last week I issued an example of land grabbing from small-scale farmers in England between the 15 and 19 century, which is usually called for example as the first revolution in the world.
This England's example is giving us a two-kind training on the electronic system of first of first, circulation system is constructed by preventing themselves from low-scale farmers of England who lost their land, a situation that affects small-scale farmers.
When you go into groups, the first class one is the capital with capital, which is equal to small-scale farmers, they did not have other ways to live rather by selling their strength by selling their jobs.
In the second commandment we will have the international record for land grabbing a time when the Russian militants brought in their land, and to be sold at the market, and to be taken to the United States to produce their cargo, and later followed by 50 years of colonial history.
Colonial era, small-scale farmers from me deserted it in their land that was divided among the big farmers of Kizingo said that theft had gone down in some of the colonialists as Kenya, Zimbabwe and even South Africa.
In that meaning, we are supposed to learn that issue of land grabbing is the cause of land grabbing, it's the cause of a long time in Zimbabwe, they have succeeded to restore their land for a long time.
In South Africa, a large section of land with natural fertility is owned by a group of a few people with the Rwandan origin, South Africa is the leading country in a big gap between the rich and those who are not in the world.
We are not involved in the country at the moment they are able to restore land in the hands of human beings instead of learn from these examples so that we go to our land, our leaders now get free land for international companies, we want to be like Zimbabwe and South Africa?
Unfortunately, in England after land grabbing, all the people who do not have employment (Indians) can be taken to America and start a new country, with the job of generating power if we do not have America to take our people who were affected.
The overthrowing of agriculture and India.
In Mexico, the revolution of agriculture was founded by the United Arab Emirates organizations and Ford Foundation, in 1941, those Revolutionary Party were cast in India the year 1961, under the sponsorship of those organizations.
There's no objection because, after the manufacturing of the seedlings brought to a drought of the use of chemicals as well as the chemicals to buy, there were a huge production of food that is helping to eliminate the problem of hunger.
However, problems of those policies are discovered that hunger does not be caused by the increase in production but the government continues to make sure that the availability of food to the poor.
In their book called 'Reading' goalpost but Cindy, Transport and Ambassador Hunger Games, Erick Holder Pluijm is giving an example of the countries of India, "the deaths arising from hunger and those deaths have never been heard since the year 1960.
The revolutionary party policies are also caused by leaning towards the producers of Pope, and therefore, causing small-scale farmers.
