
Why do many people have a little income?
Tanzania has an average of 165 million people through 4 billion, it is estimated to reach 2 percent of its citizens, the average of Tanzanian income in the year 2015 (1043) in the year 2015) with the aim being to reach 800 dollars per year by the year 2025.
The agricultural sector that has reduced its 75 percent of all of us, is growing at 6 percent per year and the national income will be sold to 6 percent per year, the national income and communication services will increase.
The government has put various strategies in reducing poverty in the country. One of the strategies is the plans to eradicate poverty, Mkulabi and Mkukuta, whose strategy is the first plan for the national development of five years (2010 / 11 - 2015 / 16) together with those efforts, the condition of the life of IT is poor.
Ngoda urged many questions like youth, why do many Tanzanians know the poor and because many citizens of Tanzania don't have enough income to be able to withstand the cost of their daily lives like health, education, clean and safe water, infrastructure and electricity infrastructure has not yet been able to reach the low level especially in the village areas?
There are issues that in one way or the other, we have contributed to the making of Tanzanians to continue being poor income and to improve the agricultural sector, so that the farmer can be able to avoid poverty, lack of reliable energy and access to poor growth in the agricultural sector.
Our country does not have enough industries for the purpose of increasing agriculture production so as to increase the value and we continue having crude oil outside the country, if it was bought at a small price in the world market and business is a solution to poverty of income to the farmers of Tanzania.
The government has no reason to set aside enough budget for the purpose of agricultural sector, policies and development plans on agriculture, industries and businesses that contribute to poverty in the villages.
We will not be able to eradicate poverty without solving the problems facing the farmers in the villages and agriculture is still a back to our nation, the back of the back, and so they believe all the body will not be avoided.
The second reason that contributes to poverty of stem cells are not being used fully with the benefit of our nation's resources, our country has been born with many rivers that would have been used in primary and livestock activities so that we can be used to produce electricity for our industries?
Why so that we use our minerals to start industries for making machines, different machines and aspects, when we speak to build the economy of industries, it is a must the government to implement our minerals by starting the big primary industries.
