
18 December 2012

TCIB wants NEC to change the results of councilor.

By Mariam Mziwanda.

The information officer of the citizens (TCIB) has urged the National Electoral Commission (NEC), to change the results of the councilors elections that took place recently due to the problems encountered in those elections.
The Director of the center, Mister Deus Kibamba, said among the results that are correct so that according to the investigation of that center, he is the seat for the councilor seat in Magomeni region, Wilkins on Bagamoyo, Coast Province.

"Due to the consent NEC (TCIB) to complete the general election elections of councilors in 29 wards in Tanzania mainland, we have been handing over computers with supervision for the commission.

"We have also given recommendations for the coming days elections due to the mistakes that were seen, the station has revealed that the poor vision of citizens to vote in the whole process of democracy in the elections," he said.

He said in those elections there were poor vision of voters in Mtibwa Sugar, Mvomero, South Sudan and Likangara emerged during the Magomeni ward, Bagamoyo district, which had 14 percent votes which were unable to choose the councilor.

"We request NEC to find out the results of this ward, there is also a problem of many citizens to do themselves in an opportunity to vote and be given different reports of statistics that are available in the permanent registration exercise," he said.

Mister Kibamba added that the stand of the center on his suggestions to NEC is to have office in every district where the process of reviewing the voters should be sustainable and continues to be given the budget early from July 2013.

"The faith of the elections stakeholders including political parties and voters are not having faith in NEC which its senior leaders were chosen by the president who is the chairperson of the ruling party CCM," he said that center has not complained about the existence of laws, regulations, guidelines, the presence of violence, threats and the use of weapons in the election elections thus causing the collapse of peace.

On his part, the administration officer of the center, Miss Deuogratius Mushi, urged public institutions in the country to wake up and spreading education on the importance of women to vie for the leadership because many of them don't know their rights thus failing to use the opportunities they are facing.
