
By Khajida Kopa, Zanzibar.
Most of the Swahili have a saying that, "think they are among the two bulls to have a dummy check."
This phrase is very happy with the citizens that are here in Zanzibar, saying that when they plays for violence in country, the greatest people are people.
Being approximately five months have passed since the chairperson of Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) Jecha Salim Jecha, handed the election results that took place on October 25th this year, because of the presence of many mistakes, that situation has caused fear not only to the citizens of Zanzibar but also citizens from other countries who have been giving them to visit the islands soon after time.
Already the commission has been announced officially on the date of getting married to that election which will be held on March 20 this year.
Following that situation, the citizens of Zanzibar have been continuing to face a hard state of life that is caused by an increase in prices of important products of food.
The report from the statistics unit of Zanzibar that is under the office of the chief statistician in the government, shows that the size of the price in Zanzibar Islands has continued to increase since the start of the political election that was caused by the dismissal of the election results.
According to the head of the professional unit of price, Khamis Ahmada has said December last year the availability of the price is an increase and reach 11,07 percent compared to 109 percent in the month of November 2015.
In addition, he added that most of the price of food products in the month of December 2015 has increased by 11 percent compared to 1665 percent in the month of November, 2015.
This increase means that the speed of planting is and prices of various products as well as the financial services that ended in December 2015 has continued to increase compared to the speed that was started in November 2015.
The speed of that increase did not end there because in the month of January and February, the condition of the highest price again and make sure that many citizens continue to deal with a difficult state of life and others to fail to pay for three hundred thousand in a day.
According to the department of statistics in Zanzibar, most of the prices of food products has increased by 157 percent per month in February compared to 12,05 in the month of January, 2016.
In what was seen most importantly, the government through the statistics unit has said that the increase in inflation in every month does not have any relationship with political issues and economy.
