
Elders of Dar es Honorable Mwakyembe to convince him to convince the presidency.
Brightiles 24, 2015.

While getting married to the Minister of East African Cooperation, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, in the race for the presidential position has changed the wind of political parties in the country, most of seeking to know the strength that is behind that member of CCM.
Most of the members from the party's camp to vie for that position as they think it is the strength of that fellow member, due to his coming up in the 90th minute and his stand about the use of money.
The reports of inside those camp and the Revolutionary Party explains the of the strategies of blocking him and take forms from the members who is vying to be appointed by the party to vie for the presidential position.
When they came out for his last minutes, that he was going to the headquarters of the party in Dodoma town, putting off over those camps to an extent of running one campaign to go down and take advantage of the form being done by some of the camp is using money to convince him to take advantage of the forms.
", you will send their motion to convince him that they have done a lot of money using money," says one senior leader from that party while asking for a name because it is not the spokesperson of that issue.
Doctor Mwakikosa (right now is in the provinces to look for sponsors, he has decided to run its exercise without a result of advertisements and he is doing so as to deal with the convoy of two vehicles only.
Already he has got sponsors in the provinces of Dodoma, Njombe and Mbeya where he was going on Sunday with Monday.
The elders of Dar es Salaam has publicly exposed.
Some of the elders of Dar es Salaam city they decided to travel up to Kyela District to join together when he went to inform his elders about his decision of asking for the consent of his party in the presidential race.
The secretary of the council of elders of Dar es Salaam, namo Jumatatu wakuu wa Mitego noted that they are the ability to enter into the presidential race because they have faith that he had faith in that position and that he was popular while in performance and integrity.
"My performance, integrity and her are the ones that made the elders of Dar es Salaam, for him to talk about what he is seeing him," said Likangara.
Those elders say after the report of Doctor Mwakyembe took the form, they decided to follow up for Kyela, and that on Friday this week they have prepared to do a big meeting with journalists to give that statement.
More news from Dar es Salaam teach them that in one of the events of those elders to convince him to vie for that position, they arrested Doctor Mwakyembe, two in the Quran and the Bible, where he urged them to vote for him when he knows them and that's when you give him the answer.
In that event, it was stated that those elders have praised him that they don't have money for giving him, but they give them what they have, and Doctor Mwakyembe has given his money to take him forms.
"In our things we had done, they would have been difficult, but this person understood well, he told the people that have heard of him, we should follow me so as to convince him to convince him," said Mzee Likangara.
In a group of elders from Dar es Salaam city, he was also popular artist, Bakari Mbelemba famous by the artist name Mzee Jangala who was noted that Doctor Mwakyembe was requested by the elderly.
Mzee Mbehikya mentioned the reputation of Mwakyembe from the patriotism he is proud of the challenges of the country, a good work hard, Mcha God and should be justified.
"I commend the elders of Kyela, for allowing your child for good ethics and all we tell them, we should not give the generations to come," said Mzee Mbelemba.
The chairperson of Kyela District A.
In the step that was not expected by many, especially the residents of Kyela District, their chairman of the council, Gabriel Pitso, decided to use the incident of Doctor Mwakyembe who is also the member of parliament for Kyela district, depending on the elderly and religious leaders who were present at that session.
In Toba, Kipuyo has started by explaining the reputation of Doctor Mwakyembe saying.
"In all who came out there is no reputation as Doctor Mwakyembe, then do not loose a long time, all of them were done in the past.
That chairman asked the aides saying that they are those who raised it.
"The aides are the ones who tried to prevent it from you, the person that causes to be the councilor and chairman of the council is Mwakyembe," said Madega.
Among the accusations made by that chairperson, it is together with the purpose of organizing groups of youths who came to their member of parliament when he arrived in the province together with the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, they blamed the roads to be built under construction.
In addition to Toba, some of the citizens who attended that event, told them that the pretext of the decorated is unable to identify that Toba would have been strength if he would have no strength if he had a strong member of parliament.
