
It is not true that the city of SUA and history about it.

Rashid Mkonga.

It is at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, the state of rain in the western part there were symptoms of heavy rains, on the east side, there were injured in the heavy rainfall accompanied by heavy rainfall accompanied by the rains that wanted to fall at that time.

As Bodaboda, the transport I used to arrive there, the driver of the motorcycle that gave him fear due to your body that was able to protect my body and to write his experience as a result of those symptoms until the rains cannot go down.
I played with paying a driver of a motorcycle riders and handed over to the streets of Sumbawanga town where the host me told that there is the real name of Sumbawanga Town.
As the locals, the host 'is the real name of that area, his city was planned well by his estates, to consider the map of different towns in the country and it is some of the big cities in which its houses have been built without considering the map of the urban planning.

Ukara of the houses seems to be put up by those houses which a large percentage of its iron sheets were stolen, they have been able to buy and produce color, though the houses in the estates have been built for many years ago.
In some of the houses, in front of the houses, those houses were affected by the mothers listening to the women the ones witnessing, some of them get pregnant while some get married while some of them are marrying them as it is a shortage of many estates of the city areas.
In addition, they were attracted by a huge natural gas pipeline that was directed which is seen to be the old market than a lot of houses in those areas, some of the houses that are in the neighborhood, some of the houses that are in the neighboring country and the main main market.
That building has been built with great skill of having a small tribes to have a great pillar in the high level and put it directly into the old houses that are in Bagamoyo, Kilwa and Zanzibar.
I hope I commend my eyes on my hand and meet on the face of a musician or who was very happy to me, I went closer to her close to his age.
I received several things that the old man is between 75 and 80 years, but it seems not to have enough energy to forgive me.
Kamnada (71) is the name of the Mrs. I heard a little of asking for his age, but according to her female child who was accompanied by introducing himself as the mother of the mother, says that his mother has been born 71 years ago according to the wealth of the son on the birth certificates.
I had promised to ask what I was surprised by the area and asked me why the building is there and there is no use.
Miss Kamoga wants you shortly in accordance with the way she didn't know the building by saying that he is among the people who were born in that right and that the building is part of the family's property of Sumbawanga town '.
He says that when he was a small daughter of the building was a good and attractive whereby the leader of the tribe of farmers was living in that together with his followers.
He says that he does not remember that there was a woman who was living in a woman who was the administrator of that area known by the name 'Ngosha Magonya.
He is saying that there are some family members who are all inheritors of the Indian Ocean, where he is and that their administration had a cry for each other according to the era, but after the colonialist.
"At the moment you have dropped to the family members and their administration ended up after Nyerere entered into power," says Miss Kamnada.
He is saying that inside that building, there are old cemetery, at the Kabila of the customers that were buried in that country from the first leg.
Ency Mwalyanzi to be the grandson of the Jichunge.'
He says that inside the building, there was the graves in which they were buried and Jichunge.'
Adolf Wolf-Tayyar from 85) is chief of chief Kapesti 'and she was the husband to Jichunge.'
According to the explanation of Mzee Adolf Wiwa who was speaking with her child Andrey Coutinho and he has added that his father is the leading leader but he has remained with the winner with the famous producer, but she has remained with the winner while holding the tribe of the tribe.
He says that the history of 'Ngapa' is due to the two grandfather's family, when their father Deogratias Ngapa with her father by the name Nimlaumu Nani.
He says that after living in many years they decided to return to their homes where they were on the way from Zambia and they decided to return to Zambia and they decided to return to their homes with the father of their father.
According to the instructions of their father, where they arrived at their small father who was identified by the name Wiwa who participated in the whole area that had their father.
According to the explanations in accordance with the history of the Wahaya tribe of Tanzania, it is said that a small father known by the name withheld, had an intention of bringing about their daughters, when they decided to arrive at the mountain to see the borders of their land that they were released by their father.
According to the explanations that were found with the ones that were found with the effects that her daughters had a lot of pain and therefore when required to show the boundaries for his land was unable to uplift his hands and to show the borders of his land at close to them.
Those that their colleagues saw the small father have shown the size of the land according to the area, they carried out their hands and showing a huge distance and therefore getting an opportunity to take a large area of land and they should be the owners of the whole mountains in Finland.
After being unable to have a great sister, Jichunge.'
They were seen as they were tested from others after finishing his businesses and wanted to go back to his home, he was blocked and called 'Ngapa Ward and when he was on the first time to live with Monsigently.
According to Adolf Wama, it is that the history of the tribe of Toto Africans' goalpost was to be careful, for small-scale farmers who were living in the neighborhood with the main market of the tribe, and that a series of people of the tribe were faithful who had not self-reliance because of other people.
He says that people from other different times including the tribe of farmers were forced to find out of wealth through a strong winds, a situation that made them to protect yourself from people who did not have good intentions and residents of those areas.
According to that behavior, the residents of that area that previously was well known as Isidore has asked visitors to get in that town before going into the neighborhood before going into that city with Wasafi Records.
The word of TKO in the farm which had a meaning of 'Sainmeier has said that everyone who came in the city was required to serve his voters before getting into that city.
It is alleged that there are some who used the conditions and they were found with great effects and that is the reason the ones which have been explained as the origin of the people of that town is more witches.
According to the explanations of the boss, Adolf Wiwa is that history and a lot of information that he told the Sumbawanga town is involved with faith in superstitions has no truth but that history is set up in the previous years due to the behavior of visitors that were using them against the hosts of the tribe of the farmers.
"In my age I have never heard or see that we are in witchcraft, people just fear, this is a history that is in accordance with the events of our fellows," says Mzee Adolf Wiwa who is the successor to the bags of clan people, "says Mzee Adolf Wiwa who is the successor to the bags of clan people.
The Sumbawanga district which is the headquarters in Rukwa province, which is one of the 30 provinces of Tanzania, that deals with Kigoma, Tabora and Katavi, on the northern side, where Zambia's side is in the south and west of the southern region.
Before the end of the year 2012, the province had a size of 70,000 kilometers, where the south of the province is in Rukwa province, one of the major drugs in East Africa.
