
Doctors butchered.

It has been written by our writer, Ulanga.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

The executive director of the Iramba District Council in Morogoro Province, Boniface Jacob, has sacked the senior health officer of Matopeni Ward, Doctor Fauzia Kullane.

He took that step after doing a surprise visit to the health center starting at 5 o'clock in the evening the day before yesterday where he found a pregnant woman, an indication that in a bad state while his body has started to change color because of pain after failing to give birth.
The director claims that the patient was directed by the surgeon of Malindi.
During that tour, the director was accompanied by the District Commissioner of District, Doctor Idd Myovela, and wanted to be satisfied with the state of accountability of the workers in that center because he has been receiving complaints for long and short time from the good citizens and to look at how to protect themselves quickly.
This is the second time for the director to visit the station since he made a surprise visit to August 10 this year at 6 o'clock at night and he had not found himself of anyone nor a nurse while six patients were out of drugs for more than two hours.
That director when he arrived at the center together with the district's service and the chief physician of the district, who found a nurse, Martha Hiiti Sillo after an interview he told the director and his delegation that when he reached 5-15 at night, when he gave him a appeal form without getting a patient and left.
The Kongwa member of parliament, Nsallidum and she was not there at the station and when he was given, he did not receive until when she was followed by his defender at his home.
That nurse explained to those leaders that he was left to continue with services without being assisted by the doctor and asked for him to return.
After the efforts of looking for doctors were unable to have the leaders and the nurse of the phone, the director told the patient who had a bad state to the health center and Lugala district after he decided to relocate the employees of the health center and put a small commission for investigation.
