
CCM, CHADEMA will give them a mayor of Mwanza 07 - 2.

Being divided into Mwanza City Council and the establishment of the new council of Ilemela district, wanted them to vie for the Revolutionary Party (CCM), the hopes of leading the city, while the Citizens Party (CUF) is the one who had votes to decide who will be the mayor.

According to the government's announcement of July 25, 2012, the City Council of Mwanza has failed to have two councils of Mwanza and Kinondoni Municipality, and last week the council of councilors passed the argument of the establishment of the Municipal Council of Ilemela.

Mwanza City Council will also be in the borders of the County Council of Nyamagana and Municipal Council of Ilemela, to be the borders of Ilemela Municipal Council and is expected to be completed later this month after the completion of the parliamentary sessions.

According to the director of Mwanza City after the general elections of the year 2015, if the request to increase the location is called, the neighboring villages from the Magu district will be commended for Ilemela Municipality and neighboring villages of Misungwi will be added by the council of the city.

The process of councilors in the Nyamagana's elections region between CCM and CHADEMA is in the country with four councilors, including members of parliament and councilors of special seats, while CUF had two councilors who can decide whether the party will lead in Mwanza City Council.

On the side of Ilemela Municipality, CHADEMA has a lot of leading the council of the municipality because it has nine councilors out of all the four of CCM and one of CUF.
The strategies of CCM reports from the CCM here are saying that already the sessions to lead this city by involving two councilors of CUF so that they can join with the party against CHADEMA in the general elections.

The reports from within the sessions are saying that the only one in the strategies is the CUF councilor for Cargo Ward, Daud Mkama, who will be supported by CCM at the mayor so that it will be supported by CUF at a shame.

However, it's said that the promise can be used by that councilor and his party to support him because CCM has fear that CHADEMA have a great possibility of making him be the deputy mayor so that CCM has promised him as the mayor so as to remove CHADEMA.

"Honorable (Mkama) hurts me because there is a report that CHADEMA have promised to support him as the deputy mayor and they do not believe that he can be a mayor and he will make sure that he can be a mayor," says our source from within the sessions.

Already there are some signs that CUF can make sure they have agreed to support CCM and leaving their colleagues in CHADEMA because the efforts of CHADEMA should convince that councilor should be demolished.
My fellow musician, we have talked with him so much and we are saying that we will support him directly as the deputy mayor, but it is true that he has decided to join CCM and this is when the last time you will know, "says one councilor of CHADEMA.
The councilor or when they were going to speak about that plan, he said that he is not in the position of talking about this issue because they are nursing the patient.

However, the councilor of internal ward on the ticket of CCM Stanislaus Mabula who has been mentioned to be among the competing for the City mayor, he told BBC Mwema to ensure that his party does not agree and decided to vie for a mayor and Deputy Mayor, he has hope that his party can lead that city.

Speaking about their parents and CUF, he said that they have been cooperating with that party since the beginning, but he has not been sure and what they will decide now because councilors have separated, and sometimes we are partnering without caring for the parties because even the election, solidarity can be seen.

"You know how things have been changed and now, our decision the day before yesterday, the mayor of parliament were cast their votes and 20 members at the time CCM had only 13, and now you can see how things are changed and in this election they can also come out," he said.

The hope of the councilor are being built on the basis of wanting the mayor of Mwanza City (CHADEMA), who was removed from votes of lack of faith, was started by the councilor of Igoma Ward, Adam Jusab of CHADEMA and be supported by CCM and CUF.

Mabula added that the donation is now, they have identified himself and they know their political fanaticism so that they can be responsible well in the council because their union would be able to make their responsibilities because they know there will be a part that will support them.

Festus Mengele (CHADEMA) in a special strategies to vie for the seat of the mayor there is something that is worried about not benefiting from CHADEMA because of being divided into CHADEMA councilors in an issue of voting process of not having faith in the mayor.

One councilor says that their party will enable them to make a difficult decision in order to save it, they should not enter into problems of not believed to be trusted by the citizens.

This issue of wanting to know the mayor is a shame for the party, but we have problems in the party, we have problems inside CCM and they are continuing to convince other councilors to stop the party, there is no action being taken against them, "he explains that councilor.

According to the councilor on all issues that made him through the Mayor, they were not with the foundation of CCM because they are the councilors who are being used by that party to achieve its goals.

The former mayor of Mwanza City, Josephat Kimaro, handed over the power on the 10 accusations presented by 17 councilors who had requested to vote of not having faith in him led by the councilors of CHADEMA, Igoma Ward, Adam Malima.

However, according to the councilor, he gave him but because the strategy had already been organized by their CHADEMA that they are divided, CCM got an opportunity to supervise that exercise and caused the mayor.

"The allegations like the construction of Kunzugu Ward in Mabatini area without following the procedure, a permit for the church was built in 2002, even before the Mayor has not joined the party but it is the argument that was used," said the councilor.

While the activities of dealing with him, the Mayor started on April this year, the executive committee was suspended from membership by the executive committee of the district of Nyamagana and Ilemela, but was given a stern warning to the executive committee of the party, by being given a stern warning, while the executive committee of the district has given a warning to the Kitwiru, Flaviana Matata.

However, some of the councilors do not think about the leadership of the province by not getting all the headquarters to the suspects and instead take legal accusations that made the executive committee not to get the real picture of the problem.

The secretary of CHADEMA in Mwanza Province, Wilson Mshani said he cannot speak the issue of decisions that he had made to be done by the high level, but he said if there is a person they should be satisfied and we should advise that time, not now.

Speaking about the division that emerged with his councilors heading to the general elections of the city, he said that CHADEMA will be joined by ideology and philosophy of the party, he has hope that things will not be worked on and during elections, it will expire.

"In politics about this way you receive as a party we will have any important efforts to ensure we are leading this city, CUF is our colleagues, I believe that we can talk a good way to serve the people in Mwanza," said Mshenga.
