
The games event have gone to lack of ethics.
If there is something that has had a history of helping the community, the country, nations and the world, and the world is the games to be soccer, gas, sports, athletics and so far from games, different communities have been involved in games as one way to enjoying in groups.
In the current world, sports has taken a great opportunity while many countries will invest more than for example, Kenya has thrown out a clean pan, due to sports while the remaining game is also unknown.
This game has got great popularity here in the country especially among the youths.
However, this game is being faced by lack of ethics in the among some of his fans, lack of ethics and community among them, it is a threat to the success of this game and it has been reported that during that game it has been reported that during that game it has been reported that during that game it has been reported as a big group of involvement of evil deeds that they did.
Those acts have been said, to be sworn in by the debate especially in social media networks and we will increase the fans of soccer in the country and in general because they are struggling for the status of that game.
You can attend soccer and your family without fear because his fans have been integrity compared to each other, while the chairperson of Naceres from the community should be satisfied by lack of ethics and those who live in that country, he allowed them to fire.
During that game that was prepared in town, I thanked several months ago, the hosts agreed to be open due to how fans participated in the city. There is need for sports ministry to put new regulations of sports.
Who is the one to be blamed due to these kinds of evil to each other is the one to be blamed because of having a farm, any seeds can't grow.
Although it is a must for improving social changes, there is a need to control their evil deeds so that they can be justified and even if it is not true that there is dangerous for anyone who is under the necessary way to vote, or a woman looking at half hours.
These things led to you in any event, it gives out an extent that some people will avoid sports for fear that they are not involved in the country but we want ethics to be educated.
If you pass through Skype.
