
After violence, South Sudan is heading to lost the reputation of joining the EAC?
Dec 27, 2013.

The East African Community (EAC) has cautioned South Sudan that the fights are going on in that country between the army of government and rebels, will affect the request of the country to join the EAC.
The fight between the army of the government of that country and soldiers who were supported by the former vice president Doctor Riek Machar, occurred last week and it is estimated 500 people have been killed.
The fights have also increased in that country whose two years old is led by President Salvar Kiir and his SB party since it got its freedom on July 11, in 2011, after being divided into Northern Sudan.
In a report given to the newspaper of Mke Mwema, the spokesman of EAC, OAFLA Richard Otieno, the community has benefited from that conflict.
South Sudan promised to join the EAC earlier last year and November this year, that country sent a huge message in Arusha, where in addition to submitting the request of the delegation to visit the community headquarters here in the city.
That delegation that involved several ministers of diplomats in that country, organized together with other things, since the process of the process to allow the country to join the EAC.
The previous talks were held by involved a team of experts from South Sudan and those of EAC, between November 8 and 9 this year in Arusha, and then November 18 and 19, in Arusha and then November 18 and 19.
In that report of EAC, Odax said that it is true the discussion of the previous steps took place and already the session of ministers of the members of the member states that happened on November 28th and 29th Kampala, Uganda agreed to pass the draft of discussion and talks about the request of that country.
"Basically the council of ministers also decided to control the Secretariat of EAC to prepare their first talks with that country in January, in the year 2014, to start the process of discussing those applications," explained her.
According to the explanation of Oilcom, a draft of the discussions would be presented at the general meeting of the senior leaders of EAC (CCM), that is expected to take place on April 22nd this year in a country that will be planned for.
"The current crisis that emerged in that country, will not affect one of the talks that have been done in a good step to agree with the request of the country," he said.
He said if the fights will continue to reduce from that country, the reputation of joining EAC, due to the criteria that had been put in a contract to form the community.
Among the qualifications of the country being a member of EAC is together with considering the good administration, democracy, law administration, human rights and social rights (social media).
"We request all the sides that are involved in that conflict to agree to sit on the high table so as to give a solution to the conflict which is ongoing in every day while people were lost," said Otieno.
In addition, more information from the EAC are required to know that South Sudan was called to go through the EAC and the countries of Uganda, Kenya, and Rwanda, which are believed to have the economic and social welfare of the nation as young.
One of the sponsors of the EAC told Good Citizen that due to that foundation, great efforts were taking place with the three nations to ensure the process of bringing in that country as a member don't like it.
Interests are said that the three countries are together with ease of getting oil from South Sudan which has been producing good products and also the market of industrial products produced in Kenya.
However, when efforts are continuing to take place in solving that conflict, the fights were still going on in South Sudan and according to the reports that had been found from the social media networks are still the army who are holding the city of Bor, that is in the northern region, in that country.
The United Republic of England (BBC) has quoted the coordinator of the Kibana International organization (UN), Totoo Lilenga, saying that the fear is still underway in the capital city of Tanzania.
