
Use alternative punishment for human beings.

It has been written by OthmanMapara.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

When I was in a short time in one evening in Mpanda area, Dar es Salaam city I met with my friends who had been in one village to study in one primary and then go to secondary.

We saw a lot, most of our photographer together with the life of those schools, as compared to we witnessed right now for our children of the whole generation, where our talks were accompanied by drinks as well as infants, we are able to get in that entertainment area.
But what did you know more and see that it is important for my readers on this column that they have discovered it is where he didn't tell you the punishment he did by his father, "he said he will not understand you.
The punishment said that he got after getting in a period of one day every time he was sent by her mother, starting from the shop, drawing water to buy his own clothes.
I talked to him keenly, by wanting to know the type of discipline he was given because I feel that it will not be a punishment for the people we are doing quickly so that when the mother takes her to the father after doing it.
"Sikunjema receiving one of the reasons especially about that day that there were some violence but I refused to do close to each I seen him," he told me.
He said his father came back from the farm, his mother did not lose their time and asked him to be called any time since that day and he was ready to wait for a long time so as to get a punishment but it did not take him to his father.
He then he went to play with his fellow children, when he completed the work he left her to play for his fellow children and bad luck when the time was during food problem.
It was difficult for a family to get a food that you love with an entrepreneur.
The times of hunger, many of hunger were eating carbohydrates at night contrary to the traditional and the shortage of people living in the village where you live in the village.
I haven't come back into the game when I met a mother who had gone into the chicken, and he had to be completed, "he told me," since the time I was forced to play a lot, then he had gotten a lot to her father and then he enabled them to leave each other after stopping.
"I broke the first commandment and it did not get a high speed up, considering that the day was a good food, praying for the chicken, but when I put it so much," explained how if we get married, "explained how if we get married," explained how if we get married.
When I was asked if he asked the end of that incident if he stopped him again the arrogance do not die.
"We give an example, this was the first and at the end, I did not want to repeat the punishment for the children are in many types of children and that it is expecting that parents are planning to ensure they make their children be better in their future life.
