
Ally Kiba on Planet Bongo, does not understand why he was not happy.

In the list of the unit, today in the Planet Bongo program that is aired on EATV, Havana Abdallah who was visiting the B music artist, Ally Salehe,, at their home, when he was living with his family as a whole of Zanzibar.

I was very happy to hear that Ally K has been talking about his music in general and this.
It's close to Stamford Bridge.
His' despite being a big artist and the one that has proposed the most of Bongo Flava and in that interview I received these things.

The first thing that was not true is to see the same thing, it would be able to see an interview, it should say openly that she did not have her experience - Hyness Too Much, shortly when they sat at the bus and he has been able to check for two times.

Another one is the Ambassador of which he knows, is a person who is showing if all his music dreams have already been sacked, the Eucharist celebrated, with a great artist in the world, or the name of 'He hurts me' like I am known as we are there.

Also in a way he used to talk and listen to the questions, Haazu taking her music and doing something that most of his fans are expecting, moreover, it is the reason not to send his things (SMS) but as the one he did not like the one.

Others are others.

You will play well, he did not have the same way, he has called for instance, he hurts me.

My son "

I went up to be a fan of the artist who has no even signs of getting your thirst as a fan of it is because he knows that we are going to go to the music industry or what is it?

To reach a friend to beef up little, Music is Business, and if I'm in a high court, I could not inform you if he would have risen up again and do something that his fan like.

I wouldn't want it to mention Diamond, "Diamond is a resident of Nice Iniesta, AT is not a sin to follow good things.

I'm looking at each other, the day before yesterday, a penalty in the same minute, the same way, the penalty came in the vehicle.

Baraza Ditto also identified himself.
Deodatha Makani.
