
Even if I depend on me he does not lie!
I have a lover with enough money because of the projects he did with a good work of giving him a lot of income and the problem they echoed the money, it was a lot of money is 100,000 shillings. I request for ways to face enough money.
What can I do?
The situation is difficult, there is no difficult money to play for more than primary issues, therefore, if you want to do a lot of money that the founder did not want to create human funds, but if a man wants to create human beings to get money, tell you a lot of joy to get money, see a lot of joy to get money.
His love has won by my condolences and work, there is a good youth that used him to live with her mother, but this type of love is not able to live with him after getting seven o'clock or eight at the same time.
What can I do to sell the farm and Somallies on the size of the farm.
I advise you to tell you the first before doing that decision, that he is getting enough due to its own kind, if you get pain that will last long due to the type of love she gave you, speaking to the doctor to go to him to explain the effects of health that you want to do.
If you agree or not getting married, before you gave you a problem and you will be a slave, everything should not be a nuisance instead of entertainment.
How do I vote?
I have 36 years of age, I have gotten tired from the husbands of people or lovers who later I got into this because I don't have any rights to them.
I have heard I want to me for my son to contest.
What can I do to avoid the poor in Dar es Salaam, you will not love its effects which the deaths of the husbands of that people is what they do to be at afresh.
I advise Doctor Tulia Ackson, in many who want or desire to have love with the criteria they did, in you, he could make sure that she does not have a wife to get the second or third because their reason is produced, but for others to be keen.
To get your name is not the criterion of looking for you, "made you give you the legality of the question coming from this is a solution to you.
Tulia Ackson, she knows you that you can be self-communicable diseases which will continue to thank him and the age is not a criterion of going back to get married or to get your man.
