
Creativity in TEHAMA to give them 100 employment.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published on 28th October, 2016.

More strength of 100 who are in various provinces in the country have been able to promote information and communication technology (ICT), by increasing their skills that will enable them to be self-employed and start their private companies.

The director of communication services in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, who is also the Director of the program of improving education in the country and building the media, Lawrence Ichwekeleza said yesterday in Dar es Salaam city.
Ichwekeleza said the creativity in ICT can use the problems involved in reducing the answers.
"There are creativity of various types in ICT including how to follow up on the lost phone, how to use computers and get answers of the issues that were made together with youths to exchange ideas in order to solve the community problems through technology," he said.
Speaking on behalf of the deputy minister in the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, Edwin Ngonyani, secretary general of the ministry on communication sector, Professor Faustine Kamuzora, said by using the youth technology in the country, they have been on a conducive environment of creativity.
He said that he is proud of the youths to the creativity which showed up in various challenges that are there, because the things that are developed outside is because of their environment can help in the environment of here in the country, but that is developed in the country are developed.
"We see our things we will continue, now there are employment problems while the founder instead of waiting for employment is making your employment opportunities," he said.
And the Executive Director of the Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH), Doctor Hassan Mshinda, said that project that was being implemented well has contributed to the young people to enable the private companies to be self-employed.
Also the Finland Ambassador here in the country, Peking has said he has one year here in the country and he has been following that program and he is going on with it, therefore they are waiting for another step more.
