The health sector of Dodoma.
Sei 29, 2016.

While the government is implementing the small speed of its decision of moving its activities in Dodoma province, the state of service delivery in the health sector in the province is not small, it is caused by several challenges that make quick resolution.

The challenges is together with the shortage of buildings, servants, equipment, a special vehicle for referral patients, together with the lack of specialist doctors (AG), an example of heart and kidney diseases.

Dodoma Municipality has all the four hospitals that are Benjamin Mkapa Hospital, Muhimbili National Hospital (special program for mental patients), the provincial Referral Hospital and a Health Center which is expected to be taken to the status of Dodoma District Hospital in the financial year 2016 / 17.

Despite the existence of the decision to increase the health center, the District Commissioner of Dodoma said the station is being faced with several important challenges to an extent of signing up better services if the steps they will be taken early by the concerned authorities.

Lack of enough buildings for the purpose of providing services, Wi-ray machine that ultrasound is used to save the bodies as well as a shortage of servants is among the challenges that are required to be careful.

That situation of lack of some of the working tools has been caused to patients arriving at the center for treatment to get high costs by being forced to go to the private hospital for the purpose of tests.

The investigation of Good Citizen has revealed that free services to pregnant women, children and the elderly did not affect the requirements of the quality of health services at the health center due to many pregnant women will be forced to use money for the sake of the tests done outside the station and to restore answers for the purpose of more treatment.

The action of providing services to explain the patients to go and test out of the center has been being interpreted as well as the patients who have been given special instructions about where they go and go through tests, it was alleged that they have been directed to other hospitals that are not treated.

More information shows that even in terms of buildings, the situation is not good and buildings used for now were built in 1978, with the aim of providing services to 10,94 people in a year, that is to serve the average of 875 people in a day.

The Municipal Council of Dodoma has a total of 467,888 people including 27,949 women and 233990 women, an average of number four people is mentioned to be four percent compared to the number of people and housing of the year 2002 that was noted by 35,347 people.

The Deputy Minister of State, Office of the President, Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi), Suleiman Jafo, in his meeting with the workers of the Makole Health Center which was held last week he ordered to be written on top level which the government will meet the increase of people.

In that meeting, the government explained that the budget involved in that health center for now is small compared to the number of foreign patients attended to which is between 350 and 400 patients in a day, so as to have a health center to be taken to the status so that the District Hospital is a must for several factors to be completed.

Explaining more about the health sector in Dodoma province, the Deputy Minister of Tamisemi said that the Provincial Referral Hospital is together with Benjamin Mkapa Hospital which will provide services to approximately 1,200 patients, still not be dealt with for needs.

On his part, the chief physician in charge of that health center, Sauda Mtika, told BBC Sport that the income that are being obtained in providing services of approximately eight million shillings per month will not be allowed to run and complete the construction of a new building in that center.

He said in dealing with the increase of people that has been huge compared to the expansion of the infrastructure, already they have already taken several steps so that eventually the construction of a building and the ability to buy 100 patients, a step that will involve other stakeholders in the health sector.
