
A loss of entering the forest is 226 million shillings.

It has been written by Pickup,.

I was published (03 / 2016.

It has been reported that the real loss that was caused by burn in fire in the area of 185 acres that were planted in the Indian Ocean Road Station in Rukwa province, is more than 226 million shillings.

That fire is claimed to be dealt with by unknown people on the night of September 19 this year in that forest with a total of 1,300 acres that have been planted marijuana in 2014, is supervised by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TFS).
Speaking about the importance of that forest in the 30th session of the parliamentary committee in Rukwa Province, the Manager of the Rukwa Regional Reserve, Mohamed Kiwuyo, said that the forest is a big source of water for the residents of Sumbawanga town and its neighborhoods by 80 percent.
He said enough cooperation is still needed in protecting that forest that despite being a big source of water, it is also the lives of the lake region where many wards that involve water into that lake start from that forest.
"Madee has said most of it started at the reserve area of the Mbani and allowing water from Lake Region which are used for irrigation farming in the lake region, Sumbawanga district and also that forest is a residence for the ban," he explained.
While contributing to a veteran politician in the country, Doctor Egid Mubofu has cautioned that politics have been the source of environmental destruction in the region including water sources.
"Members of parliament can't confirm this in their areas because I will sack him, thus lack of their votes, my opinion, the government itself should be ahead in implementing the law otherwise the country will fall," he insisted.
The chairman of that sitting, who is also the provincial commissioner of Rukwa Zelothe Steven has warned that all those who were involved in violence will be dealt with anywhere they are so that the law can take its course.
Speaking to this newspaper, the police commander of Rukwa Province, George Kyando said that until now there is no one who was arrested in relation to the incident.
