Mwenge will launch a 1-1 draw on the 4th / -.

It has been written by Nakheel, James, Moshi.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

The torch of Uhuru has launched a foundation stone in nine development projects in the Municipal Council of Moshi, all being worth 1 billion shillings on the 4th.

Moshi District Commissioner, Kipuyo has told the leader of those races this year, George Mbijima has said those projects have been implemented following money from the main government, councils, and citizens in general.
He said that in the water projects, education, health, roads, youth and war against drugs, the main government has given approximately 399 million shillings, a total of 22212,32 million shillings of 5782 million shillings.
Regarding the construction of tarmac roads heading to a chosen hospital of St Joseph of the municipality, with a length of 500 billion shillings, he said that its construction has cost 12970,02 from the main government through the road fund.
The executive director of that municipality, Michael Mwanachoma, said that in Shirimatunda ward, has benefited from the burden of high costs of water.
The clean water and Environment Authority in Moshi (MUWSA) after starting the solar power project.
He said the project which will also be approved as the center for children with mental disabilities in Shirimatunda ward, Shirimatunda ward and secondary schools, has cost 9332 shillings being money for the development of the municipality of Moshi.
Khajida Kopa, the citizens in collaboration with sponsors who are known as United Nations, have discovered that project, after using a huge cost in the authority of MUWSA.
He said that in those funds they have planned to an amount of 890,536 billion shillings, the Municipal Council of Moshi worth 5 million shillings which has enabled to build a well that has 120 billion shillings, construction of houses and solar energy system.
While giving the message of Mwenge this year, Mbijima has urged projects being built professionally to avoid misuse of government funds, councils, and citizens.
He wanted those projects, to be used as a catalyst to development because the community has reduced some of its problems through the presence of those projects and that now they have a chance to bring development to development.
