Signs of campaigns of election.
October 5th, 2015.

The general elections in Ilemela province in Mwanza province is being faced with danger of lack of freedom and rights, if the relevant authorities will not affect events of breach of peace that involve some of the candidates and followers of political parties in the campaign meetings.
Those events show such acts of diggers, associated with posters of the candidates, the coming in of campaign meetings, bribery and cross the legal time of doing that meeting.
The parties are mentioned to be involved in those actions, will enable CCM members, while the police force, the National Electoral Commission (NEC) and the Institute of Corruption Bureau (BMC) have been accused of being unable to control those mistakes.
In some areas, CCM followers and member of parliament have been attending to him because of going to and leaving the campaign meetings due to lack of defense of peace from the police force.
The investigation that was done by Good Citizen this week has revealed that lack of peace in some of the campaign meetings, while leaders of the concerned parties, parliamentary candidates and councilors have been mentioned to contribute to the problem.
However, the candidates and member of parliament of parliament and CCM in talks with this newspaper have condemned the burden of those problems and on the other side has criticized Moscow Government, to fail to control that situation.
The parliamentary candidate for Ilemela region on the ticket of ADC, Shabani Itonde, has accused CCM parties that will enable them to deal with corruption of money to the voters to convince them to continue benefiting in the election day.
"This has been a big offence during this campaign, people professionally as well in the internal meetings, the concerned parties are currently the big political parties, CCM and parliament," says Itandula.
On his part, the parliamentary candidate of that constituency through CCM, Angelina Mabula, wants to know more of abusive acts from candidates on the CCM ticket and some of his political parties.
"Insults cannot be so much, we will inform you very much, but also some of the followers witnessing the point is example, today (Sunday) CCM members will face the area of Kirumba, our colleagues are very attractive.
"The other time you find CCM we continue with our meeting, suddenly we will sign him by using their advertisements for a big voice so that I'll see these," he complains that candidate who before going into the race was the Provincial Commissioner of Iringa town.
Mabula insisted that the citizens do not need their dominion and fight, the foundation issue that makes people to choose because of our policies. "
In an interview with this newspaper, the Secretary of ACT-Wazalendo, Robert Gogo, confessed the existence of violence against peace and violation of election ethics in some of the campaign meetings in that region.
"A huge violation is done by CCM party members and CCM, who are contributing to them the time of closing the campaign meetings by addressing them to one hour, but also that is how the followers are doing the violence and leaving.
The parliamentary chairperson of the Lake Victoria region, Peter Mekete, when he was asked, he said mistakes that came out by political tensions among some of the members and the aides of political parties an extent of failing to prevent criminal acts in the campaign meetings.
Furthermore, Mekete said that some of the candidates and leaders of CCM that some of them are the cause of acts of breach of peace during this campaign meeting heading to the general elections of the president, members of parliament and council that was planned to take place on October 25th, this year.
"Other problems are threats from the government leaders against people who are participating in politics but also the great use of the police force against the suspects," claimed Makusanya.
Regarding the allegations of bribery, Mekete said that you will allow the people to give them a lot of money it is equal to a dream, because we have problems of campaign funds and citizens is the other time we have a lot of money to meet the meetings, therefore, we should not have bribery of any kind. "
While speaking about the allegations of closing the campaign meetings (6 o'clock) evening), Mekete said that party candidates are required to consider the legal procedure so as to avoid having a club of dollars.
On his part, the secretary of CCM Mwanza Province, Miraji Mtaturu (impuzu) when he was asked for allegations that candidates of that party are involved in chaos of peace in meetings and bribery of getting money to the voters.
