

And Balton.
It is 32 years now since Tanzania give him a close to Edward in Sokoine Stadium when they get the secret of his death due to an accident which happened in Deddy.
This is as a result of the fact that many citizens do not believe that in Sokoine, he went to a car accident because they know the procedure of a leader as the prime minister.
There are just a lot of motion which instead of it was to be stopped, to sign up the ban of continuing to interview the Sokoine death.
I was looking for a long time in the Daily News program, they ever released four from the State House and the first ban was this Thursday of the death of the prime minister, Edward Sokoine, this was resulting from the reports came out that the Daily News newspaper were planning to sink completely and be careful.
Why the journalists were worried about the death of the Sokoine stadium, it was attributed to the fact that while the prime minister, he advised the implementation of the directive by the president Mwalimu Julius Nyerere to fight the implementation of the implementation of that order.
Most of the people were arrested in a mistake of bribing the ball or eating different products from the campaign that was inspired by the Radio Tanzania, Dar es Salaam (R4C) through the discussions after information, and "we tell you where we are doing so that we are doing so as to give information to the concerned authorities.
But the other information were not right and there are other people who are not guilty and put aside since the analysis of the truth is that people were involved, especially the business people in that country, after a group of people who put up hatred against Edward Sokoine.
Also some of the politicians and the government officials were going on with that operation because of giving permits for buying products from public shops (RTCL), who was the head of Kilimanjaro Province, Bartez had been released later on the State House.
But there was also a small group of selected people of the teacher who were believed to be "boils" and Sokoine, he wanted but Mwalimu Nyerere put the top level. "
This matter hit Sokoine Stadium because he saw that, "the operation affects the economy."
It was darkness where he went to the plane heading to Arusha and when he came to the reports indicate that he told the guards and his aides to return to Dar es Salaam by that government's plane and that he will give information that when they recover.
Edward Lowassa, who was the presidential candidate in the general elections of October last year, without knowing the words of his predecessor, Edward Sokoine, said Mrs I will go to protect Monduli Primary School. "
Therefore, in the Sokoine stadium after the ongoing operation, where he was removed from Monduli town and inspected the position of the prime minister the country ended up without the prime minister in a period of information explained that the teacher had sent a message several times that he comes from Dar es Salaam, but he refused to continue with work.
President Mwalimu Nyerere allowed me, "Kingas' of the citizens, in Sokoine, had built its legitimacy of being a small voice, he stopped him to protest against him and he likes to follow up with complaints from citizens, as he is in the current Prime Minister.
