
Members EAC to discuss EPA for three months.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

The countries of the East African Community (EAC), have agreed to continue with discussions for three months until January next year about signing a contract of business cooperation with the European Union (EPA).

In addition, the community has blamed the European Union to stop stuttering, Kenya due to sign the contract by October first this year, by starting to drive tax for flowers.
The decisions have been met by leaders of the country, member of the community in the 17th session of that community that took place at State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday.
During that meeting that was attended by the president of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni, president of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, Deputy President of Kenya, William Cheng from South Sudan, Aggrey Mlimuka said, the representative from South Sudan, Aggrey Mlimuka and the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein.
Speaking at that meeting, the chairman of that community, President John Magufuli said in their meeting that we were going to discuss that issue for a long time and it was very difficult.
"But as usual the community of the community was pleased with a solution and getting a solution and if they get a solution to them, look for a good way to get a solution of peace even in issues that are difficult," said President Magufuli.
He said up to January next year, they will have reached a full decision in the whole community and not one country and now is a way to address them and urging the Secretariat to prepare a relationship between the issue and communicate with EU.
He said they have reached that decision as a result of several issues that wanted to be a solution to them including protecting and growing the industries after signing up products after signing with EU.
"Tanzania we decided to sign up because we are prepared to build our industries so that they can be able to fight with the European countries which are the elderly," he said.
He spoke about other issues that need the time to discuss and protect the agricultural products which are in Europe countries, farmers are given priority and they are producing better products as well as transportation of crude oil.
He also said they need to talk about Burundi, which they can sign that contract while they have set aside those agreements with the issue of England to compete in the European Union while seeking countries of East Africa to join that union.
Moreover, they are looking for the collection of tax for products from outside Tanzania will cost 45 percent of tax tax from Europe for 20 years since it will sign that contract.
In that meeting, South Sudan arrived for the first time as a full member while he was appointed and sworn in to the deputy secretary general of the East African Community, Christopher Baamar from Burundi.
President Museveni speaking at that meeting, he urged the European Union do not succeed in those decisions, but they do not have time to discuss the agreement for the interests of the countries of that community and from their stand together.
