
Tomorrow, it will give a lesson to Tanzania's physician!
Every morning the breeder did cleaning in he has said, he does not put up food and water and then sell milk and eggs, after that, he was accompanied by a gun to go to the farm.
One day, a person looking for a breeder do my condolences to fatigue, congratulations and congratulations for work, but as usual he didn't know how the livestock had resolved because he would not hesitate to listen.
To date, the breeder did not have the enthusiasm to know that language and it's not that you will help him in the rearing of life but also it would have been great entertainment without knowing that you love them. "
Kasanga told him that they got the ability after my grandfather's grandfather's grandfather, but it is a condition of the medicine is that every person usually comes just after giving birth to our friendship.
"I thank you that if you pay this secret, I will not give a ring," a breeder gets an oath.
Kasanga told him, he got in and given up and handed him up to the deceased, going back with the black spectacles.
"Isage and then are forced to make water from Bwawani area and the scene of the water they will be used and said our language."
The breeder do not like each other. He went up to Bwawani and emerged with a clean water while he performed well as summoning demons.
No wonder, did I have heard the truth when he complained to the other.
"Babu Tale (yesterday, I don't know what I went to, I don't know what I did not tire to Mister Okoye, that is every day since the morning until evening we're getting in a half time?
His fellow answer, "what will you do this is safe and that is why we are here until today."
"Aalah Prayzah who is tomorrow I don't leave tomorrow I did not lie! I will defend his clothes inside here," all of them attracted a lot, but the breeder was surprised more.
So if the wife had to follow up since he was prepared for medicine, when he saw him, he saw him and wanted him to change him, "she was shocked and started defending himself," when we're going to land in the morning we met with Mister Philippe Dongier.
He was pleased so much that he was shocked when he was telling him, how he had sent him to vote for him, an incident.
"Mwende!" Mother was tough, "I have followed up on the first time and I give you the medicine so that we can be buried and he could not be buried and he would not accept to say the truth this morning.
Kasanga told all that when he was told, he would like to look for instance, he met with sharp teeth.
"These are the problems of a human being," if I say, "I have his own kind, but they don't know what they were doing when they get married, I feel extremely honored."
"He hurts me," the farmer got the solution and he went up to his wife went to look for a man by thinking that her husband was happy to remain in their first case afresh.
Wisdom like these were heard by the former President of America, Bill Clinton, who came in a case of walking with his employee, Monica Lewinsky in the year 1998.
The same year after seeing Americans have been forced to get a poster for that incident, Clinton refused a bomb attacks in Iraq and Monica as it is not a great news again because they must make Americans closer to Sam Hussein.
But what did you look more on our first story is short because everything is possible, when a human being affects the word "I will be seen," he can be.
Take you a good example of my son who turned up a long wall, after being sacked by the Russian citizens, he said "I will be seen, and to fail to fail the exercise.
You can get a broad way of many things through animals that can be put up immediately if you see the motorcycle that were playing in the lower levels since they see a heavy rains and spread in soil so as to get water sources.
You need to use more doors for your colleague, let me ask you, why you came to you, "I see here that you have a problem!"
