
The University of Lands in Dodoma.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo, Kibaha.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said in implementing the intention of moving to Dodoma, the government will use the University of Lands (Amahoro), to make the construction of better affordable houses for their workers.

That step is as a result of the university, to prove his ability through the construction of one building of the court in Kibaha, Coast Province.
That statement was issued yesterday in the city by Minister Majaliwa when he launched the Tanzania High Court (2015-2020) and the project on the improvement of the Tanzania High Court, Coast, and the Court of Kibaha district.
Speaking about the construction, that was done by the National Council of Construction (NCC), Majaliwa said the university has shown the ability of the high level and controlling the quality in line with building affordable houses.
That university has building a resident magistrate's Court in Kibaha by using Molad Company, worth 520 million shillings for a period of three months, different from 1 billion shillings and 1 billion shillings.
"Our land university has shown the ability of the art, controlling the quality of affordable housing, and the information that I was at the university has the ability to build any infrastructure for our workers," said Prime Minister Majaliwa.
Speaking by using the real examples of how the company made a better construction and affordable cost that has paid the millions of money, Majaliwa said before the start of construction of that court, it was three against three ones who had requested for the construction of that construction had two times and a half of the cost.
"An example, our executive secretary of the court made the attempt to announce the contract of construction of that building, the first level he said he will design for 1 million American dollars to the winner, but through land, we have risen up more than 520 million shillings," said Minister Majaliwa.
He said that as Aishi, they have been able to build a good and modern building for a period of three months, only why it is not worried about the presence of that college and that new technology of using good medicine and permanent buildings.
Majaliwa said Amaso is among the experts who advised the government on how to relocate to Dodoma and requested the government to identify themselves and be modern, and build better affordable buildings.
"Amaso is among the experts who received advice on how to relocate to Dodoma, and because of the construction of this building of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court and TIB Development (TIB), will give them loans to start a lot of houses for our workers to be able to plan affordable," said Minister Majaliwa.
However, he urged them to strengthen their construction unit because right now it is special of the government in the construction of affordable buildings and that the challenges that are there like the shortage of houses for teachers and clinic can be finished by using that university to build an affordable price.
Moreover, he urged them to look at the way to build houses for ordinary citizens at an affordable cost because their cost is affordable and one building is constructed for three days to be completed, different from the normal construction.
"It is very proud to see this project has been invented and affordable housing, today we have launched a good building with two vehicles, but they did not hesitate to meet, everyone knows they are faced with stability," said Minister Majaliwa.
Previously speaking about that plan, the chief justice Chande Othman said that they have three major goals that are good administration, accountability, and human management, lack of rights and strengthen the faith of the Parliament and the cooperation of the stakeholders in the court's activities.
