
All the teams benefited from employment and.
Ismail Jussa.
It was easy for two players to get employment as a result of your companies and two sides that are participating in the special league, apart from the premier league teams.
Many of the player, many of the players who were playing in the streets have been signed by clubs from companies and organizations for going to play in special league as well as concerned parties of soccer in the Coastal Region.
Apart from being able to play for those teams from companies and organizations, scientists are believed to be a vibrant player, who were chosen to represent the district team (now he from Coast Province, where it was easy to get their talents in bringing up their talents.
Good players who were playing in the German premier league and the companies of companies were seen to have a big clubs in the province which were forced to register themselves in their teams that are participating in the premier league in the country.
The former Mwadui FC secretary, Ismail Said Mboya is saying that it is because of the system, there are many upcoming stars who were seen to be elected in the squad of Harambee Stars to represent the country at the international competition.
Mboya is saying that this time it has been difficult for upcoming stars as seen and attracting a big team due to the law that is making in one season, they will be allowed to play one team only.
The Jaguar type that was born in 1946, believes that it is the only old system that will be able to return the status of football in the Coastal Region, "because we have recently, there is no any step of soccer development that can be available in Pwani province," says Mboya.
I think about the past there were competitions between the districts of every province and there is a need for the Kagame Cup competition which later will be changed by called Kenyatta Cup where the players of every province were seen easily.
"It was a very easy job for Tanzanians, the national team to ban good players who were given an opportunity to play for Taifa Stars, but now it is the only club only which has the opportunity to have a Stars player," he said.
He is supposed to be open up with the competitions between him from Coastal Province and later on the creation of the coalition government who have the province to prepare their match against the teams of other parts of the country.
"When we read those procedures, without doubt the soccer will not be sold in Pwani province alone, but in every part of the United Republic of Kenya," said Mboya, who once arrived to visit the club's headquarters that he loves more than Liverpool's club in England.
He says that it will be enough issue like there will be prepared in many soccer competitions in the Coastal region in order to return the honor of that game.
Upcoming boys while participating in the competition is that they are increasing their talents in their performance.
Amen wants managers of football here in the country not to follow the plans and procedures of the soccer leadership that were in the past because he believes that they are doing so, "the soccer situation will improve it quickly and Coast Province will start well." He says.
Mboya said that when he visited Liverpool's headquarters in England, she sees no great plans that was implemented by that club in building the youth talent and requested the plans to be done here in the country.
