
To prevent a license the doctors is to appreciate us!
Jide 19, 2012

I don't see you to write this article that I have been struggling with my soul, I've heard and talked about, I have written more than five times and chased away but I have arrived at o'clock and should be like we are taught by our leaders!
It's not because of getting up but I have been the main heart! I wanted this one to talk with this article and there is no reason to meet with them, there is no one day to get if it is not a whole year.
Most of the important people that do the work of building a nation did not be given in the desert right now the phones that are operated or don't understand what they don't know if they don't have any time to study for the nation and not to be important to the citizens of Tanzania.
I have decided to write this history tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we can be taught all of us because there will be many questions here in the world because I have faith that which was written in this world or for the future generations.
My message is a short message to listen to the doctors who came out and take them to them, I know that it has caused a great loss like people who have lost life even so, by comparing their lives when millions of stem cells are bringing up poverty.
He knew what would like to be bullied.
He knew what would like to be bullied to these doctors as not to desire to stop my behind Tanzania with peace and calmness.
Kylie would like to be bullied.
There are many people who are oppressed, they are oppressed, they are oppressed, we are trusted and we don't know anything and life continues, therefore they should not be a good thing and not something to be bullied.
We want to hear the government ban one table with doctors and discuss.
We want us to feel that the government increased the salary of doctors, money, and the government has the ability, we want to hear the government to improve health services, money, and the government has the ability.
The government to stop doing that I have mentioned the bodies and agreed to give a license to the doctors and to stop the sun is contrary to, the problem is to go against and tomorrow it is a must that this problem will end, but the few who want to go to them.
Because most of the many do not know where without fear, it is a must that without fear, it is a must to say without following any oppositions.
Therefore, the big issue in this article is to prevent a license that those who came to them and get them to court is to appreciate themselves and it is against the rights of a human being, it is a must for violence to stop immediately.
It is true that doctors did a mistake to deal with the government, he did a mistake to deal with the strike quickly, because doctors are attracted a license and was arraigned in court, it is a must that the government will be used in one way or another and to be taken to court.
Blood of the people who died during the strike of doctors is about the doctors and the government, it's not possible for the government to stand up because it has power, it does not mean that there is a history of many government in the world that made mistakes and caused them to be done by citizens.

We can reach here, why should we miss the Angels and we live in a world which has become one village.
When I know it means our government wants to make sure it can take stern legal action against the government, we should realize that it has not slap back, but there is no ability to fight with him and this is no ability to fight with them.
There is no problem here.
Maybe by Jesus alone, he can be able to take action of wanting to deal with the government, we know that we have been surprised by the government's energy that we have been surprised by what the government is unable to deal with insults.
Why is the government with power and all the energy has been silent to make sure that those who entered into our Central Bank have been silent but why the government with all energy has not been unable to arrest and take them to court for Richmond and Race.
They are known as names, but you are free and they are continuing to enjoy life and their families, we have heard that we are looking for young people and get them to court for the mistake of claiming their primary rights and to stop our youth who will be able to visit them!
This government with great power, is led by CCM party, the ruling party was telling us that it has a plan of taking the Magoza village where we will ensure those people have been expelled from the party.
Up to today, there is no thing that happened to all those who were mentioned as Magato, we are supposed to marry her to their party and they have been unable to appreciate your account because it is you who has not worried about why the energy is used to kill a license and not allowed them not to be used.
"Magato" is why the government's strength are being used for young people who start being used to small youths who start working as government's strength are used by human resource that are used because of doctors together with this fact?
They will agree that licenses, they will agree that it will be sold at work, because they don't have the strength to deal with the government in normal ways that are continuing to face the government, but never he cannot be silent because they can get the road or he will answer on their eyes in the box for votes.
The general election is not far, more than 300 doctors are many of spreading poison that make sure that the ruling party does not get its rights of putting up on the edge and this is or not from violence or at times.
I don't have the need to give these examples here and all of us know how many youths have been pressed by doing their problems, the youths do not work and get capital to start business so as to be a good way, we have witnessed Tunisia and Egypt.
We have witnessed how prominent singers of South Africa are claiming that they are ready to stand before being shot and the heavy weapons that lost their lives but many lost their lives, but finally the ones who lost their lives, but finally the only one doesn't know this truth.
We have witnessed the animals that were closed down in different parts of the land against poor infrastructure, poor infrastructure and investment that investors have been discussing the names of their businesses every time after five years, the companies have been educating names, phone companies have been encouraged the names of getting money and go to their lives.
The government with all the energy is unable to take action if we should not forget that someone who will be dealt with using Twiga Bancorp, as our government can make her shivered to the doctors who came out, because that government seems to be able to know the people facing our economy?
We have heard that one doctor gets more than 30 thousand people, because it is that we have a shortage of doctors to God bless the father of the nation, he started good doctors, who do work at the doctor and they are working hard in the process of increasing the salaries of doctors and services for accommodation.
In a short time, we have a huge shortage of doctors in that state, the government refused to be afraid that our doctors are good and they have a lot of equipment, but we have no permits for all we are witnessing how our nation takes money from people who are not outside the country.
In a situation like this, doctors claimed to be given those equipment after he was chased away, they were forced to be expelled and taken against him and taken a message that now it has come to make her liable to the government.

To find a license the doctors and serve them to protect us because of their claims, you can't discuss matters that involve their lives.
There are many effects that have caused a huge loss, but they have not been tested from any steps, leaving those who are the first they start life is to identify themselves and to be only a mistake and not to marry off the licenses and not to sell the license.

In Tanzania, we are all of us, it is a must for us to ensure it is safe for us and for the coming generations.
