Poor households are faithful, the rich people were injured.
Petit 12, 2014.

In my last article I wrote that it's us that we shall surrendered to our country and we hope that you will represent our country and we will understand how we are facing our issues in different areas.
This is a fact that you need to be a long objection because every community gets stranded, is working on the community of the disabled people and even in hunger, the community of people suffering from hunger and even when it is when it is with a lot of resources.
Contrary to the bad qualities that are a community of people to be buried, there are togetherness and the ones that do not have rights even when they are and human resources that we have witnessed, and every time I have witnessed different types of communities.
Prevent it is a country with a large number of people (more than 160), and its people are very poor, but in general they are integrity, Muslims who follow the teachings of their religion as they are not supposed to be careful.
This foundation of integrity and what has enabled us using us to make the bank's activities that will be known here all over the world like the Gramy, basically the bank started by giving loans to a little amount of money for poor women, especially in the village areas.
The success of Grants, due to the faith of the citizens, the benefits that you have shown that they have not been able to return the loan so that others can also get an opportunity to borrow.
A big lesson so as to prevent it is not true that corruption has been caused by us because we've been told here at our time because I've been told the gold mine, and still do a public work with great integrity.
Now we pray for what happened in several years ago (in 1998) there was a disaster problem that took place in the whole country and requested houses and property of these poor as well as the little money they had died because my customers had been made to be more than.
Those who revealed that if the requirements were taken to you, so as to give them a chance to pay, but the bank still continues with her good work, but the bank is still continuing with charges of signing or a bond of putting it as "he said."
But we want to prevent the plane in another step, the look of brutal act of evil deeds, every time we had heard of hundreds of workers, especially poor women, have been banned in the fire that was banned.
