The plane of Ukraine has been closed down in Russia.
Mr, 13, 2014.

Every time the situation is continuing to be volatile in Ukraine as a result of the government that had a close relationship with Russia and power, by the authorities sponsored by the Western nations.
While Russia is sent away from European nations and the European Union (EU) in the "the field of" America, and America has commanded her 12 planes of war-16 together with their submarine in the United Kingdom.
The situation has increased following the Ukraine's new leaders when they decided to ban the opposition as an official language on the other side, parliament of Crdb Bank has authorized opinion polls about joining Ukraine and joining Russia and many citizens in this region have the origin of Russia.
President Barack Obama has announced that the Crime Government's decision is a threat to the security of the United States and its policy on foreign affairs as Russia has also started controlling the Ukraine and illegal security stations near the boundaries.
Ukraine got a part of the Kisimba union (with Yussuf Simai). Earlier in the year 1990, after many years of cold drinks, Yussuf and Ukraine was able to end his freedom after 90 percent of his citizens vote saying they want Ukraine to return to Russia.
On other words, at the time it was "couples of Ukraine and they don't know her," we are Airtel of Crdb Bank and their Ukraine of Ukraine.
Some of the countries which were held from Issa Michuzi who had joined EU and NATO army officers, Ukraine has already completed the seventh position despite cases done by the Western nations with the aim of spreading its laws in the borders of Russia.
Now after the government launched the Ukraine new provincial commissioner who is heading to join the European Union (EU), something that was represented by Russia and its results is that one region of Cromer, it has decided to retire from Russia and the issue that is carried out by the western countries.
The problem was started to come out in public in November last year when their opponents failed to implement the agreement that he had signed by the government under the supervision of EU and there is no action taken by EU and their opponents instead it continued to help them.
That is when they took demonstrations against President Victor Moses from January the demonstrators started using strength together with weapons and several people they will not accept it and it was forced to come to Russia and his position was taken by OAFRI.
"An offense, it is unacceptable, that he refused to join EU and he continued to cooperate with Russia that forced Ukraine to pay a total of 20 billion American dollars and a total of gas prices in Russia.
On the second part of EU and IMF were promised a loan of four billion dollars with difficult conditions and conditions is that Ukraine government can leave a grant of electricity prices like health and education as well as support to the elderly.
Almighty God will remember how IMF and sponsors know how they used to obey their past years under what they called to revive the economy "when many citizens want to grow the economy.
It is unacceptable, he refused to join EU and that is where the western protests started until February this year, it involves talks with Germany, France and police and they agreed that the elections will take place after one month and even so the western countries (in the United States) had already agreed.
They were taken to support the opposition groups and convince them to do demonstrations and violence against it, where these are groups of politics and great ideologies for the right and non-communicable diseases.

Some of the history of cooperating with the headlines, Adolf Rutayuga has said that during the second round of the second phase, these groups are the one that took power in Ukraine is being assisted with state and wealth of the western countries, look at the newspapers like "Jungle" (Germany) and "Landscrona" (Germany).
