UVCCM chairperson in Arusha still Ang insisted.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.
The implementation committee of the Executive Council of the National Youth Union (UVCCM), has suspended the executive committee of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) with the leadership of UVCCM, Arusha Province, Lengai ole Sabaya from the case that was opened in court.

That decision was presented by Dar es Salaam yesterday by the acting secretary general of UVCCM, Shaka Hamdu Shaka when speaking to the press saying the decision was reached after a session of the implementation of the executive committee under its chairperson, Muguma Juma, when they met the day before yesterday.
Doubt, he said during the decision of the executive committee, the implementation of the national executive committee of UVCCM, has blamed the leadership of his position in UVCCM.
"From today 20 / 09 / 2016, they are not involved in any activities of UVCCM leadership until the fate of his accusations will be decided by the court and concerned sessions of UVCCM and CCM," said Shaka.
He added that at different times, Sabaya and asked the groups of CCM members and those who have no CCM members so as to choose the UVCCM secretary of Arusha province, to be defeated by corruption until the police force intervened.
"That issue has contributed to a large extent, the youths of Arusha province is divided into groups and led to security and ethics of the community and the party to be worried," he said.
Said MSabatama has been arraigned in court, faced with two charges, including being a servant in the department of safety of the nation, with the second offense of being on the identity cards of the National Security Department (NIDA) with a number plate T 8617 when knowing it is against the law of the country.
"In all the mistakes, Lengai ole Sabaya, that he has done by violating the rules of leadership and ethics of CCM a 3-17 page, 30 and 31st has also said that those mistakes will go against the regulations of the leadership and regulations of UVCCM, article 6385, 54th and 85, 55 and 811," he said.
Also, Shaka said the implementation committee of UVCCM nation has praised the decisions that were taken by the National Executive Council of that union which had proposed to the national executive council of UVCCM and sack him immediately after the former secretary of the Union of Arusha, Ezekiel Mollel.
Doubt, he said the decision was caused by Mollel of lack of responsibility together with violating the rules of ethics of the party as well as refusing to transfer him, that was given by the top leadership of the union, thus violating the Public Service Management in article 3 (13) on a 21 and 22 page.
