The Party wants the constitution, "it does not be?
October 11, 2014.

For those who have been doing well in this few years, they know that I am among the few people who want this process of the new constitution as it was founded by President Jakaya Kikwete.
We can't understand that, "the process of the president" to write a new constitution. I don't have a reason to return my bad information because the process is illegal and has never been reached where the proposed constitution has been found.
Because the process is of them and it is legal on the legal way then there is no way except to take it up to the end of the proposed constitution.
According to the law on constitutional changes in the year 2012, the special constitutional parliament is expected to have been having his work after the proposed constitution of that law (to those who know it is among the bad law that has never been written by people with a sober mind said that even if the parliament will be led by something in order to decide the need for those improvements.
Now if we decide to follow the law after seven days since they were sworn in to the proposed constitution (I believe here) it should be easy, with a few words and you can be understood by very easily by the voter. "
However, it's not a problem if it will be able especially considering that the law wants the question should be done after discussions between the attorney general of the United Republic of Tanzania and the attorney general of Zanzibar, but all of us remember that this draft was one of the mistakes of law it was no reason for executives like him to be delegates who do votes inside the constitutional parliament.
If you have already started a question even if the attorney general of Zanzibar was to be dealt with and I don't think that it will be very different from that day, then within ten days after a question will continue to be sworn in to the question.
As we know the opinion polls will be decided to more than fifty percent of the Tanzanian voters with more than fifty percent of the citizens of Zanzibar, as a half of votes or more they think about it, then it will not overlap.
This issue is another problem of that bad law and it is clear that the Tanganyika votes are more than of Zanzibar because of them, even if their half of them, even if the constitution will be accepted immediately after the repeat of the opinion polls then the current constitution (in the year 1977) will continue to be used.
Now, the motion is that there is a conversation that took place between the president and the stakeholders of political parties where it seemed that it was impossible to reach a new constitution before the general elections for a short time.
The problem is that their law is now it is not knowing this issue and in my opinion, it's not good because we believe it can be used to start using a new constitution as it will be accepted, but there is no way to postpone the opinion polls.
