
People who are able to be accountable for who?
Kristen 31, 2012.

One of the reputation of a democratic system is to take advantage of the collection of ethics or procedures of ethics and those procedures are important to strengthen good administration because it is very important to strengthen the leaders to be productive to the citizens in the steps they take and through their actions they take.
All the public leaders should be chosen by the citizens or even those who don't be careful, they must be careful, it's good servants although we usually have a habit of pretending to be the management of public servants, therefore, good administration should not be successful.
This is the big examinations faced by the leaders of the United Republic of Tanzania. It is not aware of not knowing that they must be accountable but they do not be accountable because they do not be accountable because.
It is also a big examination for those leaders because this Republic is one of the two governments with two countries because Zanzibar also has all government institutions in the Indian Ocean on all the reputation in America, all of them have died inside the constitution of Zanzibar.

Tanganyika, on his part, is being run by the United Republic of Tanzania but according to the law of the United Republic of the public inside that government and inside that government, it is not a bad thing where even political parties in accordance with the law must have the regional representatives.

Since the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union explains the creation of people of Zanzibar "that have been blocked" to work in the union of people and after Tanaka and ASP) to join CCM, that was the only political party, there are people that have been taken and taken to the mainland to find out of the party.
Those like that I have touched on it was on the era of one party system because the party organized himself to the age and because it had a status of bribing the only political party in that party, many people were taken to work at the CCM headquarters in Dodoma.
Likewise, there are people who were taken to mainland to hold various positions and work in the government of the union, within the country and also outside the country and international institutions that represent Tanzania.

For sure, the representative of the people of Zanzibar in the United Nations has been great changes in behavior, as we look at behind, we see that the representative of Zanzibar in the government of the United Republic are so cunning, and that is why the people of Zanzibar in the government of the United Republic are needed.

Maybe the only institution has today in the United Republic of Tanzania with the same number of representatives from Tanganyika and from Zanzibar, it is the commission of constitutional changes with the 15 representatives of the whole country.
All the representatives from the two parts of the union have been buried and the responsibility of collecting and taking your opinion about the new constitution that will be used.
Among those opinions, there will be the ones that will involve the new institutions of the union to make sure that they should be the future of the United Republic of Tanzania.

However, there are people who don't have a few people to work and take great positions in the union institutions and within political parties that are attracting people of Zanzibar, that is CCM and CUF.

Likewise, the people of Zanzibar are being represented by the Tanzania Parliament as usual since it should not be a union because it should not be a member of people who are directors of various councils of business institutions that are done by the government of the union.

But as a result of a union of the union we have the whole of Zanzibar who do work in mainland are dealing with more issues that concern Tanganyika and it is rarely on yourself the activities facing Zanzibar.

That is the real situation as it was in the United Republic and it should not be 48 years ago but if you check the role of the President of the United Republic of Tanzania we will see that many people are dealing with administrative issues concerning the United Republic and they are also discussing about administrative issues that are concerned with Zanzibar.
Therefore, this union is between Tanganyika and Zanzibar, there are two questions that we believe in Zanzibar in the union institutions since there were only the first question of Zanzibar and therefore there is the first question that he made to bring development to the people of Zanzibar.

That is where we had explained to the register of our previous issue, the issue of accountability.
Leaders and other leaders inside the government and in public institutions and public organizations must be successful because the bail and heavy responsibilities they have that are needed so as to implement their responsibilities for the interests of the citizens without caring about their soul or those of them.
We recognize that someone from getting all the leadership will not be given to the leadership and who were left with great hands, the leadership should comply with benefits, lack of skills, honor and the benefit of every type and therefore, we know that there are many people who benefited from.
Because of the benefits they got on the and that they continue, there are among them who have a chance to look for their interests instead of waiting to consider the interests of their country and the citizens who represent. "
When we have assessed the state of people who were admitted in the whole country of Zanzibar in the United Nations, though we will inform us that they are supposed to be accountable for their colleagues but they are not appointed or by the government of the union in mainland or political parties that they represent.
It is impossible to see that because the people of Zanzibar have been given positions by the government of the union some of them have lost direction on the real situation as it is in them.
Suncould have been so much and it would have been bad among some some of them about the claims that they come from the people of their colleagues in the process of giving it a new constitution.

The evidence that has been presented until now in the front of the commission on constitutional changes is that 47 percent of the people living in Unguja South have proposed that the union's structure to be maintained together with the union of the agreement which has been issued by 87 percent of people living in Pemba Island.

That is a big number of people and all those who will vote in the opinion polls that will decide about the constitution of this kind to be in Tanzania.

The direction that is present is that when the commission on constitutional changes will start again its activities to receive the opinions of the residents of Unguja and Unguja Town, the aim of wanting the union of the agreement will continue to be fast.
If it is so that the government of the United States, will not hesitate to fall in the area even though it is said that the commission will give its recommendations by considering the strength of issues that are offered to support some people.

The same time I don't think this here we reached the people of Zanzibar, they should be satisfied with the structure of the United Republic of three, if that structure will be forced to have a alternative system to close the cup and to save the union.

The party's representatives in the United Republic of Tanzania, together with the commission of constitutional changes, they don't have an opportunity and to consider the opinions of many citizens among their fellow citizens, it is important to be every time after they tell them that accountability to those who represent.
