Ngeleja thanking her boyfriend.
Mr 24, 2016.

The member of parliament for Sengerema constituency (CCM), William Ngeleja, has reminded the opposition members who are involved in the parliamentary debates saying they came out to get a chance to fight after getting it on the issue of members of parliament of the ruling party.
Speaking to this newspaper in the city at the beginning of this week, Ngeleja said that basically the step is happy to meet the members of parliament of the ruling party - the Revolutionary Party (CCM) because it will give them affordable houses to discuss and pass various issues more easily than that they would send their time a result of members of parliament of the opposition camp.
But the CCM member of CCM has told them that the ruling party members of that ruling party is when their opponents fail to leave the old parliament to the point of looking for soldiers to remove their strength.
"It is a shameful matter for them when they are unable to follow up and sometimes leaving the parliament to boycott the debate.
"Another one who comes out is when they get from violence, if a person is deciding to get out from pregnant, so as to make violence until the police should be called to strengthen peace and calmness in his constituency.
It is not a sin to boycott the debate.
However, that member of parliament who got to be the Minister of Energy and Minerals in the fourth government, is understand that the action of some members of parliament, especially the opposition to boycott the parliamentary debates is not a new issue because it happens in some of the people in the world.
"That is not a new issue, your soul in many in the world we are witnessing when the few times you want to learn from parliament, they feel that they are coming from parliament but they're going back to the morning they are coming back because they are coming back because they are coming back because they are coming back because they are coming back because they are coming back because they are coming back because they are coming up because of the regulations (parliament) are supposed to allow them," he says.
On the other side, Ngeleja said that he is proud of the big number of members of CCM who need to vote for their opponents for passing any issue in parliament for the interests of the nation and the citizens in general.
In addition, he believes that a large number of members of CCM is an illustration that many of the members of parliament are an illustration that many of the members of parliament are happy and discovered that the party has the ability to bring development to the truth.
All the decisions that are supposed to take place in parliament, CCM members of parliament are not need to vote even one of his opponent, it's not very fast but it's because of the results of the box (votes) were presented speaking through their hands.
"Citizens have decided to give members of parliament of the Revolutionary Party and the ability to decide the fate of this country through the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania without requiring any donation of votes even one of his opponent.
"With other words, that is a confirmation that citizens get politics of our opponents and they know that you have no benefit and can help them," he insisted.
This issue has no benefit.
By considering the fact that the parliament has thrown out a huge bond of managing the interests of the nation, Ngeleja, he says that the members of CCM of CCM are ready to support the issue of productivity to the public even if it was made by the opposition member of parliament.
"When (parliament) we talk about the issue and a motion is even if they have been brought by his opponent, claiming that it has no benefits to the public, the members of CCM we cannot make sure to support the public, we will serve the economy," he says and added.
"We are members of parliament of the ruling party, we will not hesitate to support our opponents in parliament where they will have primary issues, but they have the motion to oppose the results brought by the members of parliament of the Revolutionary Party or the government, we will be supported with his results, we will be able to do something."
He will support President Magufuli.
Speaking about the performance of President John Magufuli, especially his speed of fighting tax collection and protocols as part of the public property, the member of parliament for Sengerema, says that the step aims to strengthen good governance of the government to citizens.
Ngeleja believes that all the rights goes hand in hand with the responsibility and there is no justice without responsibility, therefore the steps taken by the fifth term president, have been encouraged to control the weaknesses of performance and mistakes for the civil servants.
"I believe that this is a great government when you hear citizens, a place where there is a argument that I believe that the government is going on and will continue to take appropriate measures until now I personally and on behalf of the residents of Sengerema town, I'll support the president on behalf of the residents of Sengerema town, I think that he will continue to take appropriate measures.
