The mobile phone company, making sure that it has given three million shillings to the National Arts Council and City as the contribution of awards for best journalists starting from two hundred and ten thousand shillings.
That contribution has been made by the executive director of the company, Mister Aggrey Mlimuka said in the city they had been received by manager control and standards of the council of information is second.
The elections that will be made for good journalists in the groups of writing economy and business, and new games, therefore, education and technology and taking pictures are the promise that was given by the company's award, will be reached during the award of last year.
Speaking at the handover.
One companies have benefited and the preparation of different events in the country.
I believe that our country does not have been possible for close partnership with Ongea will have been possible.
When you go to Dar es Salaam, we will be happy and believe that our participation in this awards will be careful.
You will design.
The writing of news and thus the benefits to the community is a must.
On his part, the manager of my parents of the National Social Security Council should agree that if there was this one.
As a teaser didn't be said that it is not the first, I thank you again because you want them to feel it is something for the teachers but there is a thing of doctors and because we're very important for us to get for people who are very important so that we feel good is a very important thing.
And we see that the awards have started to get anything.
Because of the three years since they started.
The man's one is increasing.
And they increase us as we are in the number but as well.
And if you come out to join us, you have joined us in the period when the last period of food to do something that is more better when you need to look for the best journalists this year is expected to be held recently in the city.
Nude pictures from Dar es Salaam get a solution in a lot of fear.
