The Director of the department of security and security in the East African Ministry like Kiliba, has said that in order to deal with the wave of fund in member countries of the East African Community, procedures are taking place having an agreement between the country and then discuss in the community to deal with integrity, together with the special strategies is important to check the environment.
The police force but he did not say a lot of issues there are security and security.
There are self-employed.
There are all people that even my people have not yet urged them as Yanga for this short time.
You want to start again inside the country we agree with again, we need me to speak all together from the left.
She was.
About the conflict of conflicts inside the country, members of the African Community.
In the western part, he said that it has been prepared to use the famous people from inside that community to resolve the conflicts and insisted on the stand.
And the integration of the East African Community is going on to the step.
The Executive Director of the Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH), will not win the youth with education and creativity to advance themselves in the information and communication technology so as to prepare a good environment for them.
In the 3rd minute, he said in order to make that goal a cap is in some of the small youths of different equipment including producing wind power generation together with giving them science and technology, after showing the ability in improving various equipment.
That is a procedure to give an award in science and technology and through these awards, we are not only just to do creativity, but we also help the people that are facing them and those who do not concern them.
Work in order to do their work.
To the success recently, we have issued an award.
For being youths who were important to make drugs to use those machines by producing electricity through wind power through the wind.
In another way that is easy to have creative farmer we have given them equipment so that they can be able to continue.
Promote the creativity.
The executive director of the SB Primary School center, Azikiwe Premier Branch, Abdulmalik Mollel, speaking with the trainer Mhamila 'Dude' has urged parents to encourage their youth to invest in issues of human resources.
Coast only in order to enable the organization?
.
He claimed that as ICT, which will be able to cooperate with them now we can see that the youth of Tanzania will also be self-employed and be able to do a lot of things to our country, it was claimed that we can do that list like many parents can be not ready for reasons.
Let me feel.
Benefits of Way.
The Commission of Science and Technology (COSTECH) in collaboration with the (center of information and technology center) for giving training for more than sixty eight youths from universities which are from the university.
In America, how we witnessed news and communication information, I will be able to help them in the availability of employment.
When you pass the report you missed the national news on ten years to continue with the news, but first to stop the important news on night.
