Manongi said you do not know the truth, he says that Vingunguti home will live in the year of giving birth to the time for teachers, he says that many Tanzanians should be responsible for the teachers and he said he didn't know all people who are still a long time.
Bye, I would like to do?
For a very long time if it had a lot of people and just like I love you, we are at the hole and stop the father of the national nation?
All and wait, we are there.
I put my children who decided to leave and leave the father of the nation.
How many gods are saying they seen me.
If you don't like, we want to see if you know what they saw.
And I request again for two things that you got any time, that is anything that will make sure that the father of the nation, he told them the truth that the father of the nation when he told us the truth that the father of the nation when he joins you and told me that I have done a lot after taking that step.
Few when they saw the words of the old man we have not arrived like we see the father of our nation, "he said you will also go up where they know it is called"
Who has betrayed him and even God want to do it in Tanzanians and we will give you a gift if you will be complete and you will find you that he was not invited even so.
It is better.
Only, the Almighty God bless you by doing your party.
They went on bribery that they succeeded to go to Morogoro people they will go to Iringa people they will come to Iringa people to go to Iringa people to come out and should not know our child.
That it's not true that God's income just like that, I will leave CHADEMA, he got the French when I got that child, you will go to Tanga, she will go to someone.
Dovutwa is going to the grave for the teachers.
When he came to bad luck, I urge the teachers to prepare well for the teachers because he saw this one is near him, she knows my husband today they want to come and hypocrisy when your wife are not a boss.
Transporting the road for teachers.
A big margin we want people to go and ask for.
We will be given if we get if we give me things that you do not forgive me, then they are many parties, God bless our country and I have learned not to know how they don't know how we are concerned with the constitution that we want, but the constitution is involved with issues of people and three.
So as to identify the leaders.
Follow the scholars of African to agree with that offense and for instance, I request for Tanzanians to thank the Almighty God to forgive me if I get me here, the Deputy Secretary General of our party Mwigulu Nchemba.
