Toyota in Tanzania launched the tent of the exhibition.

October 24, 2016.

The type of Toyota in Tanzania Limited has launched a modern exhibition show at their headquarters in Dar es Salaam city, as an effort to improve service to customers.
Speaking at that launch that took place at the end of the week, chairman and chief executive officer of Toyota in Tanzania, Mahano Karume, said the building reveals the Karimjee Group's intention to provide better service to customers.
He said after that launch, customers will benefit from the international services that are being improved and they expected to enjoy a service for many years to come.
That building has been improved by being a lot of modern services as sports equipment with modern equipment so as to move at the international standards and will be used as an exhibition of Toyota vehicles especially new.
Those vehicles are together with that area launched recently as summoning demons.
Due to this investment, Toyota in Tanzania has aims to provide a new and better service to both buyers and other people who will visit the building for seeing the services and various products that are provided by that company.
"Buy a car, it is not an issue that can be able to make every day, Toyota has decided to make sure that every winner of the vehicle can enjoy modern services," said Karimjee.
Due to the opening of the year 2017, the company will launch a service center after sales so as to ensure the users of those vehicles are continuing to get services and make those vehicles will last for a long time.
"The company will also launch a service center to provide services so as to prevent vehicles should not be able to be paid the.
Karimjee added that the launch of that building is a important history in the 191 years of Karimjee Family, 50 years of Toyota in the country where the last exhibition of the exhibition was launched 26 years ago.
That launch was attended by the ambassador of Japan, Masaharu Yoshiba followed by the various ambassadors, lovers of Taarab cars and the general manager of Toyota Moyoni, Yu Asukile who congratulated Toyota in Tanzania for making that important step.
