Yanga are now close to Simba J.

27th September, 2016

After being beaten by Stand United's voters, Yanga's leadership for now have forgotten that goal and gives their strength to their match against their rivals Simba, which is expected to be played on October first this year at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
Some of the leaders of Yanga who followed the squad said that there have been successful and now all their energy they get in their game against Simba, despite that they know they will meet with great opposition.
The defending champions lost their first game since the Vodacom Tanzania Mainland Premier League started having ten points in the premier league led by Simba with 16 points, while Stand United will rise in the second position with 12 points.
Stand United has never scored Yanga since it started playing in the two seasons ago and this is the first time to get a victory in front of the league champions at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga town.
That day before yesterday the other day that ended in Stand United scored 1-0 scored by the 60-0 goal through her striker, Tee Billz as the former defender of Yanga, caused him to talk and even some of the leaders want to move forward.
Some of the leaders of Yanga gave out the players to talk to the press and they themselves seen being annoyed by those results.
Yanga's leadership that was played in Shinyanga province, after the completion of that game, decided to change the team to take it to Mwanza province to travel to Pemba Island to set up camp for their match against Simba.
In that game that will be played on Saturday, the champions of the 26th time of the Premier League will meet with Simba having memories of scoring two times in the last season.
On the side of Simba, they did not want to explain their camp they put up, despite that there is a rumor that the club's leadership may lead the camp in Zanzibar as usual.
Speaking on the phone with the writer of this news yesterday, the spokesperson of Simba, Haji Manara said he does not know what he used to know about that camp will be stopped.
I don't have my desire to know because here when we say it is first I am at home for that, I don't know where we will return to our camp, "said Manara.
For now, Simba and Yanga have registered themselves in the purpose of being able to ensure that they are coming from the victory where leaders and the rich have received numerous promises to ensure they are inspiring.
