Nyalandu told him that he had a problem.
Jide 17, 2014.

Mke Mwema, history number 163 of the news "the prime minister opposed the headlines in the city." The head was followed by two a few minutes "he was scored by the name Nimlaumu Nani.

First, when I commend this newspaper in patriotism and professionalism of the high level, it has been written so much and I believe that this information is a result of great investment in human resources and money, I don't have conflicts among these reports that are used well in the crimes in the country will remain in the history.

I feel supposed to believe that these news will be given a lot by the minister of bail, Lazaro Nyalandu, who has been forced to get married due to this situation of crimes and I believe that his new song "you will give him a new song instead of not getting married but I believe it is not a look for again, but to arrest them only.

It is clear that the work of Nyalandu wants to arrest the poachers that has been made very much and we don't have a lesson so that we don't want to fight with them and even if you don't want them to fight with them and even those criminals have separated with them because they believe that the owner has a dog or fire weapons.

Nyalandu saluting the Prime Minister Jangala (in the picture) to bring down his network and bring down his network to continue helping as the minister of natural resources and tourism!

Nyalandu told him that he will be a person, Martin FEST will make sure to avoid sexual money so that you can buy a lot of money for the public, to take them to produce tourists and break our laws against them to allow them to enter into the shivered.

Nyalandu asked him that they were able to end his network that rumors of the residents of Arusha that involve him well and those who discovered his appointment and an act of giving him a ring on the meat and then he did not want him so that when he was admitted to Nyalandu when she was married.

Nyalandu when they arrested him being unable to destroy his network, some noise, and blame that he has violated the law and procedures of public service by posting them because she had appointed people, said that he had no good intention and plans to fight against him.

Nyalandu when they arrested him, he will play against the ball with his predecessor, Ambassador Mbelwa, who resigned from him that he had his former boss, Ambassador Mbelwa, who resigned from her former assistant coach, while he stopped him to prepare a special report that he went against him and claimed that he was trying to prepare a special report.
