Mathias Chikawe, Mwakyembe is looking for drugs.
Sei 12, 2014.

Two ministers and head of the police force (IGP), Ernest Mangu, they are expecting to meet in Dodoma this month for the purpose of looking for drugs for the increase in accidents in the country, Almighty God has told him.

Minister of Internal Affairs Mathias Chikawe, told the newspaper this week that he has planned to meet with the Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, at any time this week in Dodoma town with the aim of looking for a permanent solution to road accidents.
That step has come in a period that more than 60% have lost lives due to road accidents in a period of seven days ago.
"I was out of the country while the accident in Musoma.
"I'm back and I had planned to meet my colleague Doctor Mwakyembe together with the chairmanship of experts from SUMATRA and another department so as to know the source what we need to do to do so to get this situation.

"We can be able to succeed in a short time, but the aim is to ensure our citizens are safe to their media stations.
"If we see you to be given the whole speed, the governor is same as if we see the problem is a bad inspection in vehicles, same as if we see we need to check the issue of vehicles for the vehicles we will do so," said Chikawe.
That minister said that session will be done quickly it will make it possible because the government cannot sit without doing something when his citizens were lost their lives.

A surprise of Tanzania.

According to the edition of this year's edition that has been done by the Economist Intelligence Unit, which is sponsored by the Ambassador Ombeni Sefue in every 1000 people are only one of the vehicles that own vehicles.
However, in the small number of vehicles, the report on the state of the economy of the nation that was released in June this year has shown that in the year 2012 / 13, a total of 2800 accidents were held in the country.

In those accidents, the report shows a total of 3,972 people lost their lives in a period of this year, there is no a Tanzanian who has died from Ebola disease but it was only one week since the age of 60 have lost life.

If its 60 megawatts will be died on Ebola disease, in Tanzania it would have been painful to the media.
In the same period, Japan which has an average of owning vehicles is 1000 people with 2,300 vehicles, according to the decision of the President of the president, the people that lost their lives were 4612.
However, Japan has a number of people that are more than four times including vehicles, more than the example of Japan has been used because vehicles from that country are used more used here in Tanzania.
How are stakeholders seen?

One of the buses owners here in the country, Nicrox, said that the situation has now been bad because of the three major things that he explained that it's a result of drivers not to be avoided, bad inspection and traffic police.
He said there are drivers who are running so much, so they can endanger the safety of their passengers, he said there is a traffic police who missed the vehicles to pass even if they are supposed to break the law.
He also said that it is normal for these days to see cars leaving, leaving the stations without stopping as required and also getting into another region without stopping.
You will find a car which is owned by Ubungo where it has never happened to Dar es Salaam and it has not been buried and in Dodoma it was not sold at Morogoro and went to Dodoma and it is not in the same way, which is expected to do in the environment if it is expected to do in an environment like that, "said Rico.
