
TBL has done investment that is improving the community and to consider ethics of the environment.
The mobile phone company TBL Group which is under the international mother company SABMiller has been suspended from implementing an environmentally friendly production plan that takes environment of environment and benefiting the communities that are in the areas as a result of building its industries.
That has been noted by the manager of TBL factory of Mwanza, Richmond Raymond, while giving a topic at the seminar about building economy and sustainable development that took place in Dar es Salaam city at the end of the week, he has said for a short time of implementation of that plan, it has begun being seen by many institutions that visit the industries for the purpose of learning.
While giving an example of Mwanza Factory which is leading, Richard said that the operation makes a better system and to make sure that any issue that is going on in hand with the goals that was done by the mother company of SABMiller, the community is going on with the environment and ensuring the community that are in areas of the industry are based on investment.
Richmond said that the Mwanza factory is to make sure that the production that bought electricity prices by using rice bran instead of paying, it will increase the income of the citizens who are using them to run its machines for the previous days they will buy, "he said.
He also said that TBL is ensuring it is getting natural resources especially the farmers who sell natural resources especially farmers who sell natural resources and enable them to get enough crops which they sell at the same time to improve their lives.
He said, he said, he said, the success which the company has had its investment strategies in the country in the near future, it involves more than the Freight Company during the promotion of SABMiller with the direction of sustainable development and regulations of together.

Richard revealed that the goals did not have the objectives of the world as a result of the world, a car which has gone down, it has been able to speed up the growth of the company and social development in a series of ethics.
He mentioned another objective that it is a concert, to build a world to build a world as well as an entrepreneur, which is aiming to make beer to be natural fertility so as to encourage the dangers that will enable the sale of beer with alcohol addicted in the community who will also involve in implementing their responsibilities.
In addition, he mentioned another aim that if I get into the park, a stable world and the world that transported to protect and protecting the water sources and ensure the water being found is beneficial to the community of citizens that are getting tired of them.
Another aim that if you identify which is to build a world with power, the main aim is to help use better and sustainable land use.
Richard said this goals in which some of them have resulted in injuries and injured in the sustainable nations of the United Nations explains that the TBL Group company is an company that is determined to make investments that bring productivity and changes to the community as well as Tanzanians.
