The issue is not only a journey outside, but the ones who do?
Brightiles 20, 2015.

In June 2011 I got to travel one bridge with the ambassador of Sweden when I met the picture and put him on the internet, Jehovah's website (SATF), a big debate.
I wrote a surprising thing that is the special service provider to travel to class seven, for the preparations on the affordable price while the donations they were in class one for the cost of high prices and on one plane.
I remember that day of the journey, the ambassador to Sweden, Lennarth Hoja, who came through him, came to him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that Honorable Ambassador is supposed to tell him that his office was
We have seen that President Doctor John Magufuli meets with the behavior of executives who love to travel outside the country. Therefore the president has started a new procedure of the concerned parties to ask for the permits.
It is a good step and be supported, because that situation has got one of the things that are being maintained in the public because it gives a huge expenditure for public funds.
However, there are two who want to look at first of first, even when they get permits, those directors, even if they get the number of directors, even so they should also comply with the series of executives when there are two or two they could be enough.
Secondly, President Doctor Magufuli got a look at the nuisance of those leaders who are accompanied by leaders in the tour including the provinces of the provinces and district.
In poor countries which are found to look for the income, it did not expect the convoy or the prime minister in a tour of the province or district, vehicles are not under 25! All of them are going to do what they are required, by what they are not supposed to do what they are required.
And sometimes the surprising thing is that the prime minister visited the district instead of the DC and the directors to remain in the district they will also go in the district when they will also go to the province where the prime minister did not go to the province where the prime minister or president is doing a tour!
I believe that we should be done, we will also see that if the internal journey of the executives are there that are used badly and they increase the burden to the ones who are needed.
It is clear that what he did, President is a must to be very commended.
Retired president, Jakaya Kikwete, as a leader who had a leader of lead the nation, has planned for searching for good governance of the country to grow economically including the country to have good relations with great nations, and to ensure that he is wrong in the implementation of the development plans of the country, and to ensure that he is wrong in the implementation of the development plans of the country, and to make sure "he dies.
And in what we are able to do that, continue considering the basis of justice and democratic rights, it's only one of logs to the country, even without discussion, it is also a start of the country to start moving from the main level of development.
For sure, Doctor Magufuli has started by showing himself the example of not wanting the headquarters to inform me in 1998, Retired President Benjamin Mkapa, when he made a non-governmental tour in Sweden at the time Tanzania was in a difficult state, "he did" visit Tanzania for sponsors and investors.
I remember when I was with Paschal Mayalla, we were in prayers, Sweden saw Benjamin Mkapa giving a speech at the University after that he had a plan to visit the memory of the UN secretary general who had died in the accident of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Daimu Mlapa.
Mkapa did not want even to get into the vehicle when he left his host and decided to walk on foot.
The relatives of Sweden told President Mkapa a special vehicle of honor and there is also a car for its players and there is also a car for the convoy he made to meet with President Mkapa then, in front of the police and behind another.
