
We are following keenly the statement of Kikwete about the donations.
Wisdom, it is important to be used in executing our life with a parent, guardian, the president, minister, member of parliament or any position of the case.
In other reasons, wisdom, because of being a person before doing or saying anything that, you should be careful, most of us have the ability to use wisdom and wisdom, because we have a habit of having an illusion.
Last Wednesday, retired President Jakaya Kikwete spoke about the words that it shows that apart from the 10 years experience of presidential and professionalism in the international relationship.
Children in the town are saying that Kikwete gave a bang to live, "he said.
"Without the donations we did not love."
Meaning, it is that my joy we be heard of these days that "even sponsors, they refused to capture their donations, we can be independent," it is same as a poster that it did not leave noise.
It is easy to plan, because in planning we have said, a certain amount, will build a road, I will build roads, I will use drugs and improve the hospital.
At the time you have said that, basically you have not been a five billion, it is expected to do money that are available in the pockets of the people, as the taxpayer, tax and that we are supposed to borrow the Central Bank and donations from outside.
In the government's budget for the financial year 2016 / 17, the money that was expected to be collected by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), is 5000 dollars (8 trillion shillings) of business loans which will be taken by the government because of the premier league is 75 trillion shillings and the donations for sponsors are 36 trillion shillings.
It is possible that our budget for this year's budget is same and perhaps we can make Tanzania be a country of the central economy and the country's economy without depending on sponsors, Zuniga scored, "are annoyed so that they will be shaken.
At the time they are proud of different plans, the national debt has increased from 18 million American dollars in October 2014 up to 119,200 dollars (4 October last year).
Therefore, it is saying that the debt has increased by an amount of 5,010,00 Tanzanian shillings.
Retired President Kikwete has said that, we are happy to think that we don't have donations and should not think about such donations but it is the responsibility of nations that continue to inform us because they are those who helped us continue with us.
Recently, the Board of Medical Research Agency (MCC) in America has stopped donations to Tanzania due to the problems of democracy and violence of human rights.
I think MCC put aside support to projects which are already in that challenge, especially the energy sector as a warning to Tanzania, to change to those that you made especially during the general elections on the side of Zanzibar.
Unfortunately, many of us want this issue like humiliation or paths of internal affairs, but we have never seen that 'if you get her for the right is what he gets to them.
At least lack of wisdom, they have already told them that we can be able to continue us themselves, that we can be able to continue us themselves, that we can be a country of industries without depending on the sponsors and more that they sell the Chinese and they are our development partners.
In today's world, and the world is difficult to choose friends because the world has signed these days ago but it's not again that the era of coldness, would have risen up to South and North Carolina, I will play the ball.
Today's war is war to use wisdom and wisdom.
Today after the United States stopping the donation of 14 trillion shillings, he claimed that "together with the charges they can reach us themselves and already we have other partners like China and Japan so that we have no other partners like China and Japan." These are reminding other partners such as China and Japan. "These are reminding other partners such as China and Japan." These are reminding other partners such as China and Japan. "These are reminding other partners such as China and Japan." These are reminding other partners such as China and Japan. "These are reminding other participants like China and Japan.
Kraehenbuehl has retired President Kikwete for giving training on leadership and administration, it has ordered us to recognize that we are not supposed to think that we are not need for donations from outside Tanzania, France, Portugal and Germany have a great debt because for approximately the whole century, but our country had gone down.
Those who ran away from human resources, so far, although you can't make sure that she is written about, but they are supposed to watch it.
The writer is the head of the special unit of special projects of this newspaper, which is available for a period of being involved in mind, annamatinde @ mkito.
