
Kagame to come out of the anger on July 14, 2013.

Now, it is clear that there are diplomatic struggles between Tanzania and Rwanda in accordance with the views of the president of Rwanda, Paul Kagame about the recommendations of how to end the fight against the rebels of Rwanda, President Jakaya Kikwete.

While speaking at the graduation of the DSTV university in Rwanda recently, Kagame Cup was quoted by various media stations saying that, "it is wrong for his government to talk with the rebels of the Democratic Republic of Tanzania (FDS)."

Although he did not mention the name of the government or a person who led it to that, it is known as the idea of wanting the Kagame Cup, it was known by President Kikwete during the general meeting of African countries that was done by President Kikwete during the general meeting of African countries that took place, Addoh Mapunda, Ethiopia last month.

"By the truth of praising us, we will partner with the rebels and the rebels do not know the history of Rwanda's history as how they leave when we finish with our current problem if they think it was told by the Times magazine of Rwanda that are believed to have no boundaries.

Kagame said that since the opinion, we would like to be announced, (do not show with rebels), he has been silent for a long time without explaining something but now he has decided to put her views in public.

The newspapers of Rwanda has claimed that Kagame had a great meaning and said that he said when he was speaking to his army and not in the ordinary public meetings.

It is known that Kikwete gave those opinions in that meeting for the Kagame Cup, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and President Joseph Kabila of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) who are also the rebels in their countries.

Already the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, has issued a statement in parliament two weeks ago saying that the government will not wait for Rwanda or anyone gave him advice with the aim of looking for peace.

"The government made a statement to parliament (Kagame to meet with FL- to remove their differences), that will be the permanent answer to come out, happening and what will come up," explained Membe when he was asked about that recent information.

For approximately three weeks now, the issue of those talks and the rebels have risen up in diplomatic struggles, while Rwanda's government showed up being affected by that step of Kikwete.

The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Rwanda, Sarah Kibonde, has wrote on various social networks including Twitter for two weeks ago and he insisted that Tanzania has a mistake of wanting his country to partner with the rebels.

The government of Rwanda is taking that group of FDS like offenders, heads in the killing of Kimbari of the year 1994 and due to the fact that the leader of the group at the moment, Sylvester Mabumba, is among the people who are accused of terrorism while the amount of five million dollars in the United States.

This bad relationship between Tanzania and Rwanda is mentioned to start encouraging the work of the international force of protecting the peace of the African Union (syphilis), that was taken to DRC and Tanzania being among the countries that contributed to the police.

Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, the Director of Communication of State House, Salva Rweyemamu, said the issue of conflict between Tanzania and Rwanda is not only just without reasons.

"I have heard a speech by President Kagame's speech in different media and for sure I have not seen in any place where he mentioned Tanzania or President Kikwete in any way.

Analysis, see that the big job of yourself in us will be to fight with the rebels of the 23 group which is rumored to be supported by the government of Rwanda.

There are signs that instead of yourself in order to protect peace, it can be used to be the field of war between Tanzania and Rwanda in DRC.

The chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on foreign affairs, Edward Lowassa, told Citizen newspaper yesterday that his committee cannot give any advice to the government in the issue of Rwanda because it believes that it can complete those attacks.

"Now the committee cannot give any opinion about the relationship of Tanzania and Rwanda.

"The government has already given his information and if it wants our views to be welcomed.
We cannot speak about this issue because it is the government, "he said.

Tanzania and Rwanda have never been involved in any military conflict or diplomatic struggles since those countries started getting to Uhuru in the year 2030 and the conflict is the first attempt to face the relationship between these countries.

And thousands of thousands of Rwanda's citizens have said that they have been living in Tanzania, others have not decided to make Tanzania a country to live.
