Grenades have fallen from corruption.
Dec 16, 2015.

The war that is lifted itself now against corruption are very important and marking a great help.
Many money that will be lost because of the collection of taxes that was to be used to make efforts are continuing to be made by President Magufuli, he has paid 2trillion shillings by controlling the embezzlement of corruption.
Also, as part of those efforts, other traders who had paid taxes were given seven days, which now they have already been killed, so that they can pay taxes that they missed.
Citizens have great hopes that now corruption and bribery are eliminated, and I have also great hopes that even so I also have a lot.
Citizens have been asked, the government of the past phase had up to the huge corruption of this kind being shaken by all years.
That question is important but to me, it is the second question and my first question is what has resulted to the liberation movement of us to us for us to achieve our country themselves?
It's after the question is that I'll see the second question were where the past government had to fail to control this situation but in accordance with the launch of World Cup 2014, Tanzania is 119 out of 175 countries in the cleaning standards of corruption.
In the current situation, it seems that corruption and bribery are a cancer that goes hand in every development sector and also the whole country is among the civil servants who are very few, for us citizens and we believe that the government intends to make these young people.
But if the fifth term government will destroy the theft, it has a strategy to change such attitude of the servants that can cause chaos or the government this is expecting the servants to stop theft and fear a long time.
I have been said, together with all the heads of President John Magufuli and his senior aides, like the hearts of the people, this war will not give them major fruits and also the government itself can be able to give a lot of relief for the ones that are needed.
Success of the fact in this war is when a large percentage of servants and many business people to stop corruption and bribery, the success of the truth is when to take actions, to have heard these actions.
The success of the fact is when it was taken to bribery and corruption of all types of corruption, the community should be surprised by the norm for citizens to be careful when the suspects were arrested or a shame.
In the current situation, it's not a secret that the community is proud to have a brother, the one clapping is the most importantly, "the person has been made to build two houses and has three vehicle.
So, can we reach this level of ethics what I mentioned above and it is not easy for you and not by depending on the correct understanding of ethics and the reason for getting philosophically.
Therefore, then, there is an important question to ask you and do you see the strategies of fighting corruption, we can also think of long-term plans to build a nation of people with ethics and patriotism, those who stop bribery and corruption?
For example, one of the plans we should be able to start is to improve the ethics of life and Tanzanian, under the philosophy of, what does the education can be productive if you will be used by honesty, integrity and integrity.
The curriculum of ethics which will take up of them is for all levels of entrepreneurship education, primary, secondary and university.
In many education professions at the university levels, ethics of the concerned work has been condemned and even so, this ethics may be used as more than the end of a day for students who want to look for work, although they are not good to do work in accordance with ethics.
When you check the ethics, it does not end it only to give the students the knowledge of ethics and knowledge of how to make the correct decisions that their parents and difficulty of their own benefit, their families, community and the country.
