
The government will do problems.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
Two months now the politicians from Diamond and Utah Jazz have been using every hall who receive, get religious meetings or passport.
Politicians from Claudio Ranieri, they started with 'song' for the national talks and ended with the 'lice' of the opinion polls.
United Republic of Busquets is being led by his leaders, the former prime minister, Raila Odinga, the deputy president of former president, Kalembo and Senator of Bhebey Ndey and Senator of Bwankanu in government among other things.
During the Saba Saba meeting, the leaders of Correa scored that the door of national talks has been completed, they open a page of the decision.
The leaders of Diamond, also have been doing every reason to put off their opponents who have not registered themselves easily and even involved the opposition and a series of brutal killings that are ongoing in the Coastal region.
Politics of this kind have no benefits in the country but they are supposed to bring conflicts in the basis of transmitting news, religion and politics.
The words that were not found is a bone, instead of using a lot of time to oppose what's said by the opposition, the Diamond's government is to address a lot of issues that are supposed to bring about controversy.
For instance, the government is a must that it's working with the corruption problem by putting off the claims about the presence of corruption cases during the exercise of encouraging the police force, being enough evidence that will be taken so that the involved will be taken against them.
To prove that?
Likewise, the government is supposed to deal with the opposition that it has strengthened the security for fighting with groups of criminals who have been affected by many Kenyans who are not guilty in any other areas in the country.
It is a shame for the government to claim that the opposition is when you put a terrorist attack without encouraging the concerned parties because the security of Kenyans are in the hands of the government and not otherwise, a great strategies is to ensure that the cost of life is reduced so as to ease the burden of life to the low-income citizens.
If he is said, the Bible Church, you cannot give a strong man on the eye of your friend and you will have an agreement with Cord and through its 24 government, he said that it is good to show that the mistakes that have been getting in the national union will not get into those government.
In addition, there are many cases that are led by governors of Geology, whose workers were given their positions by considering the presence of any kind and lack of high-level officials in the government but there is no doubt that Cornell universities is good to blame the local government officials.
While the special committee has already been mentioned by Emelda Mwamanga from running the referendum process, the senior leaders of the opposition are looking at a warning since they may vote against him and beat them politically.
