
A heavy secret of thanks for Doctor Mwakyembe Sei 27, 2012

Congratulations were given during the vote of thanks for the minister of transport, Doctor.
Harrison Mwakyembe has been an important message about the existence of the network of the fund to attain the nation around him.

The vote of thanks took place at the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Mortuation, in Kyela District, Mbeya Region last Sunday and attended by various leaders, including ministers, members of parliament and political parties in Mbeya Province.

For more than one year now, citizens have had the desire to know especially the disease that brought the politician the ones that are believed to be among many, including political leaders, that due to the poison that even so, the environment for it has reduced it is a riddle until today.

Every time they have been a chance to talk about the great importance of God has been demonstrated in various events in the country, especially in addition to some of the political leaders in the country, so as to remove the sins that they believed that it was not allowed, and citizens not knowing the truth of illegal immigrants.

Doctor Mwakyembe decided to thank God because of the good things, he said that he allowed him for a bad road accident which happened in Iringa province, May 2009, and conspiracy for killing him together with some of other political leaders, religious and famous people in the country, all those events have been issued to the police force but they were left without working.

But the surprising fact is that surprising fact is a great disease that has made it last year to an extent that the government will be forced to receive him in the Apollo Hospitals in India where it succeeded to identify the existence of chemicals in witchcraft in the country, which are the ones that were causing the damage to her skin as well as they get married.

While testifying on the minister, the office of the President, Professor Mark Mwandosya who is also attended the service, said together with other things that it was unable to see for the tests done by Doctor Mwakyembe is because of what was done by Doctor Mwakyembe is because it was done and therefore noted the existence of relationship with the disease.

Professor Mwandosya is the one who was found to go to the Apollo Hospitals in India, where previously he was expected to use one week he knew the size of the problem that was carried out while in the hospital, it was noted that the minister facing a big problem if he is expected to be forced to sit for more than six months being treated.

When I was in India, I called me and asked him to ask for forgiveness for him, and when he went to him to his constituency to go to India for treatment, "said Rwezaura, and added that I was told to be with him because he did not meet me."

Suffering from those two ministers at a time, again the ones that were seen as a very small person, being from one province, the neighboring regions that are born with people of one community, brought down the misunderstanding that until now he didn't forgive him.

The real situation, as a result of not clear, it is that most of the citizens in that province have no faith in their government together with the ruling party, when their talks showed that, especially when they saw the native language of the province, when they came out and sees no problem.

Talks about issues that involve the local contractors in that province, it is normal to do offices, and different areas with gatherings, whereby we've mentioned the names from the late Stephen Kibacha, his former minister, who until today did not believe that his death was normal.

Haazu taking me there, think about the names of the deceased, Professor Jomo, and killed by being shot by being shot at his home in Dar es Salaam city, Professor Mwandosya and Doctor Mwakyembe had survived, due to the heavy disease that was found, and recently he led the strike of doctors in the country, that he was caught up with death in the environmental environment.

The killings of the former journalist from Channel Ten television in Iringa province and the chairman of the journalists club in that province, the late David Banda, has condemned the anger of those citizens against the government claiming that it is a special program to fulfill the natives of that province to come out and build names in the country.

"In the year 2009, I got a bad accident between Makambako and Iringa town, something that I did not forget yourself, is that I met with a lorry," she told Doctor.
Mwakyembe on Sunday.

He said in addition to that incident and many other events that were presented to the police force, but he has been surprised by the directors of that army in dealing with those events without considering that an issue that has made her love.

Doctor Mwakyembe who used the opportunity to listen to the citizens of his constituency as he was accompanied by a great disease that has prepared himself by saying that all events have been quoted by the senior directors of the police force.

In addition, he said among the accident, he is the director of one institution for education with running secondary schools and colleges in the Southern Highlands regions, Mbaki Mutahaba, who with his fiancée at the city of Dar es Salaam, he found Doctor Mwakyembe from the blood, and joined the Iringa Provincial Hospital.

"Police we don't know her to change, because Doctor Mwakyembe was not another again, he didn't leave the hospital, I thank my brother Jose Mourinho, and he insisted that he was safe and asking him to participate in the hospital," he told the director.

According to Mwambusi following that accident, Doctor Mwakyembe said that in Iringa, it is among the events that he will not forget where they come from his life, saying it has been extended up in his past history.

But it was done many people who attended that service is a story of Doctor Mwakyembe about how he was followed by someone who was planned to sign him, that is December 28, in 2009.

He said Mrs Mwanamwema has been prepared for the killing of Iringa and Mbeya regions, who had been planned to tell him, he was a chronic person, but God created me, he told me he is in charge of Kyela, doesn't know me.

In his explanations, the instructions that come out the audience of the service of thanks they have been trying, he said that the rapper told the whole plan of killings planned and gave him freedom to break his details, which he has brought to the reserve up to today.

In all events that happens inside that three years, Doctor Mwakyembe said he has been calling the police force, but he says that all of them did not take any action of running efforts to resolve the truth.

Perhaps those who touched many are the disease which she suffering from a disease, which says in a surprising environment that has not been able to mislead the public.

"In the year 2011 when I was affected, when I was affected when that time I was affected by my brother, Professor Mark Mwandosya (God is good, he went on the same time, we walk on him and my brother Mkwasa is evidence about the great shape of God," said Doctor Mwakyembe.

In what causes a lot of citizens, among him himself, they believe that the disease that brought me is true, the situation that he was going to India says he allowed the doctors who were given to them.

"The doctor who found himself told me he has done his opportunity for more than 27 years but I have never seen the type of disease," said Doctor.
Mwakyembe has said.

He added, "Sitta when he arrived to see me, I was very happy because he was sent to him because he was sent away by police urging them to reduce them when they sell her to the past, or being Sitta (Samuel) is a lawyer who is an expert in the country.
While testifying on his part, the Minister of East Africa, Samuel Sitta, completed that service by saying that God does not like false with the fact that there is no habit of insulting each other and it is a day you want to identify Doctor Mwakyembe from why he didn't return to the hospital that he was being treated. "

Six minister continued to appreciate the weaknesses within political politics saying.
"The problem of our African countries is politics of the low level, leaders are involved in their interests and not the broader interests of the public, there are people, we will just deal with corruption, we will just deal with corruption."

That service had various popular people and among those who met with the member of parliament of Kahama, James Lembeli who noted that all the problems Doctor Mwakyembe resulted from his behavior of being true.

That statement was supported by the member of parliament of Mbarali, Modestus Kilongo and the member of parliament for Nzega, Doctor Hamis Kigwangala, while Kilufi added that the political problem of Tanzania is that those who are not happy.

Speaking at that service, the Member of Parliament for Mbeya Town, Joseph Mbilinyi has advised Doctor Mwakyembe to leave the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and instead know each other, his party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) claiming that his stand (Doctor Mwakyembe is not involved in his party.

"Anything that does not affect, you will give you more strength. What is going on together with Doctor Mwakyembe, all of us have a same, to supervise the interests of Mbeya and our nation as a whole," said Mbilinyi.

A total of 48 million shillings that was found in that service of thanks as the sacrifice of Almighty God, being part of the ceremony that attended the service to support Doctor Mwakyembe from his thanks to God for the good things that he did not work, including the lack of death in different programs.

That amount of money that was collected during that vote of thanks, has been directed to be used in completing the construction of a new building of the church of that union, Nduli, together with renovation of the former building that will be used to run the development projects in the village of Ikwililo, including living and stability.

Other leaders who attended the service include the Deputy Minister of Education, Philip Mwangobola, Deputy Minister of Transport, Doctor Charles Tizeba, who was the minister of resources and tourism, Ezekiel Maige and the nominated member of parliament, Hilda Ngaja.
