
I saw Mgaka.
The Archbishop of Shangwe should be remembered, The Citizen is healed?
Kenyan music has got a visitor after an artist Ommy Dimpoz, through his music label, Ommy Dimpoz through his label of Powel.
The director of that label, Ommy Dimpoz has narrated that the new artist is happy that he was unable to come up but you need.
The day before yesterday, Nicrox, was officially introduced in the label and entered into football music, made an interview with this artist who together with other things, he was going on more about the origin of his name "Noma Music."
What is the origin of the Wahaya tribe of the name NHO 'is a short time for the name which happened in Dar es Salaam, when I started to use, when the first form was I started to go to music but I was heading to dance.
Now I have been getting in my religious religion when I see I have written, but a young man is why I would like, I would like I would like, I would like to discuss religion because we had to discuss religion because we had to look for religion so that we can watch it.
Later, students were left to tell me, I am saying I am participating in the dancing team and singing and I am participating even those teachers me, because I was trying to listen to our school.
The teachers who were left to inform me is the name which I will use in my music, at the time I was a leader of sports in singing and everything in the competition.
This music artist was able to come if they don't have blessings from my close people in the streets, I was going to singing, but the shivered and I cannot get music.
Sikunjema gave up on the words of people and I said that let me continue to singing, I became I went back night to go back on night so as to meet them.
When I was continuing to tell me that I start to grow, therefore, the leader of our country called me the name Nmon Music.
Your contract with PKP?
My contract with the label should not be easy for now being comforted when I will do so later as leadership you want to do so.
Apart from singing what you have ever done?
