
The car to be avoided if it does not lie!
What would you know the reader, a situation where I'm in the whole world, I hope you have done you and you will be what is happening here but if the event will let you want to explain that it is a new things that had come into time or not.
Today by putting it only, I request that you lead you like a certain kind of us, in our Tanzania, they are inspiring.
If you will be a lover on entertainment issues I think you will be able to remind me more. I know all the days he has not understood, because the film he does not understand well and even if he would get back to their home, it's not a neighbor?
I think this is in this situation that is the same thing that the rapper ran away.
Maybe if you're a teaser that I'm going to him, but no one but it did not depend on, but it does not find each other and we can enjoy the truth.
Today I am very happy with his father in the past, with yourself and with her husband to U January in the B awards, it was enough to refuse to receive an award when the son of Diamond entertaining in Africa when she was self-driven and wanted to get an award when his fellow musician while carrying out an award that he is supposed to loose the award.
VI of Morocco has the old star, recently, being keen because of his skill of not being beaten in the field so that, why can also get a veteran musician who had already found himself as a veteran politician, then how it sees it is not close to choose that award because he didn't know what is not true.
When you put those remarks, the day before yesterday I've been defending himself that without a hip-hop music, Kenya has died on the same time when she got a fast rate, and even when he went into a fast rate, and even when he went into a fast speed and even when he was not seen, in Kalalay.
My way, it was just a mistake of creating a gun and try to marry off the eyes and there is a must to reduce the point where he does not allow me to witness the competition because it does not allow me to watch the competition.
