
Hamisi Kigwangalla makes a taste of life in parliament.
It is after explaining the stem cells that are not cancer.
Mister el Chidawali about the Citizen that was unconscious.
Dodoma's members of parliament yesterday caused havoc in the parliament after the deputy minister for health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla to give a lasting answers concerning the stem cells that affect some women in the country.
The scandal happened when Doctor Kigwangalla answering a question about the increase of member of parliament of Kaliua Constituency (CUF), Magdalena Sakaya about that disease with the victims of the victims.
Sakaya mentioned to know if the government does not see the need to address that problem which has caused many marriages to be stopped from the women not to give birth.
The deputy minister started by making sure that he is the area that was involved in treatment and what he used was not correct.
"There is no great danger, Shaa and stem cells are not cancer, there is no habit of change as cancer but it's great can show signs such as smoking cigarettes, came out in large numbers and severe pain in the body of the center," said Doctor Kigwangalla.
In a primary question, the nominated member of parliament (CUF), the guest of parliament of special seats (CUF), the guest of parliament Juffali, wanted to know how the government has managed to help women who used for a long time.
The answers of the deputy minister gave noise from all members including men to the extent of removing peace in parliament to the minister of that ministry, Ummy Mwalimu decided to intervene.
Teacher asked the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, to pave way for that debate so as to give a chance to the members of parliament to be given seminar by Doctor Kigwangalla and other experts.
The deputy speaker met with that request when he asked the members of parliament that his office will increase a good procedure for giving them a seminar so as to know how the problem is.
