Vunjo, two electoral managers have been seriously injured after the need to produce fake votes.

Three managers have been injured in a beating from citizens who were arrested while transporting passengers whose votes were played last night.

That event made the police to vote for presuming during different times out of 5 billion Tanzanian shillings with 8 o'clock at night in order to disperse the citizens who had flooded the Himo Junction center.

This misunderstanding emerged after the supervisors were arrested by citizens in the area of Marangu Kilimba and a small town of Himo Junction.

After the arrest of those votes, they were arrested for votes which have not been arrested, those citizens were arrested while he received the supervisors and some being injured.

The police commander of Kilimanjaro Province, Fulgence Kazaura, said that the supervisors were scored by the citizens after being accused of transporting the voters' votes which were beaten.

"After those supervisors, the supervisors were taken to the Himo Junction center and the false information regarding many citizens who had flooded the station," said Commander Ngonyani.

Commander Ngonyani said that police wanted those citizens to get divided but they were unable to learn and start violence, a situation that forced the police to use extra strength.

At that station there was also a parliamentary candidate for Vunjo Constituency on CCM ticket, Augustine Mrema and his huge explosion who was being transferred on the NCCR-Revolutions Party, James Mbatia.

However, that commander said that after the occurrence of those recommendations, they met with the supervisor of the elections, Fulgence Kazaura, who after arriving at that station, they should know the servants of the commission.

More information indicate that after those supervisors were taken to police station, citizens attacked all roads that enter the small town of Himo while inspecting every vehicle that they pass.

The drivers of the vehicles that were able to stand up with them, found themselves in trouble for their vehicles having been arrested by using stones as a situation that forced the police to use them.

Mrema when they were looking for him to speak about that situation, he said that he would not be able to say anything about the validity of those votes since he awarded that responsibility to his youth who had not called me.

When we were in the police we were told that everyone will make someone that will continue to work together with the supervisor so that my youth did, I decided to work up until now, I have not met with buoors, "he said.

On his part, Mbatia advised NEC for wanting to disrupt the election by giving them the good medical equipment to enable the transport without security of police or Mgambo.
