
To partner with people is a good thing in life.
And TROBERT AND YOHANA MAGM?
The son and his wife were their fear in Tanzania.
They saw coughing, farms and many vehicles.
Different businesses have spread in the capital cities in the country.
Matangi Mgata to shivered to the villagers of hiding our customers for men, children and youth.
"You are supposed to be hard like my, I don't read it," he told them.
The residents who tried to kill him but for one day, the popular one told his residents to celebrate the birthday of his daughter Larger, by people it is a good thing in such as cooks, popularly known as Luvanda, and broke up with an error in that championship.
Food was not ready, the workers were not ready, the workers were shocked as the great wife, his wife and her child was arriving at the sitting room.
By eight hours, there is no one resident who has arrived.
Locals were started by worried.
"You have sure you followed the letter and phone from an invitation why the people do not want to get married or do not just look at radio and to see in television," the popular he instructed the employee.
Some of the residents were unable to answer those phones.
The employee was unable to talk about the truth and claimed that the residents were found and emergency activities.
"We are important activities like it is not the birthday of my daughter!" The popular day I met with excitement then you are getting tired and that you are always the reason why we will end up to me, "Mzee Makandege.
"After the poor and the rich were heard in one basket if you go back to me," Mzee Kitoro added oil for a child that gets to him, "Mzee Kito added oil for a few minutes I thought and destruction.
"What does it mean to now I will work? I will take it to food that was filled with him at home?"
Something has opened up on his soul.
Tears when he started shouting.
"I request for forgiveness for showing them, pride and then get this one, we should build a relationship," urged them.
The residents admitted that invitation and that was the first to be a good leader.
