The late?
Since this strategy is a difference with?
He was expected to have been left silent, and let him see for players who had died in place in every country.
By removing the people to fight for that plan was an axe and it is not true.
They feel that I can say it is two different people that this is left.
He had a saving of players.
But well as a difference between every journey, it was a must that he will not get five, it is not a habit, but he used the players for the future of them.
But in everything you are fighting the month of five.
But there is no use of the generation after the contract we live and now he is called so that he is called so that I was called so that I was called '.
The Almighty God rest until I think well in the region to come as youths who are smoking the lake region.
I don't know your beer?
That is why it was a picture.
It was the very second time from when you will get my freedom to your people, there are many people in the whole country, which I would like to study about some of it was very important but some of what I would take them because it was very difficult but everyone can get this opportunity.
In the lake region we are going to go to the provinces of Pwani regions and from now, it is a chance that has been given.
Ommy Dimpoz has been from the hands you got there and no one who did not get a chance, I was a player where it was a player.
More than Arsenal is the truth that there is someone who has agreed to let me take because even the teachers' participation in the country are the ones who understand the soccer of the country.
This camp is faced with improvements, we believe that we will know what they will be able to study from those offices in the office to come to the national team.
Technical after that, I have done the required procedures, we have seen for a long time.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we will see our team in this international industry to do well.
Now there is has come at the time before being taken to now, it will be able to reach the knowledge of that player.
To get those matches that we have got the teams that have the ability?
Those children who have never been given is a big child.
That is saying that, it is the first that you look at the first against your words in the coming games.
If the mother to produce your objection is the best because if you like this one, it will be a better than a competitive market.
It will be better and competition.
It's no one and I did not have a few months ago, I was very few months ago I was very few months ago, I was trying to make sure some of us have done four games but maybe so as to get good deeds that are in the moment.
Those competitions are there.
Lovers of the tournament.
Dealing.
As a result of the Bible I was with ten years old.
To you know what?
In this competition I will come to come up, we will get oil if we were waiting to explain but they still need to stand on various national international meetings.
But even if they get the fees he will see when I got to me, I am no good faith that there is no need to have good youths because they come from here in a short time when they started from here in a short time when you have already received us because they don't know what you are ready to get advice.
