
Segerea in the directive of Magufuli.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 1st November 2016.

Citizens of Segerea ward in Ilala Municipality, Dar es Salaam city, have participated in the cleaning of the canal, being part of the implementation of the directive by President John Magufuli of cleaning every Saturday the end of the month.

The councilor of Segerea ward, Edwin Byampaju explained that he was among those who participated in the cleaning work at the end of the week, he said that the job went to safe although there was no weeds that tried to prevent them to do that work.
Mutharika said that they went to work on the canal as part of implementing the directive by President John Magufuli, but he was announced by some people that tried to prevent them although they did not succeed.
The secretary of the Tanzania Women's Association (UWT), Palasa Namkoveka said that they decided to come and do a cleanup after seeing the claims that Tusiime, Tusiime, Kaizerege in the canal, but they discovered that there was no sharp object in the canal, but they discovered that there was no worries at each other.
"When we are doing this exercise, we believe that we are very difficult, because there is no worries at anything that comes from religion, these are self-malarial and those whom we will continue to make sure we be clean in every time," he said.
"And we have been announced to see a person who has banned the wall to prevent water that is not known for this canal, these treatments are self-employed, this water will stay here," he said.
"We have never told the lady who cared about the wall that from today, let me stay in school by giving false information between citizens and small schools, trying to do so they will face the citizens of Segerea ward and not Tusiime," said Nemu.
The secretary of CCM, Segerea Province, Khalfan has said that the traditional canal has been growing up at all times and that the wall that was built by poachers have been built on mistakes and the government must come in fighting.
He said that they sell the canal so as to ease water flow to easily and that there is no single bus they got during the exercise different from the claims that were given by one of the neighbors just after time.
The chairman of the Local Government of Segerea, Karama Mkonga said that the canal that is in the valley of an entrepreneur depends on a lot of water from different areas, therefore have found guilty, purification of time to time.
"We have forgotten that the exercise has gone well and or we did not see a chameleon here if we were told by some people, it's clean water which comes from different areas of this area and we will continue enjoying any time," said Mkonga.
