
The scandal of the Girl Child Card from their part 'Siri ya Mtungi' takes a new album.

Scandal of the teachers of Mlingoti Primary School located at Mwibara province, Bunda District, Mara Province, have been operated on witchcraft being involved with physical and money and money, now it has taken a new twist.

That situation is as a result of the head of that district, Joshua Mirumbe urged suspects (witches), who citizens got them to be involved in those acts by getting votes, are arrested quickly and taken to state agencies.

Mirumbe urged the directive yesterday in his office in a session that made the member of parliament of that constituency Kangi Lugola, the government officials of the village of Nsalaga and Ntasoma Hotel.

He said criminal acts are done so that the teachers are big humiliation which cannot be dealt with and stopped from the Ntasoma Hotel, Mister Jonas Tiboroha has stopped and taking a quick action.

He said Mister Misango, was supposed to arrest 15 suspects who are forced to arrest 15 suspects who are believed to be associated with the teachers by conducting acts of witchcraft and take them to state agencies.

"I have directed the division officer (Nakheel), in following the suspects who have a list of their names, I have been able to be taken to state agencies when they prepared them to return to the village and their colleagues were not seen," he said.

He added that, continuing with lack of those people is to cause violence in the village because there is a probability of the citizens to take their laws and encourage teachers in fear, lack of work performance.

On his part, Mister Byakanwa, who was forced to stop the parliamentary sessions to go to his constituency while at a public rally which he did in that village, he was forced to worry after it was surprised how the teachers said that they were able to involve the brutal acts of stealing and remove their daughters.

In that meeting, the citizens apart from seeing the perpetrators of those actions in public, they blamed Mister Putin that those people are spoiling very fast in that region before the end of this law, a step that will have effects, blood poured.

Mister Byakanwa explained to those citizens that he is together with them so as to ensure those people are forced or in his constituency but because he does not have the authority to do so that they have already announced the issue to the head of the district with the ability to do that legal.

In that meeting, there was also the councilor of Ntasoma Hotel, Sabaya, a song, Executive Officer (MARI), the Executive Officer of Ntasoma Hotel, Bryceson Kiwelu, county coordinator, Pius Mutakubwa Lugangira.

Yesterday Mister Byakanwa was accompanied by the leaders together with the police to go to the village to distribute and arrest those suspects as a result of the directive by the district commissioner and said that police will be forced to arrest the suspects with an aim of protect him until the last person.

Those people are alleged to prove out and performing well in those acts night including taking different documents including identity cards to the bank (ATM) through witchcraft.

Also, those witches have been giving a great need and small pieces of the teachers, to put food, food and vegetables and sometimes the teachers do not have badly affected by vegetables, suddenly they are Ugali, spirits, and beans.
