28 December, 2012

Love is crossing the police.

By Eliasa Ally, Iringa.

The police force in Iringa province with a number of 36710 PC Charles Samuel (23), who his work station is in Dodoma province, has been killed after being shot dead by death.
It is alleged that the police who was holidays and he was blocked by her sister to leave the woman who was drinking alcohol in the past, but he refused and where the security guards of Coke Studio that is in Mufindi District, Iringa province.
Starting the attack.

Speaking to the press, the police commander of that province, Michael Mungure, said the incident happened in December.
25, this year, at the alcohol industry in Benoni, which is in Cristal Arena area, Nalasi Division, in that district.

He said that police had been killed by two hours night in Ziba village, with a woman whose name was not identified immediately.

When this woman was born in the earth and the late for an agreement that Christmas day had been forced to be a soldier of this police (without changing his name), he didn't have an act of her brother to leave the woman, "he said.

As a result of that situation, the late father of the deceased, after seeing that there is a huge tension, he told the village, the village so as to help him to support him and the woman.

"Mgambo when they arrived at the pitch to see the cause of those drugs, they did not ask the source but they started to beat up the late by putting off the late for Mufindi District where after a short time died due to lack of a lot of blood in the head for a beating," he said.

Commander Siro has mentioned those people who were arrested due to those killing being Leonard Samuel (52), Isaack Saiwa (36), Eleuteri Mangi -( 31), Dickson Snowden (27), Dickson Makandege (30).

He said all are the security guards of Coke Studio as well as a woman who had the deceased being infected.
Its body being reserved in Mufindi District.

"The suspects will be presented in court when they were arrested by the charge of killings," he said.
