
The poor leadership is same as a cancer that killed our soccer.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
It is the best leadership for managing the football game, is the one that made soccer in the Coastal Region and Kenya in general.
The leadership of leadership led it and being bad, that is the biggest reason for this game that causes the deterioration of Kenya to be among the poor nations in the International Federation of Football Association (FIFA).
Those are the opinions of the former player of the Young Africans Club, Mussa Abdalla famously known, who is still remember how the soccer game was supervised by non-integrity and the reason his condition was improved every year.
"It is a must for the news of soccer in soccer, we should wait for leaders whom they have been forced, to make sure that club doing a great plans of developing themselves," said Versi.
The Jaguar type, who was the former chairman of soccer in the Coast Province, Mela Khamis Khamis, although he had the poor, his leadership enabled the teams of this province that will enable this province to be paid against the mainland teams.
Luseko says soccer in Pwani province had been destroyed by some of the leaders who were fighting for power because of implementing their personal benefits and not to promote football.
However, that veteran has hope to the soccer leaders that are in this time in the Coastal Region, to be found in enough development of football and even our national team will have a good position in the FIFA level.
The Jaguar type that was born on December 25, 1954, was remember how the late Marijani Rajabu was a leader who had arrived for many years to lead soccer in the province, as he used to make sure the Coast clubs are doing well in the national league.
"I remember well, that leader had not accepted our team that you want to be treated through any way, it was ready to sign the club not to play in the match if he has seen one of our teams are oppressed," Masau boasted.
The former player says that the big old clubs in Liverpool (Mwenge) and Feisal, Lake Warriors, Western Stars and both sides have been having a support by small clubs that are participating in the district and province regions.
"I request that we be done so that the plans to produce scientists should be dancing and agreed to play for more than one club," gave ZANU PF who for this time he helps to play soccer club of Likangara to get well in the Coastal Union league next season.
It gives the request for the Coast club when they meet again to compete well and they should be able to go back, because doing that can be able to reduce the state of playing football in the parts of Pickup, where in the past.
He says the club of Feisal and Mwenge were involved in the Coastal Region by winning the premier league trophies with what was known as FA Cup, he added that the Coast team can return to his former team if there will be an agreement between the leaders and players of various clubs.
He has great hopes that the leaders of the leading soccer of the Football Federation in the country (FFGM) in the Coastal Province and North regions will fulfill their duties by making sure that great plans are done to ensure that it was in the past.
"I have seen a good sign of going back to the high football soccer in the province since the new leaders failed to rule the election due to the elections that took place where I am sure they were admitted to fight against the national team as it was in the past years," he says.
