
Stop the danger of human health.
Tumaini Zigamba has spoken to Mwananchi Communications Manager, Mobolaji Dawodu.
Dar es Salaam is dangerous to people who are eating wild meat, that will not be avoided, they are in the danger of being infected inside the type of sexually transmitted diseases and various diseases including Benitu.
That is the results of the research that was done by the scientists from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM).
Recently in Mbulu District, Kongwa, Sumbawanga, Mpanda, Iringa, Urambo and Mbozi provinces where they discovered that the eating of that meat is known as summoning demons.
The leader of the panel of those researchers, the lecturer of UDSM, Chacha Mwita, said out of 1,036 people who had given tests, 150 people who were buried and they found the presence of a huge circulation of worms and human beings, something that is dangerous to them.
According to the research that was given by the name "Success is unacceptable," 53 percent of cooking patients in the country have been caused by eating that meat.
"Among the 150 people who were found in that infection, more than 20 percent were suffering from Kinyanyiko area where 53 percent were affected by the veins," said Mwita, in an interview with the writer of this news yesterday.
The research said that despite the government not to put priority in controlling the diseases that have been infected by the animals, there is need to get tests that can recognize the infections of insects and drinking alcohol when they enter into blood and put into consideration the brain, heart and other areas so as to be easy to control.
That comes from Doctor Mwita said earlier, a human being who is the first to marry Rachel because, Sainmeier has said in a human body, for the first step I could have a lot of eggs in a human being when they get them.
If you want to be one, what usually uses one hundred thousand eggs and that after a fools should remain in the blood stream of the blood flow in the blood stream of the blood may be preceded by the meat and eventually reaches another system.
"The district of Mbulu was very dangerous because every corner, we don't want research, we will meet many worms, with a large number of people who have been infected," said Mwita.
The research said that the reason of the infection as a habit of residents of those areas not to use the toilets, the animals were left to mix up and therefore, if a human being does not pollute the meat, a human being usually is in a high risk of getting married.
"Those who don't have conflicts, don't change each other, there cause unnecessary accidents in the brain and later someone gets stranded," he said.
Also, he said that if he will be rushing into the eyes, consumer can get injuries and that a patient can fall if it is discovered early.
The research steps in collaboration with doctors from Mbulu District Hospital, were forced to samples of blood for the purpose of research soon after that they went to their research at the college and to identify those who had gone down.
Mwita said people who were found to get HIV infection will be taken to the Haydom Referral Hospital in Manyara Region to look for criminal acts by using the CT Scan images.
Other experts denied the breathing system from BADEA.
"The problem is known as' Neonatal Sepsis' and is caused by poison that is caused by poison that was caused by poison that was started," he explained.
He advised the users to stop making sure that the meat is measured by the experts of livestock to know if there are infection of such attitude or not, he has urged the citizens to build a habit of using those toilets and to stop spreading them so as to continue fighting.
