The ministry depends on the quality of film.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, has urged the film artists in the country to continue making films that consider the quality and skills in the community.

In addition, the servants have been urged to ensure that their films are required to ensure social development and economic development, while avoid the user's share of any kind.
That was said by the deputy minister of that ministry, Anastazia Wambura in Morogoro town when he launched the film, "explained," made by the Swahili film artists of Morogoro Municipality.
Therefore, he said that the ministry together with the film board in the country will continue to deal with the pension fund in the country so as to enable artists with their work to benefit from the fruits of their husbands.
The Deputy Minister also called Neema Tanzania is one of the African countries that is supposed to be a big percentage of its citizens through the film industry.
Therefore, he said through this industry, Tanzania has announced and it has also announced its own culture in Swahili language.
"I recognize the Swahili film company has been in hand in hand with the film board and through your cooperatives who will enable the training to hold film pictures by the 11 pictures with the Tanzania Film Board," said Wambura.
Therefore, he said the plan is important to be distributed in other provinces, while the government will continue to cooperate in the plans of the kind so as to improve the film industry in the country.
The Deputy Minister said that despite the fighting for art activities in the ministry in collaboration with the film board in the country, it will look at the right way to be identified that will attract artists' work with an aim of protecting the interests of the two sides.
And the Executive Secretary of the film board in Tanzania, Joyce Fisoo said that despite Tanzania being the second country for having a lot of film is being implemented by Nigeria but the quality of those films is high level.
