We have learned what the coming of Obama does not know!
Jide 5, 2013.

We will also be a very big people like after the great coming of President Barack Obama agreed that we were so.
However, the possibility of having a difference of it's not there and therefore I cannot be surprised that before Obama's coming days, we have never seen all of Obama's coming and even if we should never tell ourselves, though we should never understand what we have learned.

There is a need to learn?
I believe there are a lot to learn a lot of things to an extent that I have been sure this short time you want to say it is true that the success did not see if the heavy rains we saw and the coming of Obama is things that have been done by a human being.
This United States which is a nation with more strength in the world did not be aired like the city of Jerusalem in the moon, but have been made by these human beings.
America has not arrived here by bad luck or because his human being does not have a lot of human beings and there is no wonder because it is now a country that for a period of close to many years was for slavery and even war against them.
Think about this day the day before yesterday, Monday, it was 150 years since the fight against Getenergy was held during the southern highlands where he won the army of South Ugunja and if he won without doubt the history of America could not be this is now.
It was about Getenergy which was boycotted by the end of Americans that are not less than 50,000, both sides of people have been killed by the hands of their brothers and therefore we see her efforts today, which took a close to 500,000 people (five hundred thousand).
In addition to that, the United States succeeded in a huge conflict of Black Americans and women despite being shown by preparing for slavery.
In addition to various laws to defend that discrimination, the end of the day was only 50 years ago, that Black Americans have been able to have rights like other citizens passing the law of civil rights of there were only a nation with different meanings in maybe more than another country in the world.
Today, we see a black person to lead the nation of many people that have never seen the history of Black Americans is a surprising thing and a surprising thing on the heart of human beings.
The day before yesterday we have seen the wife of the Vice President of Zambia, which is Scott, has come, and other people have been surprised because they have seen the wife to the president of Zambia, Guy Scott, under President Michael Mungure.
In this issue of dealing with this amount is to recognize that one country's citizens have the right time even if you are people from different religion, different people and different people have the ability and said that our fellow Tanzanian will leave you or say "Mhangwakwamba have come?
How will it be if you want to vie for a Tanzanian who will want to vie for the presidency if you think they are not present, there are whites who are not present, we will begin and say immediately because "colonial history has come and said once we can learn anything from America?
But also Twaweza in order to bring success in the United States, and this is just after doing a lot of mistakes but also take a great action to remove the mockery of history since the United States has not arrived here because of the occurrence of an offense.
