
Jacqueline: Ali Kiba that was the technical director in the country.

The heart makes a lot of floods especially in a prestigious tournament, a big Bongo movie star, Jacqueline Wolper has found himself diggers while wearing a heavy secret of his love in an interview with him in an interview with him by approximately two hours.

On the internet network that took place on Monday last Monday at the Global Publishers Office, Beka Race in Dar es Salaam city starting at 8 o'clock in the afternoon up to 10 o'clock in the evening, Wolper was going on many things.
Reason is the tragedy.
Speaking in bitterness, the pain and Majuto, Wolper said that he cannot see the man who is Abdallah Mtoro "Dallas" in the way he did to build a lot, and wanted to build the honor in the ten years in the past.

He started where in Dallas?
"
I gave him very keenly.
In the beginning I heard that I had conned Doe of the phone and he continued to me, when I saw my parents, he wanted me to know my parents, that will let me know their parents on phone that are not true.
"Together with that, I used to do I live in eternal peace, not you know that female child is but he did not lie to our fellows.
"He asked me I want to remember that business when I told him a clothes business and told me I want capital to an extent when I told him one hundred thousand dollars because I was not supposed to be silent, I wanted the whole house." He said there is no problem.
"He also asked me I live where I told him in Sinza (Dar) he bought her in the phone he told him to return to Mbezi Beach.
"He said I ask I visit the vehicle when I told her old man, she said that I would like you to look for a car which I told her shivered but he said he does not lie!
"It is true that after two-three days I had been composed of Toyota Harfanti from home and I feared being seen in the problems, I stopped him in a good center, I went up with a driver and he took them publicly so that any time from getting support.
"I were given keys to the vehicle with his girlfriend, I saw it up to my home and tomorrow if I asked me he told me that he told me for the Noah type (more than 24 million shillings). I asked what he told me for the Noah type (money).
"The next day he was using 15 million shillings, I'm in home, I told me if he would have heard a fiancée who he would like to tell him even if I would like to see him because he didn't know because he didn't know them because he didn't know it.
She has met with Dallas?
"Until when I was not seen in Dallas when I was not seen in Dallas when I was used every day.
"At the time it is going on and ordered him to save in Njuweni, Mbezi Beach by touching the car that lasted with a conflict of 'X6.
"I remember the day I was given a car I heard very much and I did not believe my eyes, because he told me, she has paid it, so he is a model for a long time.
I remember early I was with her boyfriend who we are going so much but we did not want to get married, I gave him everything that he went with me although he did not use it.
The poor just from there I became I left my lover but there was no way because I believe I have been able to write a fiancé.
He does not change.
"Later he told me, I've not heard his fiancée thus I commend the religion that I met of Islam where my name was a very difficult time in life, because I was a very difficult time in life," the father is a man to the church. "
What is to listen?
"One day I was in Tanga, I was in film, I was able to go back to Morogoro in Dallas when he told me he is in Nairobi (Kenya) to come up to Tanzania, I continued to make a load that went for many hours later when I met me, he told me, he told me.
"I refused, he told me how as it is, the clothes I was wearing it by people I was surprised and when he was given.
Kirchner from Moro United in Dallas.
"
"I was told the time he was seen in a place with a woman or women, I am not caring because when I asked me he cannot see me because that period he had not stop however, he said and I will die.
They have not yet met?
"(Mchwaa) then you have not met but he is in town and she has gone down from entertainment centers.
"After finishing you, he told me that he didn't come back to home, Mbezi Beach, I saw my friends when we are doing food, then I performed well and then I got married, then I'm waiting for a fiancé.
"You cannot believe, until when darkness falls in Dallas when she didn't answer his leg when I got a shame to my friend who wanted to see the fiancée?
"When I told me he got an emergency.
Eventually, they will meet but he will meet.
"I went back so much, I said this is a fiancée who does not want to come to me if I gave him a long time when I was welcomed to her clothes, I was welcomed by her clothes, I was surprised by motorbikes.
"He won his home in that day because there are his brothers who came to do not to do anything in Dallas when he met me then he didn't know then.
"Here we are saying that we are not in the past, I hope the picture with different women were different from one of the women I was told," my friend "!
"A time I went to me, those who were seen many times in Dallas when the attempt failed to sit on the house ended, therefore, I told him to take him for his clothes.
For sure you are forced to keep in politics?
Later, for sure that to be put up again, I told me that I did not tell me again. I met my heart and he doesn't know why I got my heart.
How do I go to Christianity?
"I have lived for a time I did not go back in the church, I will look for my mother to be in one day I told my man, he told me more on the right every day I come back to the church and that's when I'm going to Christianity, for now, I am happy about the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT), Dar es Salaam," he said.
Far from Dallas.
For the first time Jacqueline Wolper has agreed on the list of men he claimed to be love with feelings of each one.
Ali Kiba.
Without the eyes, Wolper has admitted that the artist of Bongo Fleva, Ali Saleh Kiba who is who plays for love "is very long time because all of us did not have stars but he did not have a man, but he did not want him in the world of love.
What is the meaning of us?
"Ali became the star that when he went outside, I heard that women have written the time, I am not happy to end up, but I am very good, and when we meet I was with a lot of people."
Diamond Platinumz?
"It is true I have ever been with Diamond (Bongo Fleva artist Nasibu Abdul), we had a relationship but he also had a business person (she does not want to sleep without seeing me, but he also died as my friend and not her lover again," said Gerrard.
How do you know about Jux?
"Jux (an artist of Bongo Fleva, Juma Khalid, I was with her in Dallas when my man I met with him in Dallas when he was a man of smoking cigarettes in Dallas when he also contributed a man to stop him and Jux," concluded Msama who for now he has no one man to love them.
