
The loan get into the preface of the Premier League.
Charles Kimei, The Citizen Director @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam, the registration of players in a loan system has changed to be a lesson to many people in the country because of causing the source of getting their standards or not to return to their previous teams.
For two years ago, 25 players who were given out to the loan or failed to fight and return to their teams that came out to loan or they registered themselves so as to ensure success in the first squad.
Simba is true that you should not depend on and remove players from the loan since most of its star did not go back to the squad, while others despite going back to leave the bench.
Those players are Hussein Sharif, Casillas' Honorable Boniface Maganga, Shaban Kiemba, Shaban Kiemba, Jerome Matemba, Haruna Chanongo, and Paul MzamAbdallah and Paul Kona.
Other players who were hurt through a loan with their teams in brackets as Rajab Katani, Said Thabit Kombo, Richard Kasesela (Azam), Antony Matandiko and Hamis Thabit Kombo (Coastal Union).
Despite the leaders of those teams out of the loan, the players so that they can get a chance to play in another team, most of them do not return even if showing the high level in the clubs that were taken to loan.
Stand United defender that performed well this season, Rajab Zito, told this newspaper that he has no plan to return to Yanga and he is ready to join another team after his loan in Stand United ended.
"Yanga I've heard that he has with them and I don't have a plan to return when I am in talks to remain in Stand United but if it is complete, I will look at another side because there are three teams that want to register themselves," said Zito.
Azam striker who was on the loan, Joseph Kimwaga said that for now he is looking at a place where he will get a chance instead of going back to Azam.
"I still have a small age and I have need to get a chance to play once again I commend my talent.
I cannot remain in a place where my position of dancing did not happen, so I will look where there will be bad, "said Kimwaga.
Former coach of Ndanda FC and Mbeya City, retired Major General Abdul Mini has mentioned three reasons that make many players of loan from.
"The first reason is that when the player comes from the loan he is not accepted, where the second is to have an agreement that or continue being paid by the team since or every side it was to a half of his salary.
"When it happens, it is delaying you for his salary he cannot play by being self-employed and the third issue is that he is not in the plans of the coach.
"But it's also possible for a player and it's possible for a player's reputation, an issue that can affect the psychology and made him to play well," said Major General Kijuu.
