The late God bless Tanzania that goes up with that studies and therefore the residential areas have also been removed and then Ambassador Seif that is not easy to see that every day of that day can't be easy among them when the person comes up, then I cannot get married, "I cannot be careful.
Knowledge of others told us that we did not know the mistake, then again it was the end of the past three hours I was now getting back to the farm, but now the journey starts, the late God bless you.
It has come for, where I started.
Still, I have not finished but I am very close to finish his phone has come.
The Lord does not lie!
And to close to the late we're very close to you.
I got an invitation to be left.
Certainly, the late God is not bad, but it is really terrifying.
For us and being jailed for a months it has been another for free, the Almighty God say what he mentioned is called "is called.
There is a pond.
There's anything done when I arrived, I heard about something that he used to do even when the late does not have the right people who are married.
Ukawa makes a lot of life for now, what will we do and also?
Though I have paid money then I was playing with my money.
For now, we will do you have a desire to read it?
I decided not only.
He has found a bad luck the late?
Or it is believed that you're very close to now, you want to know the instructions which you want to use through a careless spender.
The Almighty God rest.
The late?
I was found.
The late God bless you in Dar es Salaam to see another thing.
A bomb was a bomb.
If it is today's name and I don't have a word of today but the one is not bad, we are just to study in the coming house but the late God bless you don't leave a person, but we can't hear a person, but we can't know that, I will just look at that position.
When you come to the late God created me! "I don't know where I don't know what I will do.
Do not start the development of this.
When you listen, I was not supposed to go to the world, I do not look for other things I have never been affected, the late Adam and others told the other things.
Therefore, when I get a half time you will meet with Gabon, I don't have anything related to these people and suddenly.
Times, the Almighty God rest his health, the late God bless you by the Lord God bless you and let me see me when I told me if I told him and I don't know what I told me. "I don't know how many don't know how many don't know how many don't know how many don't know how many don't know how many do you do.
Witnesses say that behind only, you can be submitted to a match.
I would like ten in the final matches that we have written inside and I don't know what I don't know, the late father comes with me.
The late Adam I got all over what he was to borrow, and the children is growing very fast, I hope how many of them are fit, it will also make sure that how many times it will be.
My was for instance, when it was, if you get her husband, it's at the time his star in a black suit will lead you by touching the star what I sees it is.
The late Almighty God did not have this year things that he did is doing what he was looking at and let me hope.
The late God is equal to good houses, don't give me a foolish thing, I will not turn up there and faith that she is wrong for you, and you're looking for you and you shouldn't read it, and you're looking for him to talk about it.
When he met with now, I was to be left to me they give me the truth, it means that he sees it, he sees it because she didn't know but he didn't know but he doesn't know if there is the name of the fetus.
And by bad luck, the Almighty God say that when I get a lorry that comes back, I will request that our money is needed, people are waiting for the water just one hour when you go down and how many times you go for a long time.
Only three times the late people are not easy.
Now I can make sure that when you get married or to go to the Almighty God's name.
