
The parliamentary committee are meeting for approximately three weeks now in Dar es Salaam city for the purpose of implementing its responsibilities according to the Parliamentary Standing Committee.
These committees are meeting before the start of the budget of the budget on April 19 this year doing different issues including listening to the information of performance of the ministry and requested various government projects together with visiting development projects.
One of these committees are the Parliamentary Committee on AIDS issues which apart from discussing various cross-cutting issues in addition to infection of the AIDS virus and the problem of drugs in the country also got an opportunity to visit different areas.
One of the areas where the committee visited include the government's chief chemist that is in Dar es Salaam city to see for himself the various activities that are being done by that office.
The aim of the committee in that office was to educate themselves with the responsibility of the chief chemist of the government especially in the issue of medicine.
In that tour, the AIDS committee said that it is ready to support the government if it will give the bill of law to defend the office of the chief chemist of the government.
The promise resulted from the report of the deputy minister for health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Dakar Khamis Gumbo where he told the committee that there is a need to bring the bill which will give a full authority to the office of the chief chemist of the government.
Speaking at that tour, the Chairperson of that committee, include Mwilima said that his committee understands the good responsibilities of the laboratory and that they are supporting the bill while they're presented.
"The committee is ready to support that bill when they become ready for this office not to run its authority and other institutions," he says.
He says that the office is important because it has been faced with different issues of investigation that have been faced with different issues of investigations such as the testing of genes (which were conducted), investigations into the body and deaths of drugs and other alcoholic beverages.
"The current situation is ending the life of office of the chief chemist of not having the boundaries for doing the responsibility between other organizations and offices," he says.
In addition, the chairperson has urged the government to look at the possibility of setting up the office a budget of two billion shillings for the purpose of buying modern machines and renovating the available services.
On his part, Doctor Kigwangala says that as a result of that office, lack of legal security has enough revenue and also it remains to orphans.
