A controversy.
Dec 23, 2015.

The controversy has emerged about the time when the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, had lost consciousness when she was sent in England, after being found in two different reports in the recent days.
Retired speaker of parliament and one of the famous politicians in the country Pius Msekwa, has wrote a book that he spoke with the teacher for a period of one hour and a half weeks before his death, but the teacher claims that teacher had gone into two weeks before his death.
The book called leadership and administration of Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere which explained about 25 years of public service under the Mwalimu Julius Kambarage, which was done in the year 2012 but now, that is where it has started coming out.
The official instructions in the 33 page of the book when he explained about his last time to meet Mwalimu Nyerere in the year 1999 and basically, Msekwa has written in that book that he is the last leader of the high level in the country to speak with the teacher before his death.
Msekwa who is one of the politicians known here in the country, has written that he succeeded to meet Mwalimu Nyerere on 9 October, in the year 1999 at St. Thomas hospital in London City, England and spoke with him for a period not less than one and a half hours and that's when he stopped.
"Which was allocated a procedure to see that when he was admitted, I got a chance to talk with him well for a period not less than one hour and a half hours starting from the year 1994 to 2011.
However, those who were important to the teacher who were with him in London City, are saying that it was impossible to receive the chance to speak to Nyerere. This is because the time the teacher had no longer.
"
The explanation of that assistant should be like the explanation of another assistant who said that the possibility of the teacher spoke to anyone in his last week in the world it's not there, because of the situation he was in that time.
"Judge Bomani will be self-driven all the readers for reasons that I have not know up to now, I am in London for all the time when I would have ever talked with anyone in his last week," said another assistant, who this newspaper looked for because of being satisfied with the previous information that he was interviewed.
The last day of Mwalimu.
For the reason to look for the truth of this news, Raia Mwema should talk about the truth of Mwalimu Nyerere to explain about the last day of the father of the nation inside the St John Hospital.
This newspaper has been told that the top leader of the end to meet the teacher and spoke to him was the third phase president, Benjamin Mkapa, who visited him at the hospital on September 25th in 1999.
Even so, at a sure, my fellow citizens have told that the teacher had a problem of talking to him that Mkapa is the one who asked him to arrest him, so that this newspaper has not confirmed directly if Nyerere spoke about it at Mkapa at the time.
However, he is the condition of the father of the nation that was found with Benjamin Mkapa the one that made that President of the third term, who is as summoning demons.
Your citizen has been told that even Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, who was the minister in the Mkapa Government, and who was sent to go looking at the teacher and became the representative of the government, he did not get an opportunity to talk with him because he arrived at the time the father of the nation already has lost consciousness.
Speaking about the claims by Mwalimu Nyerere's appeal told the newspaper the day before yesterday on Monday that it is true he spoke with Mwalimu Nyerere with three people just after him, the father of the nation and Mama Maria Nyerere.
Those who are saying I did not speak with Mwalimu Nyerere who are misleading the time I was speaking with Mama Maria (the widow of a teacher) was there.
