

By Ramadhan Libyan, Morogoro.
In Tanzania, it is estimated to have 2,28,081 elders which is equivalent to 56 percent from 6 to 6 percent from the census on people and housing of the year 2012.
This group of elders has become one of its kind of life, most of them being retired after serving the nation in different levels.
It is clear that there is a lot of success in the country which to a large extent have been brought to by the elderly when they serve the nation in different sectors.
Statistics show that together with that many elders have the age of 60 and 70 years but also there are approximately 4,053 students of 80 years.
Moreover, evaluation show that a group of elders of 60-64 years is 31 percent, while more than 60 years old is 20 percent and for 70 percent it is 19 percent.
The elderly of 70 years of 79 years is from 12 percent while the elderly aged more than 80 years is 19 percent.
However, assessment plans which shows that the leading provinces having many elders are Kilimanjaro percent and 4 percent, Mbeya percent from 6 to 6 percent, Dodoma 5 percent and Mwanza 5 percent and Mwanza 5 percent.
It is clear that the society understands that the age is increasing, the challenge to the elderly will continue to increase due to lack of strength to work.
Therefore many do not affected by the challenge of income, increase in health services and others.
This period is what many diseases arise from their body getting tired.
Apart from health, elders need accommodation, food and various social services which essentially all need money to get better and safe services.
A large group of elders has been contributing to the lack of rights and welfare of the elderly during getting various needs in the community.
Athuman Ramadhan (70) a resident of Morogoro Municipality, Sultan Kipingo, says the challenges of elders are many, a situation that causes others to give up.
"The statement by the government to say that the elders are stolen, it is not true that it is just a threat to the politics of politics, we have a lot of problems to see if old is difficult," says Ramadhan in sadness.
