
Kariakoo business people complained that the charges of TBS.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

Small business traders from Kariakoo in Dar es Salaam city have praised President John Magufuli, they put the new charges that are being implemented by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) on claims that they are inspiring.

While speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the business people have claimed that for approximately one week now they have failed to give even a result of the port because of the high costs they were charged.
TBS has started a new procedure for passing the cargo that is in the country which did not support them when China has a fine which is 15 percent of the value of the cargo that got in the country as usual, small traders of Kariakoo have small capital, therefore they need cargo from outside by partnering with the importation of payment.
But according to the TBS procedures in the inspection outside the country, small cargo worth over 10,000 dollars are usually given, but when it reached Tanzania and seen it has not been fined.
"Many business people from Kariakoo are small and therefore they pour at a little cargo and connect with one big cargo so as to get affordable housing to be able to participate in business and grow their capital.
"There is a risk of us women and the youth lack the ability to continue doing business due to this situation, we are supposed to be sold on 15 percent of the value of a load (EFD), a level that is under the highest cost of VAT.
"Therefore, a young man with the clothes value of 10,000 dollars will pay taxes to 25 percent, VAT on 18 percent, tax for 10 percent and TBS, this means that he will pay 68 percent of the value of his cargo as taxes," said businessman Mohammed Mmasi of Mmasi Traders Company.
Speaking at that meeting, another businessman Judge Sandry, said that they requested President John Magufuli to get out of the issue because if the system will continue, small business people in conjunction with many youths with small businesses to participate in business and grow their capital.
"There is a danger of these youths to lack the ability to continue doing business after the Tanzania Bureau of Standards in order to collect a lot of money for inspection of their cargo," he said.
At the moment, a big business that is taking place in Kariakoo is the one to prevent products from China and place them in their shops and packaging and then the people of the neighboring countries have bought and taking them to them.
The country involves foreign funds in that way, Tanzania right now is doing an inspection of all products that enter the country so as to control quality (pre form one).
This inspection is taking place there in different products come up before being brought in the country. Earlier, products like vehicles only are the ones that were inspected but later the government changed the best to inspect all products.
In that new procedure, at the moment, a total of 40 million dollars will cost 300,000 dollars to be responsible for an average of an average and it can be more than that due to the value of the cargo since the expansion of the investigation is a percentage of Mali (IS).
Those businessmen claimed that for a period of one week, youths and Kariakoo women are unable to give their cargo at the port because the cost has been very high.
