
They are still holding FGM but he does not want to allow anything related to the stars.
Perhaps, it is still critical in the music industry but it is clear that upcoming musician, Vivian Odi is in the race to put his name on the map of entertainment as one of the journalists and the gospel musicians.
Juma the previous officially launched her song 'Yachile', a song that aims at least one day that will commemorate this Sunday due to his great message, with his song 'Nooral, which he sang in collaboration with his fans continues to be received well by fans.
Efforts, his skill has given the opportunity to partner with one of the loved ones in the country, just a few months after falling off in the field of entertainment.
Already he has seven strokes and despite that he has not been arrested, he didn't register many.
But it does not give him a very short while comparing to other artists who are believed to be his opponent, thoughts that it has been encouraging to continue singing.
"I have worked at different music studios, and being chased away from several times, but it did not loose the heart because I have gotten a heart to singing, a step that has gotten me here," he explained.
His music talent started in school where after being involved with the association of if they live through Cibitoke village, here in school, he decided that music had given his own talent and singing 'Mujahideen, an artist with his headquarters in Kisuma town.
"Later I met with the Ambassador of Abu Dhabi in Kisuma town where we impressed his fans.
But the year 2010 I felt that I had a lot of challenges and there, I decided to start singing my friend and moving to Nairobi city, "he explained how in an interview he was speaking with a stern warning concerning the music industry, an issue that is a threat to the young musicians.
You have a lot of joy about problems facing musicians when what is happening?
The answer is the main problem in music is the meaning of artists.
But some of the partners know or in this sector that they have been done or in this sector.
They want to watch the efforts of musicians especially those who are suspected of the artists to give any strength to see if he is God.
Lo says that it is a very big statement but to be given your music for two years ago, and this is still available in this period that was involved in the song 'Ukweli Wangu', how can I make him that collaboration?
Answer Honorable I met with him through a friend and therefore, we have been prepared.
Little for a meaning that it was not difficult, to work together.
Song NIMUOKOE NANI, 'has been the talk of many people in the streets, who is discussing what?
The answer is this song give advice to people about the importance of people.
For example, it is a problem that causes Tanzania to invest in life, for example, being a person not to help anything if a girl has no problem but to leave him.
You have seven songs that it has not given, what's its spherical guidelines?
The answer is like any artist who is accused, the issue of money has already been commanded?
To stop the money it is the ones that have been putting me for me, because every person gets a lot, was recorded and sometimes found in the same time found.
Your message comes from what?
The answer is happy to write a song for many times screaming in the same time when I can leave you about times or certain words of the song and when I see I will answer you about words where after a time he gets to be a song.
If you get a song, or there are other musicians who are looking for this service from you?
The answer, apart from getting my music to my music, I have also been involved in some parts of the famous musicians', for example I was involved in a song 'Jesus Christ, which was mentioned by Zubeida Malick.
I understand that you are one of the artists that do not have criteria at the entertainment stadium when you put up well if there is no one that you have done with him?
The answer is not wrong things but though the man is very happy with the work of different artists, I don't desire to follow any example, but my aim is to improve my music.
