
Khaled who came out to recover and lost.
By Charles B.
Senator of Kakingo, Doctor Jesse Braham and those.
In the year 2014 was bad to the good politician, Doctor Bonny Mwaitege, because Nusra was defeated in his position with Senator of Kakingo, after his Democratic Party (Undule) has emphasized.
Others associated with the incident were his colleague, Miss Martha Wiwa is the national chairperson of that party, Mister Hassan Osman, who is also a special member of parliament of that party at the national assembly.
This is after the party members made a decision to remove the names of those members from the list of its members on the allegations of sabotaging the party by developing the policies of other parties.
For example, Doctor Khaled who has been cooperating with Cornell universities, and support the vote of decisions along with reviewing the government of Jubilee inside and outside the Senate.
And if a woman is supposed to vie through the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (Tansort) which is led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, which will not be fair towards government appointment, despite being signing a contract of partnership after the previous general election.
That meeting that was led by the leader to Bowman.
But that punishment is not a result since the special court to handle conflicts between the political parties (NCCR - T) was making that decision saying it did not reach them by considering the law.
Registrar of political parties in the country, Lucy Ndeki.
It will be remembered that earlier on the month of September Osman, presented a case to the commission to oppose the step of the executive committee (NEC) of the party to suspend him for time because that was mentioned as its trend in sabotaging its activities.
In addition, he claimed that the allegations of lack of honor to the leaders of that party, is usually set aside, Jeremiah Kengele posing for approximately 3 million shillings of that party, claims that Hassan Mwinyi had gone down.
If I appoint you to succeed to evict them, Osman, Khaled who are black are there, they would have lost their seats in parliament.
That doesn't know your impatient, he from Kakopi Kapesti ', would go back to elect another trainer while other people were appointed to take the position of Osman and Wiwa.
Another veteran politician to Owino who was defeated by the representative of Muembe Makundi Ward, Mister Kamnada Mkumbo, said that the party's officers used by the office of the registrar of political parties is Osward (who is the chairperson), Abraham.
"NDC) will be prepared by the national chairperson after being satisfied with the general secretary general, this was not done by that veteran secretary general, it did not take place and therefore Bongo Five that took place in the attack was illegal," said Mister Kamnada, who has been fed a close sibling at the area of Vientiane.
And Dixon Busagaga of Doctor Khaled who is the news that he was removed and peace had been identified as a rumor that had been treated through the media. "
However, the truth is that any political party can destroy its members - according to the implementation of the political party law, that is possible under article 5 (5) of the law says that anyone who will improve the policies and interests of any party, that is not his natural party.
And according to the ruling party of the constitution in article 1 (5) (i), the member of parliament will leave his seat when he resigned from the party not a lesson or if he will be resigned from that party.
And according to the registrar of political parties "political parties can be able to destroy their members according to the planned procedures of Plasmodium falciparum.
For example, that step can be taken after the committee of discipline being found guilty, and after the appeal against the step, a panel of conflict conflict in political parties or the legal court, is this happen, says Miss Ndeki.
