
I would have run to be a member of the special constitution of the constitution.
APR of 03 / 2014.

I am supposed to be a member in the special constitutional parliament, my stand we have run to be clear in the issue of unity and even how they could oppose the structure of three governments, thus the presence of Tanganyika, and I could continue casting their votes on important issues that are not stable.

However, because I am a believer in my country I am born, even if those with such attitude, then I would be happy with my stand and even to continue voting for them, but I would have taken all the support that was decided by many.

Because, I have been able to write, that consent is the basis of the legality of the process and even the constitution itself is that the meaning of the political and leadership system.

I followed very happy to see Professor Ibrahim Lipumba (CUF) party, Vuai Ali Vuai (CCM) and John Mnyika (CHADEMA) and John Mnyika (CHADEMA), who caused many words of wisdom and a lot of words at the issue of 'Siri ya Mtungi'.

And the statements by those delegates, I was heard reached by no problem that was sent to words with wisdom and wisdom from Bishop Donald Mtetemela in the meeting representing other religious leaders who did not meet at the executive committee's standing committee.

Bishop Mtetemela in the picture together with different topics that came out, two sides have agreed to leave and insisted that their stand so as to avoid the aim of getting the new constitution.

Therefore, the appointing issue, I commend the news that the activists of the constitutional platform that they put the parliament for the way it has paid 80 billion shillings, Siwema who is one of the important steps in the process and maybe the process of getting the best constitution more than the year 1977 that was allocated to the year 1984.

Now if the activists of the forum for constitution are using a period of money to prepare demonstrations in the whole country with an aim of breaking the special assembly of the constitution, a question, is to give the resources they are facing in providing more education to citizens about the draft constitution and what is used to give them more strength in serving their members.

This is our country all of us.
