
We have organized himself and "the Chinese attack"?
28th of 08, 2013.

I will start very fast to forgive me when she got told Bishop Sedrick Ndonde. "He said.

"There are different from basically, among them being free and being in a high level, being independent and to get employment services, electricity, electricity, better health and health services.
There is a meaning that then it is free when the quality of people's life has been completed?
And the Ambassador of Chama cha Mapinduzi of Chama cha Mapinduzi (TRA), U667.
And the students of Literature in the Tanzanian Professor Kenja who spoke about these, "that day when you will see a sign that will lead when you reached where every human being must know where every human being is known for all and goes directly without stopping.
You have no need to read any book to get explanations of going there and there is no need to listen to the chest and there is no need to listen and even when others feel it will know why your brothers.

Many of them are those who had light weight in those who may be able to introduce himself, and you will make sure that your position will be done if you do not get married, most of them do not get married and do not loose hope.
.

My brothers, the Chinese force are coming, they are many.

And, China is a great country economically and it's economy is growing rapidly, it's capitalist economy and the number of Chinese are very big so as to compete well in China for now, it needs a lot of crude oil to its industries.
China needs an energy in oil and gas to the Chinese, have risen up to South Africa today, by using good and friendly relations, since the era of cold drinks, they will make sure that there is a probability of getting crude oil including oil and gas.
And they are coming with the promise of donations including building roads, modern sports grounds and even.
The international meeting of rallies in the world is nothing for free and the Chinese reap more than they dispose.
We ask ourselves what we want to see if we look at, the conditions for the Chinese change is to look like the employment environment they come and have the Chinese to invest here in our country.
This situation does not help a community to solve the employment problem to our youth and even when it comes up for Chinese people to give employment, then, the employment environment is.
Difficult for our youths, the income is small and the conditions for work to our youth are usually very difficult.
Let us also, the investment of the Chinese use this opportunity to get technical knowledge and information on the sector that the Chinese are learning here in the country because our country is continuing to be dependent, thus poor, while our country has a lot of resources.

We should learn to our colleagues the Indians I believe in India, they were the poor country like us but they believe more in education of their people and in their language, so much and even in investment, they have been considering more than a long-term interests of India.

Therefore, and a stern warning, and the effects of the Chinese. "It is not known as we are preparing to do, as a nation I have heard of debate.
