Doctor.
Presenter, is called me.
I would love to speak.
The things like the government is preparing itself.
This means that these perennial rivals are reached, followed up and that a human being is wanted.
This afternoon is wanted to be paid because of us.
There are we, we will look at these teams are political opponents.
And there is one thing here it has said that bad faith and any other faith that you come?
It is coming from the preparations and that is why his sister was seen?
Stomach, there is a match between Simba and Yanga that he is competing for Simba SC.
And here we will happen.
Yanga has gone down in Bagamoyo when it's a normal message he will look at home is safe.
He is a group in the league.
These players of Yanga that committee has removed him to Yanga is the hotel he will report to him at the shoreline of Kawe, this time make up this is where our victory is found and then they believe that their victory is found, where already the victory will have returned to play in the match.
Ras Kiduku was known by a friendly match to review the conflict they believe that they believe one directly.
Manager if he will get in this match.
And all days I have been looking for Zanzi, when I was going back to Bagamoyo for a place where he was going to Bagamoyo to return there, there is a result of the opposition and the opposition because that will happen then.
Since that player will be supported if he did not know what happened so that you don't know what happened to me, what can be able to stop for these preparations and they are unable to do if you are unable to do and then you are able to win and someone wanted to build faith in it.
After getting the time for instance, you're sure that you get from what you got from that there is no another thing to enable the players who need to know the players that will contribute to a long distance and then my colleague will contribute to a long distance and then his colleague will contribute back.
There is a level of announcing that he had come from Yanga who will play Simba later he will go back again.
Still when you meet there is no one.
There is a defender, there is a defender.
Who is the only alone that I have remained number four of Yanga during the previously has played for Simba soccer club if a player will have come up to team where I have passed through a team that seems to be the goalkeeper who has been from the phone.
That person will take a sign that you are the fan of our website, already we believe many of us, you have written about you, it doesn't know it is okay and it doesn't have a chance to be there and it does not meet it, but if we join it. I advise that.
If it will be coming from these matches of old rivals we agree that it has not yet said, that you have given you.
