
Who is the greatest desire to lead the revolutionary party?
January 17, 2014.

Last Sunday, January 12th, we have launched 50 years of Zanzibar's revolutions.

The story about the overthrowing of Zanzibar are many of them being reserved for different ways, especially in books as from the education books used in education institutions, that is, schools and colleges until the rules and regulations.

These story explains the life of the past situation in the islands before going to the colonization Organization, Germany and the British (he has come at the colonial era of which happened and even causing the revolution in the year 2007.

For example, among the books that you have narrated it well in this history, especially the affliction of African people of Zanzibar during the colonial era, and especially when they wait, "that was written by a vibrant writer of Zanzibar Mhe.

In this book, we are blocking the discrimination that existed in the islands of African Union (black) and shivered or those with strong winds, while the Black Americans is going on and they are warned by doing difficult work at home for the benefit of human beings and economically.

Another recently's book was carried out history of Zanzibar's situation at the time of what is going on the training about our United Nations and Zanzibar, that was written by the philosopher-governmental organization, Professor Issa Shivji.

For instance, in the constitutional book, we are told about the system that has been self-employed and the system that has been allowed to be stable in the islands, the system is one of the classes that for many years continued to maintain their condition within one month to another.

Groups like the ones who are big and big entrepreneurs, the business people and the workers are from the workers (HIV) that concern the system of life, the system that lasted for many years and many even do not think that such system can be changed.

In a short time, this issue is that the overthrowing of Zanzibar met recently, it is not a small thing that occurred in it easily in order for someone to sit in the night and make a strategy to be tomorrow and be it a revolution!

The revolution of Zanzibar was a result of efforts and strategies of many years, since 1920 or before it started various efforts such as building political parties with the aim of helping African countries to fight for the rights and their resources that are striped of visitors.

The revolution of Zanzibar is the results of reliable plans for some people who decided to volunteer in state and property to improve their country.

It is in this basis of the meaning of this revolution, there is no doubt that these commemorations will not be taken easily and it is needed because the objectives of this revolution have been done by Zanzibar to get economic, political and community as they had been unable to implement the revolution in the year 2007.

This commemoration will also have a great meaning especially during this period, as a country, we are educating you afresh about the vision and direction of our country in the process of writing a new constitution.

In addition to all, during this period we have also been able to think about the type of people involved in the Zanzibar Revolution, their intentions and their courage to implement their intention which made a new history at the islands and eventually led the creation of the nation of Tanzania.

We cannot go as compared to everything, but we can be able to go with them in some issues, for example, for many years we have continued to be under maintenance of several enemies like diseases, poverty, bribery and corruption.

But also, for a big part, our country have continued to produce a type of leaders that are with the behavior of the HIV virus in Tanzania and who caring about the interests of those who are the second priority, after that first priority of their private benefit.

Haazu taking us to see that many people don't know themselves as usual they are fighting to vote, wanting the power of every kind from the chairperson of the neighborhood / illegal ways, especially bribery, in this context, not you are not supposed to see people living in religion or the regional cells.

Spread of accountability among leaders, conflicts and evil deeds will start discriminating each other among them, and complaints that the goals of Revolution and Uhuru were identified by those who had a good intention is needed to improve this situation.

Each one in his position who plays the responsibility of asking a question if he got to tell the citizens of the United States, the late John Pombe Magufuli, "I don't ask you," I have also worked for me, "I have also worked for my country so that it is doing what is going on."

Each one of us has the responsibility of helping to bring a revolution in good leadership, good life, to eradicate violence and corruption and many other things of the kind in this nation.
