
Education being given priority.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar has said that the education sector has been given priority to the development plan and grow the economy of Zanzibar and it is ready to deal with the challenges that could destroy the goals.

That has been said by the President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein when he was addressing the students of Unguja and Pemba schools at the peak of the Education Week without payments at the Amaan Stadium in this town.
He said Zanzibar has taken a big step in the education sector since the announcement of free education by the first president of Zanzibar, Abeid Amani Karume, September 23 this year, where huge success has been taken including having three universities in the country.
Doctor Shein said, in a period of 20 years before the overthrowing of Zanzibar in the year 2011, Zanzibar had no universities where students who need the education will be forced to go to the University of Dar es Salaam or Makerere and Europe.
He said that in the past before the revolution and after the revolution, the previous school was one of Saateni school, Unguja having 60 students of parents with financial ability, 62 primary schools having 364 students, while secondary schools were five with 78 students.
President Shein said, big changes have been reached in the education sector in a period of 52 years after the Revolutionary school, there are 286, primary and 281 secondary schools.
He said in reaching that goal, the government of Zanzibar will continue with the strategies of growing primary education which for now will be free for free and the aim of later is to eliminate fees in secondary education and the aim is now be completed.
Earlier, the president wanted the parents to be responsible so as to follow up on the trend of their children when they go to school and their work to enable them to maintain their teachers. In another step, President Shein announced strategies for the government to strengthen the education sector where 10 primary schools will be built in a period of one year.
In addition, 23 schools will be surveyed to be presented with various equipment including laboratories of science subjects and taught the teachers and promised to look for solutions to their huge debts since it is in his promise.
While welcoming the president, the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Riziki Pembe Juma, said that the ministry is continuing with the strategies of improving the education sector as well as teachers to be given training that will help in increasing the efficiency of work.
