
The campaign about women's rights has been launched.
By Lucy Lameck.
The external health organizations have launched a campaign aimed at ensuring that issues of reproductive health and sex are discussed in the development activities among the community.
The Family Health Insurance Fund, Kenya and International Container Terminal (Iloha), launched "Rubella and 2020" last year which aims to see that 10 issues concerning the rights are discussed in efforts to help the citizens to do better life in relation to reproductive issues.
"There is a lot of challenges facing the community especially women and children, it is a must for someone to have a person to have his own kind to be remembered?" Said the director of PPF in Africa, Mister Lucia Gwao.
The family planning yesterday, those organizations started his campaign in the country, "I decided" aimed at collecting one million shillings which will be presented to the general secretary of the United Nations next year where Millennium Challenge Corporation are expected to be reached by 2015.
While launching the campaign in the country, the head of the University of MOI, Professor Miriam (left), said the efforts to encourage women to accept to use reproductive rights should be given priority so as to help improve reproductive health and improve the family.
Professor Muhongo said there is need to ensure that women get good news about the ways of planning the family planning.
However, Doctor Kigunge said an issue of the department of reproductive health in the Ministry of Health, confessed that there is need to provide information about reproductive health and not for women alone but for men and youth.
He said that the ministry has enough money for the methods of reproductive planning which will be used for a period of one and a half years.
K a very fast to its goals in 2020, those organizations are required to reach 2015, there should be a new program which includes reproductive health and sex with justice as important issues, increase the ability to get those rights and help eliminate the gap present in the poor and the rich by 50 percent to 2020.
He also aims to eliminate the discrimination of any kind against women and girls so as to be able to have a equal opportunity for men and women, to identify sex rights like human rights, including the youth in the decisions of the policies concerning their lives.
Other resolutions are to provide healthcare services, AIDS, in public and private hospitals to 2020, to reduce the gap in least 50 percent of lack of reproductive health and providing education on sex and gender issues to all.
