
Member of parliament for Vunjo Constituency every ward to implement the promise of May 23, 2013.

In what they can be mentioned to be the challenge of political leaders and the citizens to recognize the responsibilities and bond of former leaders, the member of parliament of Kwimba district, Mwanza town, Shangani, has been raising the residents of every ward in that province as part of the implementation of his election promise.
Sure reports from the province say that from July, last year, up to January this year, the member of parliament has played 74 matches in the four counties of Ngapa, Ng'ombeni, Bio de Janeiro.
One of the citizens of that constituency who introduced himself by one name Shabani Msabaha, says that the action is same as summoning demons.
"Said it's responsibility for the citizens by using their poverty and give them food to one day while they are faced with a lot of primary problems in the community and infrastructure, so I cannot be part of the responsibilities of the member of parliament, to me this is bribery, I don't have more information about those," said Shabani, who is a resident of Ngapa Ward, Kwimba district.
In those celebrations that the member of parliament has been saying that he has been seeing the citizens that the day is of eating and drinking and there is no discussions or addressing them, but it is the day of celebrating just and he will be able to reach another day for the purpose of the meeting.
"Speaking to the way it has completed that ward some of the citizens are complaining, there are many challenges, we have a lot of challenges and he has not met with the workers of his constituency and he did not want to do his name in the newspaper.
More reports indicate that the member of parliament has started doing those celebrations after being interviewed by the citizens during the tour of the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, last year in that region.
In that tour that he bought the dais, they arrested them claiming that he had not done a tour in that province, he had not done a tour in that region where I think it was advised to get in a way to unite people, "said one councilor of CCM in that region who did not want his name to be in the newspaper.
When the member of parliament was asked by our writer about the celebrations he made in his constituency as they have a relationship with his parliamentary responsibilities while he was sent away against our writer.
I am pleased that you do not understand what you need me so that how can you know, you are not the police or the lawyer, "said the member of parliament during his phone conversation from Dodoma where he was attended to parliament sessions.
When he was explained that the writer wrote on behalf of the citizens who some of his voters, where he bought the phone and when he was called again after a long discussion.
"It is true I have made those celebrations as part of my election promise, I promised people that I won together with other things we will do in the whole region and I am not happy about what he did, he said that he does not make sure he will make those promise.
That member of parliament is alleged to promise to build in each ward to attract wells in every village, motorcycle loans to youths and loans in all wards in the province, and that he is a member of parliament for actions and we are not waiting for the government's money to fulfill those promises.
Speaking about that, he said that it is true that many places of the promises they have not done but those who will continue to build up in the August of August so as to avoid the discomfort of dams during the rainy season.
Our investigation has revealed that the member of parliament has revealed that the member of parliament has flourished, in a village of Shimo area, has banned water projects in Ngapa Ward and various donations in the schools of that region.
While explaining the scandal of praying for them during the tour of the Prime Minister to have a relationship of not being implemented by my promise, he said that those of them were only two people, but I have been working, "he claimed that the member of parliament who is also the secretary of the economy and finance of CCM, Mwanza Province.
