Our life, David Lugenge from Iringa province for a report.
Apart from he made that statement to the journalist, those residents know their cry for the government to use wisdom to recognize that child despite following different reasons that we will bring up their houses that have been presented.
If it is a water reserve.
The problems of staying at the neighborhood with water is not very far here, we are more than six hundred meters this reason, they came from a letter.
For sure we see as a relationship.
The motorbikes in the applications have been killed from a trap in the past.
To speak about this village even if this area they discovered that it was responsible for what the government will allow you to bring a case, to answer some of the complaints to the lawyer of the great water office for irrigation.
He has said that decision is the implementation of the law and two hundred thousand shillings and seven and seven on the management of water resources number ten and one for calmness and nine.
The water office in Rufiji district's office has not been not only by removing the residents of Mtera, a story, Mark, will make sure that I receive him and moved out of the Mtera dam to do human activities contrary to the law and regulations of human resources.
And the information officer of the Iringa District Council asked the balls, he has admitted the existence of electricity from poor communication between the electricity organization (TANESCO) and the water authorities in the district of Iringa district.
What is the disease in this world?
To know their work is.
We want to take each other to those two who were supposed to be, I will play away from the Indians I will be asked to be given.
Early to citizens that is going on where it is still at least.
Moreover, the challenge we recognize that it is lack of need for the XXL Program when we use the real borders of the Mtera dam, is true by using what the criterion on until that is the road.
On the left is on the road, when you go to Dodoma has been seen by what?
I am David Mwaipaja.
