The strategy of improving agriculture in the southern highland region is among the biggest strategies in the country aimed to increase production of agriculture in this first region are used to collect a large number of food in this region, we are going on well with the improvement of agriculture and farmers.
.
Ambassador Seif Sharif Hamad.
The government is supposed to be productive in plenty, not learning.
He told his wives that we will talk two hours recently.
On top.
Therefore, pictures and accountability continue about the cost of those pictures, I will ensure work.
Citizens in the area of buying approximately ten billion shillings, a word of ten billion in the provinces of Dar es Salaam.
Where?
Follow the flag how many times.
Be careful.
Again, how is the Bible.
Even if I will be taught.
Separate yourself in this area we are producing approximately 1,500 kilometers to pay the doctor or food production which could not be separated.
And I have been selected for that order is the first to be Dictatorship in our country in the East African region where the side of the African region.
I want a university but also there are many deaths of water which at three, there are its players who are ready to participate in the Easter holidays.
If you go in, so as to be remembered that there are enough infrastructure for the meaning of illegal immigrants.
New roads, the main announcement of switching off fake phones as part of the urban planning and the boxers of Zanzibar there is a good cause of the high level of electricity which is funded by phone from the sea.
But the most important thing, the Almighty God still do your opinion polls to be used as well as different organizations, but also there was also been taken by a habit, but in the future, I would have been taken by a habit, but in the whole areas.
Mobutu called on the production of crops but as well as getting various services even in the seedlings not and everything is in production but we are not only, there is a company that is producing it.
A sum that has been a sign but as well as providing various services such as usual, you will give you a job work and the markets of these agriculture production, for its-inch width, which has completed the project because or not the program.
Thank you Mister for me I will vote if I have that I have explained.
