The presidential candidates are close to this period.
There are a big problem or big things to say that it is a big challenge to the economy of Kenya this journey.
Let you look at things that he didn't end in last year 2005 and seven I think there will be a very long time when I saw it, even when I saw it, there should be a little time when I think this time when I think you will give me another thing that I think I will give him a lot of time when I think how I wish him as a woman.
But there is another thing that the late God has been following up according to the ones who have been seen in Kenya, that there is a contestant to vie for that position because I could be able to ask him but they can also be able to leave, but we can also be able to leave that opportunity because I think what we will be used.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam city, there are legal classrooms and the constitutional issues, the late is saying there is a problem that you have realized that those presidential candidate are expecting to be the president and another one for all the vice president is to be taken against criminal acts against human beings.
And so far and it was planned it was planned for the first month.
The league activities are taking place so that the child gets the fourth of the month of third if he will be a suspect then it needs after giving them the signing of one of the bags to the hospital.
What will he be easy to be a suspect, this means that this means which way they will deal with what is wrong.
Cookie?
In a question.
It's difficult.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, I will be a terrorist?
The goal waiting for the answers of the law and answers that you can be aired live in large numbers but recently he had a lot of tired.
It is true that Ras Makunja has.
Or the meaning of the Lord Jesus Christ?
We have not done a lot of money is the Bible Church because Kenya this year is attaining fifty years since when they received strength from the British you think fifty years because I think it is hard to go with a big event that I have from Kenya one thousand.
The law in Kiba has died and broke down because of ten people.
And the suspect has not been taken and they have not been placed as an offense and that the law can't see someone who has been taken because he does not have a mistake up to the court not to change him and that he will also start without the name.
There is still a problem.
The chairman of the free election commission and the borders of Kenya, when he was asked, he said there is no meaning to the law or the constitution did not remember him to be sentenced to a political religion that has brought together questions.
Those questions are if you look at the time of Kenya, I will talk about ethics and reputation of someone who is true to another, so you know my.
The English is called Michongo, first is with the criteria of the same way.
Article the constitution of Kenya, those people had the right to stand so that they can be able to vote for Kenyans, but it's also a political way if you check politics in Kenya.
Which from Kenya was set aside.
Also together with remaining in the African continent which is still the collection of race and they be only one nation when you are and the need to be a big nuisance but after the province of Kenya.
When those who came without a loan of one million pounds, it is not done to give his son to this side in the city through the sun that they are facing without a cow as the vice president.
Do elections and elections is still a meaning.
We remember that there was a time when he had money to know what they got to be elected but not to sit down in Kenya, the bridge also saw him and to join another candidate whom she had gone to him and to join them on how to try and believe it?
That there is no new politics and that there should be one candidate or a group of approximately four years or do not be afraid but many can't understand what it was difficult to do it.
And the colleague to vie for presidency like?
And its people like it is true that if the law and the constitution there is no mistake.
It was revealed that Kenya for customers live.
I remember and gave the body the body to come out and be careful.
When you go to press you're not present.
Because of this reason?
From Kenya, they are going the field of Kenyatta at two o'clock at night.
Because I was coming and.
They have put up in the airport of Uhuru Kenyatta to be buried.
It is coming to our youths that are going against them.
How would I think that is why the political parties you be able to do a decision that your headquarters do?
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we're going to happen.
Fifty years, Kenya I got there without even before I went to Kenya we shall begin from many African countries.
The estimates of tax in our nation.
.
Make them a good thing.
They will be put in Christianity, then the permits for you go for the second side will be another.
But the colonialists followed keenly.
And some of our leaders are saying that they can try to take.
Likewise, the reputation are trusted and back to be one thing and it's working to pray for the nation, we should ask ourselves.
It has been a time.
That of tribalism because different reasons but one.
Because the British needs a hole.
I have been a teaser?
In order to protect peace.
