"Industries to reduce the political tensions.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

Chairman of the board of the TIB Development Bank, Professor Parthiban Chandeka has said that the coming of industries in the country will reduce the political tensions especially to the youth in the country because it will give employment and improve economic growth.

In another step, members of parliament have interviewed why that bank is continuing to pay taxes of 45 billion shillings per year at its offices located in Mlimani City, Dar es Salaam city.
This was revealed yesterday when the bank directors gave a report to the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Investment of the Public Service Management (ITA), said the government has set aside one trillion shillings as the capital of that bank and those funds were found and they will use in improving the capital of the bank.
"The money will be the catalyst to attract many resources from outside and through that money we will make six trillion shillings," he said and added that the money will be used to build factories and infrastructure, a move that will help to make business and employment.
"Industries being used in large numbers in the mainland and Zanzibar political tensions, many people will get employment, many people will also go working in the previous years in Zanzibar had many industries and the country's economy was good and the country's economy was good.
He said the bank is planning to have its buildings and therefore come out with an issue of planning the buildings and pay a big tax of the nominated member of parliament, Riziki Lida said that the bank plans to stand at Mlimani City building is a great cost and he wants the bank to listen.
The nominated member of parliament, Amina Mollel has wanted the bank to be keen while giving loans since the shows that most of them don't pay and they have been admitted to court a situation that causes a lot of money to buy.
Previously the Executive Director of that bank Charles Kimei said that TIB is in the second phase of the national development for five years of the year 2016 / 2017 and 2020 / 2021 will focus on investment in production of production, processing of minerals and the production of production in general.
He said under the second phase of the development of five years, TIB has been given the responsibility of building industries and to create a conducive environment for the industrial sector in the country.
He said one trillion shillings have been built as capital and that the money will be used to improve the capital of the bank and it will also be used as the catalyst to other resources and get money to invest in many projects, instead of depending on the government's budget only.
Chairman of that committee, Albert Obama urged the members of parliament to cooperate with that bank to ensure that more than one billion shillings that was not found and taken to the construction of industries and infrastructure.
