In the purpose of someone who is hard to receive as something that is claimed to be told that without stopping.
Recently, the church has made it is a person who he likes to register and read it up and to see the fact that there is a woman when the roads was going to "Nyoni, I'm going here on maybe.
Therefore, you know it is a pursuer like that of the teachers.
Where and where it was a cookie?
But you come to change the village to come as district and the chief justice if up to now, it is its power through one way but he has made the ferry that currently has at the end of how to talk about him, the state of cleanliness does not have any problem, that, that youth deserves.
He's the executive director from the parliament and meeting.
If we make sure the public meeting can be saying that it is Mchaga.
I am saying that you have not seen on my eyes, he doesn't change my eyes.
The whole of Tanzania had three thousand shillings and three hundred thousand shillings of road roads.
And at that time the vehicles were thirty thousand shillings.
For fifty years ago.
Roads in Europe have added up to between six thousand and five hundred thousand to seven thousand.
In the period of there, these are Honorable president.
It is building ten o'clock and one hundred and fifty hundred thousand shillings and I can be tarmac roads.
Therefore, until when you finish the period of there, it is possible that there is more than ten thousand shillings for good roads to look for example, answering one another to be a short time but he has done great success but he has done great success.
If you see you, it gives an example, the past we had come from the city of Mwanza, we are looking for three days to look for the Almighty God, but today they are forced to look for another day so that we are forced to raise us to other parts where we are unable to inform us from another place where we are unable to inform us.
We know the sun.
I don't talk about what you are doing that business in the fish, also.
Well you are doing business activities.
Once the director doing work of Jesus.
In the heavy rains and Prophet Mohammed is not able to be heard after this disease have never been left.
I urge you to appreciate your soul in that ministry that he did work!
Ministry of livestock and fisheries.
For sure the changes and various denominations which were seen inside the ministry are given.
The one who invented the money will be responsible for the presidential position and I have sure our country did not want to question a place where it will give them a question.
Starting from ten o'clock.
We have statistics.
Nape to you where in you.
You want to be five hundred thousand, when they do.
However, he sees himself to be when I'm in.
Others are also.
Now they could be the head of controlling the loopholes of illegal fishing in the lake region and maybe even the Indian Ocean Aclati was able to work with him and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-employed and we believe that he will work with self-
And it's out of my heart that you come to work because of all Tanzanians who are in the lower level especially in the Magoza village.
Small miners.
So, I still need small and small tribes to be small and their properties will be like the first minister to be approved, fish, in the Indian Ocean where we cannot go.
How to how many years some cases have been continuing and if we will go to do a court if we will get that, he will start the industries we will do everything.
All the taxes that have contributed to them.
The committee that had we want to be and go outside while in their taxes will start paying, what would like to build sure that we cannot pay, but we need to pay, but we need to pay for what is important here in we have been given to the Almighty God is someone who doesn't know.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, there is a person who does not lie!
While you were very happy that every ministry took her to know that it has reduced and it's a good follow.
He wants to come out and explained by you, the journey has started, that night and when he wanted to are in the process of increasing the status of development.
When you go to do a dance group, it does not cause a good Swahili only when the end of the meeting.
If it is brought, it does not have been seen but the sun is not to stop x-ray machine that the people see in the week of things that he has said, is implementing it, we see if you get such as the law.
Through number one hundred and seven years of sixty years of age.
And the law was started a very year and I don't have two major technological changes in Pwani province of the great changes that I don't know where I don't know what I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know what I have done, but we have written with each other.
It is that his efforts of wanting to know.
The private efforts to learn we should be in class one place wherever he was a person who has a great effort to know, but it has helped him a disaster which has a person who for the residents do not hesitate to be so many people when you feel.
