
A woman brought back to the defender, six offices are treated.

It has been written by John Gwao.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

A woman whose name has not been known, used in the theft of six offices that are at the Tanzania teachers' building (CWT) Pwani province, where various things were stolen including computer and cash money that has not been confirmed to be noted.

According to the reports that was found in Kibaha town, the verification of the police force in the Coastal Province, the woman forced him to the defender, Said Mohamed who is not with sharp teeth.
Speaking to journalists in Kibaha town, the Secretary of CWT in the Coastal Region, Nehemiah Joseph has said that the event happened on October 2nd this year at night and those people got married after breaking more than 10 doors of those offices and more than 10 computers.
Joseph has said that the defender, when she gets stranded, is not with sharp teeth that had lost consciousness and gave them an opportunity to get married without any difficulty, after breaking the doors of entering and taking different things to join them.
As a result of that incident, the police force in Pwani province is holding two guards from the building from the NHO company in Kibaha district, Hamad Kishiwa (32) a resident of Tukulanga, and Said Mohammed (39), a resident of Mwanajaj.
He mentioned the offices that are there at the CT in Singida province which have been stolen including CT, CT), Beauts Services (BFS), the Union of Workers of the Ministry of Finance, Industry, Trade, Services and Employment (UNIC).
"At the moment the issue is in the police for more steps and already they have already benefited from all the institutions that are involved in that building because they have been announced by this defender to buy food to a person you don't know because by doing so, it has caused to give the loopholes to criminals and bring huge losses to those offices," he said.
The police commander of the Coastal region, Bonaventure Baya confessed the occurrence of the incident on the night of October 2nd where he said they got a report at 5 o'clock in the morning by having his hand over the building from Elizabeth Thomas, the secretary of that party in Kibaha district.
