We have a soul in people.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published in 1st November 2016.

After Yanga emerged with a win of 3-0 goals against Mbao FC, Head Coach Hans Pluijm has given a team of Mwanza team by playing soccer.

In that game that was played the day before yesterday at Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam, Mbao FC played soccer to attract in the first half, while allowed me for it in the second half of that game.
Speaking to the journalists after that game, Pluijm said Mbao FC is a team that is doing technical because they were able to control and fail to get into their goal especially the first half.
"I have tried to look for several videos of Mbao FC is a good team and today they have shown their ability, for sure it played well in the first half, technical bench will be completed," said Pluijm.
This is the first game since the coach returning to the group after resigning from the team following Yanga having talks of getting a contract with Zesco United coach, George Lwandamina.
The coach came back after disagreeing with the minister of internal affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba, while talking about his squad, Pluijm said he is happy about the victory and he is proud to play well in the second period and succeeded to change the results.
He said his team played well in the second half and succeeded to get that good victory and leaving with all the three points, on his side, Coach Manuel Pellegrini has said he didn't see two goals that were scored earlier on the second half minute and Vincent Kompany got a video for the purpose of looking at well.
He said previously they had previously used for Yanga in the first half then the second half then he went against him, but things went to different from had anticipated.
"We thank our opponents for that victory so that we have used our mistake to score against though I did not expect the results," he said.
Yanga, already Mbeya is expected to play against Mbeya City tomorrow at the Sokoine Stadium in that town in its 13 game of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.
Mbao FC was defeated in the problem with leaders of that league, who are also big opponents Yanga, Simba in the game that was played recently at the same stadium.
