
Saturday, November 15, 2014.

You are making a marriage relationship with love?

Many talks about preparations of marriage does not depend on how the wedding incident.

In addition to other reasons, most of us have complained that the feelings of love and someone who is not correct 'is why it does not have direction, but we have also contributed a reason to make us feel good relationship that we do not put him in danger of lack of love in the marriage.

The reason for you started a relationship.

There are a lot of reasons including people getting into the marriage, we are looking for a respect to agree on the community because we know the marriage is a easy way to get that respect and we are not worried because we have been true that "many people with their respect."
We're getting in marriage because it's just the age of age, we are looking for safety of life.
Without a marriage we will be able to do a certain things thus the marriage is usually level to help to reach the goals.

For our marriages, it is a way to look for love in dealing with feelings of loneliness.
Furthermore, it is impossible for love is a reason leading in helping youths to start love in the small age because of marriage is impossible so that we should not want to get married or we think marriage is a way to legalize the wedding act.

Our others we think marriage is a plan to enable people who have a chapter and therefore we are able to send those people as an aim of increasing our status to others and sometimes we are requesting the ability to appeal for a long time when we see sexual excitement then they lead the relationship of marriage, something that is not true.

Although the shape of Almighty God can have a chance during the first time of relationship, its contribution is reduced as a beauty could have a permanent reason for love and accountability in the marriage, then that we think that the beauties are left to their lovers, because of different reasons including them.

All these, together with others that consider the effects that are used by many but all of the great extent is the highest so that they can be heard, "those who live in marriage does not recognize them, therefore they believe it is more than those who we think is more important.

Now in relation to about what I wanted to start a marriage relationship, there are three important things to consider the issue of the first one is why all the three important thing is why I will discuss the fight against the private requirements of those who go with.

The translation of the tape to start a relationship.

If we have touched on there, most of us we want to look for correct someone more than what you want to have correct people.
The right person and the one who is ready for relationship is who if it is why he is three major reputation (1) has won the fight against 2 (2) he believes that the primary issues that they joined with 3) he believes that they are looking for them his life.

He has won the fight for private requirements for sure, his great marriage is to win the selfish language, a marriage is intended to kill a soul and personal interests so that I am able to have one body and my colleague.

In the language of a soul, there is a reason for being able to score a fight against him so that in relation to my soul in relation to another person, Kobe aged peace, give his head outside without fear.
The fear of being found and affected with the environment makes him up his head inside.

A human being that wins a soul in a soul, is same as Kobe with peace and freedom of the country without fear of was born with another person without protecting themselves and therefore directed by his requirements against others.

If the goal is to start a relationship that will be built on primary and honesty, and remove those who am forced to look about someone who also did in the fight for himself, by looking for his own needs, he can't look at close to each other and another person.

When the primary questions in winning the private sector is, I have a good relationship with my soul?
How do I vote?

All of them are questions that will help you to understand the level of my relationship with my soul, because so as to be a habit of getting into a strong marriage with faith, it is a must for him to be a grandfather who has the ability to make sure they get loved, but they love you.
With joy instead of claiming to be highly commended. I did not depend on, Itenda.
If I did not have a rumor, the fear of was born but to say the truth without fear of the results of the truth.

Although it is true that a human being does not have the ability to resolve the real life especially in the previous steps of relationship, but we can realize that there is a easy problem with a person that I believe in mind, we need to study hard, we need me.

He would have the primary things that make sure that things have in life have an identification of my life and I believe what is the foundation of my life?

For example, religious faith can be a foundation of many lives of many that are not involved in the religious debate that lead you, faith, and even our behavior.
At other times we can't understand what we believe, but that we don't know that those religion is a gift that we can overlap with someone when you want to take care of.

When I wanted to deal with someone we are coming out as primary issues in faith, even if I feel you are seen in the possibility of big conflicts in the future, even if I feel it is true that the two lovers get involved, even so, the faith that we are doing inside a person can't affect the highest cost and therefore having many conflicts.

Therefore, it is enough to use the previous steps for talks and time to time so as to learn in general faith in the primary issues that advertise the life of your lover.
Because it has been confirmed that the difference of these primary faith is because of many cases of marriage / relationship, wisdom, good thinking, when you start a relationship with a person that you are very much as they have faith in other primary things.

He recognizes that they are leading his life and most of us have the goals even if they have not been written in the place, there are those who have the objectives of having major changes as others want to serve others by getting rid of others and so on.

These goals are the basis of the decision involved in life, it is important to understand before I have not made a decision to start a permanent relationship with another person, this will enable you to make a good decision to get a permanent relationship with another person, that will enable you to go together.

We know that in our community like our country, they have condemned the presence of many people who do not have any goals in life, this is not great and does not have a partner or put up, then it is good to see that earlier so as to make efforts to make goals to start.
We are told that without goals?

There are lovers who fail to close very close to one reason, one has the objectives of going back to another time he is equivalent to prevent two people together, one is to discuss and agree on the direction and agreed.

Why do I need marriage / relationship?

As we have explained earlier, people have already been different reasons for starting a marriage relationship because if we get married, I will be able to get love before meeting with someone being loved more than I will be very happy because I will be loved more than to be loved more.

Likewise, in the goals of life, someone who is looking at life is an opportunity to be a billionaire who cannot get married because the same way with his colleague who is taking life as an opportunity of getting married to the marriage can be the source of lack of joy in marriage can be the source of lack of joy in marriage.

It is because the advisers of marriage issues think that with the aim of avoiding conflicts without a must in marriage, it is good to get into a marriage because the main aim is to go through any cost which is possible by 2) because of what I believe is the purpose of our life as lovers.

Because of those, it is that for you to win a private requirements, I will be able to listen and understand the views and direction of my colleague, and then check the way we can be able to go together with this important things like the loved ones.

What are the steps of taking?

Other criteria like the chapter, Almighty God, education, expertise, expertise, color, and other things like that, I don't remember well but I was pleased with you and instead, a level of being dealt with or instead, a level of being dealt with or instead, a level of being dealt with or instead, a level of being dealt with without private requirements.

The face of the body shivered and it is priorities in their marriage is sexual excitement 'and the education has no end, you can get any time and it can't affect the vehicle.
She doesn't affect the relationship with foundation of preventing and honesty, the success of the wedding act, the importance, but you see it is a priority of the marriage relationship and that is the origin of a lot of marriage or joy in marriage.

If you look at the soul of the soul for signs that were mentioned in short, and there is still need to start a permanent relationship with another person, look for a lot of advice and make sure that you get a relationship between them and kill a lot of advice.
Culture this is the guest of honor but it is important.

This article is answers of the reader of this blog who wanted to know the criteria for looking for a month of life.

It has found guilty of 970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, AT threw out 970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, a period of 9340,546.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
