
What do not mean?
Elias Msuya, The Citizen of not like @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam City, the government has presented recommendations of the level and end of the government's budget for the 2016 / 2017 financial year that shows that it has planned to collect and use 5 trillion shillings, being an increase of 7 trillion shillings compared to last year.
While presenting proposals for that budget recently, the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Phillip Mpango has said that in those funds, the government has planned to use 20,000 trillion shillings for normal use while 114trillion shillings were used in development projects.
In his speech to launch the Parliament of the United Republic on November 20th last year, President Magufuli said for three years the collection of revenue was under the destruction.
"We will make sure that every person who is able to pay taxes will not have enough taxes, you will not be able to pay taxes, therefore we request all citizens to ensure you are given the receipts every time they buy products or services," said President Magufuli.
Apart from collecting taxes, President Magufuli mentioned the second area in that strategy to be to remove all the journeys that are not a must outside the country.
Instead, we will send to our ambassadors of representing us in those types of meetings, and when it comes, the leader or a senior servant to travel, we will tell you that he does not have a series of people who don't have the importance or activities of doing this journey, "he said.
In showing the embezzlement of money, the president said a total of 367,888 billion will be used for trips abroad for civil servants, public organizations and other institutions between the year 2013 and 2015 that brought together the airplane tickets that will cost 18390,536 billion shillings (5 billion shillings) and contributions for subsistence (107,billion shillings).
These funds could be used well to improve the services of citizens in the under health, water, education, electricity, for example this money would have reduced its clinics and how many teachers?
He mentioned the third area to control it is a workshop, meetings, meetings, and festivals which said that they are using a lot of money to the government but they have no benefit and don't be successful in the implementation of policies and policies of the government.
The fourth area is to implement the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority so as to ensure that all loopholes of public funds are derived from the poor management.
The fifth area is to supervise and control the violation of instructions and various instructions which had already been issued by the government about the purchase of products like house for the purpose of government use.
He said the sixth area is the government to supervise closely and control the purchase of cars for the purpose of leaders and senior servants of the government.
He also mentioned the seventh area to be continuing to investigate and control the expenditure of the government and all its institutions.
Apart from those steps of blocking the use, President Magufuli mentioned its priorities as to reduce bureaucracy, so as to increase the speed of implementation of the decisions by the government projects that can be able to reduce and restore the discipline of public service by increasing transparency and accountability.
He explained his intention to reduce the size of the council of ministers.
Already he has already started a council of ministers from 55 up to 18, while the budget for ministry has reduced to a large extent in the salaries of salaries, a situation that shows that the salaries was paid to the nation.
President has shown an example of the use of his office to be reduced from 207,976 billion shillings for the year 2015 / 2017, being a reduction of 514 billion shillings in the year 2016 / 2017.
The results of bringing about those efforts to stop the use of positive results, but analysis have shown that you may also be affected by bad results.
Some feel that the act of blocking the use of money because the government is the biggest stakeholder in the circulation of money.
In order to control the use of public funds, the government departments and its institutions have been urged to stop meetings and seminar at the private sector and instead of those activities will be held in government buildings.
Many feel that this issue will affect the growth of the hotel sector where its great customer is the government, a situation that will not affect the employment and also the business of the internal revenue that are used by that sector.
In general, the budget is expecting two other things to be the first collection of revenue and how to use it, it is that, you are unable to use how to collect, it has destroyed the expenditure, "says the senior officer of the economy of the economy and Jamy (ESRF), Doctor Oswald Urassa.
I think he is doing President Magufuli is correct for now.
Although, in the future of the economy, if you want to take them, there must be productive expenditure (SMS), use of expanding the economy, the way you are blocking us as a result of the economy was not allowed, "said Doctor competitions.
Speaking about the direction of that budget, a lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor Humphrey Moshi says the control can also affect the money until it was built and therefore affecting the development activities.
"The normal thing is to confirm it is an increase in development budget for the past years, carrying 8-12 percent, for now it can reach up to 20 percent.
"But I was not presented to all the funds that were sponsored by parliament in concerned areas, there will affect the development projects," he said and added that the payment of debts will make the budget not to be a huge results.
"What is required is to take a budget as it's sponsored by many times when they get 50 percent or 60 percent only, the debts will reduce the budget, that 29 trillion or get new projects that will be implemented," he says and added.
"Our budget has also increased by being worth 60 million shillings, therefore the cost of things have increased in."
Among the bad results of controlling the income is a reduction in the level of cargo cargo that had been launched in the port of Dar es Salaam.
Speaking during the workshop of the editors forum recently, the acting manager of that port, Habel Mhanga, gave an example of cargo of vehicles that are going to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) that he said it has reduced by 50 percent, while the cargo of Zambia built by 46 percent.
That step is also followed by the drop in business in areas with great business like Kariakoo, in the city of Dar es Salaam as a result of the pace of importation of goods from outside the country.
