The child would like to know early as a youth.
The presence of political issues.
Last season, your evaluation to youths who came out I know they had enough understanding or you will help us as the youth to continue with the old elections that is good for the general elections that is expected to take place this year, which is the general elections expected to be held this year.
Election.
It has already witnessed that many youths have come out more different from last years, they have managed to fight directly in the political issues.
It is a elections that youths have contested for candidates vying for their intentions and that they need to lead.
Together with that, the hundred of those who were in, but it's still a year that we have witnessed many local government officials has left the concept of that it is a must that the chairpersons of the local government has left alone for now, we have many youths who are the chairpersons of local governments.
We see that.
There is a big possibility of now in political politics and to get directly from the political parties and to show the ability, we have never been able to register themselves in more than one centers.
Others have contested for violence and being able to fight.
The evaluation of the general election which will happen this year I think there will be good where we get the elections that you're following the democracy and justice.
The foundation of democracy and rights being available on environment that lead the elections to go.
If there will be no good foundation of doing that election for justice and peace.
The word can't know that it will be a good election.
He desires for himself.
The whole process of heading to the general elections to succeed in justice and peace starting at the time of registering themselves at time to vote and during the chicken to protect themselves as eating until when we see a lot of violence erupted.
God came out especially in the period of voting and in the period of announcing those winners.
Many times we have seen here in the casting of votes, there are some mistakes that has done by the concerned ministry even they have done those mistakes that will be accountable because it is heading to disrupt the peace but youths as the youth.
A hundred and disrupt the peace, except that the process is heading to youths to get into actions that we saw at this matter which we saw right now, has been following many times when getting to the political demonstrations here in the country, we have seen many youths up to them.
Mkumbo, more than further, that I think more is that many youths who buy goods into universities are only when they are doing their systems for more interests in universities but when they are doing their systems for more interests especially the young people like these people like it has resulted from violence.
Managing one of the theft during pregnancy and destruction of how.
Hayatou, especially when talking to people they don't think those demonstrations are religious, rights and must be done to our nation, we are supposed to take action against him and not that she's going to act.
But the condition that brings you?
It's not true that if you check up, if you check up until he gave out that the leadership of power and those who had a low lives.
And those are youths when you look at the train where there are many youths who live in difficult environments.
Or it is a must that you get out of those drivers who shivered to people who are Solly Mahlangu and Future.
Everyone who are waiting in the picture before you see that maybe we do to do the demonstrations that these people know what he will know?
Together with.
Still problems are still continuing to be there and that is why we will see in a recent period, many youths who want them to get into the wave of getting into opposition parties.
Because he has lost hope and the leaders who have for a long period and leadership do not support me.
In other parties.
The problem of water.
