
Wealth is not a miracle of May 31, 2012.

The main aim of this article is to inform us that there is no problem in the wealth, but the main aim is to request the government to use all his energy to prevent the albino killings and the other people being administered in the excuse of looking for quick wealth.
The government should give education and inform us that the biggest wealth is due to the theft of public property, even if the theft concern people from public property, even if the theft concern people from public property, even if the theft said that the theft of public property is open, it will help to stop the murder of albino children.
The government took the responsibility of educating people that there is no wealth that is coming through the way, the government can make efforts to stop the theft of human property and make sure that our resources are beneficial to our country without being forced to protect themselves in every Tanzanian that do not be normal as an albino killings like the albino killings.
If it is faith that among the wealth, we should know that there is a miracle in the wealth, that someone can be rich without work or even if you do not have great strength and believe that God who wanted to travel up without any job and believe that God who wanted to travel up to foreign countries without the fare.
But also there is faith that led by the religious religion or by words of the colonial history of witchcraft, although the truth is that all the things that depend on the truth is witchcraft, should involve people of human rights by killing people, and use some of the bodies of their bodies to look for wealth.
The plain truth is that there are some of the wealth of Tanzania's wealth, there is a rich one that he was released by his grandfather, he has not depend on yourself the money that he was released by her husband, he does not depend on me for millions, he does not buy houses of billions and run a big business.
For someone who has no light of a scholar, who does not have a long time to study and do different research and to think about it, it should believe that the strength of the attraction to some of the wealth of some of us get like this one that I got given an example above.
Another example, while in Dar es Salaam, if you appear in cinemas, Mbezi, Mikocheni and elsewhere, if you seen it in a luxurious cars run even by young children of 18 to 20 years, we must be the source of that big wealth.
Without details, we should be surprised, we are waiting for this wealth, and so there is no wonder, it is the theft, a few they got into public funds, and running their lives.
Lots of noise in the past which would enable you to think that maybe the well for drug abuse is only, but the scandal of BoT and ITC.
There is no well for money, there is no terrorist in the wealth, which comes from the theft of public property, it is possible that some people are doing drug abuse and livestock, Ministry of Lands, Ministry of Lands, Ministry of Lands, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land, Ministry of Land
While the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has reminded citizens to abandon their faith, it is important to recognize that there is still a difficult time to build a environment of ending those faith.
It is a must to expand the systems and educate us, it is a must to recognize that the great wealth and the use of Tanzania are needed among some of our senses be used to ensure we are used for our country's resources together, we can reduce our faith in search for human rights.
Therefore, when they be known that the rich who lost easily arising from public property, quick action should be taken to them including the way they used to prevent it, this can help build the community that it does not believe in wealth.
And that is where we will have succeeded to eradicate terrorism faith and they want to sell the life of the Tanzania Albino Society and other people being administered in the country.
I would like to also look at this article to put openly that I did not agree with the stand that everyone who is albino, will not accept it is life and all the human being is same as we consider the murder of all human beings and the only way to protect all human rights.
While South Africa involved the murder of visitors, there are some of the visitors and said that South Africa had a right to run those killings, because there was no right to kill another person or another person not allowed to be true and it's against the law!
There is no one who joined the albino killings, if there is no one who led the killing of any person, but it is not good to continue with a tooth for a tooth and an eye on the system that causes violence in the community and disrupt the law of law.
Our country has a lot of problems and many deaths are not a must, apart from the deaths of the Tanzania Albino Society, there are people who die every day in an ancient attack, back to youths of Tabora and Mererani Town, a primary thing is to look for ways and systems to remove the problems.
I know that Prime Minister Pinda had a good intention and I have no doubt with his decision.
He is among the very few people of our country and even so, it is a must to respect the law!
If you agree to ignore the rule of law, there is dangerous that they are waiting for life.
Those who contribute to the hands of the Tanzania Albino Society are not only with this network, poverty that pushed them to do contrary to their will be paid little, so as to make sure that these killers are put in front of the law.
