The council of two ministers.
Dec 5, 2013.

There are open symptoms since the cabinet of President Jakaya Kikwete has been able to change especially after complaints from top leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Nape Nnauye and Abdulrahman Kinana, who have reached an action of wanting some of the ministers being called to explain to their party's executive committee about their work performance.
Among things that show the possibility of the ministers' council to be responsible for change is the step of early this week, President Kikwete appointed Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro to be the member of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.

That appointment was announced on Tuesday this week by the chief secretary general, Doctor Abdu Hyghaimo, in his report to the press that explained that the appointment has started officially on Monday.

Normally, many of the members of parliament who President Kikwete has been saying that members of parliament have planned to be ministers and this appointment of Rose Migiro, has brought those sentiments.

Since his being elected as the president in his second phase of leadership, if you remove this year's appointment, Kikwete has already appointed six members and among them, four are ministers in his government.

Members of parliament who Kikwete has appointed the ministers ready to be Professor Sospeter Muhongo, Professor Makame Mshenga, Janet Mbene and two-thirds.

Members of parliament who was appointed but they did not get a certificate is Zekhia Meghi, and James Mbatia from the NCCR-Revolutions Party.

At the moment, Doctor Rose Migiro, a scholar and a doctorate degree in law and deputy secretary general of the United Nations (UN), is the secretary of the National Executive Council of the Ministry of Politics and International Relations of CCM.

This year's appointment has also come at the period in which the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana, has shared issues of wanting the government to take action against ministers those mentioned not to work hard.

Kinana is a big politician in the CCM and it is said that it is same as the rich person "Kikwete because he has been his campaign manager in all the two programs that he will vie for presidency through CCM at the general elections of the year 2005 and 2010.
As a result of that decision, Kinana said that he can make changes to the ministers' council so that political work as the executive director of CCM should not be better, especially in the direction of preparations for the year 2015, during the next general elections.
