By the name is called the current leader.
My education is high.
And in the year 2005 and seven, I remember it was seven on the month of seven that we are celebrating the Saba Saba day that is there.
The late?
Juma, the leader is the father of the family of children.
And six years ago he refused to have HIV virus.
Also Mister week and the HIV virus started in the year one hundred and seven hundred thousand after his wife died.
The device's proposed to approximately ten years while he is to be left to four children.
The death of his wife that made a surprise of that if it may be the source of HIV in the world, I was the first one.
I was not happy with the good health of the truth, because my work will be cast in the country of AIDS but I have never been my wife and remember the problem?
But things do not do after getting this information is easy to take this child, whose condition is still a solution to you through the end of the last child though he still warned them and the condition of death and doctors in the past have no actions.
After there you go to the constitution I met very much and it did not pay faith that the virus did not have the virus of AIDS because the experts are telling us that a pregnant woman with AIDS virus will be able to give birth to a child of HIV or a lot of life.
Where is it?
When you go through right you'll give you a lesson together with fear while Mister explains the leadership and think to test the virus for AIDS.
One thousand, nine hundred and three hundred thousand in the Coastal Region and his family heard that he knew the heart of a motorcycle that was in Kibaha in Pwani province, he knew he is due to its activities involved in the energy expenditure, he started getting tired and a condition of mosquito bites from the hospital for investigation.
Her husband to masturbate and third, I arrived in Kibaha in the Coastal Region then I started my normal life with my children.
And this year, for now, it was good to do a small work in the world, I don't give you a small piece of water because I was not a person from the Vatican although I went to our hospital, but I went to our hospital, I would like to see I am pleased.
Why is the week he continued with the crown Herbert Louis for eight months ago, finally he saw and return to his daily activities even so, at the end of one hundred and five hundred thousand.
The disease of the elderly Marco Rubio has bought again this journey, experts not to advise the tests for.
In the future of the public when I have no longer again, I am surprised at the hospital for the benefits of the beautiful competitors, but I was surprised when I got from him, I will get a report at the same time maybe after seven minutes or eight minutes are waiting for.
I got to test it was next month and I did not lie!
Where of the questions.
And my answers I will get ten years of five in the month of first.
It doesn't know how it will be demolished because they are ready to have infection of the virus that cause AIDS.
Juma Likuli said that the problem of HIV virus on his side, was something that brought me or due to how the community was being taken to the disease.
The problem was a new name to me.
And when you see in the past years, it is not like the way but now they have increased just as usual but the previous days I felt it was not only a person who will fall in time.
And because the late father died on ten o'clock in the month of five, and when I got my answers it was a first month and I did not just think that when it was reached, there was a team that you know if the team does not see the money that AIDS is dangerous and posters.
The current view and in the first time for people that live with the HIV virus did not be similar to the week and his family they will get this information on time.
Then I started talking about the close relatives of the moment, because there was a long day.
And he takes just some of the problems.
He did not show there to see that maybe, maybe he has already joined me, she has already joined me, it is nothing to pay that this is normal and they will be able to go hand in other areas without a mistake, but it is not a fact.
First, I went to I joined the organization that he has given, Martha wanted you to live professionally in a short time even in more studies.
When I joined fat Joe, they've already joined the procedures if he joins you, in a short time, when I started getting a problem then if I start getting a problem then I will see the things still continues to get news.
I did not want other people from outside my family.
The late I did not want to know the reason why he was quoted by people with the HIV virus in the well, when I'm seen, there should know this problem and when I am in the province which is not at home where I am living in Pwani province and for sure this province is in the same time.
I was a person to arrive when they were talks about.
I could have talked about the silence and he is going to test for you, they are ready but he has AIDS for that, I saw it here.
Swahili does not know the secret of two people since they were Mister last week and he decided to market themselves that they live with the HIV virus in the community with bad opinion, and the disease.
But it reaches a place, I think it only can be a person that gives me the problem during the meeting where he was the problem now.
I will give you a good example I got drinking alcohol in the past, the late father was my people with now, I was going back when I was trying to show that not drinking alcohol.
They have already been taught.
Now I was getting a problem I was trying to look for the way to stand for them to sit for, not to stop last year.
I heard it is possible even if the problem about people have done we have because I was and why people should learn.
There was a few days meeting in the village, I decided to urge the leaders of the village announced that already came out is one of the people that live in the University of advertisements.
And from him have told me that you came out and we request their disappearance.
If you go to Grind.
I was been received by many people, it was involved with the teachers who used to teach my children the guards who were my party members because those of us do not live a thing, it doesn't see Pascal Malesa a member because I met many people.
But we agreed on that we are taking people who are able to look for answers here in the city, but those who already have a scholar has won the things that we got for me, I met my group because we do not have a group because we do with the virus to live with the HIV virus.
The challenges are still there and he believes that education to discover ourselves as well as transparency is the only way to fight the HIV infection.
We believe it?
Those who live with HIV virus are not associated with things that live with us.
But it is those who do not know.
Be it not to accept this situation where I did not accept to be alone!
But we have given out your advice to people like you, that I do not recognize that life is infection.
I love you.
It is possible that he has added to be first and it is dangerous to increase more than that.
So as to help rectify the process.
Different things are people.
For now Mister Blue has identified himself and he succeeded to get other female children who have no infection of AIDS.
He is the father of four children of another mother and in our groups I became another sister who ready to get a child but in working with the person we were with each other as a human being.
The condition of living as well as well as we were in children.
They don't know that six children were good.
Therefore, then we did not use a lesson to Mister because we want to get someone with good luck if he got pregnant, two twins that were coming up to today and they have said.
That is one of the benefits that we got to know the problem earlier and to start getting the truth about the problem.
Therefore, it is not good.
What we learned in us we are not true, it is just one of the way then and then he can live in which way I can also care!
But there are other issues that are very delicious.
Because they are required to scholars is not that we don't know what I don't know what we are doing?
But therefore the pain of basically in the body and.
And I say there is no doctor?
There is no one that we can do.
Said my cry like here, you will have forgotten your password.
Maybe if you want to give you an example.
I have arrived in Tanga, you are happy about the news about your job, I wish you for your donation, when I met I have arrived and I understand what we are with.
I have given that example when I was a meaning that if I am not wrong, what does not know the size of the problem?
It is advised.
And we saw it is good for your legs.
Therefore, it is not for salvation?
It's a like that it is possible, though I was not there.
In short, it is not like a short song to live.
'Imebaki Story.'
