
Who is pleased with the work of Karrima Carter?
Some of the artists here in the country have built a great reputation and there is another evidence that confirming him to be good ambassadors before various nations in the world, they go to the purpose of their art work.
There are some that are continuing to use their talents in the art to introduce the Tanzanian in front of other nations and even through the art work, some of the visitors have not been unable to do and even to plan to walk here in the country.
In addition to the great work done by this group, there are still complaints of not involved with their work and instead of benefiting other people and even when they go back to their families cannot benefit from their loved ones.
In addition to died in the 17 years ago, Shilole has said that they are still living with his ability of making more than 10 songs with a disabled person when he did not see it was a surprising thing.
He participated in various art concerts in the world when he announced his country where his work is heard until today, at the National Housing Corporation (TBC) and it has been so for more than the 16 century since the Radio in Dar es Salaam (RTO).
Midwives of the late and man's songs cannot be used by bad luck, but it's an intentional to understand the nation that it has ever been the only artist in the signing of traditional music and his work is still living.
He's Midown kind which is together with the use of the patriotism artist, also in the second side, the one should be used to enable the family as the only way to chase them.
The song that were required are required to be part of the important medical equipment in our nation where in that primary can be one of the major attraction sites in our country's gallery.
The action of wanting to remove the history of Nyman's history and other artists of his days is to prepare an environment for future generations to believe that we are not having artists of traditional songs that got to have a reputation even out of the country.
He is an artist who in addition he did not see his work in the disabled group about the talents they were born in art and important is to be prepared for the environment so that the nation can benefit from their talents.
The fight for artists to claim the rights that are derived from their farms are not supposed to stand because it is heading to build a foundation of looking at the basis of the artists who were born as Nyahaga station.
It is possible that because of lack of defending champions, the just-day work-to-thirds will continue to be used without control that would be able to help their families benefit from their husbands.
However, the artists in the moment can learn from there and bring strength to defend the rights that are from their farms and build a foundation that will enable their work to be used for benefits, even after it's not expected to leave.
The work of Nyaindi's work under Uhuru of Tanganyika on the radio without an artist is given weight in the generation of artists of the traditional songs who had passed, is equivalent to the attempt to allow our origin themselves.
In the issue of culture and art, we are supposed to write history and put correct records for the coming generations, as we explain how the art is used to market our country in front of other nations.
Everyone is aiming to save work which have given great contribution to the nation.
Philipo Kalalamana who is a journalist of the Citizen newspaper in Kagera province is available on phone number + 7114894 shillings.
