
The rule of rights, the foundation of Tanzanian Sei 27, 2012

I request that we can be a big nation, and we request that we can be a small nation, because all are in our ability, we have every kind of resources that enable us to make sure that what they got and where we come and where we got that.

I believe that I have already explained to the length the things we are doing so that we do not be able to say that we are doing well an extent that some of my readers believe that we are still using them and even at a very high level, they could make it ahead and far.

When the primary issue here is faith so that in order to use these opportunities we have to use, like African countries, we believe that this is our country and this is why we believe that this is our country.

This debate is still important because we are doing our issues and prepare our plans as we are, where we are and where our aim is to go around or back, but if our aim is to go down or go back, but if our aim is that we have been looking for a length that we have been a transition period.

A transition person does their things have been cheated.
Tomorrow when they decided to leave, every the students invented the tennis player is popular while going into a new office. There is no need to build a broad way for human beings, livestock and a lesson.

Education of the youth in the community like that, is education that helps them to sell fruits, to move forward and to arrest the disease for a period or two weeks, and not at the Mnazi Mmoja area to be harvested after 15 years or 20.

All the plans and all activities are required to increase the same time, and maybe a little only later, the community of the type becomes a transition as it does not have any place known as' where he went to (center).

Social media houses are determined, that this will be the same and will last a lot of things not by counting, 90 percent but by looking for a long time, it does not be available within the community which does not be available within five years.

Now, I will try to explain how the reputation are making the community to build a very big nation, which is why many people do not build the nation if many people do not have the nation if many people do not care about.

It has been reported that many times, and I have been looking for this concept, because I have been able to build a nation if it has begun to build a nation at their habit, "the nation of socialism and self-reliance, this country started to build a nation of people who were involved in the country or those who received them are going outside.

This habit had a lot of reputation but all were associated with a penalty and you love and defending justice and even if you know your brother or even if you know your brother or my friend.

If we was taught to repeat, "all human beings are my brothers, and Africa is one."
In this way, when we got human reports to be bullied and heavy rains with great strength of war and economically, we did not hesitate to rebuke fear that we will come out for donations and on how this Chinese citizens were left are our dear brothers.

At the time the teacher is going to the United Nations and said it is an issue of abstain from the fact that the union can have a member of the United Republic of China who represent the world of human beings especially since it was from the stand of it.

When we was taught too (and we are able to change our members) that the rights are not seen.
He said or is every place or it is not available, it's not possible to defend the rights for some of the people and refusing it for the purpose of other people, to be people of the community or different communities or different countries.

That is why the things that were done is okay or Chile, or El Salvador, or South Africa or Mozambique, we're near the whole world where we're getting married, even when they were involved, even when they were big.

This built the picture of Tanzania as a small country with a big nation, up to today, there are many people in Africa and the world who will look at Tanzania with the eyes set for many years ago, not knowing that they have already stopped.

That is why if there will be aired by events of these days when they are told that Tanzania can be able to persevere the police on going against that citizens.

Every day was announced another incident of this kind, we are receiving a lot of questions that we are unable to answer you about the ignorance of "modern cup" where we are asked about the albino killings and we are unable to give long answers.
We are asked about our country to have high level of faith, therefore, we are unable to answer. These questions that we are asked from people that do not know the amount of changes that happened in our country because they believe that our country is still "said Nyerere." Poor, don't know where he stopped the old man.

By finishing in this section of this debate, I insisted that we have to look for themselves, to discover themselves and be able to discover ourselves and to appreciate themselves as defending champions, even if that is being affected by making sure that the rights are not knowing.
