
Man United emerges victorious in the field.
I led by following up more with many people in the world.
Manchester City, England has three years since leaving the coach Alex Ferguson, who lost the popularity of Manchester United club, that club has emerged victorious in the world by popularity.
While Manchester United is holding the first position because it was not just over the world, the star of Spain, Real Madrid and Barcelona, Christiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi has extended to be hostile in the world for many things.
For 10 years ago, Real Madrid and Barcelona have shaken the world soccer, within and outside of soccer, are being competed for many players in Spain and Europe, also registration of star players will get sponsorship with a big amount of money or followed up in large numbers and fans in social media networks.
Two clubs show that with their league themselves and for a long time have continued to be rich in the world but there is a question that was asked for now because Barcelona and Real Madrid came into popularity and followed up with many people, especially for the section of wealth and now a long time for many fans.
The criteria used to reach the decision of a big club and famous as the number of their fans on social media, the number of fans who follow it on television, sales of their jersey and sponsorship.
With those criteria, Manchester United has continued to inspect all the clubs in the world and therefore took the first position by following up more in the world.
1-Manchester United social media networks are 75 million people (Facebook million, Twitter to 7 million).
Television is 52 percent of the English Premier League all over the world (an average of 35 billion shillings to 4 billion shillings in the season.
Sales of jerseys is the average of 1-2 to 1 million shillings per year (5 years ago).
The sponsorship of Vodacom has expensive equipment of Adidas Company, 75 million pounds per year, Chisholm, for 53 million pounds and small sponsors.
2Real Madrid social networks are 100 million people (24 million shillings, Twitter to 18 million).
Television are leading in the English Premier League followed by Barcelona.
Jerseys is an average of one million dollars for a year.
The sponsorship of Adidas is 34 million pounds per year, enter Emirates, 20 million pounds and others.
3@-@ FC Barcelona, social networks are 100 million people (24 million shillings, Twitter to 18 million).
The television, Barcelona has a private station of television that brings us the world (is about to go through the La Liga).
The jerseys will be awarded approximately 1,500 kilometers in the year 2015.
The sponsorship of Nike Company, 28 million pounds per year, Qadhi Court, 27 million pounds and others.
4- Chelsea will use 50 million fans (Facebook, Twitter) and jersey number 165 million dollars in the year 2015 through sponsorship of Adidas, 30 million pounds per year and investors from Asian countries.
5- Arsenal on social networks are approximately 1 million Tanzanian shillings (Facebook, Twitter).
Television is an average of 29 million fans in the season (England only) and jersey of 850,000 the season of 2015 sponsorship from Puma of 30 million pounds per year, enter Emirates, 30 million (including the right to use the field).
6-Liverpool, social networks are 356 million Tanzanian shillings (Facebook, Twitter), social networks are 40 million fans (Facebook, Twitter).
8Milan, AC Milan have dropped to a large extent and to leave the club such as Barcelona, Real Madrid and Manchester United are involved in Europe, although there are now emerged as Paris Saint Germain, Atletico Madrid and Manchester City which have landed in Milan.
949, Juventus won this club, popularly known as Kibangu river fell in the scandal of setting the results of the year 2006.
1002 and Paris Saint Germain from PSG after retiring from 1970, Paris Saint Germain despite its history from 1904 known as Barakah Saint Germain and later connected to Paris FC in 1970, PSG has continued to get many followers in Europe.
