
TFF gets a strategic plan for buses.
Sports is an important part in any part in the world in the life of human beings and it helps in large extent in the development of various countries, and also helps to build relationships, togetherness and the national union to any nation.
More than all the games, soccer has shown an ability to unite people with different culture, race, religion and different meanings in the whole world, is the famous game in Tanzania, Africa and in the world.
Here in the country people like soccer more than other games, but apart from Simba and Yanga clubs which have many popular fans inside and outside the borders of Tanzania, other soccer teams in the country have a few fans that are unsuitable for local and outside Tanzania.
As a result of our soccer not to be known within and outside Tanzania, many people don't know and don't pay the entry to go to the field there, something that causes many revenue revenue generated from entries and fail to pay their players well.
Many soccer fans in the country remain in their homes or they are going to the competitions that show soccer to check the games of the English Premier League, Spain, Germany and Italy.
Yes, most of the fans are forced to buy top boxes of DSTV and pay a lot of money so that they can see the European Premier League, and there are people who were unable to follow our team by going to the field so that I feel.
The problem of people unable to come out in the field to witness the soccer match in the country is not only Tanzania because it is in many African countries because since the past African players have been quoted by the European teams and they have been quoted saying that many African countries have been quoted in many African countries.
Also for Tanzania in a short time, we have no star players who were unable to go to the field, players like Celestine Mbani, Salum Jaba, Kitegu, Mohamed Idd, Kitogo, Juma Pondamali, and Juma Pondamali, and Juma Pondamali, and Juma Pondamali, and Juma Pondamali, and Juma Pondamali.
If we expect to protect yourself, due to the system of globalization and money, the players who don't be able to play in our league, will not be used by the European Union in America, Asia, and other African countries.
Therefore if those competitions are taking the best players, it's a must that she will stop looking at the league with better players, who will stop looking at the English Premier League with best players so that it will be very few.
So, we will learn the fans of soccer to support more than European teams and others from outside the country with the players with great talents instead of supporting our home's home but we will also be a lot.
I am saying that because these players with talents are the ones who leave the children, while our soccer federation are participating in ensuring those children are seen in Europe and the teams that brought together.
Our teams have been sentenced to soccer for the purpose of raising talents and selling them in big European teams and in the league of other countries.
We cannot look for players by going to play soccer in the country because they need money, also a team that gives money also because they don't know the money for the entries to the field is a few.
TFF is required to make a great strategy to ensure that our soccer team will have great sponsorship which will help in different programs to improve the players with talents and serve them.
