
"Thank you, citizens education on loans, do not lie on the office.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been reported, 24th November, 2016.

The Minister for Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango, has urged the senior directors and employees of the bank loans, financial institutions and social funds all over the country, to stop playing in the office and instead go to the villages to provide education to the citizens on opportunities of borrowing, so as to improve economically.

Doctor Mpango said that while opening the 18th meeting of the heads of banks and financial institutions in the country that was attended by more than 300 members of the country and outside the country.
He said most of the citizens especially the villages do not have education or experience to borrow the bank and other financial institutions, therefore they need to get enough education on how to borrow, but they are unable to do so because they don't have education.
He urged the executives in the financial institutions to go to the villages to provide education.
Doctor Mpango said that the country has a lot of opportunities and if it allows for, therefore the leaders of financial institutions and experts in two days of the meeting to prepare well and bring strategies that will help the benefit from those opportunities.
He said in the previous resolutions of the meeting, they decided to increase loans in the agricultural sector, but the agreements with those resolutions could not be done or implemented.
As a result of that, he urged the experts to make sure that are implemented so as to improve the economy of the country, because agriculture is a threat to the country.
Speaking about the difficulty of the life that is associated with some people who explained that the economy has become difficult, the Minister of Finance said it is not true because all the internal and outside countries have been giving information that the country's economy is growing up to day.
Doctor Mpango said that, they are saying that the financial situation is difficult, those who are used to be used "to make sure" and get a lot of money through legal ways, something that is now present as a result of the fact that all the loopholes used to fill the money in their pockets have been stolen.
He urged us to stop complaining and instead work hard and get money through legal way.
The Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania, Professor Benno Ndulu urged banks, financial institutions and community funds in the country to provide loans in large numbers at an affordable cost so that they can be farmers and business people to do that activity very more.
