
EAC has flown from Kenya.
Kenya is now proud of 70 percent of all business that was found after the East African Community (EAC) was launched at the end of November, 1999.
That is according to the report of last year about the business contracts of EAC where other countries of that union are Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda.
The report shows that Kenya, following expansion of its economy, education standards and business talents among its citizens have continued to control the market where in general it gives the general income of 100 billion shillings.
"The great ability of Kenya in the market aimed at killing citizens in the 150 million community is to have better education institutions and higher education institutions in relation to implementing the loopholes of business contracts," says that report.
Furthermore, the appropriate measures for your politics in this nation has enabled it to be on the front line to symbolize the current policies of leading and to coordinate the market, a situation that gives Kenyans to make sure that they be able to deal with investment environment in the EAC.
"You do not affect the sale of business that make Kenya their friendship, you will get that several companies have been distributed in those countries, including Bongo Flava and Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), and other companies are as a shop where the University of Mount Kenya and Jomo Kenyatta.
They were listed like important organs in that business, "he said.
Listen to me, there are many Kenyans who have moved to those countries following the result of the roadblocks at the tax tax, immigration and diplomatic struggles for now have contributed the business of EAC in agriculture and agricultural shops.
In addition, those nations that make the EAC have been fined and the ability for Kenyans in the education sector where many teachers have moved to those countries, experts of communication technology and also employees in the luxurious hotel sector.
"It is as a result of that situation the Kenyans have reduced that big percentage while other nations have reduced and insisted that the 30 percent of the market," the report said.
