
General elections of 2015: The importance of Lowassa and patriotism of contraception?

At the moment I met as a patriotism Tanzanian, because the ideology of patriotism is only one and it does not love for what you believe in, it is the truth when they believe that it is true.

Patriotism of the country should not be ruled by ideology or fanaticism of one group against another group of citizens.

What was the important in patriotism in a fact, for a country, it is a love for the best love in building and strengthening the country.

This year our country is doing the general election for the purpose of getting new leaders of the fifth term since it started moving forward.

Together with that election, involved the members of parliament and councilors, that is concerned with more is the general leader of the country, Raqqa, she said that I was supposed to work here.

Because Tanzanians are divided into many political parties, it is a must you know that our head leader to come from the party that makes us even without any party according to the system that will continue to run the election by the end of this year.

But because Tanzanians know most of us, more than 45 million people, something that is clear that it does not cause the difficulty of going to go down and make sure that you are happy to be our head leader among them who have shown an intention of giving them that opportunity.

Up to now they have shown an intention or announced an open intention of requesting the president of our country is the cadres of the ruling party, CCM.

In that meaning, they should be understood that by touching the people who have shown me that I will not do justice to inform us who have not ready to destroy the cargo.

Among those cadres of CCM who have shown intentions, we have given our ideology from front, we can get the best person more than all the others, the criteria for getting it is open if what will be there below.

First, something that will make the work of set free and recognize the best one of the other is what happened in one of all who have shown intentions to want the presidency of our country.

On that meaning the ones that do those acts are what they know is that they do not fear more, maybe by their ability to go back to others, and therefore makes us understand you to take care of the main position in our country, and that is not another, but it is, Edward Ngoyai Lowassa.

That is brought by the fact of the natural truth that between all trees, a tree with fruits get a lot of dirt like each time, planting trees every time, paying for many times and so on.

But another thing is that usual it is difficult to see a problem or a good thing before being compared to that one and other things.

For example, when Lowassa was forced to resign as a prime minister, there are some that came out and that it is able to accept the mistakes that it is a mistake.

But after the heavy scandal involving more than two times, the scandal that led Lowassa's close to the same way, but without any place it was the one that he was with Lowassa, that's when Lowassa came out that he has done it is an act of accountability.

That is an act that has shown its quality, which was not seen in the same time because it had not been found and they could not accept it or to resolve it.

The act of accountability of that kind, did not covered by elder Ali Hassan Mwinyi at the time he was the minister of internal affairs, who later was accepted by the citizens to be the president.

It should be remembered that, the leader of the country doesn't accept to be careful.

This is because he can do anything because it has not been done in the authority.

But we give him a player to show accountability at the moment we become a faith in what to avoid dangerous parasites.
