Every goal of Serengeti 20,000 shillings.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

The national soccer team of youth under the age of 17, Serengeti Boys "today is expected to play with their colleagues in Congo Brazzavile after vying for the finals of the African Cup in the year.

In providing the ones for those players, the government has announced that match that will be played at the Uhuru Stadium, it will not have an entrance.
Apart from that, the government is also through the minister of information, culture, arts, and sports, Nape Nnauye has announced to give 500,000 shillings per day that will be set by the players of that team today, the report of the president of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi to thank the government for doing that match free.
"TFF is thanking the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts, and Sports for giving them a lot, this will give me a lot, Honorable Minister Nape Nnauye gives a lot in large numbers tomorrow (today) National Stadium, God bless Tanzania," bless Tanzania, "can be easily read of Malinzi.
Earlier yesterday, Minister Nape speaking to the press promised to 500,000 shillings for every goal that will be set.
He said apart from that promise, every player will get a loss of shillings 200,000 before getting into the pitch.
"By starting tomorrow (today), I will take care of each other in the morning and to give them a lot of shillings per day, I will talk to them and the game is very important to Tanzania because they are doing well to qualify for the final stage and I promise every goal that will be paid by 500,000 shillings even if they will be 10," said Nape.
Moreover, Nape urged Tanzanians to come out in large numbers to cheer their team including contributing to 500 shillings since it will help any sponsor of the team which for now it does not have any sponsor and that all the cost is popular while TFF continues to return early this week, it will be a game of contesting for the African finals to be held in Madagascar.
In his previous activities, Serengeti started by scoring 9-0 goals in his home ground, with visitors before falling off in South Africa by 2-0 goals, only that won in today's match to be played in Congo a repeat match that will be played in Congo two weeks ago.
Already the team's coach, Bakari Shime has stated that his squad is well with his players who have the ability to win that game and to make sure they use well at home ground.
"My squad does not have injured, the camp has given the great experience in fighting with the youths of Congo who witnessed because I have given enough money and encouraging the mistakes that were affected by our country and South Africa," he said.
"We need to support him from cashews?
"History shows that many times Congo has been looking for if we are playing with this journey and we have organized himself well so that we can get good results in the home game before the repeat game," said Shime.
