
Illegal immigrants should be avoided, be avoided in the year 2015.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
Mentally disabled, as we start to counting the first day of the year 2015 today, it is difficult to agree on some of the fights that will be stopped by this nation last year and we would like them to abandon that this year.
Some of the challenges that were done are faced with the problem of lack of security, the cost of life, politics of tribalism and conflicts in which he is among other problems.
In the year 2014 Kenyans have witnessed many cases of the brutal killings in various parts of the country such as Kaporo, Lamu Island and students among others.
The security officers led by the minister of internal affairs, Joseph Khajida Kopa, it is a must to ensure that this year Kenyans did not live a life of fear from the terrorists' group.
Eternal peace that ended yesterday, hatred in social networks were added by a big margin and politicians also contributed in the increase in a restaurant because the nation did not be able to move forward if the nation did not be able to move forward if the nation did not move forward.
Politicians have no reason to be in the year 2015 this year, to give a statement to unite people and not knowing how they purchase.
Likewise, the national commission of compatibility (NMAC) is to come up strategies to fight with those who use hatred aside through social media networks.
The cost of SAVE LIVaquina, this year is to ensure that the cost of the life go down.
Last year, the cost of life was very high to the extent that many Kenyans have been difficult to get important products like food.
This year, the government is a must they sell their soul and reducing the burden of a high price in life.
In the last year we witnessed conflicts with fans in the local government, he said there was conflicts between the governors and their ministers, the representatives of parliament and other leaders, among others also, there were some of employees in the country in the country.
This year, Kenyans do not like to see conflicts of this kind without benefits and since the start of the new system in the country, it is very few that have started getting its fruits in the year 2015, it is the reason for Kenyans to reach these fruits that were brought by the constitution passed in the year 2010.
Avoid opportunistic infections, give him a lesson.
