"He cleaned it" CNN, BBC equal to home!
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

I don't have an assurance that if the motorcycle riders were used in recent efforts by the government of President Kikwete to make it in the world through CNN and BBC against claims that it has not completed the enough steps to deal with the problem of crimes in the country.
Any reason, anyone who advised the government of the England company to connect the PR and PPK company, Christian Bella Bird, and later lead the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu and Stephen Saints of the program of Homera of BBC, he performed well.
He performed well because of those two seasons, a vibrant journalist (Dawasco) and Stephen) are respected in the world, and that it was watched by millions of people, and therefore there was a correct attempt to make it "against those allegations and even if its cost were big.
When I get to come with it, even so, it is a step by the government to come back to London and then it will be able to see him in his home (not love London) and then it is safe for several steps to have been taken.
You are the ones who did not understand that because let me follow me if I urge you all the question like President Kikwete "he has succeeded to see Tanzania against those allegations by seeing the BBC that he knows the 40th business people in the country, but he not arrested it?
I think the answer is' no 'I have seen me, with his statement, he has spoilt the country more than he cleaned it, and then I believe that he didn't know the country against those allegations!
I am sure that you have heard saying that (the BBC is understood) and should be heard by many in the world, they will see what this is the president of how to know the names of 40 leaders in his country and they did not present it?
But we are in their home to identify that, it's a habit, because she has ever told the public that he will have a list of veteran players of illegal drug trafficking, and even if those statements did not followed by taking any place until today.
My brothers, the situation would have been different meanings like President Kikwete that he would have arrested three leaders of robbery together with that leader of Arusha Region and brought him inside, and that's when he went to London to inform the BBC, CNN and that he has taken a step, and gave them an example of the arrest of those two leaders.
But going to London and tell BBC that he does not know the 40 players of that business without the arrest of the girl in the country without the arrest of those accusations, but it is not aware that we are giving a message that we Tanzania have already put a unbeaten culture by giving them the reputation.
In this period of unbeaten and illegal immigrants, it comes to the issue of thieves, President Kikwete "he did not visit" return to the money they received, so they can be afraid, and it's true.
I went back to Nyalandu, he touched on time of his talks with journalists here in the home before going to London City and even in London that the government is intending to make a great law to stop poachers in the country, but my answer is that our country's problem is not a huge law, but the implementation of the existing law is not great.
For sure, among these things that do this days, these days we have been given these days to our leaders that corruption have been shown only if the legal law should be supported.
Recently, I got to know something that is like that like the fishing sector in the country, and it is that the problem of illegal fishing using dynamite is unacceptable, at the streets of Tanzania if we will also have a new law "fishing.
