
What is new language of what?
For a long time I have been a good teacher of music.
Private, I would like to know that a farm in the farm is wrong for instance, I told me that I would like to bless Tanzania's music from Zouk Rumba, Ranaldo and Charam.
Basically the I will continue especially is that, the cause of the media and voice in singing. My love, have contributed to a large extent of my competence in serving music.
The first kind to have ever love was jailed while this was caused by the fact that, the father and my mother were the big fans of that music.
Sporah Show of TP Mazembe Club were not seen in our home.
As days passed it then I started to hear music of another kind, I saw the music of Moro Jazz, Tabora Jazz and later on a clarification, there was when I got well in the voice of Rajab Rutengwe, Mbaraka Mwinshehe Mwaruka.
The day before yesterday went to love with music at home, went back to front right now I don't like our music at Ankara town.
This is the music that was played at Mlimani City Park and Msondo Ngoma.
I wish you sincerely for all those who came to speak about the idea of the establishment of this band, but also thank the musicians to decide to make sure these songs are standing.
There's no objection, these music experts have done a big job at that music and even making it be known within and outside the country.
These experts used their music in different jobs, starting from educating, entertain and give information but several times have been using their music warned.
What is happening in this music being different from another music that will happen in the country, is that the competence of creativity, that is being used by these artists in getting their message.
The biggest thing that is looking for more, is that of their competence in using Swahili language to get their message to the old music, it has been using Swahili language to give their message to you and even if it is not easy to hear the words of English even by bad luck.
Their use of Swahili language in their music to a large extent have been contributing to all over and should be understood and accepted by all Tanzanians, because all the artists have been using their natural language, a good example is the American artists.
When they want to do that, they are using a special equipment that aims at providing them to get their message.
In that context, when I take this opportunity to ask the Tanzanian music artists, this is your music that you are living because of who, especially if it involves us, 'YESTanzania, number of what is inside him?
Remember our language, therefore, your message is aimed at how they are talking of Swahili, this new language that you get to the music is what to do especially?
If you continue to produce music for the purpose of getting an international market, it is not true that you can use Swahili language it because this can be used as a way of doing your music so that they can be used as an important source of teaching Swahili.
If it is Swahili like this, "YES" in your music you do not have the logic or your art.
The analyst is a journalist of this newspaper.
