

By Michael Maurus for a support of internet.
The 70's Governor of America, Mitole Cartney, has ever received a speech of his kind towards the general elections of that country in the year 2012, which up to today it has maintained the only class one who are coming out to vie for leadership.
In here, Tanzania, the speech can be led to all those who came out to vie for various leadership positions as John Maguli, Edward Lowassa, Anna Mghwira and the others who is vying for presidency.
While Magufuli vying for that position through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Lowassa, the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), while Anna was defending himself in the race on the ticket of ACT-Wazalendo.
But also, the speech by Oilcom, is targeting candidates for parliamentary and councilors positions towards the general elections of Tanzania that was planned to take place on October 25, this year, last week we saw how Kidney and their families in general.
He said that the voters are good and they went up with candidates by protecting their policies and think that they have the ability to fulfill the dangers that they are facing in that election, it can be able to make up their families.
Continuing to get a great message from Kidney and it's not just give a lesson to the voters, but also involves those candidates to see how the primary things are required to consider for them to succeed in the election process.
Continue with this election, this is the one that will give you insights from all experts in different sectors to see how they can benefit from their profession here, I can cause doctors, athletes, athletes, and other professionals.
But also, this election is that you will give affordable to patients who are not seen to see doctors, they are told to see the doctors, because there is no drugs for this period or we should have a good life, again according to all the American citizens.
It has a great meaning to students, students who have been giving them to be given loans for their studies, a situation that made them to fulfill their dream of fulfilling their dreams in education.
The slogan of the president who passed was "front of" but 23 million of Americans have been looking for work without success and as the situation is, instead of front, we cannot go back behind and we cannot withstand even in the next four years.
This election has great important results, first about the education of our children, the value of our homes, the salaries that we buy and about the whole issue of our economy, the strength of our army to prevent us from oil from outside the American administration in the world.
Several times, President Barack Obama wrote history of bad economical state, but it is not only that President Obama had 1,300 passengers and of great creativity in the history of this world.
And also many types of people who have been sexual excitement in any event, without caring about various challenges that are facing them, because we have been led by men and women who have been able to improve health services and security of the community or to fight with China which has managed to expand our economy in every corner of the world.
In the current situation, things are supposed to be difficult, more than how he found the country and many families have been unable to get loans due to difficult laws that want them to get loans due to difficult laws that they want to buy loans.
There have been used a lot of money for the purpose of investment which at the end of the day, it has benefited a few and brought in a debt to the government at the energy price, has continued to rise because the production has reduced.
