Professor Shivji said the couple of Lowa.
Jide 11, 2013.

After the small traders to use the tour of President Barack Obama of the United States, recently, I think it is an appropriate time to discuss other things, including the historical process of writing a new constitution of our country.
We have been told by the chairman of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba to be the constitutional councils that will be run by that commission in every district council that will take place from July 12 to September 2nd this year.
Basically the work of these councils and the ones that will be run by institutions, parties, groups, and different institutions have a great responsibility, and it is going through, to discuss and identify the draft constitution that was organized by the commission of Warioba and be launched by the Vice President, June 3 this year, at Karimjee stadium in Dar es Salaam city.
In addition to being the official debate that you will be in the councils, I think we have agreed to be a good thing outside the councils, if we have witnessed the debate, a good thing from now until August 31st this year, which is the end of submitting the views of the councils of various institutions to the commission of Mzee Warioba.
One of the gatherings that followed it is the one that took place on June 21, at the Nkurumah estate, the University of Dar es Salaam, where the spokesperson of the University of Dar es Salaam, where the Spokesperson of the University of Dar es Salaam.
In that gathering that was covered by one of the radio and television stations, including ITV and Radio One, Professor Shivji said that the chairperson of the Mwalimu Nyerere profession in Dar es Salaam, used that amount to farewell.
We need for many debates.

Let me start by joining all the ones that he added that the veteran will be able to set aside its time, to read it, to realize that we need many debates about the draft constitution that was given by the commission with an aim of improving the draft that was given by the commission with an aim of improving the draft that was given by the commission to improve the draft constitution.
But also, I believe that together with the good analysis of the law in some of the areas, such as the main constitution of a constitution (Supperdoll,), there are several things that I don't agree with him, therefore you agree with my opinion, instead of all the issues of Professor Shivji.
According to Professor Shivji, the constitution of the union (or the federation as required by the draft) is supposed to be the source of all the laws and all the power of this issue, which is in the constitution of various countries like America and Australia, according to Professor Shivji.
In my opinion, the situation is claimed that if she gets a scholar, the government of the union (or the federation) is supposed to have teeth or strength and therefore these stakeholders who follow his analysis and I agree with his argument about this issue.
Do not lie or a union?
