
Behind the decision by the president on 29, 2012

Hunger of spongers, these days are popular by the name of corruption, has cost to a large extent in the life of ordinary citizens in the country.
The value of the citizen is for example, when he bought salt or sugar in the shop, it has been operated on by corruption for a long period of time.
That tax has been knocked out by using methods of corruption, it has been vying for the projects that are in end, pour it more.
Projects like the building of emergency power, the purchase of military fees at a high price and even the purchase of the president's plane.
Money for payments for the projects or the purchase of these assets have been similar to AIDS (do not have tax exemptions.
The citizen is together with the farmer that produces liquor, oil and oil in the village because of protecting their daughters in the village.
Yes, each one here in the country, each one is a taxpayer, even when a mother is forced to pay for his male child, and especially when he gets the needs of the child.
The truth is that near every product that is sold in the country it is paid taxes before getting to the consumer and be the products that are manufactured in the country or that is loaded from outside the country.
And this products will reach the consumer, the first level of taxes which were charged it could affect the consumer and therefore you can say close to each person in the country.
And on that meaning, every person in the country is supposed to be satisfied with the corruption of any kind of sadness or paths of Tanzanian citizens against corruption can't be asked by what to move but on actions.
Events of corruption that had already happened previously, while dancing on how we are warned, they advise them to stop those injuries and take action against them and take action against those involved, but we cannot see their habit of looting in the history of the country.
A bit about the journey of the war against corruption was forced to get into a new page after listening to the speech of President Jakaya Kikwete of the new year greetings.
Among the things that he met President Kikwete in his speech on December 31st this year, it is about the new responsibilities to the chief secretary Philemon Lihanjo.
According to the president, the chief secretary now will have new responsibilities.
He will be listening to the complaints of investors (without doubt those of the abroad).
President has explained the reasons for doing that decision and he said it's because of the existence of open symptoms that Tanzania has begun to lose faith in investors.
That decision is wisdom, but also the decision made me ask questions, they should ask questions, as a result of the fact that in the country there is a Investment Center (TIC). The station which has ever been given an award as a result of what has ever been given by the success.
How can it be then today, the president will be able to show the responsibilities of the chief secretary?
Responsibilities which could not remain under TIC?
It is a must that there is a thing that is not present right, there are no weeds, but the thing is not the instrument (TIC) or guardians have been able to take the difference of the agency for coordinating the investment and investors in the country?
In the normal state and if TIC would have been successful without doubt that President would have ordered the responsibility of listening to the complaints of investors to be done by that agency.
I listening keenly to President Kikwete, he was open more in his speech, he said investors have had many complaints, and by considering that there was the president that investors have had a lot of complaints that TIC have worked well.
And if it is not knowing then, his advice to some of the executives in the government have been keen, but as a situation, it is that those with selling inside the government?
Why do the complaints be done, when the agency (TIC) continues to live, again it was involved by specialists who are involved with specialists who participated in different training about economic empowerment.
Why are the complaints from investors to be much while apart from the existence of TIC, there are various ministries that deals with issues of matters that involve the investors?
If we will make sure that you will discover that this decision by the president, confirmed that there is a primary problem inside the system for coordinating the investors activities.
You will discover that there is a problem inside the whole system of working in government and it is possible that there is no good communication between some institutions and ministries.
It is clear that there are strength of fighting in the government and for example, it is clear that the logic of the empowerment of the country has brought a lot of attacks with conflict.
There is a camp that use the process of assessing the investors in the country for private interests, but also there is a camp to make sure that the nation depends on investors at a high level.
And the truth is that the results of this camp is the decision by the president wanting complaints from investors to be followed by the chief secretary.
For sure this decision is a sign that there is a big offence in the performance system in the government, it is clear that integrity has been good products in the government.
This decision by President is a lot of questions, because the chief secretary now will be listening to the previous complaints of investors, and not an appeal for complaints from investors.
I would like to see President Kikwete about this decision if he would have announced as the chief secretary he will listen to the complaints from investors.
God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
