
The man of Nyenshile, Benon 1st, 2012.

Mwalimu Julius Nyerere said, Major Alex Nyato said that the ball will go back to Nyerere who this journey did to make sure that the whole Africa is free before yesterday, October 14th, 1999.
But the teacher said, "we want to eradicate Mwenge and went up to Mount Kilimanjaro, terms of love, where there is no fear, love, where he is and hatred and honor, where there is no fear, love, where he is in the national stadium in Dar es Salaam city, Alex Gwao.
But not only he started the torch at the peak of Mount Kilimanjaro, but he stopped the Tanganyika flag on the end of the long time in Africa.
In the next five years, Mwalimu Nyerere led the fight against being chairman of the countries that do not tire us to help each other and enable them to save the country that are still unknown.
Therefore, until he died on October 14th, 1999, there is no African countries that had lasted for a result of any kind of kind.

As a result of the incident to increase the flag on the peak of Mount Kilimanjaro, Alex Msama said he has been important for the nation to fulfill the intention of the teacher to see the whole Africa is free.
But last Sunday, December 21, 2008, the torch of torch died at the Muhimbili National Hospital in Dar es Salaam after suffering from the throat cancer.
He was admitted at the Kinondoni Municipality Institute (TLB), Dar es Salaam and later Muhimbili before being taken to India for more treatment in February this year.
After getting an affordable in India, I went back home in May this year and go back to India for two health facilities, it was the last time he arrived in September this year.
Alex Gwagilo says he was one of the few officers that were done in the army was left by the Tanganyika Valley.
In an interview that I got to do with him in March 2001 in Dar es Salaam city, Nyenshile, he said even his appointment of going to raise the flag by the torch in Mount Kilimanjaro resulted from the position that he will have.
But how did she get into the army? In accordance with his details, it stopped his talent and skills of the leadership and it is the things that will help him after completing their studies will be in the army.
I am a boy of schools since primary schools anywhere, when I was elected as a leader of Malangali Secondary School, I was the head of the primary school of the school, "he said.
When he was in Tabora, he was a former prime minister, the prime minister was called Wilfried Baamar who are the mother of Miss Tanzania of the year 2000, Jacqueline.
While following the words he was told by his teachers, Nyenshile, he asked to get into the force after completing their studies and he got answers that he is supposed to interview him in Dar es Salaam.
Among those who met with them in the interview was Miraa Ghatti Mosore and later he was sent to be the first head of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF).
Nyereregete, he said that humble when that time was known as he was known as the names of that letter Hagai explaining about that interview there was also another one who had a traditional origin, S. M.
According to Nyereregete, he went up well and all were accepted to get in the army that was being led by British officers.
Nyenshile, Motorcycles Rider to be the first to be prepared to be taken to England for the military studies which were issued by the army university of Seattle.
When they arrived in Nairobi for a plane on the way to England, they got a report that, the one was brought to the phone, the audience listened to the ball, claiming that he stopped the English examinations, therefore he didn't have the reputation of taking the studies that they are doing.
Nyenshile, he said that it was a surprising thing because it doesn't have been done well in all the 12 studies which were in the English language, therefore they ask him if they were her to be the English language.
Mchaga answered him from Nairobi comes back home to do the journey of SHIMIWI last year to be two that were only two, Nyami and Kashgar.
Nyenshile, he said in that interview, he believes that the action of blocking him to England got a strong desire to fight themselves with the effects of life.
He said Aaron Nanyaro, that took place in a lot of things being together with going into the English examinations that claims that he didn't succeed well and finally Nay wa Mitego did not succeed well and eventually Nay has been going on there.
Speaking about the studies of Sahara Desert, Nyenshile, he said that when they were in, for a short time, together with him, Kashgar, they had a lot of solidarity and it was a solidarity of its kind that was accompanied with discipline in the army.
Nyereregete, he said that they are solidarity like that and the discipline of the military situation that had helped him so much in life and to do well in his family.
Nyereregete, he said that discrimination of color at the time was raping and even though he and Mkukuta, went round of St.
At other time he started immediately the course that he took there, he was supposed to be the first to do training for six months before starting the course that he took there.
In that state, Kashimba will complete six months before it was released by the army's honor, that time was enough to make him make her great success.
The commander of the army that took place in January there is the one that brought him in the army.
He said he did not be involved in any way with that offense, but events that were given after that convoy did not be beautiful and he saw the only way to do and leave the army.
Nyereregete, it was among the few African officers who were in Tanganyika and Charles and the army that had been given a good house in Vicente Calderon (now Lugalo) has also been given a good house to his fellow officers including the British.
He said in an interview with me that even though the armed police were knowing that the truth, they were not supposed to agree so as to see if someone who comes from, while comparing with the girl.
However, Tanganyika's book, Charles Mutaby "on January 2001," he was sworn in after the approval of TDPF in the year 1993, claiming that the bad opinion against Nyenshile.
Together with other things, the book has said that the great ability to speak with fluency of English did not be close to the British officers who were in the army.
The book has said that during that ring, the soldiers who participated in each other is an indication that the leader they had sent him as, Brigadier General of Lieutenant William Chacha and captain Nyenshile.
Nyereregete, who was playing at the Malangali secondary school in Tabora province, has closed down and later on getting the training of St.
In addition, his behavior of playing in the whole sports' games "like a tennis player was causing some people to see if they feel it.
That book that was sponsored by TDPF in the year 1993 has claimed that all the time to make sure that his fellow police officers together with his dog were safe.
After doing so much about who to make it put their head coach, they decided to sign him, Brigadier General, a small officer in the army, Lieutenant Hu Essar said.
However Kanye has himself was infected by the appointment and entered there because his position will be normal and held by the army.
Chris Brown was among the arrested officers and when he was told that she has been made that, Brigadier General said that she was not worried that he didn't believe that he will not accept it, he did not accept it but he didn't have it.
Kavati has been quoted by that book saying, "one of the police entered into the room, we have been banned and told me," I have been able to lead the army but I was with the responsibility of ensuring that the families of officers are continuing to be safe.
If I can lead the army it was a dream or I have been released into the whole issue because I was left back to me, but I was surprised to have given a red sweater and not a very common thing, "Masau boasted.
In that interview Nyereregete, he refused the ward that he did that issue.
"I have written this time and I have been arrested?" He asked.
He did not say that he is like he says that all the officers in the camp, Thaban Kamusoko, was arrested so he didn't know what is happening.
He confessed that it's true he had a good relationship with Kizingo in the army but the relationship was working according to their positions and not more than that.
But he said that in addition they had agreed so much by the Kizingo officers, and he had a problem like the Black Americans' and his colleagues arising from her color.
He said that several times he found himself being blocked to enter in the parts of the past, and when the other time it was causing even his fellow officers of Kizingo in which he led with them and forced him to be allowed to enter.
He mentions the Dar es Salaam Club which later he was done to be the National Referral Hospital (now the Referral Hospital) to be one of the areas that he gets in the problem due to his color.
Another part in which he said that he knows that he will go back because of her color is Itigi where he was in his tour by his fellow officers of Kizito to convince the youth of Tanganyika to join the army.
What's the view on my view that took place in the army that has shaken the nation and made a teacher and his close assistant, human resources, GrandMyovela, while they visited the State House?
Nyereregete, he said that the poor police who had numerous claims by the government were very fast on the issues they were wanted and not to be done in poverty as they think of.
He said that the government had already given the promise that the issue of "
(To give positions to boys are done, but they did not want to be patient.
He said that they have been saying that they are Africa they wanted to be given any normal procedure, something that was not seen since they were in a high level of the nation.
Nyereregete, he said that the force positions are very important as part of doctors in the hospital, he said that people are putting up in step according to the reputation they have at and not soon.
"It's like a hospital, lots of sores even if it is a hard life in which he cannot get married but to be a series of work but he cannot leave as a doctor," he said.
He said that the poor police at the time they wanted to break the decision by wanting them to be given as 97 percent.
Nyenshile, he decided to come out in the army to make another activity of running its a few months after the petition presented by the army of England and Tanganyika.
Why so I believe that he decided to do that when he was in a good position to be one of the top leaders of that army?
In that interview, Nyami said that he did a decision to leave the army after that they did not have a lot of time to the time he felt like it was not the real time.
He said that most of them have started to take a taste during the police force.
After all the officers, including him, there is a debate that we do after the arrest.
He said that added up to return to England officers.
When they arrived in Kashgar, he had a traditional origin, he has said she is not returned to him through Say.
When they arrived at Nyereregete, they have said they will entertain in the British group of returning to England because he is a white.
If they were forced a special lorry that had remained with all the whole police officers together with him for the journey to go to the Airport so that they can be taken back to England.
But it was not that, since the lorry that is going to carry out other parts and not at the airport as it was announced by the ordinary police at their camp, Make Me Sing.
Nyenshile, he said that even after being operated on the pelvic regions where they were expected to be heard against him.
"This journey was not an obstacle to me that I am a white, but they were saying that she is Mnyama," he said.
Nyenshile, he said that those accusations made it true because the Nyasinde said that the country is called Malawi has not agreed that he is his country.
However, he confessed that it is true that his parents have gone against there, but all of them were Tanganyika.
He said that he was born in Karoli, Nyasaka in February 2, 1936, by bad luck, since his parents went there for holidays to visit his mother and her pregnant mother.
I am today (the year 2003) and it is like Malawi is like it is possible that I have my brothers who are coming from the throat of my parents but I am yet to live there and I don't know it, "he said.
Alex Gwagilo says he got his primary education at Mchikichini in Dar es Salaam city and Mlangali Village, Iringa before going to Malangali Secondary School, Iringa and later Tabora province.
He was saying many when they read to them were among them is Retired Major General Hashim Mbani who was in one class and Bakari Mande who was behind him.
The other one is the former chief justice, Francis Nyalile who was before him at the Malangali ward secondary school. Also the lawyer Peter Waweru.
The others are Aisha Bui, who was in front of him and Judge Lameck Kipiliango who was behind him and he also identified himself and Godwin Mutahangarwa at the Malangali school.
The many day leader of football in the country who is also the lawyer, Said Hamad El Maamry and Bob Makani were in front of Tabora Town.
The former ambassador of Tanzania in the United Nations, Daud Lweno, was born with him at the Makandege school, Iringa.
After retiring from the army he worked in a private sector of a large piece of work in Nairobi, Kenya for a period of one year before going back to Dar es Salaam.
Later he has left that company and came to work in another private company of Ami company, the company defeated Zambia to work in his branch of that country.
He was Zambia for 18 years and return to Dar es Salaam to continue with work in the company's branch.
At the time Tanzania is fighting for his war and Nduli, Zimbabwe of Uganda in 1978 / 10, Nyereregete, he was in Zambia.
Nyereregete, died with four children after his first child born died.
So, if you know what left the army in the interview that Nyenshile, he said that he has not tolerate any decision saying that life is anywhere and a person cannot make a lot of issues that are not allowed by God.
"I am supposed to say it is that when I went to the force, I gave my responsibility as a person that I did in my country," he said.
Until now the last year of his life, Nyereregete, he continued to be a person that continues to play with a tennis player in Gymkhana hall, Dar es Salaam where he was a good stakeholder.
