TFF are preventing themselves to report the elections.

May 11, 2013.

The Tanzania Sports Writers Association (TASWA) has complained to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for his action of preventing journalists getting inside the Water Front Hall, Dar es Salaam, to report what happened at the general elections of the federation.
That was held yesterday.
In that event, the journalists were chased away by police who were given instructions by the TFF leaders to remove them close to the Water Front which took place at that election and was to be able to sit far from the place, while some of the journalists in that election and left.
Speaking to journalists yesterday outside the Water Front branch, chairman of TASWA.
Juma Pinto said TFF to prevent the journalists getting inside that hall, it was not wise because the society is supposed to know the things that are going on.
"Monday (today) we will do a letter to TFF to complain about this act of journalists being implemented because they were not seen.
They were asked to tell them early and it is not leaving seated on the morning up to 9 o'clock in the afternoon, "said Pinto.
Pinto insisted that he tried to speak with the chairman of the TFF elections committee on the TFF's election committee, Judge Mboma, who refused to speak inside and claiming that they are required to sit outside the hall up to 1 o'clock in the evening at the time of announcing the results.
He said that for that act, journalists have been satisfied with the statements they were facing they were given because of being prevented.
While it is their right to inform the public the truth about the issues concerning that election which they have been giving information since the previous steps.
"These news are right to encourage us to know how soccer continues and not them.
Their interests are in front of if it appears, "said Pinto.
However, the internal news explained that, some of the delegates were saying.
The regular preparations for that election.
That will be held by the general meeting.
In that election, the position of the president that was being contested with Jamal Malinzi and Athuman.
Nyamlani, it seemed to attract feelings of voters and soccer stakeholders who were following keenly.
Up to this newspaper, it will go against the reports of the results of that election, that were not yet to be stopped at the elections of the Premier League Board.
It was held on Friday, Hamad Juma being elected as the chairperson and the position of vice chairperson when he was approved by Said Abeid.
