
Griezmann can run the Lamu Island government.
That is from Antoine Griezmann with the foundation stone in the native language of France that she won the Atletico Madrid of Spain.
That star has been born with the ability to use all two legs and allowed them to take any position on the type of attacks, though many times coach Diego Simeone has thrown out his album by Tim Sherwood and Fernando Torres (left).
Despite its own kind to contribute a lot of goals due to its own kind, Griezmann has the ability to make corrections so as to conduct their opponents.
It is among the companies that has the best best in the world of the current soccer and we are known as well, talents and wealth, it has brought him money and wealth of bullied.
If its meaning you can be able to run the local government, he from Lamu Island, worth 2 billion shillings per year.
If you're Griezmann with a long distance of the value of its wealth, it is estimated to reach 22 billion shillings and the main cause of its wealth is an amount of 14 million shillings, who were sent away by Real Sociedad, before Atletico Madrid lost its services for the promise of 21 million shillings in the week.
Despite that amount, Griezmann have not given other extra money from the payment of candidates and a bonus of the match that used to play against Atletico Madrid and France, vehicles, and other vehicles.
He has done, more than 458 convertible, 918 Spohr, and Mujengi Gola, a type of vehicles that was made by the Masenze company in Bexhill, Italy together with these vehicles that cost them 91 million shillings.
Buildings.
Griezmann taking his parents.
Kasanga said that it will cost 700 million shillings in the city of Lyon in November last year and he has two more than luxurious houses in Madrid, Spain. One of those buildings is that of 570 million shillings that he bought at the end of 2014.
Love and attractive.
Griezmann taking a romantic relationship with the native player of France, Erena, and the two were born.
The female child, VocationalTraining earlier on last month.
.
Griezmann was born in the year 1990, Maclen Glawogger who is 70 kilometers from African Lyon, France, the star is the third child to Isakemikali ward and her husband, Theo and her sister, Maasais' who had survived his death in the terror attack that is swelled.
Maybe a match that will involve champions of the world, Germany and France in Paris City on November 13.
Profession.
Despite being operated on several trials, Olympique Lyon was the leaders of the squad where he refused to sign him up on the claims that she was wrong in Paris Saint Germain to prepare a match to look for talents in Paris Saint Germain to organize a match to look for talent on 14 billion shillings so as to be able to deal with the services of that star after they decided to resolve it in the five-year contract.
His lawyers had helped Real Sociedad, the level of the bridge to participate in the La Liga Club in the year 2011 after Coach Matandiko and Tottenham Hotspurs that was scored by PSG in the year 2014 so as to receive Griezmann with a total of 35 billion shillings.
Since getting the national jersey of the nation for the first time, n a m / 2014 and opened his own account.
Against Holland, Griezmann has been selected for more than 25 times and the squad of Coach Didier Descartes, which will be the hosts of the Euro semi-finals in Brazil in Brazil on the team where his goals of attacks is unique by Yellow Fm, Anthony Martial from Benetton.
The resolutions were found.
Despite the attempt to play for Abu Dhabi Development, Manchester City and Chelsea shall convince him to break up with a huge portion of 669 billion last year, that star refused to land in Etihad at Stamford Bridge and instead of producing a period of service to his home, Vicente Calderon to 2020 after signing.
The signing of a new contract, although it is a love for his family to see Griezmann taking their Bayern Munich or Real Madrid, Coach Diego Simeone has called to combat those who are vying for Griezmann.
He insisted that the value of getting to him has risen up to 6 billion shillings.
The future of the future.
It is not true that Atletico Madrid came back to the top of the English Premier League last week after defeating their game against 2-0 at the La Liga Club that it was defeated by Atletico Madrid in the success made it up to 14, the number of goals scored by the winner.
Now this season.
In addition, it is a match that brought a good record for the youth of Coach Diego Simeone who has not been satisfied with any opponent in a total of 10 matches out of 11 weeks.
44 points, in front of the defending champions of the La Liga, Barcelona who have at least one match, including; therefore, it will enable him Simeone has refused and decided to have his current squad after his club together with Real Madrid being fined by the Konvic International Football Association (FIFA).
