
The child who had survived, 'Ukweli Wangu', when she was a lover.
He got his colleagues in you.

A six-year old child, with skin disability (albino), that lives in Ikonongo village, has affected to people who were involved in the games after his fellow children got a decision to protect him.
The reports that came to the writer, explained that "virgin" had a car that had a car that had a car that had a car which had a car which had a vehicle when they followed the child on Monday night when she found himself.

Speaking to the writer, councilor of Shagihilu, Maswa District, here in this province, Mohamed Amani said that the two trials for wanting the child (name withheld), but for the donation of his fellow children not to succeed.

According to the peace councilor, Saturday last Saturday, three people were in that vehicle when he arrived at the village and went up to Garagara River, where the river with albinism was dancing with her colleagues.

After arriving at Garagara River, all the three people were forced into the vehicle to throw words at the area of River, a step that has benefited with his fellow children who were playing all River River.

According to peace, those children with a big age of that child, discovered the danger of the audience with the disability of albinism and the symptoms of those people who did not know, who were sick.

After seeing those people getting close to their sports area, those children told her colleague with skin disability, walking his home and that child gave him that advice and return home.

"After a child (albino) failed to go back to their home, those people entered the car to leave," said peace and added that the step of the people not knowing anything for those children used to give them.

On Monday, this week when the child was with her colleagues, including those who were with them in Mbagala, playing football at the village stadium, the vehicle that was seen in River, was opened up to the field and stop.

It is said that after going on, three people who were seen in Mwenge went to the car, they went on the vehicle and looking for those children playing football, including their colleague with albinism.

"This journey was not Mtoni, but in another open area that the child was playing for a ball with his colleagues when they arrived to travel out of their car," said the councilor for peace.

As a result of that situation, those children found a dangerous state to their colleague, after those children saw the vehicle for another time, and those people have not met anything.

That councilor said that those children had come out their game and wanted them to get their colleague immediately to finish his home, in order to resolve its lives due to the controversy of security that started to come out there.

Speaking to the writer, the mother of that child, Regina Malmo, confirmed to be back home once for his child while running him.
