
The government took action to control the number of refugees.
By Bashir Yakub.
The crime incidents that involved foreign citizens in the country have caused the government to take stern action in order to protect the safety of citizens.
In an effort to reduce the cases of terrorism, the government of Kenya has been giving a call to the United Nations Refugees Organization (UNHCR) to set camp in Somalia so as to prevent a big number of refugees from Somalia, who are spreading up to Kenya.
In its rumors, Kenya said that already it has given many refugees at the area and that the violence that is led in Somalia are required to increase the cargo every day.
According to the United Nations until now there are 500,000 refugees from Somalia in Kenya.
On his part, the representative of UNHCR to the country, Elhaj said the proposal of Kenya will be dealt with but warned that international laws do not allow any country to lead refugees.
November 2013, the government of Kenya was signing an agreement with UNHCR to start the process of bringing to the Somalia refugees in their country.
According to the contract, Somalis brought back to tax in their country for a period of three years that are set.
Somalis have been looking for land in Kenya due to the war and poverty in Somalia.
Two camp where those refugees live, Ditopile, and Kauffmann are similar to big towns in the purpose of a large number of refugees.
Some of the refugees live in Eastleigh neighborhood in Nairobi which is known as "Somalia," due to a large number of Somalis living in that village.
Many refugees from Somalia were trying as a result of war, after the government started in the year 1991.
Most of them were born in camp and they have never been able to go to Somalia.
The government of Kenya and Somalia and the UN have officially started a plan to start a new life in Somalia and participate in the plan to build their country.
The Deputy Prime Minister of Somalia, Yusuf Adam, said the government will continue receiving its citizens that they live as they have said.
The United Nations has said that the agreement to bring the refugees in Somalia is a call to the international community to look for a lasting solution to the conflict that has continued for many years without end.
However, the challenge is that the contract requires refugees to come back to voluntary, although many see Somalia is still a place without safe and therefore it will be difficult for them to return.
The government of Kenya is continuing to hold that the increase of refugees in the country especially from Somalia will end the national security.
