
The cause of the violence in Zanzibar is religion not only with the union of May 30th.

We cannot believe that the cause of the violence that happened at the end of this week, Unguja and Zanzibar islands are United Republic of Zanzibar.

Basically, the union has no reason that can be seen and in that meaning, the coalition cannot be attacked by being stabbed with a fire by taking stones in the union is a structure of human beings and legal action, involving themselves or distributing the authorities between the sides that join but in the picture of unity.

Therefore, in a goalless draw to solve the problem of the union or discuss you to have violence of any kind, but a draw is used to compete with this issue because it is the strength of the argument that could affect the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.

And even a call on one side of the citizens wanting to prepare well with the union, you should be able to comply with strength of the issue and give a sincere call for requesting them to be demolished because of violence erupted.

It is in the view, we believe that violence in Zanzibar are not a sign of problems arising from the union because the cause of violence in Zanzibar is one of the religion because they are not allowed to use any kind against other people.

Therefore, the violence in Zanzibar was his intention is to give personal interests to some people who are inside the group that is called 'hatred and certain people inside the group that does not have any policy within the religious leaders.

Even if the bad luck the Zanzibar has been growing up if the dreams of the violence will be taxed, still there is no wisdom in the islands, therefore, it needs good by involving other people outside that area.

And in fact, those people of another country is why it is people from other religion.
We have been made to see for example, the countries with senior leaders with your religious leaders are running its economy by involving other religious countries.

With all the criteria, the violence in Zanzibar and its criteria is together with the step of violence erupted in witchcraft.

It should be remembered that, even in the side of Tanzania Mainland, there are many areas with Christians and small percent of Muslims, but together with that difference, Christians are many have shown a good example of ure and to respect the religion of their colleagues as the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.

And therefore, we would like to speak on the side of Zanzibar to continue the heart of patient and be patient by people from different religion, we would like to see the people of our colleagues who destroy the new constitution of Zanzibar not in Zanzibar to be the islands of religious leaders.
