
What does the constitution do not know if it is not taxed?
Many Kenyans have succeeded in getting a new constitution for public demonstrations without vigilance, a soldier of democracy of many parties that he doesn't affect all, finally, the request for Kenyans will be removed and opened the doors of registration of democracy of many parties in the year 1992.
And put it in eternal peace.
But this was the first time to fight for democracy and full changes in the country without doubt, many Kenyans have died in getting a new constitution and not therefore, the constitution that brought together the management of the authority is not so far, but by bad luck the process to combat several ailments have been there.
The constitution that we thought that it has brought up food especially to a normal citizen, has started showing the sign of asking them economically due to the high tax of public funds in the main level of the country.
It is surprising to hear that all from here in the country are losing billions of money by paying the ghost workers! How can it get any salary increase, but after time, the steps for a few law started to get rid of their constitution and get able to get hard life like in the past.
It will end.
I see we follow this course, others when they read Tanzania's decisions on one side, their colleagues want them to continue even like hunger, poverty and corruption that stopped the law and those involved in work is still being supported by the government instead of being sacked by the government instead of being sacked.
Kenyans are continuing to be demolished because it is not a shot in Lamu Island, he said Lamu Island ward, minister involved and security is going on in the office and as usual, he asked the Kenyans for making it a good state that is being controlled.
When a question is, what we will see the law and those who went to work hard and if possible they get back to court, it is a must that we return to court?
B is a continuation of parliament of parliament, he says that they are using public funds for the tour that are not easy instead of dealing with development projects, members of parliament in the national parliament have refused to change the parliament because they want to create tax and success, it is not true there is nothing to go after the law.
It is very happy to see the series of chicken continuing to register in prison, though sponsors for their luxurious vehicles, including the chicken for instance, but if it is true, the law is wrong, lets continue until now.
