Little, there is just a woman can lead the family when you cannot lead the family when you cannot serve God drinking water and let me see God is important in the quality he will have a chance to let him leave until it is understood.
The late God rest now, what I think is why I think is someone with hope, why the decision made is good, when I went back to the wife we had to return to the pitch.
As the mouth, it is not allowed to Bahati, now I said at the same time you said that the concerned person does not lie!
Most of the most important things in Sunday is not his wife where he told him that she does not know if you want to destroy the environment, but I don't know what I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where he didn't like to say due.
The instrument has been asked to do.
Together with information receiving information being given more than the passengers, I don't know what they can be on Sunday in London town.
As usual.
Let's wait because we have written about yourself and you have been about why you get hunger, Mister do not allow you to fulfill this year's elections should not accept the youth be used badly or we should say it is very true.
So, we have opening the video above and although you're going to do?
Hunger, in the streets you know that you can make sure if you finish on that way only, the youth also does not have a solution.
You do not wait, but do not look at these two days times, we should not depend on hunger and to tell our artists for a long time you have done, we are supposed to inform our artists such as an order, we are tired of all those artists.
Through this time there is no culture that will be aired on elections and they will be aired on time of elections and then it should be a repeat match of the sun and corruption.
We are not seen.
IT?
.
There has been a responsibility of recently following what I know from we?
What should I do?
To me, did you go?
The words are.
Going to the desert it will be heard.
Food is enough.
