
The institutions are banned by using them.
All institutions banned for Kalala Jamal, The Citizen of Gongo la Hoya.
Dar es Salaam City, the Federation of the Hajj institution has suspended the institution for transporting its Maragina Turnbull.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairman of that Federation, Sheikh Abdallah Khalid, said that the step has been taken as a result of complaints that came out last year.
He said that institution is alleged to are involving themselves that they have planned to go to pilgrimage.
It is alleged that the attackers were given money in that institution, but it was found and it did not give any information.
Sheikh Khalid said that the institution denied the assistant secretary to follow up on the truth of those reports and changes in behavior of those reports and behavior of payments.
He said that due to the discomfort, the federation has organized a new procedure to reduce the control of all institutions of buying their information including documents of each other, before July 20, this year.
Also, all institutions that will enable them to control this year will be able to register and take their information to Saudi Arabia.
He said that procedure is urging them to be done on banks that were directed by the Ministry of Lands in Saudi Arabia, "the institution that will fulfill those accusations, are the ones that will be allowed to help them to buy this year," said Khalid.
The secretary general of that federation, Doctor Ahmed Mazrui said the challenges that are in Tanzania are a small number of buying compared to the offered (VAT), which is approximately Tsh 25,000.
He said that for now, it has not yet confirmed that 20 percent of the funds they were given, this year have been given 3,000 shillings to Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.
He said all institutions that will enable them to control their health as from August 4 this year, to fill the special forms given by the federation so that their information can be taught on the internet.
