
It has been named 'Thriller', APR the year 2016.

When a mother depends on how he gave birth to a bad child.

By Benedict Liwenga.
Thursday, last week he was born with a great child in Manchali village, Chamwino district, Dodoma province at Kibaoni Primary School.
That child was not a big part of the head and Mchuchuma is not outside.
Just after the birth of that child, the residents of that area are saying that it is not the first time her born child and that that is the third time.
The councilor of that ward, Merdad has warned that it is not the first time for those children.
He is saying in January this year, he was born with a big head while he does not have any kind of time after his birthday died.
He is saying in February this year, he was born again a child with no hands with his head while he has already died.
"If I told me, this is the third child born in your location," he says.
Who gave birth back.
Joyce Eliasa (22) who gave birth to the surprising child, says that he started getting badly on two days before giving birth, therefore, he requested the mother to her mother FGM?
He says that when he arrived at that he was received well by the nurses and then called the doctor so that they can be used.
He says that the doctor came up and said that tomorrow on Thursday he is expected to be in the referral hospital of Dodoma province due to having pregnant women.
I remember that it was this evening, I continued to hear pain of pain, when it reached at least one o'clock in the morning the pain you used, therefore, I sent her husband to change.
"Amana Hospital arrived at a close to me that you came to three o'clock, the doctor asked me to ask me to prepare themselves so as to go to Dodoma because she didn't know what is there.
"Every time they were seen in front and started to tell me what I heard before, I don't like, I don't see but I got up but I saw it, I think about it and dies.
He is saying just after beginning to give birth he was surprised when he wanted to run away and when he gave birth to a child she was surprised by all who were in a room, they were shocked.
"My brothers when they arrived together with the neighbors when I read it, I am pleased that until now, I am surprised that until now they are buried and I am very happy but I have not been able to read for me.
"The mother called me I told me that I have given birth to a bad child, there are some of the eyes and not outside, but the whole time you want to enable you to enable it," he says.
He says he was surprised and went to see her child but he was surprised by how he used in the past part of the head.
He continues with my son and I am happy, he was a very good friend to the son that followed him together with her father, but it is not supposed to know him more than to the right only.
He is saying that it is the second child where the first child of God is called God's age of age and eight months.
He is saying that the first child has opened up at the Dodoma Provincial Hospital and he did not have a problem.
