
100 million shillings in tax tax of oil.
Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited does not tire us!
Dodoma.
Professor Mussa Juma Assad says that in his 2014 / 15 report that those funds are together with the tax payment of shillings 94 billion shillings of products that are reserved in warehouses for the purpose of being sold outside the country, 8886 billion shillings of oil and cargo which did not be evidence and 5 billion shillings to increase oil outside the country.
In that report, Professor Assad explains that the establishment of the oil level that had been directed from foreign countries in the year 2014 / 15 of 41 million shillings, equivalent to 4 million shillings in other countries has shown the difference of 12657,95 billion shillings.
"Up to time to write this report a total of 212,317 those worth more than 396 billion shillings, the ones that had reduced the customs tax and to stop an amount of 970,074 shillings which has not paid rent of 57 billion shillings.
"488 oil companies and cargo from the port with customs tax of 890,67,888 offenders were transported to go to Uganda, Burundi, and Rwanda through the border borders.
"Other times, customs system (TLB), showed oil which has been transported to go out of the country through this country and even so, there was no evidence to confirm the cause of the oil and customs officers," he says.
He says that the differences that deals with crude oil of Aqsa, Kifesi / Poverty (JET) HFO and to advise the government to investigate the difference of oil that was revealed in order to know if the fuel were used in countries by non-conditional loans.
The report has also reduced since the year 2014 / 15 there were products that are reserved in warehouses for the purpose of being sold outside the country and given tax payment of 9 billion shillings.
It explains that those products were sold outside the country through different stations around the border, however, the evidence shows the sales of those products outside the country did not be available during inspection.
"Because of that reason, I don't be able to be satisfied with this products being sold outside the country or were put in the internal market of the country and therefore, knowing the legality of the taxes given, it is same," he says.
Professor Assad has urged the government to present an inspection on products that are sold outside the country and given tax relief worth that amount of money, but the evidence of collecting tax should be discussed.
The report also affects the problems in the control system of oil being transported outside the country and the port which explains that in that inspection, the CAG noted 488 offenders worth 457 billion shillings in the period of January to December 2015 that involve 1200 documents in the port of January up to December 2015 that involve 1200 documents.
"This shows a situation of not being satisfied with the customs system that can provide loopholes of oil and cargo that will be sold inside the country without paying tax tax, thus giving the government a loss of revenue," he says.
The statement by TRA speaking about that issue, the director of education to the taxpayer of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Richard Kayombo, confessed the existence of cheating and that the authority is making efforts to ensure that it affects the theft and the collection of tax.
He said that for now TRA has a special team that continues to follow all the cargo that goes through the neighboring country to know if it is true they are heading there.
Most of the effects that come from the port are dangerous for a special device that is causing them to see the direction of the lorry and if they are standing in one area for a long time we know it, "said Kayombo.
He said that in the East African Community (EAC) there is a new procedure has been initiated among all goods that are going on Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi which will cost taxes in countries which are going and that issue has reduced.
He said the report of CAG is for the year 2014 / 15 and there are many procedures that TRA has started after the completion of that inspection, while insisting that in the next inspection it is difficult to arise from those mistakes.
"If it makes us to prevent them and every day they get a new way to TRA, we will continue to fight with them by following all the cargo," said Kayombo.
