
Each other in the streets to promote May 15, 2014.

I take up to the same day, Francis Mihanje when he got a win, "said the boxer from Thailand, at the PTA hall in Dar es Salaam city.
After that contest, every fan who was in that hall was his name to say.

There, who contested for himself as an entrepreneur of Tanzania now have gotten tired with the others have said that they do not have good preparations, but the others have said that Miigo in that contest.

He said the boxer from Thailand, is that one of the things that made him get in the contest is together and discovered that Mihayo was the face of fear and therefore he used that opportunity to sign him.

Before planting at the stage there were words that are under Miigo 'which he had come with two things, to rise or not in a condition that could not be paid for a few minutes before the start of that contest.

One of the things that have been fulfilling our games here in the country is an issue that deals with those involved, the organizers have been a great problem and especially when the issue of tribalism.

Our colleagues in the countries that are developed have know how to prepare the fight against boxing, being together with the heavy rains for a long time.

For us, that thing is seen so much because the organizers of the fight have had a lot of financial services and not to grow the game themselves.

I don't see the need of signing a contract with a boxer for giving his money a short time before planting on stage.

That is why Mihayo that he was prepared well, before that contest, more than where he is going to know his money that he was supposed to be taken before the contest.

There are concerned parties for boxing matches which currently needs to supervise the boxing game so as to reach far as it is in other developed countries.

Recently, a boxer who is currently in the country is accusing to look for young people so as to promote talents but the answer is nothing to make use of great names so that it can be done in the whole process of growing the boxing game in the country.

The boxing game is a game that has a lot of accidents, so as to promote themselves, then they will invest in small youths and have a different types of talents in the coming years.

In the moment there are many boxers who have preparing for their cost themselves and there was a time I had given a boxer who wanted to sell his car he was given as a gift after victory so that he can pay debts.

The situation is now, after the soccer game, boxing started being loved by many people and the problem is going to continue with the issue of tension.

There is an importance to promote the importance of investing first in the process of promoting talents and not it is for now where many energy has been directed to the fight and not to promote talents.

Sports parties have a great opportunity in this process, because our boxers will continue to receive every time due to poor plans.
