
I've heard of the new issue of Nyerere!
Deodatha Makani, 2012

Your password on the road heading to the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere residence, Mwitongo.
- Butiama, Mara Province, the weather condition is an average of an average but I don't have played 74 matches until how many steps, but by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, in front of me, urging the reputation of the president of Tanzania as it appears in the year 1995.
I heard a teacher while talking about the existence of the union of the country and the president of Tanzania as a whole nation, I have heard saying the country cannot be availed with private ideas of leaders, outside the requirements of the country's laws.
Still among the speed up on the road, I have heard the other way for the nation is bribery, he says if we want our president to stop bribery and withstand the blood of a friend and his brothers.
I agree with him if he has ever said at the State House in a bad state, it does not understand me and added that, "the State House is not a result of the best example of ethics." The teacher participated in getting the third president, as it was for the second president.

He participated in getting the second president and witness the conclusion of his leadership in the country, and have been satisfied with giving opinions in order to improve the availability of three president.

It is still heading to Mwitongo, I will continue to hear a teacher and it's not easy to know if he is ready to leave CCM or not then I have decided to remain in CCM so that they are required to leave CCM so that they are required to leave CCM so that they are required to leave CCM.
But when I get the speed on the weather it depends on it when it was there, it is clear that the crisis is obvious that all these are not clear, all these things are not clear.
I saw a teacher addressing people under 50 years, some of them having a draw of CCM.
I think it is leaders.

They are people who are happy to be criticized, because they are used to be expelled.
I have heard a teacher saying that, "you do not think about bribery they did not be there during my administration, but we did not have a game even if we did not meet with the suspects to decide the future of the country.
"There are comedy in the party and government officials and suspects of theft of public property, today the ones who were left to continue being leaders don't have the courage to look in front of the citizens, the way you have reached there?
He says that it is not the madness that can be surprised by the government and the party in order to protest against them, these days of corruption, the suspects are part of the important sessions of the party, as the executive council.
The sessions with the procedure will discuss the reports of the government and encourage me that I think it is the madness of it and if it is not the madness that can baptize?
It is the madness of because, the government can present its report about how to deal with corruption, alongside the suspects of corruption.
The information is presented to the executive committee or the executive committee, among the delegates are accused!

I want citizens to expect what?
When I agree with a finger to the ministry of good administration, it is now that the executive council wants information about the implementation of this ministry.

And it is clear that its implementation to a large extent will involve the current strategies and later against suspects of corruption, the users do not accept when I think it is an issue of more thinking and ask you like what I believe you cannot get the views of the citizens who are the foundation of your leadership.
When you ask you, you will ask you, the legal session has integrity and discuss the reports concerning corruption but it means that you should have legal action against the constitution of your party and its procedures, but the importance of ethics in front of the community is an important thing.
Now your meeting uses those suspects, and the session shows a report on the implementation of the plans to address corruption you will be done by preventing people that are expected to be done so that the government allowed the information, "he said.
As a group of protecting your interests, it is supposed to realize that all your things is same.
But outside our group you will be seen that surprising people do not affect your colleagues.
He gets a baton a red card and said that, I have not explained an important thing to the country without having the legality of your session in general, I have written more legal measures to discuss without the legality of ethics and integrity.
And I tell you an issue, in the system of many political parties, to follow the procedure or the requirements of the party is not a very important thing, if you're blocking the legality of the ethics that come from the citizens, "there is my head teacher, I decided to continue talking.
Here, I'm going back, just after the silence of several months, I have heard suddenly in the same minute, I have heard suddenly in the same minute, he insisted that the party leaders are very disturbing.
They have changed the defending champions of illegal immigrants in the basis of the party for example, I have been told they are going on different areas saying the candidates who are involved with corruption are one member and others are the party members and his leader who is a suspect?
During this party, you have their promise to a member, but also you have faith in the party.
By acknowledging we can say that you are ready to take a certain course of ethics and what your stand is because you are not a suspect, in front of the citizens that his pain is still a leader, later you are meeting with him in the sessions to be the executive committee or the executive committee.
This thought you don't like a lesson that it has nothing to do with the party for his position as a leader to defend his party and later you are meeting to discuss ways to deal with him that he is part of the person and hypocrisy when you are required to discuss ways to deal with him that he is part of the citizens.
The decision that has been built in the legal party to lead the war against evil deeds, in front of the citizens, because of your legality of the law, especially the law of the party, they should have a strategy to address the citizens so as to ensure they are yourself.
Yes, it is confused, because the political procedures are forced to know that if you go to a dirty situation so that you don't have a lot of pain, but you're being forced to arrest leaders with ethics when you want you to sign him in front of citizens.
Yes, Rufji, there is an issue of rule of law, then for these suspects, you are looking at public that their cargo is personal and is not a party to pave way for investigation against them.
Do not want people to inform you, and using a spirit you are not on the system of one party in the system of many parties, it is more important for building the validity of ethics in front of the public, as well as considering the regulations and procedures of the party concerning ethics.
It is surprising that you are some of the ethics committee of your party, where you are supposed to use well by taking several steps in order to prevent the validity of ethics in fighting corruption.
We were able to do two things and first, you will be able to appeal at the leadership positions, again you should be clear that you have been expelled from any party's ethics on behalf of your party and the cost of not doing this is a result of your values in front of the public.
But very much, I've heard that he is one leader who came to parliament saying that if you will start being able to play against you, there is no politician that will work on this statement.
It's a statement, especially if there is a good committee for ethics and because the first is continuing to maintain the legality of the government and your party's side, it is possible that there is a statement of the statement, but before the leaders, there was a statement that involves a nuisance to the leaders.
According to his statement, there is no problem if I have ever been called by your committee of ethics for his heavy statement, which makes a great secret is the same as required to bring down your party.
I was expecting a person to be called to prove or to fulfill his statement, but all the importance did not have been done by the committee of ethics or not to destroy the work of working with members to improve the future of this party.
However, I have heard that the leader speaking about his private relationship with the president of the country, a leader who doesn't know her in public, again with the general leader of the country, it is clear that he can use his position of leadership to protect the interests of the country.
In this statement, what is its meaning to politicians who don't have friends in the whole country?
God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
