
We will not know it of Yanga of being touched by TFF.

It has been written by Raqqa, Pallidum.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has said that it has not made changes to the fund that is run, Yanga soccer club and the leadership of Yanga, a letter wanting the sign of a veteran contract in which the club for ten years with an investor who was introduced as Yanga Soccer Club.

Speaking to journalists at the Federation hall in Karume, Dar es Salaam yesterday, secretary general of TFF, Selestine Mwesigwa said, TFF has been receiving a letter from various stakeholders of Yanga following the procedures or steps that are ongoing in the system of ownership of the team.
The TFF statement has come a few days after being released a report by Yanga's leadership that the board of directors of that club has ratified the leasing company of the Yanga Soccer Company for ten years.
The decision to sell the club was followed by Yanga members at a special meeting that was called by his chairman Yusuf Manji, August this year, where he said he will get the logo and club then after ten years they recover.
Last Thursday, different media houses were information about the summary of the contract of Yanga that was done by Yanga Soccer Company Limited.
"Simba and Yanga have come up with change of wanting to change the system of operations and have been directed to meet and want to know the reality and Simba agreed, but Yanga is the acting secretary general, (Deusdedit Baraka), so I communicate with members of the Council of sponsorship who are the answers about the process of the program," said Mwesigwa.
"Later we are looking at the newspapers that there are one company which have signed with a contract, and then we want to know how (status) of the contract, the contract will involve only one team and the youth programs which will be signed," said Mwesigwa.
Meanwhile, Mwesigwa said they want to see what is in the contract before I advise you to check if you will go hand in hand with the requirements of TFF, CAF and FIFA to eliminate complaints that have been going on because others have arrived to see President John Magufuli.
Mwesigwa said they want to know who's rency and who is running a team and its ownership is why Simba and Yanga teams are questioning the hearts of many people and the procedures of relocating his ownership are required to be open in public.
"Issues of changes are required to follow the procedures including the club's constitution, the executive committee decided to know what is being sold and what is supposed to know if he is available on CAF and FIFA," insisted Mwesigwa.
Mwesigwa said TFF will continue to communicate with the acting secretary general, Baraka or chairman Manji for all the issues concerning the policies and plans and not the board of sponsors such that Baraka Shulukindo.
Also, Mwesigwa said that they did not identify the person who is leasing who is a lot of money but even the company is coming from the country with the owner which history has been released, Roman Abramovich had been released, Roman Abramovich had been released when he went to buy Chelsea.
"The TFF's stand is that Yanga Club is like it was in accordance with the TFF procedures, CAF and FIFA until now we will get a letter from Yanga and we recognize the leadership of chairperson Yusuf Manji and the acting secretary general, Deusdedit Baraka," he said.
When he was asked the acting secretary of Yanga, Baraka insisted that the issue is for the board of sponsors and the one with the ability to speak about the issue of the program.
