Three love for him.
Brightiles 23, 2013.

On the line to get the successor to the head of the police force, Inspector General Said Mwema, has been charged under three officers of that army, BBC Mwema, has been told.

The sources that speaking with this newspaper from the police force and the government have explained that the three names have been presented to the table of President Jakaya Kikwete ready for a decision.

The officers said to be able to inherit the chairmanship will be the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Thobias Andengenye in the headquarters of the police, Mwanza Province police commander, Ernest Mangu by the police commander of Mbeya Region, Ernest Mangu by the police commander of Mbeya Region, Mister Athumani.

Vice president is expected to officially return the last year of this year, although he was supposed to retire from June according to the law but he was added a period of six months and President Kikwete due to various challenges that were facing that army.
The ability and a shortage in each one.
DCP,.

Different reports that speaking to the police have not seen as a person who has the great ability to hold that position as a result of his own stand, professionalism and a scholar.

Thobias Andengenye in the police force coming from the treasury at the University of Dar es Salaam where he got its first degree in administration and international relations.

He has done a work in various provinces for different positions and although he is 49 years old, he has already contributed a lot of challenges and has been reported to know the police force.
It is benefit.
In the year the day before yesterday, Valentino Mlowola when he was taken a special zone in Bribian university in England, where he went to the leadership. This is a university where two heads of the force of that army has another benefit to know the army and his politics.

Mark, who is also the police commander of Morogoro and Arusha regions has been reported to be a person who doesn't know the hips that comes well and every person.
Facts.
Historically, all police officers started their training at the Moshi Police University (CCM P). It's why many of them started from the lower level and planting procedures to reach the top position.

Starting from the lower level, its meaning that they were allocated to go down, they led vehicles, they registered in the camp (camp) and learn everything from going to hand clothes, lack of beds, having the discipline for work.

"If you go to be pregnant, the chairmanship will know everything about the army that has come from everything, this is the benefits that the chairmanship will start under it," said one source of this newspaper that should never mention the name for open reasons.

From his education, Thobias Andengenye got his training to the police officers at the police officers located in Kurasini, Dar es Salaam city and have ever played for CCM P.

This is what is explained to be leaving the University of Andengeye.
Assistant commissioner.

This police who is a scholar who is a scholar with the first degree education of the law has built its honor in the way he asked the Mbeya province that is explained to be among the provinces that is called to lead.

He is also praised by not getting into the stand, the reputation that has made him by many police of his generation who are not cowards in the issues of the decision.

It is benefit.
More than a scholar, the councilor got an opportunity to be the ADC Guardian newspaper, an issue that made him have a broad understanding about the army, "politics" and its performance.
Facts.
As it is for Thobias Andengenye, the councilor is not through CCM P, something that makes an eruption of questions like that of his colleague.

Also, although they have some of the qualifications, that arise, Thobias Andengenye in the position and when the late Sajuki said the police commissioner was born and became the police commissioner.

The origins of the police force that talked with this newspaper have said that if Andros that would have been there, the councilor will have a big position.
EFD).

Mwanza Provincial commander said he is very respected inside the police force since he was to take the certificate that was left open by the late Liberatus Baranaba who was playing for that position and killing that were canceled.

It is reported that a scholar of the first degree in science and police (EFD), which he got in the country, was explained to be a good supervisor of the foundation stone as outlined in the general manager of Orkesumet.

These days, the police are not following the basis of the referendum as it is in Pickup, says, for example, the police should not stop depending on his colleague, but these days the police are marrying their weapons before his colleague has not arrived.
