
The exhibition of plastic products, the ball, will complete us with construction May 27.
Tanzania is expected to be the host of the first exhibition for plastic products, football, chemicals and construction that is expected to be held in the 27th of May to 29th this year at the Mlimani City Conference Center, Dar es Salaam.
Speaking in Dar es Salaam city today, the General Manager of Tourism Expo, Mister Ahmed Barwan, has said that all the East African and central countries will participate in the exhibition.
He said the African exhibition has been done by the R & B - EXPipi which will be the first stage of new products that will be given and will give the loopholes to understand that their markets which will be distributed well.
In the same way, the exhibitions have been brought together with the aim of growing the union among the African countries by strengthening the business relationship between Egypt and Tanzania and so as to make sure that Tanzania is the first in the list of African countries where Africa-Chake B which has planned to cooperate with.
When a car, Arx Chx Africa is an official guest of the transportation of Africa - B B which will also give a great contribution in providing technical services and transportation from Egypt to Tanzania, a situation that he said.
He said through Arnautovic and the coordination of TanTrade and the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Africa-Chake B Primary School, is giving a unique opportunity to the demonstrators from those who start getting married while they were received.
He explained that it will start using those worth of that situation in the Tanzanian market and its value together with the correct statistics of selling and importation, this is giving a reliable opportunity for the meeting of B2B Primary School together with their efficiency when they reached it.
Barwan, gave a call to business people to participate in the exhibition so as to be able to identify the opportunities of cooperation in these new markets together with the internet that is responsible for customers and parents of their colleagues.
He said that the forum for participation in the Africa-fielder B Primary School, together with other things, the participants will learn how the growth of the sector can affect their businesses, a union that is among the leaders in the sector, to get new partners and compared to their level in creativity.
He said that the International Tourism Expo show that is Elias Mwandwani, is a central institution for the management of meetings and exhibition which is focused on preparing and providing services at the international business exhibition, as well as to implement Egypt stalls in the international and international trade fair.
He said, he said that other exhibition in the African-fielder B B which is expected to take place in Senegal and the country later in Angola.
