
Pinda at that show.

Rashid Mkonga.

And, in Dar es Salaam city.

Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has arrived at the Old Trafford stadium to Kasese district in Katavi Province for a short time.
.

The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda just after arriving at the Mpanda Airport that was received by various leaders of the party and the government in Katavi Province then heading to his village when he was born in Kibaoni village, Kibaoni village.

While at his home, he will talk about his parents together with their brothers and his friends at the village after a half time he will do a tour to visit his voters with the citizens in general including inspecting and urging development activities in that region.

Apart from visiting the citizens and doing public meetings in various parts of the country, they were selected to launch the new board of the new province of Katavi, together with other development activities including launching a new solar power project known by the solar power generation.

After finishing his tour, the prime minister is returning in Dar es Salaam city.

In another step, the training by the directors who will be involved in the census results of people and housing which were taken place in different areas in the province of Katavi has been discovered today by being defeated by the head of Mpanda district, Pindani Nyalile.

When closing the training, the head of Mpanda district has been asked by the departments to work closely so as to make sure that the important exercise to eradicate people in order to provide correct statistics to the development of the nation.

He has said that the census results are important for the nation to get high data, that will help in the use of national development activities, research activities and important statistics of national policies because it is important for important statistics to help your things same as well.

On their part, those graduates have promised to implement their responsibilities with great keenness because they do not understand the road although there have been problems of here and there that are concerned with the process of making it well.
