The importance of development, Mrs Ndembeji and speaking, a deficit of the leadership.
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

Last week I been trying to show how the first life of a human being can avoid injuries and those of goats and other animals, and even those with Mchunga is capable of planting trees, the environment that deals with the purchase of pregnant and broke down by Mchaga.
I was trying to show how the human being can expand, after a short time, the first is the continuation of upbringing and development of its growth, which takes a long time, and that is needed for a very long time, and that is needed for a very long time.
This means that for a human being to be able to implement its responsibilities as the administrator of his environment and all the things that get married, need upbringing and growth and development because of other creatures that are not recognized by the goats or faults that were directed by human beings.
Human beings are not worried about it, I am saying that when I know your truth, due to religious ideology, you have said that human beings are annoyed by God, or many gods, are depending on the ideology is one of the most natural resources or one of these drugs that come from abroad.
But even if you had decided that there is a lot of knowledge and development of the human being, we have no reason to have a human body through the heads of institutions concerned with these issues, including family and administration institutions and those of faith.
In our natural faith, and in faith that brought to us by visitors, the importance of the community in running our life has been set aside, to the extent that, especially in our old faith, there is no one who had any strength to the community.
It is true, among the community faith that were not one in its content and it's true that our communities were very close to the attackers, while other communities were still ongoing and they have been infected with the shivered and the shivered.
It is supposed to take examples due to the community that have made important progress in development, I know that if it could not be dealt with and covered by visitors, even those in the neighboring countries that have been selected will not get the opportunity to learn due to climate change.
It's not every community to make steps for development if there are community, and we are looking for them, which since they started the community, it is the communities that those affected by and not every community have ever written to the fruits of development, has continued to get more better or more better.
Others do not know the symptoms of the ability to continue and go far, but usually happens, because that doesn't come out, because they did not qualify me, and the neighboring countries that were unconscious.
If the community that has shown the symptoms of the development, the first is faced with a huge number of behavior in the country, like an earthquake or loss of property, if the community will be attacked with a lot of time lack, a mass, even if the community will have already showed signs of development.
But also, if any community is behind development, but it has announced that it intends to make steps to bring development to development, then the community think that development will be led by other people, visitors from outside, that community will be seen in a lot of areas, but he will not turn back because of development.
It can be able to go to the address, that is easy, because the reasons it intends to them like "sponsors," investors, "friends," and other development partners, "and other communities that are looking for their interests, therefore we will take it themselves as required.
