
A spread of fake products to be taught the authority.
The research report that she has done about fake products in the country, said that its research has revealed 50 percent of products especially human drugs and electricity equipment have no quality and therefore endanger the lives of its users.
Professor Ngowi gave the report the day that Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), was using fake phones in the country because of the research results of Professor Ngowi, fake products are not only phones, but all others.
The effects of fake products is huge more than the whole country, Professor Ngowi has mentioned a few areas in human drugs and electricity equipment, the truth is that research of different types that was done in the health sector revealed that the presence of big diseases being affected by many diseases.
Reports indicate that many diseases are due to the use of fake equipment, for example electronic equipment are free of a human being, but the use of fake drugs is the source of other health problems in the human body.
Apart from the drugs, Professor Ngowi touched on the issue of electricity equipment which are fake in the city and in different areas of the city, we are also many attacks that are caused by a problem of electricity.
Family have been tested on fire, all transport agencies have been following a fire in the fire, all this is due to fake equipment that are used at home and in the media stations where we believe in this newspaper there was a lecturer at the University of Mzumbe, Professor Norman Sigallah who aims to bring in this nation due to the effects of fake products.
It is a culture for every person to look at affordable prices, but if the Swahili language is known, "citizens are continuing to be poor because the products that they buy and therefore, he will be forced to use money to buy another after a short time.
The economy of the nation is being affected by the citizens so as to get health care due to the use of fake drugs, can't be good producers, the country will have a big number of patients more than reliable health, a lot of money will be used to treat instead of development.
Another problem of fake products is to hold the economy of one citizen being poor.
Even in the transport sector, the situation is bad, different types of vehicles and motorbikes are fake and especially associated with the system of Mpunga Relini, this situation that caused accidents and destruction of property.
TCRA has shown a way by switching off fake phones and we believe that the research of Professor Ngowi will be a catalyst to another authority to address the wave of products that are not implemented in the country or put from outside the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) has no need to look for ways to ensure the citizen of Tanzania is not allowed or use products that are not quality.
