
Insults cannot get anything which they started on May 31, 2012.

The famous singer of dance music and who is now the late, she sang on one of his last songs, he knew the words that can move forward, "if you see someone she is doing in front of people to know there is a matter."

Our prime minister, Honorable Mizengo Pinda has appealed to the honorable members of parliament, ministers and front of the eyes of our leaders through television news.

The Honorable Pinda has been forced to give pain in eternal peace because of being held by the leader of the opposition in parliament, Honorable Hamad Fausta Mohamed, who led him to give a clarification on his statement of wanting to protect the Tanzania Albino Society to join them.

Honorable Mizengo Pinda who said that the words when he was on his tour in Tabora province, where he was quoted saying that the albino is supposed to be killed, words that many citizens believe that it is equal to the constitution of the country, Honorable Pinda wanted them defend them.

For sure, tears he did not see the prime minister, they have worried about people who are saying that they are proud of whom they believe is because of knowing that it was because of protecting his heart that does not have anything!

There are also self-compliance with the statement of Honorable Pinda, of wanting those who go to the Albino Society to do that, that it has the same logic even if the presentation to the community of our society has been causing a series of conflict, "he said.

I hope being baptized and our fellows have been supported by Honorable Mizengo Pinda, of "a tooth for a tooth 'against our fellow musicians.

I hope being baptized because our colleagues do not want to see that we have not want this we will be like we have forgotten the human meat "which the father of the nation said if you leave it again!

It is true that every Tanzanian with a sober mind has been saddened by what we are done by our brothers the Albino Society, together with that many of us will not get a chance to show our pain in order to shock them publicly.

But in addition to I have been saddened by why you are heard there, it is good to see more wisdom in solving this problem, instead of using feelings of our fellows which can cause the problem more, instead of completion.

If we start today to allow the Albino Buffalo that you have to be accountable there and then we will decide that drivers are causing accidents that cause more than five deaths to be there and the day after tomorrow we will decide they should be able to distribute AIDS to the spot.

And when in the end, we can also agree that technicians do not wait and agree that the technicians do not loose the clothes of their customers for more than five days to inform you, "today due to the feelings of our salvation, we did not leave me!

Tears of Honorable Pinda also called "even the opponents who before storming and those who wanted to be in order for their meat" from the honorable president, but after falling for him, he wanted to make sure that she went to "Kibana, and they were finished.

I hope that they were supposed to at least take their stand on that the constitution was sent away by someone who gets married, therefore the person was supposed to come up so that others who will be able to allow words to lead those statements or their actions.

Or else, tears of "a whole person," our person is quoted if it was asked for him for forgiveness even if his father did not turn up directly, three words only but with a great weight "I've failed, I request you to forgive me"!

Yes, I've heard about the explanation of the Honorable that if you get a lot, if you have a bad thing, but my intention was very good and I request you to forgive me a lot like I've known. "

For my understanding, the words of Honorable Pinda has said that he has not seen the mistake he did because he had a good intention and instead he was doing a good intention of deciding if he said she is wrong or not the mistake.

Yes, tears of him, when you tell you even a fashion model who is in the Swahili newspaper, she does not know "even our old man, she does not use this style!"

There are two things that are supposed to be done quickly when people continue to discuss tears of Prime Minister Pinda.

The first one is the one to ask Honorable Pinda returns from the province and the district, that he released his statement, of wanting who sell the Tanzania Albino Society to stop him again in the platform and not to look for him again.

I am saying this because I am sure that there are many citizens of the area where they got the statement by Honorable Pinda, of wanting who are not seen and I have not seen, but they have not seen him or not to ask for forgiveness from him, which some of the citizens have taken care for him.

I believe that the statement of "a tooth for a tooth 'by the Honorable will be spread very fast on the villages that his citizens do not have radio or television about what they have not seen as a sign of removing his saying even if they will not be done with him.

And it is also good that we look at the Honorable that we must inform the Honorable that he will not be careful when the platform will not be just one thing, "I said it is wrong for you to look for him and request for forgiveness," he said.

Meaning if you go to you so much and shivered, saying "if I see I had a good thing," there is a big possibility of citizens to see that if he did not have a good intention but it's not just against the possibility of the Albino Society!

It is good even if the Honorable Prime Minister will be his actual word "then you should be able to prevent members of parliament from the areas he released his statement of" a tooth for a tooth 'to their regions and giving explanations of his statements.

Due to the anger that we have the citizens against the killings of our brothers the Albino Society, it is clear that the statement by the prime minister, of wanting them to work hard than the decision that the prime minister gave birth to parliament as a sign of removing his statement.

Secondly, we think it's supposed to be very fast, this is an law that is used to address the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society, which we had made several experts of the law saying it is the one that is used in addressing the killings of other citizens.
It is possible that that is why, together with severe words that have been found.
The same with our leaders, and now "microcephaly" of many people "there is no case or any judgment," virgin "had been arrested on allegations of murder of our brothers, which would make people to stop and see our brothers on the excuse of looking for wealth!

We think the Prime Minister and his executives are supposed to prepare and then ask for the parliament to pass the section of extra law for an emergency certificate, which will enable the suspects of killing of our brothers the Albino Society, to be arraigned in court immediately when they were arrested and given a lesson to others!

But there is also a big challenge in all this which is the reason for the government to put strategies of educating its citizens that wealth of property comes by doing work and not by depending on the human body of your friend who are different from you.

It is in implementing those steps and maybe we will start being seen that we are taking a step to stop the albino killings more than these kinds of crimes and patriotism of many people, that caused a lot of noise, rather than a solution to the problem facing.

