
The difference of the union of the constitution and of that agreement on July 20, 2012

The big debate that is a big debate that is swelled to Zanzibar Islands about the future of the union of two countries of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, has shown an issue that allows him to communicate with many people.

When they are asked why they are saying that they are saying that they are continuing to provide every kind of reasons because some of them have told those reasons keenly, taking the building of the basis of their argument and the others are marrying them.

The accusations made are heavy rainfall while there are saying that 48 years of the union did not benefit us here in Zanzibar, there are saying that the union has done in Zanzibar which is being done in Zanzibar with political and community as compared to other regions like Mauritius and Tanzania.

There are those who agree with all the names of this economic and social problems that put in Zanzibar for a period of approximately half of the century, whom they believe that in the whole period, they have forgotten that in the whole period, they have seen that in the whole period, they should have a bad rule.

Likewise, because Zanzibar has lost an important authority in order to join Zanzibar, there are countries that are faced with the controversy that is in the status of Zanzibar, if the country is not able to save it due to the problem that takes place from Zanzibar to fight the poverty, diseases and ignorance.

There are also people who are similar to the one of the people of Zanzibar who wanted the reforms of basically we are being done in Tanganyika and Zanzibar relations.
Some of them have also forget yourself and they are saying that Zanzibar has become a load of mainland and that they are going on well, they are saying that people do not see for yourself how they will face the union.

There is no conflict about what to be the future of the islands.
It will be heading to that many of the citizens from there are supporting the ones that they made in Zanzibar's agenda with the aim of bringing to them Zanzibar, his actual event in Zanzibar and Tanganyika.

Perhaps, as you came to Zanzibar they are not one about the ways to attain that goal, but not about the process itself, since even those who do not have faith in the current constitution should be able to register their freedom and you will be able to return to Zanzibar with his full authority to register themselves.

That a new system of other partnership will be able to look between Zanzibar and Tanganyika it is very different from Zanzibar and Zanzibar it is different from the concept of improving the union which may be used to have one government in one nation.

That concept is not new as several leaders of Tanzania, they have already arrived for one of those times, retired President Ali Hassan Mwinyi who was in the year 1995, in his event to join power, he said it has come of having a union of one government for several years later he was asked if Zanzibar is a country or not the country said he doesn't know.

There's no doubt that if you emerged as a union of that kind, she is proud to have no one government in Tanzania then we will have no government in Zanzibar and Pemba Island will have provinces or grounds of the United Republic of Tanzania. I remember Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal when he was the minister of Zanzibar once said that it doesn't happen even 100 years.

On another side, there are people who believe that the best structure of the union is to have one million American dollars, "in that structure, Zanzibar will be free to deal with all the non-governmental issues.
Therefore, on a big level, the coalition are not to remain like it is only but the ones that will not depend on here and there to be demolished and see the ones that are called "the problem of the union.

Then there are politicians and scholars of the mainland don't understand that, "give and take" and therefore the two sides of the federation are ensuring that the union is going on that the federation's structure to be among the recommendations that will be used by the commission of the constitution.

All those recommendations of the constitutional time have but one of the two countries that brotherly; therefore, people from those two countries are required to fulfill their things without integrity and visitors, that is without the ones that you want to live in Zanzibar Islands and without the people of Zanzibar we want it in internal affairs of Zanzibar.

For now, Zanzibar and Tanganyika can't have any political parties that are not qualified or even if they see the strength of those who love many people and they do not see this situation that the great problem is that it must be careful.

Until now I have been following the structure of the union which was built on constitutional system, but the system has a lot of challenges and you are not worried about the relationship between the international law and its implementation, to make sure that your country should be independent, to make sure that they should be independent, to make sure that's not independent.
That is why there are many people of all political ideology, different political parties and even those who are not members of any party who are opposing the difference of the union between Zanzibar and Zanzibar.

They want them is to return to the United Republic of Zanzibar after the opinion polls that will ask the people of Zanzibar if they do not want the union.

Contrary to that I will feel that many of the people of Zanzibar don't know the process of the constitution that there is no reason for the time to see them is that the process is a good opportunity that they got to start in the problem.
Those are reminding them that contrary to the issues they were given that in this journey, citizens themselves are participating in the constitutional process that ends with two opinion polls in the mainland and another will be in Zanzibar where they believe that its results will be available on a new system of relationship between those two countries that join constitutional since April there.

After the announcement of a union of unity of the constitution, they are giving this concept of a different system that is very different through the system of the union of that agreement.

The relationship that was built through an agreement will be given to them Lake Tanganyika and also Zanzibar's main authority will enable the existence of cooperation between two countries that are equivalent to free and with the actual authority of the Nyangao area.

The contract will lead that relations to put it open which things will participate in and how their future partnership will be.

When the country has a full authority when I give an agreement of having a partnership or the union and another country does not affect its authority or freedom of the situation which is against the United Republic of Tanzania which has done in Zanzibar, it did not change in the government of the United Republic and his authority of basically.

Zanzibar have been sent away from his stove, when his fellow Tanganyika did not be forced to leave and give birth, a situation because the Tanganyika administration is run by the government of the United Republic.

Another thing that is attractive, when you are in the partnership or a union of the agreement is that every country has signed a union contract with great strength and register it, therefore even in matters that were accepted by the board policies in the implementation of relationship and cooperation of those countries.

The union of that kind, that is the agreement, will give to the register of the national government authorities and the important authority that Zanzibar did not have for 48 years and to make Tanzania participate fully in the regions of East and Central Africa and even the borders of this region.
