Eight and I want.
There are a place that look for seeds that can be allowed to cause a drought.
Because of if it continues to increase there, there is a loss of the fees and if they are not ripe.
Our aim is to get the seedlings that we can get annoyed if they get married if they may be lost and starting in a year without a person, I would be close to each other, and I started working together with our colleagues.
Those that stage the late?
And the produce of a small mother to it and we succeeded this year next month.
To get the infection.
The environment where there is no three.
Who are attractive.
And.
You are doing that if we get to get eight parts of five.
And in a environment that there is like you can talk about it, it will get a donation of dollars?
If you?
So as to be approved, Kiteto District has a importance of producing very much more.
Sure of meeting started with one hundred thousand shillings for example, it gives them to three areas in one hundred houses to these houses, but these houses have not been noticed, they will die.
It is another one of the five we agreed to leave and continue then I will continue to sit and get the third time which I cannot get, therefore you know that you have a lot of discipline and more than ten percent.
And now, you can't know that the person that will give you the good example is that until it will do not love each other, and you say it is very good for the environment of a shop and those that are more than five and five, but maybe the research started and our colleagues from the country easily.
Two and ten are one and one started with eight and eight at the same time, get the fact that I get the fact that I'll get the fact that I'll get ten and three hours you will be able to get ten and three.
I've heard.
We believe that we are encouraged to do that if we have never done, we are cooperating with our colleagues in the house because those who make different types of trials, but if we see the expert getting married, then we request the expert to take advantage of everything every year.
How do I tell me?
