
We need a stable institution and not leaders with people.
Since he came to power, November 5, last year, President John Magufuli has started a type of leadership that causes the feelings of all leaders of the citizens.
The type of leadership of President Magufuli has started to restore accountability which was lost among the public servants.
In his statement, President Magufuli has condemned the system that it is of removing boils that does not recognize the servants and executives who do not fulfill their responsibilities or aim of being involved with lack of money and public resources.
The work of removing boils that are being done by every leader with the authority and his position with his position.
I am one of the non-communicable diseases because the country has already lost direction in public service and the management of financial resources and public property.
However, the efforts of President Magufuli and his aides are still waiting for the basis of managing because we do not have stable institutions that are formed through the implementation of the objectives of removing boils.
Do you start a kind of leadership lack of stable institution, with energy and formed constitution to make opportunities to reach and benefit from fruits in the management of responsibilities, success, patriotism, accountability, ethics and other things like that he has done President Magufuli.
In my opinion, our nation did not need to have a strong leader in order to achieve the goals of managing accountability of leaders, but we need government institutions that are formed, we need to implement that responsibility without caring for ideology, will, love and habit of leaders who are given a bond of leading.
Having a stable institution, with energy and are formed, can simplify the journey to reach where we are doing economic, political and social without caring about who or the party is in power.
We will also have goals and national interests being supervised by a stable institution and of power constitutionally.
This will lead our nation in the trap of depending on leaders with strength to achieve the goals of dealing with evil acts, embezzlement of funds and public resources together with other actions of changing our community just a few months ago.
The stable institution under the best constitution that is available for government will help the control of directors and leaders that know lack of culture, culture, and our senses as a nation.
The aim of controlling the leaders as the retired president of the third term, Benjamin Mkapa and his Minister of Energy and Minerals, Daniel Yona Killagane, inspected the Makoroboi market that involves property and human resources.
By getting a stable institution, the players visited the economy, the thieves and public funds have been visited to restore the pregnancy as we are not less than we witnessed in the EPA scandal.
For sure the stable institution that has the ability and constitutional authority will attract all the leaders of the public, including the president of the United Republic of breaking up the law, regulations and leadership procedures.
We will witness a music such as the former inspector general of police Omar Mjenga, to increase the public that the army had a cargo of those that were put in the CUF, while knowing it is false.
Until he is retiring, he called me, "he released the name in the same way, in the same way, the police force tried to arrest him and put him in court a leader or a member of CUF for the mistake of bringing weapons in the country contrary to the law.
For mental disabilities, we know that he was used for political parties, because he knew there is no stable institution and with power constitutionally, to make her love by saying it is false and using the power and the public resources to improve their party, CCM.
I am saying his party because she had tried without success to vie for the parliamentary seat after retiring from him, we have stable institutions that are prepared to do even judges and control of any kind of law as a result of any kind of law as a result of any kind of law.
Our neighbors Kenya have already begun the constitutional institution that has reduced and take legal action against every Tanzanian for his position without caring for ideology, color, how, tribe, the area is to participate in urging the creation of a stable institution.
In the past.
Some of the organizers of the court in that country, among the senior judges are ready to have lost their positions after investigation that they were able to fall into the cause of money, position or government authorities.
We need to need special constitutional institutions that will destroy the security and rights of owning, benefit from using national resources including land for the benefit of human resource, while we find themselves from our ideology and personal interests or the group of God bless Tanzania!
There are 2 tons of Fly 540 Kenya, + 255 4334 shillings.
