The local government will benefit from the economic development Bank, Aisha Bui, still has signed a contract for the purpose of construction of our road and its own kind, which will be completed in it to buy four billion and five billion shillings which will be used in the market.
Being sworn in to the construction.
In a contract to address citizens at 4-kilometer, it is represented by the minister of finance William Mgimwa, while the economic development bank should be represented by his director.
Our writer listening keenly.
The agreements of our road to go to his office in Zanzibar which has taken place in Arusha town where the road is expected to start from this year and be completed from two hundred and ten thousand in the world, he has said that the step will increase economic condition over to farmers and business people, something that will also be able to reduce poverty.
And the great purpose of this project is.
It is for verification of travel.
.
We probably not have road accidents.
There is a lot of cost.
Educate each other.
The cost of the main cost of the year God come to find and make the road roads it is a big problem, the cost you will be able to shine at a whole time but to build tarmac roads.
The cost of shillings.
It should be on his part, the director of the bank of economic development to be prosecuted.
He has said that the theft of the agreement that he started to take place since two and eight days is also the minister of finance in Zanzibar, Omari Yusuf, he mentioned the benefits of the road.
He said that it is important but the Tanzanians must grow even for the tourists from different countries, this road is important.
Due to the importance of those roads in Zanzibar, the minister of infrastructure and communication in Zanzibar has said that now they can be able to avoid clove smuggling should be used to benefit from the roads which has been activities than all the road when he was doing that they have been able to get time.
Father Junior said that it started until there and I will end up.
Third, there are production of clove smuggling so that you will be the back to the economy of Zanzibar Islands, he contributed a lot of four billion Tanzanian shillings in order to achieve the road project to implement and not the same way.
