
Researchers in the United States (on his E) was sponsored by the energy department in that country to make clothes that can change the sea in line with the body of the disease.
The aim of the existence of those clothes despite the existence of air conditioning is that it will increase the scope of someone to be in a good state in different environment and not within a house or a car as it is now.
Solar energy can travel through a third way, the first one is through a difficult way (in the picture) where he will make sure that the energy to use that energy from the internet will follow up in the air.
Other ways include radiation (Rhema Trust) where geothermal energy has been spread like network provides a report (Caspian Sea).
Alagon efforts are present at the University of California, it says that it aims to control radiation from things that have the reputation of controlling the including, "Larson" and "
"Mystery" can be able to control the radiation from how it gets pregnant in the farm and the team is looking at the way to use that opportunity to sell the internet that is usually high.
"We want to use this opportunity for the reputation of the things that is controlling in eternal peace," says the team though he didn't show how the team can use when they go through radiation.
His team is cooperating with the company under Arafa grounds in the country which is making two groups of sports clothes.
The system of inheritance.
The Khajida Kopa, the Funding Board of Cornell universities in Ighombwe Village, New York city is using different ways in controlling the circulation of climate change and coldness.
"More than that you can play with wherever you want," says Fan.
Evade not involved with skin disability using skin to bring in climate change or coldness.
"It is like a little electronic system which is your body," says Fan.
Clothes that builds self-infectious diseases are not new until now, is used in big clothes that are used by the army, the user, people of emergency services or in laboratory equipment.
The stem cells may play a knee injury to control fish from air conditioning which uses a liquefied mixture of illegal immigrants.
On a draw, they have invested 30 million American dollars to make a system that is good to wear on a normal life in every day.
Those researchers say they want this clothes each person to be if he wants to have other normal clothes.
