It was during the era of Gikombaa.
Frode Dyrdal of 28, 2013.

The following are the explanation of General Ulimwengu, as a member of parliament in the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, which he released while contributing to the issue concerning the union, August 24, in 1993, we have given these information due to the debate that is going on now in the country about the draft of the new constitution (HFO).
Honorable JKU goalkeeper, Honorable deputy speaker, I thank you very much for giving me this opportunity so that I help him to complete this debate which I have been requested by him by himself the topic giver to members of parliament who had brought this motion in front of the Holy Quran.

After the words met since yesterday up to today, and after words and advice to the Honorable Prime Minister and the first vice president, the work is very easy and to say that all of us are not easy to protect what we believe that it is correct.

But in an event that is the only one and I don't think this happened in this parliament, although I am a visitor, for the first time, from the information that I believe there is true, he is the Bible.

But if he did not affect the girl, the one on the alcohol club and he told her colleagues because he was getting known as usual, it is a specialist doctor in English, until when she saw him, a small player from English, until when he passed it is a small player in the city, he told me, "are you '.

Honorable deputy speaker, we agree that even at the place where we are sure that we know something, your partner can say that, there is the first time for us to consider the advice of Honorable Prime Minister and the first right now, we request all members of parliament to work in this evening.

We do not work hard and to respect, if you said most of them, so that even when it will be done, the law and the procedures were done to reach us by meeting the requirements and the will of many citizens of Tanzania mainland and some of the citizens of Tanzania mainland and some of the citizens of Tanzania Islands, they felt it has come to have this government.

Honorable deputy speaker, at all the way I said Honorable Qeen Mlozi, no one was sent here to me after I am not in the government, I don't know that there is a lot of complaints on the union but I don't know if he went to parliament to break the union.

It is happy to listen to the people who are saying that the union has problems, we should change, we should continue to arrive to those who are saying that soon as we go to them, if we are ready to die.
