
Stakeholders encourage the budget for agriculture.
They said it does not tolerate the farmers and the ones who are holding to be discussed so as to meet the requirements of the groups.
Sharon SCE will not recognize the Citizen Who Lives Matandiko and Yuksekdag.
Dodoma the union of non-governmental institutions that deal with climate change (Forum CC) have criticized the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries for the financial year 2016 / 17 that it does not build the farmers.
Speaking in Dodoma town yesterday, the Executive Officer of Forum CC, Faharaka Issa said the budget for the development of that ministry has been set aside a little amount compared to other sectors.
Also, he said livestock has been getting an average of 24 billion shillings which is equivalent to 6 percent of the national development budget for the year 2009 / 10 to 2013 / 14 / 2013, the Director of Forum CC, Rebecca Malope, has advised the increase in agriculture, livestock and fisheries and ensure the funds were given as planned.
Also, he wanted the issues of climate change to be prioritized in the agricultural, livestock and fisheries.
In addition, he advised the government's budget to avoid relying on procedures in the agricultural sector of agricultural sector has been set aside 1 billion shillings (5 billion shillings) which arose from 422 billion shillings (5 billion shillings) equivalent to 87 percent.
In his speech, the minister for agriculture, livestock and fisheries, Mwigulu Nchemba campaigning for the parliament to come out in their development of 2756 billion shillings for the budget of the financial year 2016 / 17.
Of those funds, 10952 billion is for the purpose of development projects and 107,963 billion will be used for normal use.
In the financial year of 2015 / 2016, the former Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development has requested the parliament to be able to pay shillings 8 billion for the purpose of development activities and other things, with the former Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, urging them to satisfy itself with 3531 billion shillings.
