There was a big conflict between farmers and distribution of the cotton industries being questioned the type of quality seeds between those who aren't affected.
All the time when you go through your right time, you don't know your impatient which does not use your eyes, more than that Manyoni, this is what I will be able to tell you the first very because it is when you are very attractive to you.
But it was removed or your feathers of diseases have when it is when it is everything that doesn't like you, we are using my brothers.
More than these words with himself, you can't know the problem of rains, in charge of director.
To see now the problem has a picture.
That has come out to make him say since the cry for many farmers and we provided work to look for what does not loose.
And we were still continuing to look for why you can grow, but the one that did not have your impatience will be better than 350.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, you will see that maybe when it comes from the feelings of our expertise, we have called your feathers.
Or it has been a long time or other things, I have lived, then it is the problems like this is emanating but your feathers are better than you.
Research gave birth to their work.
After caring for us that if you agree with one way or another they will take it to the farmers in this country, we have the work of farmer to look and then look at what is big and I don't know well and what I don't know well and things like it.
Farmers are doing so much about the price for every corner, compared to the great strength being used but this is due to the investment, we did not see benefits due to some farmers, mix up water and sometimes to bring back to the quality of systems in the internet and sometimes to bring back to the use of data.
Ambassador Seif Akida.
Reason like the price of cotton.
Today it has years old.
The.
The year the day before yesterday, it was said that the price had reduced from one hundred thousand shillings to go back to the pitch.
A problem is a problem.
In the development of economy.
Make sure that the farmers are very successful economically from the price of sixty years old.
Therefore, the problem is now, it comes out, then it did not go up to these hours this season do not be in place.
We are still underway.
How did you buy, most of you are there, there is small that is no sessions?
Both buyers have failed to come.
Continuing with this person.
We are not aware that more than fifty years will participate fully.
Just, we have never been seen and maybe we have no good representative to do when I have not seen.
Because we are looking at this which concern it and we are to remain.
God if the top five are very fast but it's a terrorist and that it has given you and you will look for wildlife.
There are people who at these hours they want to stop the cotton industries because of prices and there are people who are continuing to grow the cotton because it is care for the farm and it is supposed to come and then say that the prices are complaining but it depends with it.
A person who knows how to know together if you are using a cost of one hundred thousand shillings in doughing, there is still a lot of benefits, what we are doing here is a lot of AIDS for the future.
To get one everyone who will use yesterday is going back to the answer that it is no what is done is that life can fall like agriculture if we get the people also died by getting anywhere in one hour each one is like a person to go for me.
It is possible even from a life in the country although we are not in Dar es Salaam, the price is a challenge and let me just know that if a person who doesn't know where there is a person who doesn't have a child, you should know that life will continue to use cotton as a child.
When you follow up until now, we are information on this drugs for this day of today, it is hope that we have written many in the purpose of improving the cotton farming and increase the economy of our nation.
