These ministers they will be expelled.
Dec 16, 2015.

By looking at the speed and leadership of President Doctor John Magufuli is clear that there are ministers and assistant ministers who can be able to see their positions by failing to manage their positions and not to be transferred - so that we can be able to take their positions because this will be true?
The time he used.
If there is something that is pleased with the direction of Magufuli's thoughts about its ministers, he used the opportunity to serve us from any person, but there is a shame and I don't have a chance to serve otherwise or not if I don't see if it is not good because I don't see if it is the system of Magufuli.
There will be no mistake.
Leaders of the levels like a minister or a shame, are not given a warning by their leader because they are expected to have a stern warning to people who will lead the ministers!
Others think that they have lost.
If there is a minister or any assistant who because he has been put in the council of ministers or help the ministers you will have written, "then the prime minister did not meet with a special vehicle with great shape and" Nm" then should know her is in problems.
These people have been called to serve the nation in the era of these times and it's their responsibility to recognize this, it means that she is going on here and we know what is happening here and we don't know what is happening here and we don't know what is happening here and we don't know what is happening here and we don't know what is happening and then I don't know what is not good.
Let us lose the profile of messengers?
One of the things that maybe our politicians have not yet answered, others very popular - it is true then we are telling them, we can make sure that because their ministers are called to lead them then they can make sure that they can make anything, wherever they are in any way.
Here, we have already seen the leaders that they think that they think for their positions then they do not know if they get pregnant, drinking water and later make sure they sell it just because they have certain positions.
The leaders with giving statements that show a lot of quality and eat against VVU, (if one person told the other) is no better than another Tanzanian and it is not the reason for their position to have any reason and not being arrogant.
