When you go through right you'll give you a cookie for twenty years now, does it mean?
It's no longer.
It's impossible so that he has come from the truth who is the late?
It doesn't succeed again, the late God has reminded me the Almighty God to hear and see the late father?
You desire to do where it remains in Arsenal.
The late I went for my house to tell me what I went for house or in the house, it's no one that you're talking to two people and there is no one that you have talked about if people are happy to tell me what should there be Never Ending.
First, for them to give me just like he wants I would like to pay you and ask for the late God has come up with me when I give him the same I told me.
If you have said, I am supposed to wait and listen to a lot of joy, if they see you, the late God bless you, I would like you to speak if you're marrying.
No Ras Makunja is not there or there?
Already I was ready for a house because no or it is still there?
You miss.
It's no one who is born with who for you to know what they need to know if you are bad and we don't know what to you.
Almighty God sinful?
Therefore, I told me I am very happy and I'm with who for a house and you know what I was alone, I would like to take him in Dar es Salaam when you're very attractive to me.
When the late I do not know why, I do not know what there is no longer.
For you seen I told God?
It's a very important thing, why let me ask you, it doesn't know it, it has no longer.
Who you know the district we ask for him again and you know the late God has said tomorrow, it is saying that tomorrow it will be a promotion where it is the same, then there is a work that was found and the work has been found.
If you stay in, and you don't know the first time I am able to return with me in the late and asked me that there is the work that was found where you can go with me why you can lead us with the same way.
Since I saw it too, you have not believe in me.
And five does not destroy the girl and a little money is very few, I am pleased with me, I am happy to see if he got an entrepreneur, but it's just a lady.
My 'he said to go and go back to the police are stars and live on how it is not standing so that even if they do not know well, why are the other things we are doing here and I don't know what you are getting to me.
It's no longer today when I was born and not me with me what is not true and it is not open because it is the number one who does with me, why is my friend, you know how many people want.
Its my friend, they have look at other things that things like speaking.
It is very delicious.
Then, the drugs are not just coming, when you go to the late God sinful?
The Lord Jesus is a little money for a little money because it does not get the best, the very best, what does it mean?
The late?
It is to go and go back or it's a job to live, I've not heard, but I could not know anything, I was surprised when I was accompanied by him, he was being accompanied by what I had started.
It hasn't reached six million shillings but he met a little one person, I will not stop just as an agent, I did not get your phone to a house, but I did not give you the convoy when I told him, she does not give him a convoy when I talked with him when he did not lie!
It is not understood.
The late God bless you and when you are now, you want to know whether you don't know whether you do not loose the phone you can't change when you get married, she had no longer.
They are not right.
