When you like a actor in the section of discussions with this center, we will also talk about.
Those of lack of unemployment is so bad in schools for the purpose of using a female children when they get into their studies, my name is very big and to thank the child, when you get pregnant, when our women don't have conflicts like what they had been not a part I am pleased.
He put up about Free Market where according to claim, where they should be informed, then later all of the economy part of the death of us.
It's not yet to affect so much.
We women even men are also in a environment that he was given, where they get out of their studies because another person he likes to work.
Looking at this here at the school you were able to go a place itself because it will make sure that you will give it a wife, they are starting to be there.
If I will happen this?
The love I put it.
Most of them don't jump and a person who is not good if you will make sure that we will take back home because others can't return to school because others can't go back to school because others can't go back to school because another day I will end up if my day I will stop for example maybe he broke.
It has gone to school we are happy for example to go for the body.
If you woke up a certificate, it has given out their points that is causing him in a car.
And Nigeria is a person who came up on the false accusations, usually do not knowing if we are not looking at school, I also don't like looking at school as Prezzo is because of example is wrong, maybe you are very happy that you are enough for you.
Or it is happening.
Time.
With mobile phone to get married, I have been unable to go to school.
Maybe it is wrong for a lot of patience, there is no one who failed to do how to make sure it's not good and it does not affect people with phone and to be able to go home for four days.
I found it better when I was at home.
Maybe my three times this will be doing so that you will have a problem, then you find the education and the youth, that is why we will do.
Female children at the same time should not be available for example schools arranging one barrel of losing the money, because it has already brought in faith.
Let us believe that I cannot be able to take my age, I heard that the foundation of me will continue at home then?
On another side, I would believe in another side, I cannot say because there is no reason.
Truly, you should be read so that we are being read for that day, there are employees of my school concerning my problem like that, I have not met with them because there is the Mau fighters, one thing that is taking place is doing well in the evening.
I don't know that I have never done an act like this one, there are some people who came to you, I am fear from my wife there because another person can be attractive, then do not make things.
It is not good.
For the late God knows the primary way it is to go to school to sit at home and this is also affected us again?
While in home I believe there is programs that do not have?
It is true that you are going back home in this period.
Be known here if you are the second girl in the side, I do not like him so much like it found that in school there is no thing and this is this one.
You must make sure then add a thing that does not make her dirty going back home.
Stop or accumulating wealth.
They are using them.
Because he said again he was born with him in his home and how many days some times some days there are another time in Msondo as a kind at the end of the last game because there is no one popular.
They can be able to use well.
Or if you know that this part does not produce our waste itself, you cannot redeem themselves so as to respect and save your life well, maybe I get an opportunity to get your girl who does not know if he knows the stem.
If you are.
If phones, there was no one to win that, which can he come from the sun?
I was surprised when there was no rivals who were not good again and they have put in love to protect themselves from the university.
People know that it will be very good.
It is so that when you take a mental mind, if you feel that is just the evening you can't read the required way, you will not lie on the same day, you will do even in class, it can also do even if he is doing so, he does not know how he is doing so that he is doing so that he is doing well.
Why do I call him?
On the other time?
The child of the school.
He has prepared himself as he was going to school he has also carried out that after several hours going to change, but the ones that will enable you to change so that this meeting will go to the station where it is no.
We do not milk.
Only only when it's only to go back to you, it's also a problem and you can't see his fellow students that you will fall in class so that she can do something.
It is not possible.
When you can't go back to the office and apologized to our teachers.
It's not no.
Absolom went to see that it is a very big danger.
We would like to think that all that he sees it, then it is good to listen.
After several days.
I will go to school.
Remember to see another, that is why?
Everyone gets when I was seen, there's no place of testing every person can be able to do, I don't see another and we can get another diseases that I get inside.
Because you can enjoy the things you get in school, if you change your well in America to read it.
To take those books, I agree on well, it will happen at home, you can't understand what we get very well, we do not see what we are doing well, we do not see what we get in school, there are many girls who are doing so much and we do not know what we are doing so that we do not see these teachers and all those who are doing their work is not good.
Likewise, I can see another time because other schools go to go and see you have done people who have written the period as Diamond is not a period because Diamond is not a period as Diamond is not a period because Diamond is not a period because Diamond is not a period as Diamond is not a period as Diamond is not a period like Diamond is not a period of every school.
Insults cannot see a person to go to school?
The schools have gone as usual.
The ones get out it as this evening.
When you start a piece of putting the foundation stone in home, you don't know if he was born as usual due to what we were doing, what should do you do, even the person you find her sister's work.
For example there are people living.
They feel extremely honored.
How is a good one and I request for the teachers to follow up so that these schools in the school should be very much and we're looking for more so that I will stop the white color which is why I will fall down in home, we will do.
For the purpose of that problem, maybe I gave out an advice that in every school with children of students who were female children, they had been able to look for a girl who is in Free Africa even if it is not in the same days but you find you there is another day that girl has not seen.
And he would like to put his things in public.
That is dangerous that we have to build a female child when he is in school because they sell primary schools with female children.
They are given one way to make the children a girl.
To go to where we are waiting for their things to these are different challenges which have never heard that their daughters Wasagaji.
Other days in the city and the others have led them to go back to school and to sit down here, I don't have a extra time in the section of the discussions.
