
CHADEMA gave votes from CUF to take the mayor of Seasons Hotel, 2012.

As it was a huge tension between the two councilors, it gave the membership position, the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) is being faced with a huge examination in defending the position of the mayor of Mwanza City against the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the elections that is expected to take place at the end of this month.

The election that is taking place after the day before yesterday to be taken to Mwanza City Council and building a City Council of Ilemela, is expected to have an attraction of its kind in Mwanza politics, being the catalyst to the action of CHADEMA to chase them, who in way they can affect the results of the election.

While CHADEMA have a sure to take a mayor and his assistant in Ilemela Municipality where together with the membership card the councilor of Kitwiru, Henry Matata, still the number of its councilors had four member of parliament and the member of parliament for special seats, where CUF is the ones with integrity and decide who will be the mayor.

On the side of the new council of Mwanza City, that was made inside the borders of the Nyamagana District Council, previously before CHADEMA was vying for the councilor seat of Igoma Ward, Adam Mayingu, had four delegates equivalent to CCM which was also a number of delegates of the council of councilors, where some of the delegates from CHADEMA were left with seven delegates.

However, and instead of who becomes the mayor of that city is still in the hands of CUF who have two delegates inside the council, which they decided to support him in any side that will agree with victory in the race.

Already the information from CHADEMA party and CUF say that there is good symptoms of at the right time so that CUF can take a chance to vie for the presidential candidate, Daud Mkingie has been appointed as the chairperson of CUF, Daud Mkonga who came to vie for that position.

On the side of CCM, already the political committee in Nyamagana district has thrown out the councilor's mayor and John Minja, the parliamentary seat for the provincial committee and the executive committee that is expected to be held on September 21 and 22 this year, to select the candidates.

The Deputy Mayor has been appointed to carry the flag of that party between three other councilors of that party, Samuel Mpenzu of Pamba ward, Hassan Kijuu (Mbijima) who all in order to be appointed by vying for that position.

More information from CCM are saying that talks with CUF do not go well but there are reports that they have a strategy to use CHADEMA's position to get seven delegates or to convince the citizens to vote for him and the court so that in that election, his voters will be able to attend to them.

Another way that they are starting to use CCM is to be close to lictions of the councilors of CHADEMA and even discourage them from their party, who were involved in the search for a mayor in the district level so that they do not do justice and therefore do not care for forgiveness from their party's candidate.

However, one of the councilors who defected to Good Citizen on condition of not being mentioned by the name that those are noise from members of CCM who do not have issues and some of the members of their party who want them to make sure they want them.

Speaking to Good Citizen on phone, Justin Campos said he is in the process of putting off the court so as to pray for him so that his party member so that he can get them to vote for his party in the general elections.

"Even yesterday I have written on social media network, I am a member of CHADEMA Kindai ward, this is a member of the citizens and its policies and I don't understand the party and its policies, even my religion is not knowing that my party's work is for the Almighty God," he said.

Ilemela, a heavy song to CHADEMA together with the presence of a big possibility of taking the mayor and the deputy chairman of Ilemela Municipal Council, CHADEMA is still being faced with conflicts within and that it does not be resolved because it could be resolved by that party towards the election.

Already the former councilor of Kitegu, Henry Matata, who the CHADEMA executive committee had given a membership position to prevent his membership position up to the primary case that he started in court to oppose the membership card.

That court's order has been signed by the Resident Judge in Mwanza region, it gives the opportunity to continue with his long-term activities that he started in order to vie for the position of former Mayor of Ilemela through that party according to the court that allows him to go to the process of appointment.

But the time going on, some of the politics analysis is saying that it's going to court to give him a difficult time inside the party because the action of going to court against the decision of the executive committee is against the constitution of the party.

According to the eight regulations about disciplinary action against the members of parliament, councilors, the chairpersons of the villages, estates, and neighborhoods (section (a section) article 5) has said the party will not meet the problems of leaders and members in court.

"CHADEMA will meet the problems of leaders and members by following the procedures made in accordance with the constitution of the party, or even one day it will not be able to follow up things like that, the party members will not fail to follow procedures and levels of the party they will not be stopped and will be expelled from membership," he said that section.

According to the constitution, section (b) of the eight regulations, recommendations of the action will be taken to the National Executive Committee for the last decision and appeal of the councilor that will have the last decision.

At the middle is the team against who is who in the tension between the party and the councilor, he says that all taking place is a plot for the party to prevent a mayor and he explains that he didn't have a dream since earlier, just after the general election in 2010, the executive committee stopped him and he decided to accept when he decided to leave, that situation he did again.

He explains that in the previous charges he was accused of blocking the party for getting a mayor and that he confessed that before the executive committee receiving 20 million shillings in the previous general elections so as to finish the party.

"It is true I think about receiving 20 million shillings but I have used to give water services to my citizens and this I said I don't know why they are at the executive committee and I asked why they want to use that criterion until now, I received and did not hesitate to use the party," explained Matata.

He says he has organized himself well and if there will be a plot for the party to prevent him from his activities, he will ensure that the sessions of that party will not succeed because he will ensure he is selling them.

"If those sessions will have a agenda to give my name without the most importantly, I will give him 120 votes so that the meeting was hard to send himself," said the councilor who moved to CHADEMA shortly before the general elections of 2010 after failing to vote in CCM.

Other candidates for the mayor of Ilemela District on the CHADEMA ticket is Danny Sserunkuma on the ticket of Kirumba, who is a great opportunity to emerge as the candidate of the party, and the fine is the only woman in the race, the councilor of Ilemela District, Mariamu Chocha.
The candidate who is competing for the position of the deputy mayor is Rose Brown of the Panorama Program, Abubakar Kapesti 'in Nyamkazi Primary School and Mariupol City, Ilemela province.

On the side of CCM, who is competing for that position, Renatus Nyanda, Nachingwea Ward and councilor of Buchosa County, as Sayani Kayuni, who is vying for the position of the deputy mayor in Saudi Arabia for the new constitution.
