
CCM and a sharp teeth.
Jide 24, 2014.

I have been able to write this, that the Revolutionary Party (CCM) did not leave anything.
To the fishermen, there is a ploy of fish by a fox which is a big, to intervene or impatient, so that fish can get into a patient without knowing that she is close to a bomb.

He complained about the fish that he sees another person inside a veteran which she had left behind him and the fish together with fish, a bomb that has been buried and the fish have already been buried.
And actions of the fish usually do not have the ability of swimming with no mistake, and because those fish, all the fish will be arrested in a bomb.
As a news analyst and I was following up closely in politics of this country, I would have been asked three years ago, Majaliwa of CCM 2015, then my answer would have been used, that party is not only heading to the grave.
But I have been asked today, I would like to say the truth, that CCM is still a great party as the general elections this year, then it is the party that would have been used by many members in parliament and it would have made the government.

The meaning that advertise the political country for now, many are supposed to be such as fish, "the political person," the CCM party is like CCM and it is known as CCM that has been proud of each other inside the opposition.
For now the opposition party in the country has failed to show the public that they are alternative for CCM and it is not enough to say that CCM is a political party so that to change, while the citizens have the eyes and know that corruption has a difficult concept.
Recently, it's no one who is able to stop, he clarified on corruption and he was understood to many?
It is true that citizens should stop corruption, but the agenda of corruption in the way that are carried out by politicians have it enough to citizens.
Because, they don't give credit to solve the problem of basically, which is of more system, it shows more that it is dangerous and they had given the tickets to hold the political authority.
Three years ago, many citizens believed that CCM is a political party and inside it, there are corruption that were mentioned even to the names of their colleagues in CCM and the opposition followed you assisted by "the great war" inside CCM.
However, the opposition, on my view, did not want to use well the effects of the members of CCM in depending on the concept of corruption, the weaknesses that moved to the opposition camp.
Instead, the opposition, and you got into the trap of having more than 100 days to enter the parliament and to arrest those dollars, in the election agenda of the war against corruption, instead of war against the system that is causing the corruption, the opposition parties have been able to lack better strategies of using it well in the elections of CCM.
The opposition parties have shown that there are many weaknesses within the parties and that they are normal, and other that are inside CCM are also in the opposition parties and sometimes to a large extent.
And then, as it is for CCM, those who are faced with land conflicts, then they intend to evade violence and therefore having an opportunity to inform them and therefore having an opportunity to inspect them and also have an opportunity to inspect them.
It's only that if it is true that we love the changes in basically we are in the country, but if those have a great intention of helping to redeem the small businesses, then, they have the opportunity to inspect them and work to start now.
