Today.
You are not known as a wedding a game in Dar es Salaam, you're close to you near their wards, then we can see you.
To build a argument that my brothers together becomes Mister God of the decision has shown the truth.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, it will be a reason to ask ourselves as a citizen's Day for fifty years and the length was set aside.
Even when I went to forgive me!
I think we are together in games.
But many of the leaders have already recorded a short message how I got these young people while after confessing that it was unable to thank Pascal Malesa and how they get your preparations.
It becomes a picture.
This is true here when I was surprised and I am giving good care for me.
I request you to support him in the province of Shinyanga, we are educating you where we give birth up to now, I know why I know the province and he said that twenty children where a lesson will get pregnant women and how I think it is true.
When you remember, do not get exercises together because I think we're going on well it is a decision that does not work there is no need to teach other youths soon because my friend can work on them and to give them the success.
The international improvements is true in getting.
And when you know, I urge you to answer that success will be found because the cost is now but it has a cost.
And I think about a long period of primary, it is the cost that we cannot play well or non-communicable diseases to those youths who play this kind, use the national commission that you are required to do once every month do you get one international match to get enough experience.
But are these children from Ndanda FC.
There are others even when you prepared himself, there is only a girl who has ever heard, but I've heard, where I've heard, if you want to take place in Mwanza was seen as a youth who will help them from not under the age of five.
For me, we have used to be used for financial ability and to get to get the national team later, it's not good plans to serve me when I got a lot of people to be elected but they don't know then I will go to Mbeya or others, we are happy when I will go to Mbeya or others, we are self-employed when I get in Mbeya or others, we are self-employed when they are in Mbeya.
And we were many youths who are supposed to listen to the problem is maybe I say.
What is the opportunity of doing appointment and I believe it completely.
Many youths as he is given.
To get a conducive environment they sell the improvements and Programme that is set aside, we should stop time following up on the explanation that we made in addition, it is doing everything after one year we are doing an evaluation.
Which has contributed to us or we have been living?
All what did I believe in good plans we look at time now if you will see the goals we heard or we will tell you that you are doing an evaluation to make it better if there will be the problems that has come from the current Republican.
Well, it is a stakeholder even the truth and we believe.
.
They are holding us that something has given good thoughts the good program for a long time was not bad.
Also, it shows that you are living in a new process to be in all the development of soccer here in the country, if you want to improve it, still have weaknesses.
Responding to a place in town as stakeholders.
That it is good for good advice at the middle because they are best to games.
Almighty God should be there, then it will be a result of various issues in the bar which led it as political parties.
I think we were with the meeting.
In America earlier, if it is not from January now, we will bring him here there will be a hundred, we are supposed to change history and when I see when there is a problem.
The Almighty God rest.
That the death of that night I was to answer you or things are very much but I believe that this is a good first to be there by looking at the moment, I request that we will make sure we are going on here we're coming here to we live here.
But I believe, we can see where we will continue where in short, we will partner so much and as a writer, you know that it is possible that we are not a good thing that it is a good thing that the team for improving.
You shouldn't accept to be a coach of the national team later, but the same time you get a one day 'work' and it was a must that even when he gets a mistake, he would like to go to different places in looking for you the first bridge, "he attains it.
That spread by phone I don't have sure that some of the women Paul Okoye came from until today I will give them the ones that enabled us to prepare themselves.
Hayatou, I don't have said that I have given us a lot of us or we have met so much UNPFA, after the sacrifice of Ngasa, when he retired from.
That it continues to be demolished quickly I read the idea.
Our team of improvements is required and itself all the international matches to be outside at least once every month they were given international community from outside and they can get old within and inside you and I thank you so much even our faith.
