
Azam has natural gas in Mbeya City by 1-0 in her house.

Rashid Mkonga.

Defending champions.
The defending champions of the Vodacom Premier League last season, Azam FC today has continued their journey by scoring against Mbeya City team of Mbeya City by 1-0 goals.

Last season, Azam was beaten by Mbeya City 2-1 at his home ground, and gave the tickets to win the championship for the first time since that team starts.

In today's match, those teams have participated in a draw to be sworn in, while everyone showing them who are greedy for playing that match.

Azam led by attackers, Kipre quills, Erasto Nyoni, Didier Kavumbagu trying to meet Mister Lanfang Liao who passed the game in the first half while Mbeya City followed on its coach Deogratius Julius, Hassan Mwasobwa, Yusuf Abdallah and John Kanyenye from Azam FC.

It was in the 19th minute of the game where the game took place in Mbeya City where the Azam player, Salum Abubakar, "Sure Boy" had banned the punishment for a penalty by the referee Martin Sanya, who missed the ball with a small punishment to the Mbeya City team.

The ball that was played by Aggrey Mlimuka was the net directly and leave the Mbeya City goalkeeper, David Brurraging water without success.

That goal of Azama went on joy, joy and thirst for fans of Mbeya City and stir, Alicios and joy, on the side of a few fans of Azam who are not in the southern region.

After that goal, the players of Mbeya City appeared to follow up and will be forced to play very high balls and another time to vote without a order while the players of Azam FC dancing in doing.

It was the greatest desire for Azam FC for the second goal in the 26th minute of the game where however, the referee has decided to return the ball before the Azam player, Said Morse, has not allowed the ball.

Up to a half time Mbeya City was behind 0-1, the second goal started with fast while Azam wanted to increase the goal by Mbeya City as they want to look for a goal goal but the luck in Mbeya City was not available.

The last game of the game witnessed the fans of Mbeya City coming back down and agreed to be onde Village of Azam for the second time continuously, by being beaten 1-0 goals.

Mbeya City, David Brurhan Mlau, Deogratius Julius Nyerere, Hassan Mwashilindi, Yusuph Abdallah, Kelvin Matthysse, Saad Kawemba, Paul Nonga, Paul Noma, Paul Noma, Paul Noma, Paul Noma, Paul Noma, Paul Nasi.

Azam FC, Mrs Aishi Manula has thrown out Shangani, Said Mortuation, Said Chance, Aggrey Mlimuka, Michael Kafamu, Salum Abubakar, Salum Abubakar, Salum Abubakar, Salum Abubakar, Salum Abubakar Katwila.
