Yes, we are doing?
Because I will eat and stop the work it's not only thing.
.
This means that you know if you see if you tell me when you tell me what I want to take how to think how it could be able to leave the time now to leave the work I started.
No is it?
When you get in Dar es Salaam, you can't be able to succeed without stopping.
And you should not be remembered by your goals, it is a must that you have to do so.
Without stopping the month of May given to work I could not get.
Small businesses that get you today because I think my person was at work.
I am happy.
That women should try to do your dreams and he believes that their dreams of Ras Kiduku was surprised by what I hope is to believe in their dreams.
I believe that you can see that children can't affect some modern practices of saying I am going to work hard by leaving, because there is someone who had a dream not to do their dreams as they do not have died.
Do you work at home, there are living in South know that their bed is in place.
You mean that you want to do what morning are there.
.
Honesty is Lowa and said that. I am happy to work I am going to do something to make sure that small property is using but Hunter.
When the money happened only, you will leave the preparations for a woman why I don't know where he will not meet him from Malawi.
You don't want to you just to stop the work he was planning and then we should follow her dreams and when there is need for them to understand the things that you got when considering and to come out for many years and not to stop the work Alex.
My son since I start to let me leave, I have seen that I have been very big that I have turned against terrorism.
Different times I will go with the aim of doing everything since the beginning of what you like to look for employment.
You know you want to do because, I have got a day, I have got the first to be full of boundaries that let it get all the teeth.
You have said that there is a person that we put up that Black Americans has said, because I've been done for close years.
Very little because I was ready and goals I have, I know what I want to for ten years what should I do?
But the body has written you?
Because I was I see no worries that I believe that people want to do people who want to look for people who go to the main church why I don't have a reason why I want to say for ten years but no we can say a little I have been able to understand.
My thing that you can start work to work.
I have been able to buy those acts in mind and the ability to pay these people, pour it in working and it is not open that I will pay you, I know I have lost even so, I know I have dropped from therefore, our children are in a result of money or a wife.
If you are saying that you can be in the first five years in front of God rest the past five years in the past, look at what you want to make these things why you have a lot of things until you have to prepare themselves with this long time.
I believe that life is starting the age of treason, the arrested are very happy, you cannot go to the stand, you cannot go and do that, there is a time that we fell when I was very disturbing I explained.
So as to be able to reach your goals.
The presenter of the period.
