
Still we have the arrogance of the revolution?
Frode Dyrdal of 1st, 2012.

Yesterday again if we were able to vote it as usual, every time when it reached on January 12th, every time when it reached on January 12th this year, we're getting an opportunity to rest in order to commemorate the revolution day of Zanzibar in the year 2007.

And when they are in a large extent, we have already been forced to do things in mind, then even how we are able to connect our holiday is in mind the same way.

Because all celebrations inform you about all of us, it gives us that even when you give him a new year in the farm, eat food, go back home, eat food, going back home and go back home, while she has attacked him from home.

And all the holiday that will be held in the year including Revolution, Valentino Mlowola Maulid, Easter, Karume Stadium, the World Cup, on the 1st of May at Saba Saba, Idd El Fitr, Uhuru One, Uhuru and Christmas season "which will be released" as usual.

If you follow the difference between those religious holidays, the style of commemoration of all the year's holiday is not just a lot, it is a day of thanks and there are various institutions that give loans in some of the holiday.
Many times the institutions do not care about Iddi and Christmas loans on that logic - and especially when considering the difficulty of life that we were with employees, they should give them sweating as a very big meaning.

And - a continuation of this holiday they will have a great meaning to all believers and Christians will also be able to get Christmas loan this week, it does not mean that loans are for the purpose of enabling them to buy the chicken for a cost of life.

Therefore, we expect most of us - those who do work and benefit from him or from the festive season, can't give you a lot of other days of the year apart from the ones that get loans.

It is clear that if you ask many people who had introduced him yesterday that Tanzania was marking what can't give a fox which is completed on the importance of January 12th.

Media are crowded with knowledge and photos that educate the public about the history of Revolutionary. Every year, all the news agencies do so, even if you have seen even the articles seen from the real issues about the revolution.

For example, there are articles which every year have tried to talk about their participation and the fate of General Minja who close to each other picture is the person seen as the leader of the revolutionary party and by bad luck, still the involved have been able to give answers that can destroy the debate.

For sure, most of these articles have never succeeded in history and succeed in history, but maybe this season of January 12th it is required to give our opportunity to know what happened on January 12th, there are now so that we can give you about what happened on January 12th, only so that we can be able to know what happened on January 12th.

That even we don't have been given a loan on the Revolutionary day for the purpose of cooking oil and continue to see if we are using the revolution in every second, 10 minutes, last month and this year we live.

But in order to inform the revolution, it is not only to know what happened there, there were also need to know what happened in the same time, which forced them to take serious actions and dangerous actions that they took.

If many revolutionaries want people of Zanzibar to live in the country, everyone would like to live with his humanity, without forgetting and downloading from the occasion or they are warned, that is the aim that has been successful in which way?

If many revolutionaries of Zanzibar (or tablet transmitted) and African of Africa in general, come out and them to avoid our weakness what is needed in their country themselves, so that the aim has been successful in which way?

If many revolutionaries of Zanzibar (or tablet transmitted) and African countries in general, come out and asked them to work hard and come out, so that it has been successful in which way in today's world for sponsors, donations, donations, donations, donations, donations, donations, donations, donations, donations and donations.
In blogging, there are idols forbidden from the revolution?

We wish CCM and CUF Zanzibar with good talks, an aim of helping Zanzibar, Tanzania and Africa to answer questions from there.
