
The controversy was high is actor Lulu.

The situation is not well known as an artist of the Bongo film star, Elizabeth Michael 'Lulu' that is in Kimara B Primary School, Dar es Salaam, he said that he was awarded her biological mother, Lucia Gogo, but has shown an eruption of controversy after claims that the charges had already been sold.

According to the source which is a neighbor to that area, that building has been sold due to the decision by Lulu's decision without being known because his mother who did not want to go to that he wanted to have a great building like a Tanzanian artist, Nasibu Abdul Diamond "which is called Madale, Dar.

That neighbor said that, it's a long time he did not see Lulu or his mother despite that there is a defender of protecting that house but a other house of the neighborhood.

"People are saying that it has already been sold, but the buyer was not known, but a person who can tell me in details is Lulu with the defender.

After getting rid of it, without losing any time of paparazzi to be satisfied with the what they had explained by the doctor and witness the building, it is seen a person to live but there is no one inside.

The residents of that area arrested the day that the mother will be awarded that the mother will be awarded by his child while others claimed to read 30 houses that has been fined shillings.

"There is no thing of asking them to relocate for reasons, reasons, only did not be shaken, although there are no worries at each other, now I am surprised why they do not support him or not like a defender.

"There is a program that Lulu was forced to come here with her mother to look at but later he was forced to come up with his mother though the recent period of time to end," said one of his neighbors.

After that, laparosk of us saw the mother Lulu and asked him to get out of all the claims where he got in a short time.

"Friends I request you to leave first, not you know what I have from the same day.

After that, paparenas went to Lulu through a phone and when it was found with this one to say.

"Those are a private issue of the family, I cannot talk about so much if I wanted to give him a mother I will welcome him inside and handed him, I wanted you to read the media I will say, but those others don't know."
