
Meet with bananas, a tyrant, Minister Chikawe was on 1st, 2012.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) in a big part has completed the election of its leaders on claims that corruption has reduced, a victory of some of the candidates being faced with bribery, among the provinces where the elections have been completed in Nachingwea District in Lindi province where in the race, they will continue to read this article.
Mke Mwema should explain your history of life in short and even in your party, the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Fadhili Dononda, my full names are. Alli Liunda and I was born on December 19, year 1988, in Nachingwea District where my mother was played with my friend, Mzee Michael Kafamu, but his wife Esther Issa.

I started learning about primary education in the year 1997, at Magato Primary School located in Mtwara district and later at Nachingwea Primary School located in Nachingwea Ward, Nachingwea Ward in Mtwara District where they living in my mother's father, Alli Mfaume Said.

Secondary education has got to two different schools in form one to form four when I read in Nachingwea Secondary School located in Nachingwea Ward for form five and six I read in the Ocean Road secondary school (Osection) that is in Mtwara Municipality.

I joined the Revolutionary Party in the year 2008, Mtwara Province, but the political activities started officially in the year 2010 in Nachingwea District, here, I found my friend called Salehe Solo, who at the time he was the assistant in the office of the youth union (UVCCM) Nachingwea District, Salehe Sasi.
Almighty God lead your education results.
Ivory Coast, my results were shocked as because the results of form four exams got grade three, in addition, the results of form six I got a third class.
Almighty God, you have explained to him that your mother died at two years old and the responsibility of bringing up my friend together with your wife.
St John is true that my primary education I got to a lot of problems, especially from class one to class four, when I was in Mtwara to the father I performed well as the body of the field while I made the work of unholiness and the earth.

However, I did not stop blogging, I went back to Nachingwea at a place where I was born with seven years old and when I went to Nachingwea Primary School, I decided to come up with the government after being involved in the orphaned children.

In this, I thank my teacher who is called Alike Chance, its efforts are caused by a mother and lack of cooperation with the father's relationship, I decided to introduce himself to be orphaned children and even to now I will answer themselves as they were at orphans.

Form one to the fourth time I met the government, but the form five and six studies have never been postponed due to the money that I got in Nachingwea Ward, Nachingwea District as soon after completing form four when I got to work in that factory.
Dilesh Solank when they've heard that positions before being elected member of the executive council of that party from Nachingwea District?
Fadhili Dononda, I have another position inside the Revolutionary Party and is the chairperson of UVCCM, Nachingwea Ward, who is also a member of the District Council for my position as the chairperson of the union of youths who is also a member of the executive committee of the district.
Mke Mwema should another be heard, you've heard it up and for now you are doing what to help them?
Nelson Mandela is true I have been suffering a lot up to here, my work for now is an artist of film music and it is a lot of participation in some of the East African school, that is East African Television. "I was lucky to do my work known as known as Cheupe bus station.
Almighty God bless you for the current politics system in CCM to compete with a big position in government is not true, it did not depend on how to compete with the Minister of Constitution and law, Mathias Chikawe.
Fadhili Dononda, an issue that came into the contest is to inform me when I will give my contribution to serve the party in a high position as others inside the party.
As well as that, I love my district and my party, therefore they were far in the use of more that the party has come to.
Almighty God is alleged that you are very close person to Minister Chikawe and that even the forms to vie for the position of NEC delegates came from his camp.
Fadhili Dononda, there is no fact, but I am a person of all the person, therefore someone saying that I am a person of a certain leader not less than any other leaders.
About being given forms, it is that I told me even the other forms I have used to vie for another position I set up.
Mke Mwema, there are reports that your victory is as a result of the huge support of who got to be the DC of Bukoba, Albert Mnadani who was born in Nachingwea Ward, who in the current election inside CCM has been selected to be the chairman of Nachingwea District, there is any truth about that donation?
Fadhili Dononda, Honorable Mnadani who worked with ideas and advice did not hesitate to advise him when I told him, he requested other members.
Almighty God is true that Minister Chikawe promised to continue improving education by paying for their studies.
Almighty God should agree with you that Honorable Chikawe was my friend, otherwise I will be not being fair to the right to say that he is my old man, he said that she is my heart of my heart.

He has been a great support for the private sector as Fadhili Dononda, he has also been a donation of the art of what I led by Mzee Chikawe, who brought the art expert from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) to come and provide training.

And about praising himself in education it is true that he wanted them so, again he does not know if I am a member of CCM. It is normal to help those with problems and it is seen and he is seen.
Mke Mwema should not hesitate to communicate with him after winning her in the race for NEC delegate and also I think he will attain his promise to promote education in education?
Nelson Mandela who is a very happy, but you should know that I am not his enemy, but I am not a leader of all the opposition party, therefore I believe that all we will succeed in addition to communicate with him, since the end of the election.
Almighty God, but it was also how she lost her dear friend?
Fadhili Dononda, I feel very happy, because I was happy and I am sure I will do justice and therefore, he didn't think it is true because he himself had a heart because he does not see me so that he can say he has bought his heart.
Many who don't know if they were their rivals.
Almighty God bless you, is true that before the election that was set aside, as we have been explained by the councilor of Ndunguti ward, Raphael Chegeni.
Fadhili Namkoveka said that what happened is that I had not had a phone communication and more than that, one day before the elections went to buy animals.
Mke Mwema, Diamond Platinumz said that he helped to save for fear for your security.
Fadhili Nariadhara is a political veteran more than me, maybe he knew that he wouldn't know what he got even so he didn't know him but I was not true but I was pleased with him immediately after time.
Mke Mwema should know well but even Teacher Yaida who was an agent, and the one who was to take them at the meeting hall, says if he was among those who participated in your camp.
Fadhili Nauye as you listen to me, I didn't jump and I did not see me and I have not helped me to win or Honorable Chikawe was unable.
Mke Mwema, even that was the election day you used the councilor's car.
Saanane is your friend?
Jamila no I did not use the Hehe's car but due to the mistake, it could be used to end the elections and his skill of touching on how I went to the motorcycle of the motorcycle that she was running.
Brethren, there are people believe that you wouldn't like them to get the problem of beating them in the polling station, then try to convince the court to be announced that they have failed so as to protect the honor of Minister Chikawe.
Tamfi, our party is involved and to respect the decision of many, inside the party there are democracy, therefore we did not believe if there is proud of someone to try to overturn the results.
Mke Mwema, CCM should be used by relying on bribery and bringing up the dirty game, by partnering with your colleagues you have to remove your party in that bridge?
St John, let me say that the Revolutionary Party does not stop bribery they say that inside CCM you cannot win without giving money, I don't have money and I had not been a lot of money but I have won and now I am a member of the National Executive Council.
Mke Mwema should know your political star depends on very high speed and it's good signs for you to do, you can ask for consent to vie for a member of parliament for Nachingwea Ward in the year 2015?
Maximilian Arnold at a very well.
Mke Mwema, you are an artist and now has got an opportunity to be a member of the National Executive Council, is a very big person now, it will continue with unamy or yes or then?
Fadhili Nic is my work, I can say that is my life and let me just say that I cannot stop my work because of this position.
Inside our party there is no great, but there are different positions and levels of the party and all, we are similar to, if it is an issue of the biggest bus and our friends are members.
Almighty God create a plan to protect themselves in education?
Nelson Mandela have a plan to continue with their studies in the university. I do my issues same, I will join the university.
Mke Mwema should not be aired on suddenly.
St John is true that what happened when even now I did not understand, but it's true that I was affected by suddenly.
Mke Mwema should have a message to the members of CCM and others with doubt in your political ability, especially considering the small age you have?
Fadhili Nsay that age is not a criterion on success but it's not the right time but it's not just a permanent thing but the important thing is to know that the success and strong desire is to know what they will benefit them at home and on it's way.
Almighty God bless you because she has gone to live life life in your age, it means them to know what children living in difficult environments?
Brightiles I urge you to give him up but they should not depend on and supervise the ones that they believe in them especially education.
