A bad wind.

October 11, 2016.

The High Court of Dar es Salaam has ratified the request of the board of the board of CUF to open a case so that the court can remove the registrar of political parties in the country, Judge Francis Mutungi to get involved in political issues outside the authority, regulations and procedures of the law of political parties in Tanzania.
That board has been allowed to open that case within 14 days after the court made a statement of giving the request to the CUF lawyers led by Juma Nassoro, said that they will ensure that within 7 days they reach the case under an emergency certificate so as to start being heard.
The decision by that court to donate the request was brought yesterday by Judge Ama Isario Munisi, who said the court has satisfied themselves that the request was presented by the oath of honor of the CUF secretary general, Maalim Seif Shariff Hamad after getting all documents keenly.
Speaking to the journalists outside the court about that request, Nassoro (CUF) lawyer, said that the court has ever made a lesson on the registrar's authority where for now they want it to do more hard by thanking Judge Mutungi to do his work against the authority that was given to them.
He said the board was at the court to present those applications are the legal action, therefore there is no two board inside CUF and insisted that the registrar has no authority to revoke the decision of the executive committee of that party.
On his side, the chairperson of CUF national executive committee, Julius Mtatiro, he wanted Judge Mutungi to leave the involvement of CUF's activities against the law of political parties.
"We have joined the letter of Judge Mutungi to go to various banks including NMB, Ilala branch, Dar es Salaam, for the purpose of opening another party accounts during the constitutional time.
"The party has noted that there is a plot to prepare a huge documents so that they take place by Professor Ibrahim Lipumba and the registrar so as to open another account after he was born by NMB," said Mtatiro.
The chairperson of CUF board, Abdallah Katama, said their board will be responsible for its members and there is no two board like some of the people claimed, the registrar cannot disturb that CUF something that is stable, going to court so that justice can be stable.
At the time the party was on a two sides, one side is accusing Judge Mutungi claiming he has lived in their party against the law, to give their stand of CUF and 12 members who some of them were suspended from membership and others being sacked.
The board decided to come up to court after Professor Lipumba who was admitted to the position of chairperson and later to break his decision, announcing his return to that position after Judge Mutungi has given his stand to recognize them.
Professor Lipumba wrote a letter to resign from that position in August.
2015 claiming getting displeased with the arrival of Edward Lowassa who was the presidential candidate of CHADEMA being supported by four parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA).
However, this year, Professor Lipumba wrote a letter to break that decision and said his intention of going back to that position is to rebuild the party.
Recently, the National Executive Council of CUF, in an emergency session that took place at CUF headquarters, Zanzibar city announced his membership to Professor Lipumba, wanting him to get involved in any activities in that party.
According to the council, that decision has been taken after the council was satisfied by the charges against Professor Lipumba being alleged to be leading and managing director of conmen against the CUF office in Buguruni, Dar es Salaam, September 24th, this year.
