
11 argument of returning Professor Lipumba.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published today, September 2016.

11 topics that were given by the registrar of political parties in the country, Judge Francis Mutungi are enough to return to his office, chairman "who was alleged to have resigned, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba.

Apart from Lipumba, other leaders who have the office of the registrar will return to power directly after being stopped by the executive council of CUF, in his session of August 30th this year that took place in Dar es Salaam city, is the deputy secretary general of CCM Magdalena Sakaya who is also a member of parliament for Kaliua Constituency and the Deputy Director of Information, Abdul Razaq Badru.
Others are the member of parliament for Mtwara, Mlele, and Mhina, the delegates of the National Executive Council, Masigata, Omari Kambangwa, Thomas Malima, a resident Mustafa Panju and Kapesti 'who will continue enjoying the counting as a legal member of the party.
In his letter to the leaders of CUF, the registrar explained that he has done its stand after getting a chance to listen to both sides that are fighting against that conflict of leadership in that party.
He said in reaching those decisions, he has focused on the authority and responsibility of the registrar to address that conflict, the resignation of Professor Lipumba's resignation, Professor Lipumba to break his letter to resign from the legality of the special general meeting of CUF, August 21, this year and some of the delegates of the special general meeting wanting Professor Lipumba to be called in the meeting.
Another are the legality of the votes that were thrown and refused Professor Lipumba's resignation from the legality of the executive council of the national leadership of August 28 this year, the procedure to take action against the chairman and the national executive committee of August 28th, this year.
As a result of those statements, Judge Mutungi said that in his report to the press yesterday, he said that we are not saying, after my report not that I have mentioned above, the stand of my guide is that Professor Ibrahim Lipumba is still the legal chairperson of CUF and the accused members that were sacked by the party members of CUF.
In addition, the leaders whose leadership were affected by the legal action of the National Executive Council of August 28th, this year, is still the registrar of Political Parties, the registrar of political parties under section 6 (1) of the registrar of political parties, on article 10 (1) of the registrar of political parties, on article 10 (1) of the registrar of political parties in the year 1992, he wanted every party to present a report to the registrar of political parties.
Therefore, in the future of the responsibilities that are given by those sections, the registrar of Political Parties has advised the responsibility to ensure that the management of political parties which have been implemented according to the constitution and regulations of the party, that took place in accordance with the law and regulations of the party, that took place with all issues concerning the changes, "said the registrar.
The resignation of Professor Lipumba about that registrar said in accordance with article 117 (2), the leader of CUF party, even if the party has noted that on the resignation of his letter to resign as he will make the counting, he has resigned just after the authority held or appointed him.
He said according to article, it is correct to say that Professor Lipumba was still the legal chairperson of CUF even during the time of the general meeting of August 21, therefore, he also known as the retired chairperson before his resignation and the concerned authority is not correct.
To break his letter to resign about the registrar said, "the CUF constitution is silent about it, therefore, there was no wonder because Professor Lipumba stopped his letter on behalf of the CUF leadership to take action as they were given his letter to resign.
"It's not only that, but also his letter to revoke his resignation was left by the leadership of CUF, Felex Ngamlagosi said Professor Lipumba is still being given any statement concerning his letter to revoke his resignation," said the registrar.
The legality of the registrar giving his stand about the legality of the general meeting on August 21, he said together with conflicts concerning the legality of the general meeting on August 21, he said together with conflicts concerning the implementation of the delegates, but as such as the meeting was expected to continue to take a half of all the delegates, and therefore a total of 700 members attended the requirements of the constitution.
About the issue of some of the delegates needed Professor Lipumba was called to the meeting for explaining, the registrar said even if Professor Lipumba was not a member of the special general meeting so that its presence was given by the Secretary General concerning his resignation and explained the reasons for resigning from the party.
According to the validity of the votes that were thrown and refused Professor Lipumba's resignation, the registrar said the exercise of voting for him or refusing to resign from Professor Lipumba was held in the occurrence of chaos, there are delegates who came out of the occurrence of violence and people who do not get inside the hall.
Regarding the legality of the national leaders that was done by the National Executive Council of August 28th, the registrar said that according to article 15 (1) if the position of any leader is open, then his authority will help someone to get to be an opportunity.
According to article 91 (1) (.
However, on the other side, the appointment of Mbaraka Maasais' to be the deputy director of information, propagation, and communication for the public, has said that his authority is not correct because according to article 91 (1) (what is not correct because according to article 91 (1) (what is not correct because according to article 91 (1) (what is not right) for a period of six months, it has been sentenced to one million or all.
Lipumba went to the office with a prey in another event yesterday, Professor Lipumba arrived at the party's offices located in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city while accompanied by the crowd of followers of that party while they were accompanied by a famous song in the Coastal Region.
The followers of Professor Lipumba started to arrive at those offices starting in the morning after getting information on the existence of a letter from the registrar of political parties, the audience told the politician as the legal chairperson of the party according to the party's constitution.
When it reached seven o'clock in the afternoon, Professor Lipumba arrived at the area where those offices were with a group of his followers who were playing with any worries in getting inside and the main entrance to be scored.
The punishment lasted for more than four minutes, whereby later some of the followers of that leader decided to take a wall so that they can get inside to check for him so as to get inside.
During those events going on, the police who arrived in early in order to control the security of the area were witnessing within three vehicles that were already on the certificates, they accused those followers using force to enter inside those offices.
However, it was not a easy job to get inside those offices because they are going against the wall, there was heard shot by the police officers of the defense company who plays in the office, but he was also controlled later by those followers who bought the weapons and handed over to the police.
Later, those followers started giving him a ring to the police officers before the elders of that party coming out and requested them to marry off and will be forced to bid him up on the toilet made of that office.
Speaking to the press just after arriving in his office, Professor Lipumba said that his return came from the decision made by the registrar of political parties, while explaining different steps that he took since he wrote a letter to resign from his decision and which took place in different sessions of that party, which essentially does it do with the qualifications to continue being legal chairman according to the constitution of that party.
CUF's responsibility has been taken so yesterday evening the CUF party organized a report to the media because the law of political parties of the year 1992 did not give the authority or any ability to the registrar of political parties to give advice, stand or direction for political parties concerning the decisions of the party meetings.
The deputy secretary general of CUF, Zanzibar, Nassor Ahmed Mazrui said that in the report of the party, "the party has received from office of the registrar of political parties about the conflict of registrar of political parties and to identify the decision and that the ability is the only court.
