
CHADEMA members to support President Magufuli.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

At the time President John Magufuli of Tanzania is holding on the position that his country will not signed an agreement of economic cooperation (EPA) and the European Union (EU) up to several factors that are estimated to be postponed, some of the members of EU have been supported and there will sign the current contract to use local industries.

Several days ago, the stand of Tanzania and Burundi used the countries of East African Community (EAC), have agreed to move forward the agreements with all over the agreement or not to allow more analysis.
Already the countries of Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda have agreed with the agreement of EPA while Tanzania and Burundi have given major economic reasons, that aim to ensure that before signing that contract, it is good for the protection of the internal industries as well as required.
That agreement will be signed by all the countries in order it started to be used in the whole region.
Under that contract, its discussions started since the year 2007, EU is promising to get products from the East African region by not being charged taxes paid to members of European countries, but it's not for its products in the regional market without being taxed.
That stand now is being supported by two EU and two members of EU, Marie Arena and Julius Nyerere International Airport, which advise the East Africa to sign that contract in partnership with the way they are now.
In a special interview with the writer of the famous news network of the New York Times magazine, the members of parliament are saying that the decision by the heads of East African countries, postponed the signing of that partnership up to the year so that they are going on the right time.
"We believe this contract in the way you are now same as European is using Kenya which is the ones with more interests in this contract that if this contract is not that of Tanzania, Uganda and Burundi which will not be allowed.
"If the European products are expected to get only in the East African region, the competition that is not fair and more that those countries will go down taxes in some of the products and also some of the industries that are unable to competition and die," said the members of parliament.
The members of parliament were quoted insisting that as a result of that situation, they have pledged to help the country like Tanzania and Africa as a whole in ensuring that the European countries will organize afresh the partnership and start a new system of benefit from all sides.
"We think these countries are supposed to wait until all when they will go to the economy of the middle-income economy and other countries of EAC we see for now they could have reduced the first market in that region," he urged the members of parliament.
Those members of parliament have clarified that now Kenya, which has already entered into the world's income economy can benefit from ITC until when they reach the central economy, they are still being involved in the agreement that will make economic benefits the community, the members of parliament.
"Our issue is not to oppose the business of East Africa, what we want is to see this partnership, it is benefiting all the both sides, we have many effects which he got in Europe and Africa has many effects including causing poverty to Europe including the increase of illegal immigrants.
