The oil company, gas is holding back to 4 / = shillings to the youth.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

The oil and gas company under the sale and natural gas project (NG), have given an amount of 14 million American dollars (approximately 4 billion shillings) in order to promote the project to increase their ability easily especially to the youths of Lindi and Mtwara provinces.

Speaking during the launch of the second phase of the project, the representative of (NG), Kekeletse Phoofolo, said the sponsorship of the second phase has been given after seeing the success made in the first phase of that project that took place from the year 2012 to 2015.
The project to increase natural gas through Technical Training Authority (EM) that will be implemented by the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA), the International Development Corporation (Vida), through its plan of developing fishing in the oil and gas sector (SUZA).
The Eucharist 'project is aiming at improving the capacity of reliable energy to the youth from Mtwara and Lindi provinces, by considering the increase in the availability of skills in the mining sector, including extraction, gas and services that go with those areas.
While launching the project, the Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technology, thanked the NG and all stakeholders in their efforts to help promote skills in the country.
"I request all the companies to get into that project because it will also benefit them by giving them the availability of skills and therefore increasing productivity in those companies," Manyanya has urged the residents of Mtwara and Lindi provinces to participate in the investment opportunities available in the southern region of Tanzania due to the increase in investment that is contributed by the discovery of natural gas.
"The technical training in many countries have been the catalyst for sustainable development.
The countries that are developed have learned in education and vocational training, an example that does not have natural resources but it has invested in the human resources and to be the second country economically, "he said.
The Acting General Director of VETA, Geoffrey Sabuni said the Eibar Project is among the its own projects in helping VETA to reach its goals, which will involve the scope of access to technical training and increase their ability easily.
Speaking about the project, the Director of VETA Training, Leah Dotto, said that the first phase of the project has benefited from 4200 students, including 374 girls, the number has broken the previous goal of the project to reach 1000 youths.
"The project has also helped to increase the ability of youths to easily easily whereby more than 51 percent of the graduates were given employment within six months after losing the international certificates after losing the examinations of the City Council and Guillermo Os of England," he said.
He said the first phase of the project involved six professions which are estimated to have loosened his campaigns, give birth certificates, technical training, electricity production and vocational training.
He said that the second phase will increase three professions which are the cause of chaos, distribution, industries and operation of machines in line with the needs of the employment market especially the gas and oil industry.
