The murder of sex with Juan Jesus Christ?
Brightiles 15, 2012

More reports of investigation on the murder of Professor Jwan from the city have continued to eliminate many more things, including the source of that death, the type of weapons used by the number of the weapon.
The type of weapons that are mentioned will be a small gun (pistol bullets) two pistol bullets and two pistol bullets with 1002 votes.
However, his owner has not been put up open.

In addition to being mentioned, three pistol bullets and its number 164 that are claimed to be used in those killings, the reports are saying that some of the police officers of the police force in Ruvuma province, are alleged to be given a donation to participate and enable the effects.

Mke Mwema should be informed that one of the top levels inside the army, was involved in preparing the plan to oppose the two-infectious diseases, one of the Peramiho and others that is in the religion, Lukaya, however, he said.
Those were just after one of the opposition members of that organization, Jimmy Abahave started to be worried about the call of the police officer.

The former police commander of Ruvuma province while the incident of the murder of Professor Jumanne Maghembe and now is the police commander of Iringa province, has denied the claims of some of the army officers in Ruvuma province to be involved with the conspiracy.

"I don't know anything because the conflict between the religion, I don't know it's good for the truth, who include the minerals," says Commander Mpinga.
When he was asked if he was looking for the conflict of ownership of the gold mine of Lukaya, who is mentioned to be the source of a plan of the murder of Professor Assad.

I urge you, "I remember that they will be brothers, I remember they will be brothers, but in the case of the mine we did not meet the police, where he started the police, where he completed it going to court."

Already the organization of natural gas in the country through his vice president, Fidelis Mlenda, has denied his organization's involvement in the killing of Professor Lipumba's killing and if the new reports are explained.

Speaking to the press in Peramiho state last week, Mlenda, who is also part of the organization, together with his organization being involved in the killing of the gold mine, Lukaya, but she knows that one of his colleagues were known by the name Nimelewa.

Bruda, it is one of the directors that were mentioned to represent Tanzania in strengthening its shares in the NASA company, which Professor Lipumba went on her own on the legal issues.

Apart from Mtawa, before handing those reports, that organization has ordered the company's lawyer and Co'clock in Dar es Salaam city, to request this newspaper to prevent these reports concerning the organization and the killings of Professor Assad and apologized to the organization.

The letter wanting to apologize to that organization, on November 12, 2012, that has been sent to the executive director of Good Governance, Co Limited, which have been signed by E. S. M. Kikwete, they wants to apologize for a customer.
That legal action could be followed.
