Kerry will not need to be arrested but to be assisted.
Olle 18, 2016 by our writer, entertainment and sports.

I have started to follow up a swimming game in four years ago in a period when he won the peak of Tanzania and East Africa with speed and new means every competition came.

However, we did not see any efforts of the government and the sports parties to put up the way to give them keenly, but when it started in the year 2013, I heard the name of a small youth at that time when he was 19 years of age, Twalib Hilal has met.

Hilal is a child of Hemed Mgaza "who was the former chairman of the soccer club of Tanga, Coastal Union, and I asked to meet him and we were working in the Facebook page of Mwema, later told that this newspaper was the first to do with her interview.

We want to talk a lot, for the period he was released from the swimming clubs that took place in Mombasa, Kenya, where he visited Tanzania 15 medals, among the gold is five, seven and three bronze medals.

As it is not enough, he was not the second position for men to be the first position as it has gone to Las Vegas, from Kenya.

Name Hilal has been back again after the last week putting a new record in East Africa at the Olympic championships in Brazil, apart from being unable to get into the semi-finals, but he has begun to finish up with 2370 points in the 50-meter area in a free bus station.

If a motorcycle has a lot of effects (5) four and pit latrines and the murder of all the effects which have dams with different distance from 25 to 50 meters.

But there are people who live near many times up to 1500 meters, every style of contraception is depending on the record as sports, there are Burundi into long and short race.

"His age is still young, he has the ability to reduce the time he went far, because the pastor leading in the 50 and 50 meters car (this tournament did not participate).

"Apart from not getting in the finals, but he has shown a challenge for swimmers between the other African countries, there was no speed in developing East African countries in the competition of this year," explains the teachers of swimming, Khalid Race.

According to the film board in the world FEST has missed the 49-meter competition in selling 50 meters in the end of the end of the end of Brazil, Cemetery, Celine Itatiro, for the speed of 20,091 in the national competitions in their country in the year 2009.

Chudasama, did not participate in the Olympic championships this year due to a reduction.

In Africa participating in the record is Roland Schuller who led the South African citizen, Philemoni Ndesamburo, on 21 points in the Olympic championships that was held in Beijing China, East Africa, for recording changes which is being held by David Ditopile,, for 21 points in 2009 to the international tournament in Italy.

Uganda, a fast rate in the 50 and 50 meters race are Somaga, Joshua Nassari has also participated in the 100-meter competition in Russia in the year 2015 which had also participated in the 100-meter competition to end up in 1 minutes, 3387 billion.

Rwanda holding the record for high-speed buses in the 50 and 50 meters race are Emanueli Imanani who was participated in the Olympic Cup this year together with Hilal has finished by 2671 kilometers, on Burundi's side who was also arrived in Olympic this year, Bilharzia and Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani.

For Tanzania Hilal has continued to be a very fast rate because of the most record he had put in all the effects, for example she believes is the one participating in the 50 and 50 meters (5514 billion), 50 and 100 meters (1 minutes - 03 / =).

All the record has directed them in various competitions that they participated in the competitions including the Olympic championships that was held in Dubai, Russia and the European Union competitions that took place in England.

His father, Hemed Mgaza said that he has no need to say more than praying for God to continue supporting her child to do well, therefore he has promised to help him in anything that he wants to help him so as to fail to be unable.

"God will help my son and I promise to see the act and give him any support he wants because I have seen it is good but I thank God, he does not have a lot of joy but looking for God to win," he says.
