
It is not every leader with the mind of leading Sep 27, 2012.

One of the great gift that Mwalimu Julius Nyerere asked if the nation must believe many leaders and the teacher we give him a lot to him in every issue that he said and do not know themselves so that the teachers are not true.

Mwalimu Nyerere who is believed to have three major reasons in my opinion, which is true, the fact, and to know the issues, the leader was true and he knew what he said and sees it, and he knew what he said and sees it.

Because he didn't know so much, Mwalimu Nyerere, and because he knows many things and on his long-inch width, they did not tell you, because we know what we are saying, because we were not aware because we were someone who thought on our behalf.
Therefore, the country has a knee injury and we shouldn't want to hear the teacher when you came to this. How the nation had gone up, but when he spoke to them, there was a speech of a teacher to the youth in Mwanza, all of them changed and agreed with the system of many parties.

Therefore, the teacher had faith to the leaders and we have continued to believe leaders even after a teacher entered power and in the world, we have continued to believe that we have leaders who think on our behalf and we have no reason to comply with our fellow leaders in the provinces.

We think that someone who did not be given the leadership is given by a mind, because we do not inform our leaders for their own history before being given the leadership, but because they are leaders we are supposed to believe that every one is a religious leader.

Which we have never happened to that which they would enable you to believe Nyerere is very important things to the leadership of today, it will have a great desire to meet the leader who is true and the truth is not a problem and the truth in this country and here I'm not just talking to the leadership in the country.
- in the government, public organizations, political parties and other other areas.

Most of our leaders have the mental ability of being ordered as' if you ask why you are doing this matter so much, the answer is that most of them have decided to know what they are doing well and do not know what they are doing well and do not know what they are doing.

It's because we must believe many leaders that are not true, that do not involve yourself to know how things have begun to witness our leaders like what happened in Iringa. But because of not being true and lack of reality, our leaders try to say false without a shame, that what told the deceased is a dangerous thing.
This leader is doing so because he knows that he will not be trusted because nobody will not be trusted because our leaders also gets without shame and to announce that I could cause violence in the country.
That leader knows it in the reason he knows that the violence caused by the media has been given responsibility to prevent violence, but this leader gets a courage to say anything because it is not true and he doesn't believe it because it is a leader.

Our culture, we must believe many leaders, that is causing the public organizations to die because leaders were doing good issues with the workers and look for reasons for leaders.
And now the workers of public organizations are continuing to witness the organizations that we have with their leaders, they do not recognize them, we will explain the action of the organizations like ATC, port and TANESCO to arrive when they reached while the employees of these organizations are avoided, there were leaders until political reasons?

The important step of ensuring our leaders depend on it is to reduce our faith in them.
When you get our faith to them, they will do better so that they can be trusted and so that they do not want to learn so that our leaders do not know what we are doing, we believe that we are supposed to believe that because our leaders know what we are doing.

The truth is that the management is not a mental person, but you can give them an opportunity to learn if he wants to learn.
