President Kikwete gets the answer, which have there?
MTVs, 2013.

In one of the things that can remain in the memory of the administration of President Jakaya Kikwete is a procedure that he put for himself of addressing the nation every end of the month.
Without caring if the speeches are made and new or have benefits to the nation, the action of the head of the country to talk to its citizens, I have read all the speech of President Kikwete, and one of the main qualifications of those speech is language which is found in a question or listen to him.
Many of the speech by the president is dominated by more wisdom, although if it is the fees for political parties of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), there are times those speeches have been facing people from here and the political parties.
But to give a great speech, is one thing, and the concerned speech to have the logic or another issue in this article I would like to discuss the speech of President Kikwete that he made on Friday, February 28 this year, and in discussing that I will depend on the section of relationship of Muslims and Christians.
First, I urge President Kikwete for recognizing the weight of the issue of existence of symptoms of Muslims and Christians, and take the step of talking about it so that the president is like there was no reason to allow the national debate about that issue.
Maybe, some of my readers can think these congratulations to the president is not associated with him, but it is good to understand that many times in African politics, from a leader or any citizen to talk about religious issues, it has been such a lot of things.
Most of the leaders do not forget about religion, especially because they are people of a certain kind, and it is easy to say anything and to be thought or not knowing their faith or not to have faith in their faith.
However, together with those congratulations to President Kikwete, one of the major weaknesses in the section of relationship of Muslims and Christians, it is a question that he asked himself as I see I have never heard this, what have we ever done?
Private, I think that although it was correct for President Kikwete asking for a question, but he knew the real ones of the question I would clarified Honorable President is the real director of the department of safety of the nation, or "Masau boasted.
I think this question would have been good because if they could have been directed to our security because it is why they are not good, but also they have a responsibility to prevent them by concentrating on their investigation, what can it be done soon or what does it happen.
It is the ability to look at where we are where we are and we do not have security agencies to prevent different events that can destroy the security of our nation.
President Kikwete says, "we know our colleagues because the lives of their lives and for the benefits they are doing, they want them to prevent these issues because they do not know what we are doing so that our country and our country."
It is possible that President Kikwete is true, but even so, we do not tell our colleagues, "our colleagues have to recognize them because we are not taken so that we have been taken to the steps we have been taken so that we are now.
In that speech, President Kikwete noted that the intention of the government by saying, "we are in the government we will not hesitate to take action against all those who will stimulate religious and other religion who have responsibility for other religion."
However, the president has decided to say that his government will also take a step against its directors who will visit their responsibilities in ensuring our country becomes safe.
The president has done well to remind the police and other authorities to be without hesitation on such events that advertise the peace of our country. However, it is not enough to remind them on how to take appropriate measures against those who visit their responsibilities!
Maybe if you missed just just after getting into power in the year 2005, President Kikwete gave a stern warning and "Nisubiri" due to bribery, he warned them that they are tired of the condition of the president, and there is a probability of the situation to continue being therefore until he completed his second term in the year 2015.
