
Opposition, 2009, give birth to the president of May 29, 2012.

The changes of the constitution to ask for the power of the president will be taken and strict actions against corruption are among the issues that several politicians want to be done in the year 2009.
Those steps were tested in an evaluation of those leaders of the year 2008 and their expectations in the year 2009.
Some of the leaders have got the secret of the year 2008 for the whole year 2010, that has raised many people to start following the accountability of their leaders, especially the leaders who has called votes.
But also, the leaders are looking at next year (2009) as the year of further change, and in ensuring those changes are made, the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Hamad Rashid Mohammed, is expected to submit the private issue to change the constitution.
Hamad who is a member of parliament for Wawi constituency through the Civic United Front party (CUF), will presented his motion to parliament to donate the intention of change of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania in the next general meeting so that finally the president can reduce what he termed as a load of power he has to be the president.
He told BBC Sport in an interview that already he has already made a report to present that issue to the speaker of parliament, Samuel Sitta.
"In the year 2009, we are expecting more changes and its foundation is to change the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania," says Hamad in his talks with Raia Mwema, this week.
According to the explanations of the leader of the opposition camp, among things that were set aside in the constitution is together with the sections that give the president the great authority of the appointment of leaders who will serve the citizens.
While in the year 2008, Hamad said the parliament for his position and especially the opposition camp have done great work although more efforts are needed.
While expounding, he said more efforts in parliament are needed so as to finish on corruption in the construction of the best buildings of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the payments for the former president of the East African Community, the purchase of military fees and the aircraft of the African Community.
On another part, he joined the decision by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, wanting the government to reduce debts that are not must, including the purchase of luxurious vehicles, seminar and payments for the allowances.
"We have been poor people with a wealthy family, while our colleagues in a rich country have been the rich people who came out," says Hamad.
When he spoke in the year 2009, the election law together with the structure of the Electoral Commission especially the Zanzibar, should be looked at afresh, so as to protect freedom in the elections process saying that it did not happen in the year 2008.
On his part, the Chairperson of the NCCR-Revolutions Party, James Mbatia, in his talks with Raia Mwema, he said in the year 2008 it has already contributed to hatred and fruits, corruption has been charged with the gap in the poor and the rich continue to expand.
"The life has continued being difficult in the year 2008, the National Identification Authority (GDP), has dropped by approximately one percent while the number of people has been increasing to a percentage of two to three hours," said Mbatia and added.
"In that state, it is clear that the community is in conflict, and the community is when it is in the crisis, it cannot bring development," according to Mbatia, the nation has made a statement to discuss primary issues and instead of the debate has been directed to private individuals.
"We will discuss our education system which is the foundation of our problems.
We are supposed to give our children to deal with the current environment of technology and we are not supposed to continue to remain in the current system which is not official, "he says.
He explains, "the official system of education I should talk about it is the curriculum of the previous years to continue being taught today in school and colleges and the third child is back on life, the community is back on life, the community is back on life for the future of the nation that is not allowed.
"If there will be no national debate that will involve various stakeholders inside and outside the government system, it is clear that we will return to the nation when it was sent back to hatred and even economically," he says.
The secretary general of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, says in the year 2008, it has been the first year of 47 years of Uhuru, Kidney and they have started to see light and to recognize the authorities they have about the public leaders.
"Since they were on the issues of corruption in BoT (Central Bank of Tanzania) and Zitto Kabwe, the Member of Parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), has been asked to attend the parliamentary sessions," says Doctor Slaa and added.
"We should be careful, they have shown the government to take it up to it, where some of the corruption suspects have been presented to court for a tour of some of the ministers and even the president, citizens have been received with posters of claiming their rights and even the president, the citizens have been received with posters of claiming their rights and even the president, the citizens have been received with posters of claiming that their rights will not be previously," says another thing that he did not be in court.
"We have been set aside for some of the leaders that we are many gods and some of them were given power and to say that while carrying a lot of water from prison for this year, they have started to build faith that there is no leader with the law," says Doctor Slaa.
However, he is insisting that in the year 2009, we are needed that we are needed to put more pressure so as to reduce corruption so as to be arraigned in court.
The chairperson of United Republic of Democratic Party (UDP), John Cheyo said that he is growing up in the year 2008 as part of the issues that are not expected to move on the importation of Richmond Development in the International Trade Exhibition (EPA), has shaken the parliament.
"In the year 2008, the Parliament has done his work of honor and to advise the government and its results are the government to be forced to get into the implementation of the implementation of the parliament," said Cheyo.
However, Cheyo who is also the chairperson of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (TCD) that involves up of political parties with members of parliament who are in charge of political parties in the country and especially the behavior of some leaders of political parties.
He is returning campaigns for a small elections in Tarime, Mara Province, saying some of the leaders of political parties who even so, he did not mention them against the political conflict that has been affected by (TCD.
He advised that in the year 2009 to be a political competition, but by goals that all of them should be dealt with or passport for them to live in a peaceful country.
And the chairperson of the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), Augustine Mrema, says in the year 2008, it has already been found when the life of life is difficult.
His opinion depends on the other part and the chairperson of NCCR-Revolution, he says the gap between the poor and the rich in the country has reduced.
But Mrema on his part he insists that the gap in the poor and the rich has reduced because the main cause is to increase corruption.
On another side Mrema is looking at the year 2008 for a year that doesn't understand the conflict of corruption because most of them have not been arraigned in court.
"Recently the whole year is taking place in court, only three suspects are still a lot of human rights, therefore when they were seen in court, the president of the country, the office of the president and good administration, Sophia Simba, says that in the year 2008, the government's office in the section of good governance have been going on well.
When he was asked, he is happy that in the criteria he was not ready to speak more and instead he insisted that the best administration has dropped more in the year 2008 in the media without explaining.
