03 December 2013.

The best Stars, Tanzania, Kenya is on the field of U12.

The team was done.
If the former players of the national team of Tanzania.
Tanzania All Stars' and those of Kenya.
To the elders of Labor, they will watch him in Nairobi.
Kenya a day.
The finals of the World Cup tournament takes place on December 12, this year.

The former star of Yanga and the national team, Kitwere.
Sifuna Mchome, Manara said yesterday that historical match has been destroyed by.
The East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA) and have started selling.
His management of that team is expected to leave the city on December 10.

Apart from Manara, the former player of Simba and the team.
Taifa Stars launches exercises for the team taking place every day.
The evening at the Leaders Club's grounds.

Manara said that they are in a huge exercise for the purpose of getting.
That match which will be played before the finals of the competition.

He said all the players are well and their goals are to show the quality and talents.
They wanted to arrest him in the days of their same type and bringing a great reputation in the Tanzanian soccer.

Apart from Manara, other players that make that team are.
If I did not want Hassan, Mohamed Mkimbii Village, Lawrence Mwalukasa, David Mwakalebela.
Mwansansu said, Ali Kiba the Tigo Company, Sekhoto, and Rashid Idd.

Others are Edusei for Langoni Area, Mohamed Hussein Mighty One, Khaleed.
Abeid, James Flynn and Omari Gumbo. From Zanzibar's goalkeeper is Gallas.
Bowman.

He said that they are expecting to involve every former star, Juma.
'Jah Mrisho Mpoto who for now is in the national team of Tanzania.
Kilimanjaro Stars that is participating in that competition.

On the side of the leaders is Hassan Mnyama and the representative of the Council.
Games in Tanzania.
(BMT), Jamal Literature.

"Our aim is to have many more players, but many.
They have been unable to join us due to various problems, those are.
They want to see that call and they have started exercise, we request different sponsors.
They should help us so as to make that journey, it is a very high cost.
Our is to encourage the soccer game, "said Manara.

Ho alt-amy and a t of us with the sponsors, their colleagues in Kenya.
They are continuing with exercises and they have already mentioned the squad that will involve that team.
That squad is under Coach George Saso and the 30 players.
They scored against Taifa Stars in their era.

Those players are goalkeepers James Siang'a, Mohammed Abbas, John Bushubo.
While defenders is Joseline Itatiro, Elly Njau-Benoni, Sammy Pambalu.
Odax said, Ben Saanane o, George Oreo ', George Simbaaha in August, Paul Otieno.
Welcome him.

The body is Allan Damiba, Paul Onderstepoort city.
Where the attackers are Joe Kadama, Peter Waweru, Ben Musomba, Aggrey Lukeni.
JJ Simpson, Mike Amen Thurston, Zekirer, Joe Bribian, Abdul a council, Ricky Rick.
Solomon, James Nariadhara has been planted, the age of Golden Besala Boateng, John Nyenshile, David Oreo '.
George Sakali and Areas.

