National Stadium will be on the name Hashim Mbango.
APR of 29, 2015.

We have no habit of celebrating our scene for the only way that we are doing well is to inform us during the national examinations, many citizens who have given donations of various items in our country's national exams.
For example we have ever launched their freedom and those who gave various donations to the activities of freedom and even those who have not done well, the only thing of their contribution was mentioned to the news or when they see their names being mentioned to the news or when they see their names as a result of the national leaders.
At time, it has come to look at how we will inform the people who we believe that they have made a unique contribution to strengthen our nation, a good example that has been seen to be remembered by other countries more than many citizens, especially the youth they can be able to land and pay well the contribution of a mother and his colleagues in leading the liberation movement of South Africa.
Mbambo was for a period of more than two decades ago, the secretary of the opposition party committee that was on the front line in South Africa, on any other words of competence of weapons and to end racial segregation in Dar es Salaam city was able to succeed in a very big partnership with the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
Therefore, when we see the neighboring countries that comes from Zimbabwe last year and South Africa the day before yesterday and South Africa the day before yesterday (Monday), we have been able to ask ourselves if we have been forced to ask ourselves as our government, if I don't give him for his contribution.
However, the very big money is how a person like a man can be remembered well in history because he was not a famous member of parliament, minister or politician, who had a lot of opportunity to lead the world in Africa where he got a lot of money to lead the world in the African continent where he got a chance to pass through her heart.
But it's in his country where I believe it was supposed to contest for his contribution because it is unacceptable, for example, it has been initiated in collecting different reports of a great contribution in the process of liberation.
This project is very difficult because you have tried to explain the history of the African Union to come out from the Kongwa for slavery.
It is because the contribution of a word "it has not been given, it is not enough to inform you or give words of looking for what many of them are ready to ensure that his name is living and stopped for the coming generations.
