
These political conflicts are dangerous to the country.
By Charles B.
The conflicts between them by the Director of Public Servants Pension Fund (DPP), don't know where we are in order to ensure the 12 politicians of Cord and Diamond can be buried and the aim of being sentenced in incitement and a waste of hatred among the Kenyans.
I believe that the step has been caused by a warning that they did not make President Uhuru Kenyatta just just after the aerial attacks, that politicians who spread yourself will be forced to take their statements.
President said his government will not tolerate politicians with an aim of controlling the hostilities, political tensions and so as to provide the loopholes to criminals with the citizens who are not guilty.
I would like the department of criminal Investigation (CPA), to be fast to change the investigation against politicians like Dar es Salaam, George Alghanim and others who have heard giving birth certificates.
Any patient that was found guilty in a trap so as to be a lesson to others with similar behaviors.
But I will not hesitate to say that President Kenyatta, and the head of the opposition Raila Odinga also are the one to be blamed for increasing politics in the country.
The danger of the country why should I say that is Mister Odinga, was quoted several times, promised Kenyans, "Kasunga said that the government could not accept to meet Andrey Coutinho to discuss the situation that is facing the country.
Raila Odinga was quoted saying that President "he will come out without water," he does not expect a commandment.
One day after the aerial attack, President Kenyatta was very happy to claim that they are self-scientist whom they donated through their public meetings.
In general, the statements by President Kenyatta and Mister Odinga together with politicians from their unions have reduced the political situation in the country along and brought about hostility.
The followers of President Kenyatta now believe that the Democratic Republic of Congo are under Mister Odinga, who has managed to win the national leadership in this nation.
And the followers of Odinga are holding to be the president where he feels and involved Maunda Zito from MTVs and that his intention is to maintain the opposition.
In my opinion, the conflicts between politicians want to be taught the inciters of hatred and taken actions in accordance with the law and President Kenyatta, and Mister Museveni have been on the front line to maintain gospel music because the Kenyans have any benefits for us.
, you shouldn't give me a lesson.
