Speaker Makinda, should we be arrested.
On the 20th of February, 2014 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

If Tanzania would have been a country that following the ethics of the leadership of Mtemi Andrew Chenge, or even out of the parliament of Tanzania or, I was looking at more, maybe it has been shot in prison.
That is the reason that he has been infected by the Catholic Archdiocese of Bariadi through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), has been reported to vie for the position of speaker of the constitutional parliament, which began this week.
There is no doubt that Andrew Chenge, a scholar of a good level in the profession of law, I was in the parliament of Tanzania when he was the attorney general (AG) for 10 years of President Benjamin Mkapa, and the parliament was full of explanations of different bills.
When his position was taken by Johnson Mbwambo, they were open that the government had lost the gap in parliament, claiming that there were no doubt and the leader doesn't know her and good leader, showed up behind Andrew Chenge.
However, Judge Frederick Werema, who becomes AG) for now, has failed to make sure that he who were happy in parliament but basically, I have no problem with a scholar of this member of parliament.
My big problem and Chenge, are in integrity and I believe that the constitution is a bad thing and if you know what we believe in the great life of the constitution, Chenge, can't understand that speaker will lead in the process.
Giving thanks to parliament, that parliament is same as a result of the whole process of making a new constitution.
For those who do not know well about this politician, Chenge, is the former attorney general, during the President of Mkapa, he is the one who advised the government to enter into the contracts of minerals which we are talking to today, the purchase of bad fees and the purchase of a president which was called for noise in the whole country.
At his time, there was more witches, the one who announced to benefit from each other contracts and without interest which our government entered into the area of our resources.
The plain truth when the British government was unable to investigate about the scandal of Rsm Company, the government of Tanzania, for enough advice and bought it to pay the voluntary contribution at a price when it comes four times in its market price.
According to the British government, Chenge, had a case to answer on the sales of the fees due to lack of details of the purchase.
That is the same time when it was scored by the name Mzee of cement, "after it was revealed to have more than one billion Tanzanian shillings in one of its countries outside the countries that are in the Caribbean islands.
Let us listen to one question and in the normal state, it's the way they woke up to a client of the government of Tanzania to have an account worth one billion shillings and he still became a lesson to the whole level of money.

For very open reasons, Chenge, it is taken to any step by the government of Tanzania up to now, it is causing a chicken to have reached time and it has reached a time when people see him as the speaker of the constitutional parliament?
I've heard that other names were mentioned to vie for that position as speaker and I don't have problems with even though the name Dudumizi. I will take a form and finally to contest for that position and then win, that will be my end to view that parliament.

I will talk about that parliament and close up though that is leading the allegations that he has not identified himself up to today, what she got that money?
I have read the book of Power Station politics and Debwa, who was the Spokesperson of the government of Nigeria, Oliver Wema, who talked about life inside the government of the late President U. Mussa Yar.

Among the people being mentioned so much in that book, he is the minister of law and the attorney general of the United Republic of Nigeria, Michael Kaaya, I met this.
This is the one who made it was given free by the Russian governor in Delhi, James Iriyo has said that he is not the only person but when he was born with Nigeria entered into a special event and made a special decisions about corruption and corruption.

It is always that who did the work of the head of the Institute of Anti-Corruption Bureau of Nigeria, Nuhu Staford, a dummy check and started living a difficult life because of wanting to fight corruption.
To me, I don't see a big difference between Chenge, and our colleagues will not make sure if they will be silent, as the speaker of parliament of the Constitution of the United Republic of England will be surprised if we will be availed to this activity.
