
24 villages will start thanking them.
It is the project for caring for the environment and reproductive health after succeeding to more than 90 percent.
Diana Rubanga, The Citizen of Plasmodium falciparum.
In Kigoma town, the residents of 24 villages that live in Lake Tanganyika, Uvinza district, Kigoma Province have started to benefit from the project of protecting the environment and reproductive health that started to be implemented in the year 2011.
That environment of environment that is known as we shouldn't be implemented by the Ker International organization and Ambassador Juma Nature, which has succeeded for more than 90 percent.
Speaking with this newspaper, the manager of the project, Peter Masaudi, said that the aim is to protect the land of forests, water, fish, reproductive health and primary health and that until now the goals have reduced.
He said there is a strategies that had been able to improve better administration at the villages, management of land and forests, sustainable fishing, improving the health and communication service.
Communications officer of the project, Nelson Mandela said together with that success, it also provides training to leaders of the villages and the police so as to make sure they know the responsibilities of protecting and protecting the forest.
He said the training for leaders of the villages and the police are important because they have been giving light weight to the law as well as summoning demons, the conservation of the environment and reproductive health is among the important things that the society is supposed to consider because it reaches the daily lives.
District commissioner of that district, Mrisho Gambo said that in those villages were tested and challenges of drought and early marriages due to lack of reproductive health and environment.
However, the project that is being implemented in the main foundation of Maasais' is going on well with issues of protecting themselves between people, health and the environment around them.
Also, it is improving the operating system of Mount Meru Reserve which was started by the changes in the country.
