We need to come out in numbers to get the vaccination exercise.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

This week the leaders of the province of Dar es Salaam through different media stations have made a report about the vaccination services that are given priority including elephantiasis over and raging water.

Other diseases that are mentioned to be given priority include Harriet Macha, be careful (Trachoma), Ngapa), Ngapa), Ngaka and Fisheries Development, and even so, together with the reports of the availability of those vaccination services, the awareness of citizens came out to be given the vaccination in the special areas that have been little compared to the expectations.
It is possible that many reasons are used to wait for the last minutes or another reason that they sell or lack of education about the importance of those vaccination.
There is need for more education to citizens so as to eliminate the possibility of continuing to grow from any religious faith among them, that the vaccination services are effects on human health, something that is not true.
There are some who are claiming that those vaccination are reduced, but we believe that they are saying that they are a few who don't know how they are supposed to threaten and threaten so as to get those important data for those diseases.
Yesterday I visited some of the areas of the province of Dar es Salaam where they have started giving those vaccination, but still the centers were few and even the community in different estates have been seen to have a awareness to get those vaccination.
This can also be caused by some people who have started focusing on those drugs.
There are some who are claiming that those drugs are unsuitable for human use because they are removing the ability to give birth to the human rights, that situation made him to fear the residents and said that before distributing any drugs, being elected by Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA).
He emphasized that those drugs are safe for our colleagues and residents of Dar es Salaam Province, we are supposed to abandon the habit of providing information without enmity.
All of us know that the effects of those diseases are very big to the community although you are not supposed to be released on the weight. My brothers we should agree with our leaders especially in those issues of health services, because they have a importance for us.
I urge you to come out in large numbers to get those vaccinations, women do not go back behind because people were forced to think that these boys are only, the truth is that if they get the women it is due to the explanations of the health experts.
Knowing that the body has been better than treatment, therefore, every one with a family with people who are aged five years should ensure that he is standing on his position to manage his family to get the vaccination. I believe all will use this opportunity well in the coming years of people who engage in that disease.
These diseases have been a very big challenge to the nation's work, therefore all citizens are expecting to get the drugs that is expected to eliminate the blood shortage, lack of skin diseases and increase poor eyesight and fruits that are expected to be released for five days in the set different stations.
