Conflicts between law source.

It has been written by Theresia Mwami - Ngorongoro.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

Conflicts between wildlife number 5 in the year 2009, the local government law, the district administration number 7 of the year 1982, and the law of land in the year 1999, is one of the reasons that causes land conflicts in Ngorongoro District.

Moreover, the Immigration Department in Ngorongoro district is facing a shortage of servants, because currently the department has only three servants.
While reading the report to the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo, who was accompanied by the defense and security committee of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), head of Ngorongoro District, Rashid Taka said, conflicts facing land conflicts between the villages and villages.
He requested those involved in building the law to look at so as to reduce conflicts that can be avoided, including the villages needed.
He said that the district is big and it is facing challenges of illegal immigrants when the workers of that department are few, that are needed the 11 servants including drivers so as to control the wave of illegal immigrants.
"We request that conflicts between the law will be sorted out, but also servants of the Immigration Department here in the district, has appealed to the district commissioners in the district to ensure that that they are solving land conflicts in every district and the one that will pay them is wrong.
He said some people are causing conflicts without a must and they don't show development, instead every day they collided with new conflicts, therefore it is good for every district commissioner to ensure that they are solving the conflicts in line with ensuring security and security have been destroyed.
"There are people who are derailing the conflicts, but you don't know the inciters of conflicts while citizens have problems and also I would like to hear of conflicts led to me, the district commissioners should land there and I would like to know why his source is" the councilor of Bugesa Ward, where there is up until the former member of Tanzania and Kenya.
In that boundary, the Kenyans have been getting into the country without paying tax as we go to Kenya to buy products that are paid for taxes, to make sure that the area is being built on frameworks for citizens to be able to sell their products and get a lot of products and get a lot of goods to buy products in the country.
