
Various religious denominations will help the earthquake in Kagera.

It has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

The Middle East African Community has given 100 million American dollars equivalent to 545 million shillings to help victims of the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province on September 10, this year.

The leader of the religious leaders of the World Health Organization, Doctor Saso and the founder of DPO, handing over the contribution to President John Magufuli, when they met and made talks today at State House in Dar es Salaam.
Between those funds, 100,000 American dollars have been issued by Dollaso together with the Jews have been donated by other leaders of Bollore Logistics and 50,000 American Dollars which have been issued with the community members of Tanzania Zhakem Grounds in Tanzania.
In addition to giving that contribution, Doctor Fadhil Ramadhan, has promised that the community that is making big hospitals in various areas in the world including India, will build a hospital here in the country for the purpose of providing medical services.
Also Doctor Fadhil Ramadhan, has promised that the community of Tanzania will give sponsorship on free education to youths of Tanzania and also they will pay for treatment to 20 patients who are involved in India for the purpose of getting treatment.
On his part, President Magufuli, has thanked Doctor Robert Lewandowski to the whole community of Plasmodium falciparum.
"Doctor Fadhil Ramadhan, I wish you a lot for them to come here in our country and continue to build this big meeting, you will improve the relationship between Tanzania," I thank God and also to build a lot of money that the government would use, "said President Magufuli.
In addition, President Magufuli has invited Dogodogo Multipurpose Training Center to come invest here in the country in different sectors including industries, agriculture, transportation, minerals and fishing and has assured that the government will support all those who will be ready to invest in Tanzania.
Various denominations of Fly 540 Tanzania has commemorated the new year of Islam where the death of the death of Prophet Mohammed's grandson (SCA) called Hussein Hussein, where his final celebrations took place here in the country from October 1 to 11, this year.
