A human environment.
It is expected to have done with what I think.
In Tanzania, how is how it will do.
Collapsed or planting in a difficult game.
At the end of one day to one of the concerned authorities in stopping this game, there is a period that has become a lot, after the war was great and the ones that concern them on social media networks.
He doesn't know if he gets into a permanent reason for a trip.
Again.
No and it's not "I said it is a reason to wave the mother and are ending up, it is the late people with conflicts between the president and the president who was the vice president.
And the truth there was a little amounts of leadership, you know that recently, our sports' parties is the leadership of Ian Maasais' to give textbooks now due to the people who we get in the leadership where the intention to improve.
Sometimes he comes with his personal intention, he knows in his political way to pass here, other things should we wait, later in town he does not know the real needs of the game because when you reached and we did not know.
Where are those problems.
Almighty God is that when he wants to do so, he wants to do that when we went to do this because I would like to hear and believe that there is one of our party members and said that all clubs have a solution to our president of the party.
The executive director that I have met with.
There are not great things but human beings are very common.
Small in the seminar about the right about that game.
.
To get that advice, I advise that clubs we have to witness these questions is the office of the province through sports that is currently the same time and this is the way they will be required to do a meeting with your board to combat that board there is a problem since he called a meeting.
I'm in the meeting and we will explain the problems of leaders present.
We are not saying that now as a problem or Mister easy to stay in front of the executive director until his position to continue, but you can be able to sit in a good speed and in any party, our plans are still ongoing as usual.
And I do not want this opportunity to the late?
I want to see conflicts like you don't know.
Also, the crown Herbert Louis in a conflict like this, the first to be held in Dar es Salaam, is supposed to hear the leaders.
I heard that, Mister father is not allowed to now by bad luck and to say.
It continues with the guidelines of skin disability as well.
Only has it has reduced here in many competitions.
We are doing that we have done so that they are doing so that they have been done.
Having a team from provinces.
If a phone from Mbeya from the left are many artists who will participate in music but the club is good, but the good parents to be used is from when you look at each other and that last leadership was not a leader but because the leader is a member of the heads of the commission in the country.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will be seen in Dar es Salaam and I was told to have done the last time in Tanga in the European Champions League.
We can make sure that from now there is no longer a team that he has planned.
To have a player who has played the Saudi Arabia premier league by Divine Kweka, the provincial league that he had another time I want to do that every head should be stopped from his foot and to be able to play Ommy's game to be able to play with Ommy's game.
It's not again that the league becomes known as Rabi Hume, who has told Bongo Frank Mvungi that is the same thing, and I will give them that they have not qualified to play the two league in a year.
Therefore all those who have won to play for that team that Ras Kiduku was playing in the league.
Competitions are starting the awards, the teams that are supposed to play in the whole game.
Someone is a person.
I am seeing a good but I don't think that I would succeed in the reason that even in the city day before Mbeya City, wisdom of the building where they have been asked by Mister Pengo MMG.
He said.
Many players of Mbeya have for now.
Lack of permission I would have heard that there is no boundaries for coming up with me if I am saying this can be used in every province now.
Viewers there.
Ras Makunja has not why little research is different from research that the collection of players from different clubs whom they are participating in the country so as to bring honor to the country even if you see our colleagues also have been released and not another Swahili.
Hard efforts are read but he said, and my readers because black are allowed to play in another club, the late does not be allowed to play with other clubs the late people.
That is what he is supposed to give an answer.
You, a player or a party that was going for example I'm in a certain region, I was in a region, I was in a elections.
Audience.
Mwasabite said that Manumba is supposed to ask for that party of the general election which he played this happening, should I take place for a certain team of theft.
After that, it's no reason that doesn't have a lot of cases and there is a lot of cases that can use Ukawa by bad luck and it will be changed.
Therefore, there are a reason that we become a reason that we become being supported by the women because it does not have a problem if we want this will benefit from the players to get the commissioner.
Therefore, I think it has had the choir by playing in the internal league and then on the front he doesn't have a chance.
Thank you very happy.
