
20 years of many parties are holding more than 50 benefits, 2012

Last week I have talked about my opinion that 20 years since going back to the system of many parties we have to have more losses more than the benefits.
I heard a bit about the thoughts of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, due to his own position in political changes but I see it is good to continue with this analysis about the teacher so as to identify the losses of getting "the head" in a new system.

I have no longer have this important words of the teacher in his speech before welcoming the chairmanship of CCM in the year 1990 and those words are very important to an extent that I don't have been possible then the speech could have been set free!
He said the teacher in the speech, "I said it is good and I also said that in my opinion we cannot have decided to stop the Party of Democracy and Human Rights Center, because if we get the system of democracy of one party, we will not recognize it, it's impossible and it is difficult to know it.
If you see your name, you cannot get another, and if you know that this second is difficult, it is difficult to register your first leg.
The democracy of political parties is easy because it will be easy for one person or the army administration.
It will be enough time to understand the effects that can arise from any decision, you will do so that we can get any party leadership because they can be able to lead our country instead of CCM, I hope that we can remain in the next elections, "I believe in doing a decision by making it," said it is not true.
I'm forced to read a bit about him and he talked about "poor leadership in the CCM party and I don't continue to change the system of many parties," because he retired the chairmanship of CCM in the year 1990 and I don't think that in the first phase of President Mwinyi being under a teacher as the deputy chairperson, the leadership problems were huge to fear.
It is true that there are certain things that it started to change for a long time after he was retiring from officially, an open example is the leaders of CCM when they met in Zanzibar in a huge state and change part of the field of Arusha.

And it is possible that the teacher had great problems in front of the journey, but I believe it was not first to fight for all his efforts because the concept of "Democratic Party of the party," he said in the year 1990, up to true affected.
I don't think that there is no objection that the teacher had a great impetus in an extent of being able to find him from any leader without stopping.
A small example is when he found himself very much and requested him to continue with the efforts of improving the constitution so that he can lead them for a third term and even when he was to be the prime minister, John Okello, and the secretary general of CCM, John Lukuwi.
I am happy and you know that maybe a big reason for teacher showing any way back to the system of many parties, is because he was not again the president of the country.
Haazu taking off in the country to someone who had a shadow of the system of democracy of one party, he didn't have a big issue to return to the end of a day if it would have been able to wait for the opinion polls of the truth and to show the right way following the results.
Reason to write the name of the truth, "it is due to the bad luck, the opinion polls are being taken among some people that" Masau boasted.
Therefore, I see if we shall be true and the thirst for many parties' system, maybe if there would be no need for people to be asked their views on CCM sessions if they've been forced just to look for the constitutional changes so that the possibility of having the party to identify themselves inside the community could be big.
Naronyo a question that I don't know where I don't know especially when the teacher was thinking that they would have been forced, therefore new parties until to be successful?
Meaning, as it is in many areas in the world, politics is the fight that even a teacher before being a leader of the country, he went to hand with her colleagues in Tanu, so as to make sure that they wanted the new system to protect themselves so that they agree to the citizens.
I urge you to achieve the teacher's contribution towards the establishment of many parties and example that he himself used in the celebrations of May first in Mbeya, the year 1995.
It will also be remembered that good and foolish things took place during his first patriotic government and that it has not been possible for the long-term government to do not like to understand what he has been removed from the Indian Ocean and not a swim.
For me, the teacher caused a great extent, the opposition parties being expelled from the departments different from him as the leader of the country is that where he had already been mature is a leader with Tanaka so as to promote the sea, but also they should sit down in the sea.
An example of work here is for a few days of the top leaders of CCM that shows lack of bad politics.
It will also be remembered that the former vice chairperson of CCM, John Kimaro, approximately ten years ago, he answered that "if there is a region that will be going to the opposition party then the head of the district should know that he has not moved to the opposition." In general, the environment was very difficult for the past years when he went to opposition and even some of those who want to do good ways.
There are a story of several people to get into financial losses.
It is alleged that the former permanent ambassador of Tanzania, the United Nations, New York, Anthony Maverick, found himself well due to welcoming the assistant, Edwin Mtei at his home.
Currently, these problems were a must for many people that many of them were better than the best opponents "?

I think that it is needed more from the beginning, due to the environment being difficult against the opposition, it could give their strength to the local government elections.
