Nyamgenda, they remember.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2013.

Mwalimu Nyerere was the father of the nation of Tanzania, the father of Africa and the father of the human rights in the whole world, this issue will realize that every year, when you want to marry off.
Great prayers is that of wanting the Almighty God to set free in the most respected Teacher Julius Kambarage Nyerere.
Here in Tanzania, every year, October 14, is the Nyerere International Day (Nyerere Day) and it is a day for a half time in South Africa, this day is to remember the teacher for a discussion and looking for others similar to the teacher of human rights and issues of this world's economy.
In America, we love peace and defending champions of human rights to vote and seek a day to remember the death of Mwalimu Nyerere. The government of Rwanda, has announced officially on October 14 is Nyerere Day for the national day and so when the teacher entered many good things behind him.
These celebrations are supposed to remember the teacher in Rwanda are coordinated by the Association for Friendship between the Nyamatala, Rwanda and Civil Aviation Authority (Rwanda).
For the benefits of the reader of this article, it is good to know that the FA Cup has its brother in Tanzania, the community for Friendship between Ethiopia and South Africa (Tanzania (Rwanda).
This year, the celebrations to remember the Mwalimu Nyerere were held on November 3, 2013 at the Serena Hotel where there will continue to Kigali city for a good service of service led by a big number of two songs and later songs, new poems and later songs.
Routh who is under its chairperson Mzee Isidore has been forced to make his efforts of wanting to maintain the brotherhood of friendship with the stadium, decided this year to thank the Mwalimu Nyerere family, that was represented by power Nyerere together with Makongoro Nyerere, also involved the Deputy Chairperson of the stadium, Mzee Patrick Qorro and the writer of this article.
The celebrations to remember the teacher will be preceded by the historical tour and especially part of the killings of Kimbira of this year the FA Cup that walk with his visitors in Boksburg area where up to now one thousand bodies are used.
This bodies have taken care of the high standard expertise, to the extent of those bodies to give a picture of the type of death, being beaten in mind, close to women, small children who were tested in the mouth, especially for women, small children have been charged with a lot of affliction.
Here, when a person is when we witnessed the brutal act that was done during Kimbari and the Nyamatala, South Africa have continued to avoid this bodies and put it to people so as to recognize problems of discrimination and bad luck.
Everyone is going here to see himself, he will have a lot of questions, but when I was born, my question that is a lot in Rwanda, my question that until today has no answers!
The great shape thus, an amount of killing heavy people and bad luck and even killing small children whose age did not reach one year, when they get pregnant, what would you have my faith that the answer will be found one day.
