Other times, the Almighty God bless you and I don't know the son of diaspora believe in which he is the executive director of diaspora in order to prevent and we talk about the late father.
At the scene.
Davis Mosha.
There is a safe award for preparations for the preparations of Mister studies up to these hours he is going on well and there are normal but up to these, the preparations are going on well at a big station and if I said previously we are grateful for the government of the Parliament.
Tanzanians are prime minister in the ministry of issues.
You took the last year with the office of the president in Zanzibar.
When closing the meeting and recently, the issue of two hands and you have tried to help the number of their ability to make sure that the conference is done to resolve the problem here in Dar es Salaam city the Serena Hotel of the ten o'clock and the moment we expect to move forward.
Do you get a problem of accommodation what should we benefit?
You miss.
But in the picture.
You came to receive visitors and there is a problem.
They thank me but the reception of a person standing on the problem.
Therefore, if he was looking for Yanga, we have tried to look at yourself more and to me.
I don't see maybe for the first time.
It's not a certain problem if it will be like the actual problem with intentions and the main purpose is the first African secretary to make sure we get out of the conference.
How do I vote?
Who the market we have been done at the reception of Dar es Salaam, I will be told your gap here in the country.
To look for number one.
Then there are cargo?
Accountability.
I don't think that conflict of learning because we are organized between age, we are planning to know which pour in eternal peace, in this conference which is the first in this conference.
There are other things that the war will be launched officially starting from diaspora we want to be in the last year if you are not funny you will follow you.
We will do other things.
In implementing this period as the first time, it was clear, it's start our website which is the great Ambassador of Diamond Princes Stadium which at this time they work with all the reports concerning the registration of registration and registration where we have.
Ras Makunja has urged Tanzanians to visit different places but on that day of the meeting we know that the website will be launched officially.
And he is also expected to officially launch his friend who will be officially known as a friend who will officially launched a human magazine that will be launched every three months, we are expecting to officially launch the blog of the community who claim that it will be allowed to save the domain name.
That we are expecting again to be launched and let us start looking for money.
So much resources are different.
Continuing with Joe Hart, they succeed again there is no specialist, so they can get all different information which he didn't get more information that we will go back here and therefore we are looking for a very long time, but we are happy to know what is coming back again and we are not happy about it, then I will know how to get back again and also you don't know the time.
