Chief justice Mohamed Chande Othman, has advised the court staff in the country to work hard in order to ensure the citizens are satisfied with the services that are given by the court in the provision of justice to the court in addition, the resident magistrate of charge since Morogoro is a report of the view.
More than the two days the chief justice of the court mister Cosmas Chande in Morogoro province while accompanied by other directors of the main court, the aim being to reduce the servants and to see the court's infrastructure so that before that tour was received at the District Commissioner in Morogoro province, goals and court to ensure that it gives better service to the citizens.
What is it?
One in one court is a billion, therefore, Bilal opens a video that he hurts me.
Therefore, the good chapter of the court?
It is a thing.
Two without they do not have the case they had already started.
The card of the court's card is.
And the judge in charge of Kilosa district, Mbarali District, and the resident magistrate of Morogoro Mary Magdalene, speaking about the challenges they are facing the buildings of the court lack of houses for the judge and transport.
The late God know what this article has called to have Nairobi buildings as such as from Water and its work to you also in the whole court of.
If you are saying that at five hours you have been closed down and livestock is very close to the great names through their work and early is early.
And this week I will start buoys.
I'll leave a clothes child living in a house.
All of them to prepare for that house.
We request that?
Today so as to reduce.
The chief justice while putting up with the court that was filled with water to get floods where he has directed the Kilosa district to make sure that they follow the procedures of the ownership of a shortage of disaster in Morogoro province to move the service to citizens and the executive director of the court, Vicent Katanga, he answered that some of the questions about their interests including those allowances for the plan to improve themselves.
Rose.
But the news reports are there to help them.
The tenth commandment?
Do you know?
He is one of the police in Morogoro.
The Prime Minister.
