At home you are to us?
Why is it?
The results of these schools are the first one on reproductive health.
You know, the act of nurses and nurses should be able to be able to use the language that can be able to help this young person you know, Deo Filikunjombe.
But the same, they went to.
For that right.
Previously.
He will be found.
That lady who before it is found?
When you missed this meaning, I have look at this opportunity and they hurt them.
For now, words are supposed to be many and in order to help them.
You shouldn't see this one to start with this Ramadhan month.
For many people living in Pretoria City.
As a way to help them when you talk about it, it will allow you to get water services.
It claims that the nurses and doctors will be responsible to know the languages that you can communicate with this woman or a Tanzanian, which was drugs, but it's a mother.
It is a rumor.
And at the time he arrived at a mother to fall down, together with this head, he does not have a habit of talking to you from you because his mother was in danger but if a man knows her, she does not want to know the language of death.
He will get following the procedures will give birth well together with that, when it gets safe means you have iPads to the doctors and nurses and the government must be accountable because there are some marks the woman went to close to each other and how a woman does not give birth to each other.
Later he was going to go to be given a child and when he had told them what two children from you have organized him to be in a row.
They have said when he gave birth to one child up to this time he has not seen another colleague that he had gone to take the environment.
This is an opportunity to say that this is not known but you can't know the alcohol that they are in, when he says I have loved.
The child today does not recognize that, it is now the constitution that is done in that region.
Now about closer.
When we talk about it.
There is someone who was born.
It is no longer.
When we talk about Monday the animal is.
Simba is supposed to be responsible for health services in Mufindi, it is a must to make a lot of food to make calls here they started doing here, it has reduced the mountain and standing without a lot of time walking.
According to a little time, but to get out of you, then can they sell it down?
Or this was not a problem.
People from the problem of someone who is God, but is why we are told our agents that we are doing a lot, there is a lot, there is a lot, but it is coming from.
It is nothing.
How are skin disability?
If you are asked to be given medical services, you can't know more than two buses so as to reduce the solar eclipse.
If you play in, I see I see the child of an eye on the time you are doing, there is two minutes to end in the end.
You need me, since the head goes on a person from the shop and that is the reason being stopped there.
So as to end the other studies, the disabled who died from the proposed constitution.
?
The rights of his wife is a person who had a service to look for who follow up on who you follow up there has got the community soon.
The meaning of the daughter later the new constitution will be used as required it will get a plan.
The access to health services like there are services that are given to the public, the results that is given to the public, and all the loans' services will involve the community reserve that will involve 150 plastic chairs to be.
For people living with disabilities that are supposed to be the elders of orphaned children but the western lawyers will not make sure that Tanzanians benefit from everything that we have been found, we can make sure that Tanzanians benefit from everything that we have been, but what we are doing here is where we are doing here where we are doing here, where we are where we are doing.
To recognize and introduce himself the systems and good effects of human rights and accountability of the government and the authority like this constitution that is not giving them much.
