

By Abdalla Maganga, Dar es Salaam City.
Men do not have a lot of reasons for requesting women love, but most of them are human or body, others comes later.
These days we have been changed and even women do we desire for men and get out of them.
Today I will talk several reasons for men to involve women because of these origins of the research that I had done by several men who will receive women.
I hope.
Many times the men feel that when the woman are trying, apart from being another time you have found themselves without going, they need many people who are leading in accordance with the environment it is not happy but you don't leave each other.
.
Up, it is a big reason for men to lead the benefits, the attraction of a woman is usually have a great opportunity for a man to be impressed by the truth when he led this goals should be able to do the love with the woman involved in marriage issues and to maintain love comes later.

You will love you.
This issue usually happens a very few times, the first criterion of a man will lead you and to love, comes later.

Your eyes too.
Other men do not have a long-term shortage (TIN), so when he met any girl and that one usually found themselves, so that the project did not meet with his needs after that, he did not vote again.

Hammrod Mkono.
There are other men who are leading women not with the aim of participating in the wedding act, but he tries to play with the feelings of a woman and others do so so as to show their colleagues that he has the great ability to lead you, claiming that he is a heartless man of anyone.
I hope.
Many times, a man who is according to the aim of getting married does not have a woman for a long period, in addition, by using your close people with the daughter or he himself to do your love without knowing.
If you see a man is to follow and announce his marriage with you in a short time, you should know that he cannot get married to people who are going round, but we recognize that he cannot get married and you before being involved in a wedding act, it's a few women with the disease.
