If you go to Grind.
And today our talks are required to follow the procedures of getting a permit for selling crops outside the country.
After speaking about these procedures, he invited Mister Blue Pearl Hotel who is the director of the department for development projects from the ministry of agriculture and the partners.
He has been accompanied by Mister Elly Njau is a month which is the acting director of the security department for all the food is from the ministry of agriculture.
And the Bible.
We can talk.
The government has announced.
Citizens sell goods in the country.
Why is a permit they do that we are continuing to put restrictions.
The late?
Father should I start to introduce himself well more than the President of Yoweri Museveni.
His services are not true if the medical camp is in the board of directors of the department of honor, which one should answer your question.
First of planting trees.
Tanzania has launched her contracts.
Several, but if I was not aware of this issue and two contracts that are important to consider the first, there is an agreement with the business organization is God Moh'd.
But there is also one thing that has been sponsored by the contract because under the food organization, but the best world a day which is called International Compassion group entertaining at the same time we have an international responsibility to consider those contracts because they finish the agreement with this unique agreement.
But also we have laws.
I have never happened to the genes that has tried to take the international standards in our country in the environment of our country to ensure that it is growing.
Why we have been a permit, it is because there is a responsibility to make sure that we know the rights of plants in our country should not be the source of diseases, and even if we will not inform you about the procedures and take care for example transporting the business of agricultural products from that country because they will not tolerate it to bring before the procedures.
In the issue of health plants.
We have officers at the stadium and all more experts of people.
How can it be used to fear later in the village, in difficult environments of doing business.
The late God was officers at the stadium and they are doing the work of educating.
But the risk of cross 5.
It is dangerous that we are in there and will continue to be there.
And in recognizing that what is going into the country you will have all the required procedures, there should be a procedure of controlling it because of our colleagues, therefore, there is a great reason why we are used in accordance with the seventh law of the year and who are the existing procedures in class six centers.
The late Adam and those directors are doing an inspection in the fire areas.
Let us start this issue in dry land in the border areas.
And we are looking for!
In the problem to inspect it is that they are looking for it is a lot and being transported outside the country as I said.
How should I speak?
Listen to it here, it does not hesitate to view themselves as well as you see if I am supposed to go to you.
But also.
While you are doing that inspection, it is proud to be careful.
Business person.
Before traveling are outside foreign countries it must be a permit from that country to transporting its produce.
For a meeting to say transporting produce in Kenya.
It is a must that Kenya will give a permit to bring in those crops for a example, maybe Malindi, they will send a modem.
This is the work of Kenya.
They will stop the conditions which shall be required to consider on Tuesday that causes the Holy Quran in Kenya for a time when the businessman will give him a permit when they will get anything which they will do even if the crops are going on and they are also required.
I do not see it is good that you do you have mentioned that in the border areas of the plane, I have a reason why those business people should wait for the last points because we should not start them as the beginning to ease the activities.
It is a good question.
Why is it?
When it comes at a little time in December on foot and get voluntary contribution.
The Controller Auditor General of the few hours in the country wants to love his product and when we will look like he will need to undergo an inspection on how to forgive him in a farms for ideas which do an inspection before it has not been done and take a check before.
And therefore, you can do an inspection in the factory that has the stock.
However, we do not recognize that the province is a must for you to do an inspection because on this website that is dangerous or and that it will be careful not to get to the farm but to be elected in the same level until now, it will be a good reason to join and take.
That was a bad state to a business person who is coming up to the United Republic of Congo Brazzavile and have a lot of success tomorrow they had a lot of success and it will be an ancient attack in the country and so as to see him.
