
In this CCM, CHADEMA are inspiring.
On 28th of 28th, 2014.

Memory of the parliamentary debates (HFO), for the sixth general meeting of the United Republic of Tanzania, April 25 to 28, 1977, the prime minister visited that time, Edward in Sokoine, has explained well the concept of the authority of the special constitutional parliament.

Since our nation, for another time it is in the process of writing a new constitution, and because the special assembly has already started its sessions to make a new constitution in Dodoma town, it is important to make sure that he said in Sokoine, during the process of making this current constitution in 1977.

In Sokoine, says, "the constitution of the country is the very high law to any nation, and a instrument that led that law, it is a must to be a high level with great power so that this parliament can decide or get these recommendations.
"The deputy speaker, in using our authority, it is a must that we know the borders of the party and the recommendations that we shall continue to inform them, that the party can rule the party's instructions if it will ensure that the party can rule the party's instructions if they agree with them without enmity.

For us who are in the Sokoine words, we are happy to see two main topics which are the authority of the Special Constitutional Assembly, and the second is the boundaries for those power and that the special assembly has not been directed and wisdom to know the boundaries.

The special parliament of the year 1977, the boundaries came out to the authority of the party because of that party, because of CCM, it was not ready to rule the leadership of the special constitutional parliament of the year 2014, and its boundaries because of the leadership of the Special Parliamentary Constituent.

In addition to that fact, we are happy to say here that CCM parties and CHADEMA are ready to go against that logic, at the Sokoine stadium, CCM has set up a position with its members to discuss and insisted that the United Republic of the United Nations.

Those parties are supposed to pay a great authority more than the power they have their citizens, instead of going and insisted that the primary issues that their citizens want to learn in their new constitution, their citizens intend to insisted that the structure of the union of two governments or three.

When it comes to the issue of passing through the sessions, those parties have not been forced to do any difference, they have been surprised by being one of the countries and their constitution are proud of by two other parties within the draft constitution.

Right now, their delegates and their party understand what is the meaning of the special constitutional parliament because they understand that the responsibility of the parliament is supposed to understand that parliament is responsible for who we think that the party's stand and CHADEMA were forced to change this nation.
