The secret goes on the accident of then.
Mage of 18, 2015.

The accident that happened in the area of Mpunga Relini, Mafinga on Wednesday night, is still the news that is continuing to be discussed in every corner of Mbeya province.
It is an accident that killed 50 people, today is cries in every corner of Mbeya City and it is open that it will continue to remain in the records for the residents of Mbeya, Iringa and Njombe for many years to come.
Many people who died in that accident are the residents of Mbeya City, but those from different areas of Iringa, Njombe and Mbeya itself.
On Friday, Saturday and up to Sunday, it had been able to be completed in transporting the bodies of the deceased and the burial, from Mafinga to Mbeya and later on different areas of the provinces for the burial.
What are the reason of accidents?
It is a question that happened in a few minutes for the residents of Mbeya City and it is the one that led the talks of the residents of that town since the occurrence of that accident.
Many have spoken about that accident, there are those who believe that it has been caused by witchcraft, believing that it is an accident that is faced with the provision of these machines as a result of not knowing that it is possible to arise in an accident as a result of buying many people at a time.
But there are important reasons that are used to explain the accident, including poor conditions of roads and carelessness, even so, the main reason that is caused by poor infrastructure, that accident was caused by a lorry that was caused by a lorry that was caused by a lorry that was caused by a lorry that was caused by a lorry.
Among those who supervise the poor conditions of the road is together with the police commander of Iringa province, Ramadhan Nassib, who was quoted saying, "this is not a big source and poor conditions of the road, therefore it is the responsibility of the relevant authorities to clear."
Together with agreed with that reason, some of the analysis of issues of road accidents, including passengers, drivers and traffic police have shown all the blame to all two drivers, then the passengers and a lorry.
Those analysis are saying that if two drivers had been keen with their work, the accident could have happened, that they had a great opportunity to protect themselves.
"What happened, most of the two drivers overpowered them, the vehicles were in a fast speed, everyone wanted to make his colleague," says one driver of the big cargo vehicles.
According to the drivers of great vehicles, those who talked with our drivers, are normal for drivers, especially those with the vehicles have gotten tired, "encourage the" speed on how you are not easy to increase the mountain ahead of him.
The environment of the area happened to the accident, is that two of the lorry accident and then they were at least they were arrested while they were facing a conflict before them.
Another argument that is used by the analysis is that, the area is all days and vehicles that will be given all at all times and that even before that accident, it has been a lot of buses to passengers and cargo vehicles and they have been able to remain well, because of lack of accidents as a solution to drivers.
"The hole is the pretext that if they would have happened to the accident even those who passed it, it did not happen because drivers were keen, they accepted to the laws that lead the road," says one businessman of great vehicles who identified himself as one of this year.
Those analysis are clear that if investigation will be done as required, it is revealed that there is a lorry of cargo that had caused the accident, that the step of his driver is to increase the speed while there is evidence that the vehicle had to be strong, therefore he didn't be in a good state.
It is also confirmed that the step of the driver and then allowed the fire is coming in fast, it is controlling the doubt in the ability of the driver in the operation, he didn't have a chance to avoid accidents if they have no wisdom.
In that debate, it comes another argument about the driver, it explained that approximately 10 days before the accident occurred in Mafinga town, he caused another accident at the Mafoto area, Mbeya town, which was the same.
The driver, the person, then that was the same accident inside.
In a short time, it is clear that there is a difference, from the owner of the bus and to the supervisors of the law.
The main reputation of the driver is to go to a fast speed, it is clear that the owner could know that and that is why the officer shot himself, even when he made the accident he continued to marry off.
The faith of the owner of the driver, is alleged that they don't understand the education together with experience but it's not yet to arrive, when it got the buses that they were unable to leave the station.
