
LHRC, wanted a new constitution from BADEA.

By Mariam Mziwanda.
The union of Tanzania and Zanzibar has been separated by a patient.
To the room for the care unit (ICU), hence we expect it?
To save it through a new constitution that is expected to be done before the general elections.
Next year 2015.

That statement was issued yesterday in Dar es Salaam city by the director of wildlife.
The improvement of the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC), Harold Sakali.
While opening a three-day meeting of public institutions.

He said it is important for the citizens to be given an opportunity to discuss.
The union and asked you to understand what is needed so that they can avoid problems.
They are grafted from politicians who are greedy for power.

"There are few politicians who use their positions inside.
Society is misleading the citizens about the union being forced to give birth to the promise.
Political so that they can get power, "he said.

He added that education on the benefits of the union was to reach it well.
Citizens and given an opportunity to discuss education for a long time before the parliament.
It is enough for serving and be fruits in the coming generations.

He said a union that is there is going to go or recover.
The decision by the country through a new constitution as it is caused by many problems.
A long time has not been given treatment.

"The structure of the union is a problem especially in the purchase of government.
It's a situation that causes the citizens of both sides to agree.
At the moment it is enough through the constitutional parliament to save the union. "
He said.

He explained the great challenges that the citizens are required to get.
Answers through the new constitution in order to be the source of the life of the union said.
Together with that conflict of income in the level of four percent in Zanzibar.
And the presence of freedom to choose leaders.

On the side of a member of institutions that are approximately 36, Baraka Mohamed Shamte.
He said 977,886 students are still a union and that an important thing is the important thing.
Discuss the problems that are required and to work on them to continue permanent.

"The establishment of the union was no bad luck.
A union of citizens are one, the youths of today holding back and getting.
They think that they know everything, there was enough reasons for joining what?
The union did not have Kenya the other country is good to be true.
Talk to the union, "he said.

On his side, Ramadhan Suleiman '.
He urged the youths to recognize that they are needed so much in protecting and appreciating the union.
They are supposed to take small things and to see it is easy to break the union there.
