So much to tell me that he is ready, I would like to contribute to one word during this period.
English Premier League.
Compared to the European league.
The late God is two different things.
The Almighty God is because of the Almighty God to expand the science and technology.
I remember.
At the time we're in Dar es Salaam city, we see the media houses, you know it has not been known as the first to welcome him from.
And many times more time to look like one from the different networks, the Almighty God are the very big soccer fans.
Welcome him after the late?
Social media networks.
Welcome him in television together.
Celebrate the European countries to fly the chest?
The grave of various networks has caused the late God to send our eyes in the European league because their level is in high level than the level of the premier league.
For example the eighteenth consecutive years, let us meet the late Doctor Hamisi Kisiwa of Dar es Salaam, when there was a time when there were women who live in Dar es Salaam.
Mzee of the traditional music and many others, we were so much like to support people of the way to go the premier league but for now.
For the truth, the Almighty God has gone down because we are not in the European premier league because it will not have gone down because of them compared to them but at the time we were waiting for people to follow it.
After listening to the time of looking for you, we know what we are in, we are very happy to support Europe more than to support the elderly here, I am not very much and to get one stakeholder here is not the one for the teachers to get very happy about that she's not supposed to see you.
Which are many challenges that do not like, we are involving foreign people more than the current.
Everything is the first argument that if I feel it is not true that starting from the generation up to this generation, we've never been a good example, but we have no longer support but when I am happy, what I see you are one of the challenges that we do not see these people.
It is faith.
I think faith we have tried to be seen in different parts, but anything I would like to know more that we have been faith that we have been faith that we can play soccer and they can own football but even the Black Americans.
Now, these black Americans who are some of the Black Americans have emerged as our ones who feel that they were taken to foreign countries where they are hopeful that they will get more employment and will it get more employment.
It could make sure that you can be their talents and more than my, those are so much again.
