
New emerges victorious in light weight.
In Dar es Salaam, a few days after more than 200 houses are being demolished because the High Court in the Mlangali Village, Kibamba, new vehicles have emerged after the victims of the government documents that allows them to own that land.
The residents of the Mlole, together with their leaders, including the councilors held a session yesterday to discuss the demolition and chairman of the committee that was formed by the citizens after being sold for the first time in the year 2010, Ramadhani Shauri, yesterday February 26th, 2003) Kinondoni Municipality through the executive officer of Kibamba village, Samuel Manyele.
While showing those illustrations, Said said that after 30 days, the government gave information on the Citizen newspaper that said, "Kibamba, and given others."
Said told the newspaper on March 8th, 2003 with the report explained more than "after a week in the Kibamba village, it is expecting to sell those areas that they will involve in the government's office of the village."
Said said some of the owners came out but one of the owners, Henry Tandau did not come out and that the government decided to give citizens through the delegates of ten houses.
The former writer of Citizen, Abdalah Majura who wrote the report said after those reports from owners came out and caused a big conflict that is causing the office of the district commissioner to intervene and urged the owners to sit and leaders of the government in the village.
One of the residents of the area that one who was involved in a long time, Mariam Abdallah claimed that the fire was used to save those criminals so that the government decided to give the announcement of dividing them.
He said after lack of the owner, the citizens came to a place so as to start a house where he mentioned in Kashimba and claimed that the area is his.
However, Kashimba said he bought the area in the year 1991 and given legal ownership from the Ministry of Lands.
About himself, he said that the government has distributed in Kashimba, he said after the announcement of government, and he gave an announcement on the Citizen newspaper so as to prevent the area given to citizens.
