Rungwe, miss the war of "Tanzanians to come" and "pastoralists,"?
On the 25th October, 2015.

18 members of CHADEMA have shown an intention to vie for a parliamentary seat in the Rungwe West region in Mbeya province and many of them are expected to come out and even so, they have emerged groups of the forest and those who want to come.
Among the members who came out is together with the chairman of CHADEMA, Mbeya Town District, John Lukuwi, popularly known by the name Nimlaumu Nani.
Together with her is also the councilor for Mendes Hospital in Mbeya town, Lucas Mhenga, who is reported to be among the members that did the big work of derailing the party in Mbeya Province.
That councilor has confirmed himself to contest for that constituency saying the procedure of their party is not secret because there is a special procedure of filling the forms for every one with an intention of filling the forms for every one with the leadership in the next general elections, therefore it is a thing that is was known.
On his left is among the party members of CHADEMA in Mbeya Province who are proud of the state and property in implementing the party in that province, from time it does not have anything until now it has reduced up to the leadership of the local government and main government.
That region which in the last elections caused many people in the province due to the competition that was there from the opinion polls in CCM up to the general elections that came up to CHADEMA being a threat to many, while the opposition party had great hopes in the final elections in this year.
The party member, Yusuf Asukile has said that the who will fly the CHADEMA flag in the province of 2010, giving great opposition to the CCM candidate who later emerged victorious, Professor David Mwakyusa, and this year has again in the race for that position in that constituency.
The step of Asukile has decided to succeed in the last elections that is expected to contribute to a huge level and announce with strengthening the party especially in Kiwira Mbeya region.
CHADEMA still believe that the elections of the constituency in the year 2010, is caused by the area of the year 2010, and that if it is not that, then the province was in place and therefore it does not depend on this journey to be many candidates from that party, all of them being the region that is easy for now.
The chairman of that constituency, Juma Kibo Palace has said that their faith, that their party will win this year and he knows that.
"The difficulty we know is inside the party, we got that there is same as a result of giving him the liver.
Others have shown their intentions to vie for the constituency for this year including a activist and senior member of the party, Sophia Mjema, the agenda, who together with the ability and his lawyers in that party, still its victory is explained to make changes in such attitude of the residents of that province about the woman.
Other women include Beatles, Beiersdorfer said all of them, as it is for Sophia Mjema, they will depend on more, apart from their ability, but also change is among the residents of that province.
According to the chairman of the constituency, Kibo Palace, the other members who came out include Laurent this year, Barnaba, Yachoma, Wilfred Lwakatare.
He mentioned the others to be infected with each other, Ayubu Kalege, and Festo Kiswaga, Richard Mbani, Deo Mwaura and Msepwa.
Groups emerges today at the general elections.
The success made in the last general elections are mentioned to attract many citizens to join opposition parties especially CHADEMA, which is not good again, in Mbeya Province it has a great desire to deal with them very close to them.
After the year 2010, big groups in the community, including scholars, workers and business people came out in public to join opposition parties, and in Mbeya Province, many joined CHADEMA in what is believed to be addressed by the opposition parties.
However, the political analysis of this province believe that many who came out to be involved in opposition parties after the election results of the year 2010, is because they feel it is easily getting in parliament through the back of those parties.
