
National identity cards to stop illegal immigrants in Kigoma town.

It has been written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Councilors of Kigoma Municipal Council have complained of the operation of breaking the illegal immigrants that is going on in Kigoma province and suggested that in order to end the problem, the government has no reason to speed up the provision of national identity cards to the citizens of that province.

While speaking at a meeting to discuss the plan of we are partnering with the Community Forum, some of the councilors of that council said that it is not recognized as the ones that are taking place now depends on the rights of citizens.
The councilor of Kigoma Town Ward, Hussein Kalala said, at the confiscation of that accident which was taken by the police at night, it has been taken to citizens because another time they are arrested were released without being given any compensation after languishing in jail for more than three days and to get another violence.
The councilor of Mwanga County, Clatchy Markhiya, Revocatus Malimi said, they have complained about the issue to the top leadership of the Immigration Department in Kigoma province, but they have been getting answers of threats and giving up on the issue that shows that gender violence on the allegations of illegal immigrants.
The Member of Parliament for Kigoma Town constituency, Zitto Kabwe, said the issue of illegal immigrants from the citizens of that province is a big problem and they had started to resolve the sessions with the people of the National Identification Authority (NIDA), but the changes of leaders in that institution have done this matter.
In another step, the institution for preventing and fighting corruption in the Kigoma province are holding the immigration officer of Uvinza district, Shaban Omar Chambo (46) on allegations of asking and receiving bribes contrary to section 15 (1) (a) of the law for preventing and fighting corruption in the year 2007.
While giving a report to the journalists, Kigoma Regional Commissioner, Raphael Chegeni, said that the suspect received 81 million shillings in November last year, from farmers from Burundi, who killed and living in the country without permits for the aim of giving them permits for work against the procedures of the department.
