
Senator explains that government will be accountable.
By Raphael Wanjala.
The government of Thailand, he from Baamar has been given a challenge at the money that they received in the implementation of development projects.
Kane, Moses Wula has said that the government of he said it is supposed to show the public on how the money they received since the beginning of the field will be used.
Mister Winfrey has said that in a period of two years, he said that he has received a total of 16 billion shillings and still no projects that can show.
He said that it broke the heart that the public had great hopes in the procedure of looking at the law but the governor and his group have not given the projects that can be seen.
And Raphael Wanjala, Mister Winfrey has said that the government is supposed to be open concerning how the money was used and brought projects that will benefit the public.
"Since the beginning of May, he said that he has received a total of 16 billion shillings as we ask the government through the governor to ensure that we see the projects and not to see the books we have a lot of books," he said in Bexhill, Sunday when he attended the service at the forum.
The trainer also explained that the government of WCB he from running the corruption issues so as to attract people who are close to them and he mentioned a example where the tenders for the safety service was given to a total of 20,000 shillings every month, though the guards were given each 20 million shillings only.
He said that there is a lack of faith because even some of the health centers still have been opened but they were given four security guards which were set aside, and requested them in the program.
"We have noted that he has noted that he is doing good things and certain people because they gave the tenders for the security company to protect its hospitals and some of the hospitals have not been opened by security guards which have not paid an amount of goals they had put in the contract," he explained.
Mister Winfrey has expressed the existence of transparency in that government and its activities and to ensure that money should be accountable.
The running mate of Chama Cha Mapinduzi, also wanted President Uhuru Kenyatta to have transparency in his appointment. He said the recent appointment of the inspector general of police is an indication that the administration of Diamond is running a government of tribalism.
Mister Winfrey has said it is a mistake for the president and his deputy president to conduct an appointment according to the political party and allows them to say that it is now of existence of equity for the appointment.
