The process of the new constitution broke down, now it is to be beaten.
October 11, 2013.

Tanzanians are required to have a new constitution, most of them expect that the new constitution will be available before the general elections of 2015 and that the new constitution will destroy the corruption, it will cause incitement, it will stop being good under the new constitution.

Our people have learned that the next constitution will be drugs, for all the problems that can be discussed without talking about different rights that can be discussed without discussing a new constitution "or others say" a new constitution must take a look at this. "

The results of these thoughts are people to bring up and get married because they will discover that the new constitution will eliminate all administrative problems and leadership and if those problems they will be removed and there are difficult because we can destroy the procedures in the evening.

The process was started without legal.

This process of the new constitution was opened by saying, I would like to say the same day President Kikwete decided to see him (maybe he invented the nation in his speech to welcome a new constitution that will also be completed and for the future generations.

Most of the people witnessed this idea and pay the validity of they have been accepted, because there have been noise for a long time of wanting a new constitution, then they have agreed to take o'clock and should we have a lot of one hundred percent that we have not seen the end of his problems.

We have already seen since the beginning of the first bill on law to supervise this process, it has been accepted and later it will not be returned to parliament again for now, the government wants to improve the law and now after President making sure that the law will be returned again to parliament for other changes.

But the most big problem that I have saw is that the whole process took their president instead of the citizens, President Kikwete is planning to meet with leaders of political parties to discuss about the fear that this process could not have the need of people to discuss the problems and President Magufuli would have found themselves as well as the problem of people.

Now, people do not know about the appointment of some of the delegates of the constitutional parliament but in front of people who complained more than fifty percent of the current constitution, it is difficult to encourage the few people to pass a new constitution more so that it is difficult to resolve the new constitution than the current constitution.

This is dangerous because this process will expire in the line when it will be faced between CCM members and those who want CCM to oppose because their opponents are not good thus they will make sure they have agreed that the process and therefore they will be forced to accept this process.

It is true that we expect a new constitution, but the process is now been built through a system of educating citizens about the new constitution, we see the commission of Warioba and different stakeholders to use their groups while the citizens have been affected by the power of the citizens.
