
13 December 2012

SUMATRA has banned the fare envelop.

The scandal of buses that are in the provinces to increase the fare every time when it reached the festive season, it is not a new issue to passengers who are normal to eat the holiday outside Dar es Salaam.
All the days we have been used to hear the concerned authorities when he promised to give a punishment to the buses owners which are revealed to pay huge fare but that offense has no benefit to passengers.

As a result of that situation, the owners of those buses have no fear of being taken against them, will increase their fare at the guiding price that is supposed to compete.

Many buses that are happening in Dar es Salaam at the University of buses that are in the provinces of Ubungo (UBT), get high costs due to the increase of passengers.

An surprising thing, the fare is provided by the servants of those buses have been written on the real level of the fare different from the one that bought the passengers' to be forced to do that so that he can travel.

It is alleged that the situation is as a result of removing the losses which they have been receiving in a period with the shortage of passengers.

Some of the workers of those buses are crossing borders and forcing children of the age of five years which will have their parents be able to pay for a half of the one with his parent.

We have said that, it has come at the time of the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) to make sure that acts of increasing fare in this festive season stop and those involved will be taken against others.

SUMATRA has continued to cooperate with the police force in order to sign those buses because some of the passengers have been charged huge fare twice, one thing is supposed to pay.

Some of the people with low-income people have found themselves in a difficult time especially when they got to the station and found great changes in different fare and the ones that they were used to all the days.

The operation of inspecting the buses that increase the fare is not the whole issue due to the size of the problem, especially during Christmas and the new year.
