
What are the cost of?
December 23, 2014.

It is not good again, that the government of Tanzania for now has a high level that is unsatisfactory performance by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has said this and some of the members of parliament and ministers have talked about.

Most of them are many because there are lack of revenue that were planned due to tax on phone lines, sponsors not to contribute as they promised and put it into the collection of other sources.

In this time, we are expecting the government to go down and to plan the way to plan its use by doing so, it would make sure that you use them in this difficult time and waiting for things to be good.

But something, what we see now is an increase in use but we are told about the journey outside the country that will cost billions of shillings, an increase in the number of servants that increase the cost of the government and the decisions that will increase the government in the near future.

Open this year, the day before yesterday is the day before yesterday by President Jakaya Kikwete to increase the ranks of 28 players for a period in this period where the nation has this situation.

Our colleagues are in this situation, get usage, we also increase the use of the Israel Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who postponed his trip to bury Nelson Mandela, because he saw the cost of that journey will be big.

The government view how to reduce the expenditure that are not a must in time when each person does not have money?

Let it be known that the loans and debts which we shall take to live in those living lives, will not come to be paid by children and to let our colleagues without any kind of hope, we can be able to see if we leave the country with debts.

In addition, it is continuing that for a long time we will start producing money for the sake of paying the salaries of government workers, the big journey and build the roads that the government itself caused the law by accepting to pass the vehicles.

What does it mean to have a lot of money?
