
Farmers are now allowed to sell their differences outside.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The government will complete a new procedure of selling food outside the country within one week to start yesterday with permits for maize and rice bran.

That was noted yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Charles Tizeba while giving the government's statement on food situation in the country and production for the academic year 2015 / 2017 and the availability of food in the year 2016 / 2017.
Doctor Tizeba said that starting yesterday, the government will complete that new procedure of selling food outside the country after considering that due to weaknesses, including food shortages outside the country without a special procedure as a result of the shortage being business people from the neighboring countries to buy food as well before being harvested.
"Although the selling of food outside is an opportunity for us to get a good price, but it can be a disaster in our nation if we should be coordinated well, I urge the farmers to use the market opportunities to ensure that the country did not affect the disaster of hunger," he said.
Regarding the procedure of providing permits for selling and producing food production going to and outside the country, he said the system explains the existence of weaknesses, whereby the procedure was put on a high level of capacity building of the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) which is equivalent to transfer food from the country and not business.
Also, the system did not have a good procedure and to do a business person who had been operated by one authority to go and get from another authority without any problem and also an amount that will process being transported outside the country was not known easily from the authority involved in providing permits.
Regarding the food situation, Charles Tizeba said the state of food security is satisfying, therefore there has been an importance of continuing to look for markets inside and outside the country so as to give opportunities to producers to get income.
According to the minister, an initial assessment of production of traveling in 2015 / 2017, the availability of food to the year 2016 / 2017, is needed to be national production, approximately 35,35,35,367,888 tons which are non-communicable diseases.
He said according to the data on the availability of food needs, the country will have a food condition of the level of hatching of the fare at nine percent.
Speaking about the state of food digestion system and the purchase of 248,448 households in the year 2016 / 2017, Tizeba said (NFRA) has the ability to save a total of 248,211 tons and until September 6 this year, it had a total of 67,888 tons which includes maize, rice, and livestock.
