
When you go to Muhimbili, but you have prepared himself enough?
Muhimbili National Hospital has started a new procedure of providing food services to all patients who are admitted in that hospital because there is a series of reasons that made it to the management to achieve that decision, but the biggest challenge is to reduce the shortage of sales.
In that new procedure, the schedule for brothers and special needs and return each other than their bodies.
Many patients were shown to get food at night between 10 and 12 o'clock in the evening, but for a new food period of time to time, the drugs with the conditions of eating first will be used in hand with the time of food.
In addition to the benefits of this new procedure, there are friends of taking food to their patients, this morning and in the evening it will be officially returned from July first because the work to prepare food will be done by the hospital and the hospital.
We believe the management of Muhimbili to reach the decision has made enough research and their information they made to the media, they have shown to be satisfied with the results of their research at Muhimbili, they are saying the new procedure in accordance with their research will destroy the lives of brothers.
It is true that the sales have a lot of challenges, long distances to the areas that they come from, for the purpose of vehicles that they get from the sale, but even to patients, the issue of the delay of food and it was a big problem to them.
It is known that there is another drugs, the patient can't use without the first food, or else they will be successful and maybe the effects which he would have been directed by their brothers, causing food services or a patient with a pregnant woman.
We believe that it is a good program that will be done well since patients will get food to time and they can use drugs for a time and maybe it can be a huge amount to patients instead of eating any time now they will be taught.
We believe that every ward at the Muhimbili Hospital did not look for several patients who need to be identified due to their condition, there are those who protect football and those who protect themselves as usual.
The death of a patient is different from eating someone with good health, because the challenges we see and which they did not be put into food to the patients, but those who were getting enough food to patients, but those who had been getting food to those who were not allowed.
When we ask looking for Muhimbili national preparations that are unable to eat themselves, so that hospital has prepared enough health workers to ensure all patients who need to use them have been given enough amount, that we should never come out to be given an amount of work.
