
Three important questions to the most important people nationally on 01 / 09 / 2012.

Today I write about many issues together, I have been a lot of work in the first week of the ninth general meeting of parliament as usual for our work, it is the sessions of the sessions going on to say and sometimes to give advice and instructions for the implementation.

Yes, as a primary work, but as usual we are set aside, although I have refused to sit down (although I have refused the payments) and to fulfill our constitutional responsibility as the parliament according to article 63.

In many issues I have met with in that week, it is a debate about the benefit of workers, the performance report of the railway system of Tanzania and a group photo of the parliamentary committee of public organizations (POAC) and the government's newspaper analysis (POAC) and the government's newspaper (POAC).

About the railway, POAC met with the Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL), Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL), Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) and the NSSF organization who have ideas of investing in the transport sector and transportation.

I have found a lot of thoughts after those sessions with the only way to reduce those thoughts is to write and exchange ideas with the readers of this newspaper, Raiola and let us benefit.

What does it mean to kill or pay for the benefits?

The speaker of parliament, Anna Makinda used that question when he was contributing to his thoughts about the debate of allowing employees from the Social Security Fund.

The employees of various areas in the country, and especially the series of noise about the decision of the Surface and Social Security Fund (SSRA) to prevent the benefit of a lot of citizens, we agree with their anger, especially considering their working environment.

The employees of that restaurant in the country are doing their work in difficult environment, most of them don't be expelled from them, "we are saying that when people have been expelled from the farm," it is saying that when time they will enable them to take their money that does not run in the community fund and those that it had been contributed by their employers, they gave them.

Also, the employees of that scandal are getting diseases and disability of every way and even sometimes to fail to work for Tanzanian youths, they do not love their money and they are not sure of living a long time.

The system of the community service anywhere in the world, are required to answer these issues of the workers of Tanzania. While the employee is contributing in funds (to the NSSF), PPF and LAPF contributes to 10 percent of the income and employer, contributes to the 15 percent of the employees of the public, to contribute to 15 percent and employees of public employees, to contribute to 15 percent.

For example is the health benefits to the organization as NSSF and education to the organization as PPF.
Other benefits include pregnancy, disabilities, and disasters, our Social Security system has no benefits of safety which is usually given as a period and he is looking for employment in other parts and even so, a member when he took all the benefits all the meaning is that he will do all those benefits.

The disability benefits depends on the challenges of suffering at work which the workers of the mines have that if a member will withdraw itself from the benefits or not in the system of 'Art Fund, "why is it he will not be able to be paid this disabled benefit.
Issues of diseases that are treated too can be part of the health benefits to workers.

Every challenge has answers inside the community service system and it is important to make our community system that require our environment for example, we are supposed to have benefits of employment, education benefits to the members and the health benefits to all banks in the country.

Lack of benefits that can be a good solution to now and especially for the youth but it is a solution that will bring great problems to the elderly in the country, if we want to serve the highest number of elders in the country, if we want people to be able to serve all the elderly in the country.

Many people are talking about an average of Tanzanian lives and statistics show that the average of a Tanzanian life is 10 years ago as a result of the situation here in the country the average of life will increase more and therefore the number of retired in the country have a very big number.

Any leader who is looking at the front he cannot inform its citizens to get into the benefits, but it will take a good environment for its citizens to benefit from the system of community park. The leader must have the ability to tell them his citizens even if it is a painful truth and to give them a quick decision quickly to ask people.

However, when we said there should not be no benefit from the benefits, we must ask ourselves what youths want to get into the benefits but the importance is clear that the government does not be paid those funds here in the country every year.

The project of Dodoma University only, the government is alleged to have more than 1 trillion shillings and all the funds in the country, PSPF are required to pay the government more than three trillion shillings due to paying for the benefits to the servants who have left, but they did not contribute to the pension funds.

The government has given its debts and bags to invest in areas with growing economy, to produce employment and increase the value of the pension funds to 70 percent of funds which are to invest in development projects like agriculture, transport and transportation and production of electricity.

Without building faith of members about their contributions, they will decide whether to follow up on the effects of lack of pension funds, or other benefits before there.

On the railway side, I did a session with four public organizations about the transportation sector in the country so as to put good readers, I urge them that in the year 2011, the transportation sector has given a lot of foreign funds worth 600 million American dollars.

These revenue are more than the foreign revenue revenue from the cotton produce, coffee, maize, cloves and Songosongo areas.

This sector can be able to bring three times in those income as well as an expert of our goals ('s striker) in this sector, our port is railway and mid-fielder who will decide to discuss and heads of the sector in order to help improve this sector.

The Tanzania Ports Authority explained how it organized and explained various projects being involved with all those involved with all those involved in order for approximately 23 billion American dollars.

, you were told the plans to build the port of Kigoma and the port of dry land, Katoma in Gogo area in Kigoma Municipality and Pemba Island to serve cargo from Congo and Burundi.

The day before yesterday visited Kivu South of Congo to see great progress in the minerals sector that will need our port through Mombasa and Dar es Salaam city, right now a large number of goods through Mombasa and through four countries, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, and Congo, Kinshasa.

The port of Dar es Salaam will get the journey for more than half a half and it's not only Tanzania, then Congo, Kinshasa today and we will discuss the Musoma port about their cargo from Uganda and educate them.

RAHCO organization is the ones that deals with road safety and they are the owners of all the rail in the country, Tanzania does not have a special plan of the East African Community is not due to our country's plan, then we're going in Arusha to be given, if you are you, an indication that you are taking your colleagues.

Surbana has done the funds in the year 2011 / 12 so as to make sure not to destroy the railway from Tabora to Kigoma and from Mwanza until now.
In accordance to four billion shillings, they did not be given.

In the year 2012 / 13 when they were given recommendations to not mention the internet, they should not affect the internet so as to improve the railway, so as to improve the railway lines that will be taken to the parliament not to be arraigned.

TRL is the operators of central railway in the year 2011 to cater for 260,000 tons of goods, in the year 1990 when I finished class seven in Kigoma Primary School, this organization caused the transportation of 1200 tons to the cargo.
I remember every day we were going to him in the central railway in Kigoma to see the train and the train stations and we know the names of drivers of the train and all the passengers have come to Kigoma two times a week.
Now the plans are there?

In the year 2011 / 12, the Railways Company requested a total of 130 billion shillings in order to implement its business plan for the first year 2015 that has paid 68 billion shillings and until the financial year, it will be given 37 percent of those funds again in the end of the budget.

Despite being tested for money, 1,505 boys were wasting away from the train stations and do not participate in their country not to have all their properties, they have said they have not received the directive by the government.
We were able to give that directive.

In this railway environment, the port cannot have any success.

We shall have been happy with the control of the Minister for Transport, Harrison Mwakyembe about the road safety of Dar es Salaam, we want other ministers in their areas of living in this areas.

However, the transport of Dar es Salaam has not reduced the economy of the country or do not loose the people about road transport here in our country.

The newspapers of the government or the public?

In approximately five years, I led the parliamentary committee of public organizations, one of the organization that I have found with a lot of problems in increasing the success, and TSN.
Every year the organization has presented its accounts in front of the committee, we are meeting with great rule of good governance and especially the areas of purchase and collection of debts.

The big problem we have met with it every year is not having a position of leadership because the executive director of the company made an opportunity for a very long time through the mobile phone plant worth 25 million American dollars that are believed to be from different customers of the company from the services of advertisements.

The government and his organizations is leading for being alleged that this year the committee decided to end up on these issues, and TSN.
Together with them, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, the committee has noted the problem is the government especially the Ministry of Information, Culture, Youth, and Sports.

Why is the executive director of TSN, he is not involved in politics for a lot of interests, the board of directors of the company, with the authority to be put in line without caring about the law of public organizations of the year 1992, the law of the registrar of treasury at the year 2010 and the agreement of establishing the company (not pictured).

The secretary general of the ministry when he was asked, he said that he was given instructions from the government and also those instructions were given a person on how to be the executive director of the organization, he said there is no need for instructions from the country's laws.

The committee advised the creation of a new system of a company where the executive director of the company should be different from the head of Singida East, Tundu Lissu, these issues told me that he told the speaker of the East African Legislative Assembly, Tundu Lissu to be the deputy speaker of the East African Legislative Assembly, Tundu Lissu to be the speaker of Parliament of South Africa) and Mwalimu Nyerere about the investigation of this newspaper.

The secretary general was telling us that according to Meek Mill in the year 1970, the Executive Director must be appointed by President (it is like the president is the executive director).
We shouldn't confirm this on the electronic system because it does not have legal foundations, and you ordered the laws to be followed and that with the authority to confirm the structure of the organization is the registrar of treasury at the Ministry or State House will not be left anywhere in the law that I'm in there.

But he said it is a government of the government or public funds but the newspapers that are published and TSN is the newspaper of the government or public servants if our committee decided to get the taproot and educate them that 25 percent of the company and improve the quality of the company and improve the quality of the company's economy.

The Board of Directors of Technology has been given instructions to ensure that by December this year, the procedures of getting the executive director of that company is complete and it will be different from the business activities of the company and not "
