
Copa America, Euro competition is class.
Technical, keenly, the modern soccer, the style of wedding, prevent and many others, it's a problem to our players from the field.
On the other side, coaches, managers of the technical bench and them are required to change.
Due to the murder of their areas, they are required to get new training every time, to see how to manage the team a big team is to make a new team of victory.
We are supposed to be demolished because the type of soccer is small, the kind of performance with our players is the one and its results are being beaten in the same style.
With the situation, by coaches and players, I think the finals of Copa America in the South American nations, take place in America, is among the important areas to learn.
Apart from those finals, the European Champions League, Euro 2016 are taking place in France by involving 24 countries, also it is a area for learning.
To take place in those competitions, it is clear that there will meet the soccer stars from the European nations and that is the way to get technical and skills.
There are countries like England, France, Italy, Denmark, PSG, Spain, there is no competence of soccer.
For sure it is an opportunity for coaches, players, technical people and other soccer stakeholders, to learn through these matches.
Our modern truth is important every time, and that is why our colleagues are doing well.
Coaches can learn different methods, starting from the goalkeeper up to 11, and then take them the environment at the field for players' work.
That work will be easy for if the players themselves will agree using a long time to look for those matches and to see what their colleagues are doing and they use them to use the field.
All the day all days include Land, what is there is means, you need more to play, how to play football.
For example, in the match between Vodacom Tanzania and Egypt which we were in 2-0 goals the day before yesterday, it is clear that there are areas where the players were required to increase it more.
Our players were scored a goal of the ball that was died, it was added by saying that you should read players before the fights were cast.
If the ball is set down, the referee wants players' to be back in the past and the one who is back behind and scored.
Kitegu has been unable to attain now, coaches, players and the ones that make sure that you use the technical bench, they do not use these competitions to learn and what is happening is to continue with other things.
The discipline of soccer is every time, but we do not want to use those involved in those areas, if you look at Egypt, they are football and knowledge of soccer, now, that is, then, doing what is done.
Making the attempt to increase attacks from front, pass from the way that a person has talked to the name of killing, all of them are there in the Euro which began the day before yesterday and Copa America that is ongoing, it is good to learn.
Every time, Confederation of African Football (CAF) provides a course of soccer coaches to African countries including Tanzania.
They are given training and more are those of the premier league teams but now the training is that if it was in the past.
Using those competitions for coaches, it is an appropriate way to get another new skills and come up with new strength.
It is also an opportunity for coaches to sensitize their players to look for those matches so as to increase their level and also to give them every player for everything done in every area of his number so as to work.
I believe that after those finals and up to the winner, everyone of his area will have got enough class.
67,888 trillion shillings.
