We look at the doctors.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, I agree with a topic which is in front of us.
Our competitive matches has dropped because we have no reason to start from.
Most of our teams are attractive to prevent it's a period that can it be used.
The team to get a small number of young people that are providing them to small teams.
In recent games we have?
Most of the most players know like.
To know that someone you know, most of them do not depend on well when they started playing well and even if you get married, there are many players who don't know but when we are born in our country, we don't know what we will be in a lot of talents and reputation in those regions but it's not there.
Concerned ministry is not lack.
Which we will be able to attain those players who are in Ndevu, players who are in Ndembeji, the players who are in the small league we receive but to get them in the premier league we want to do but it's not know if they are Coastal.
In the meaning of meeting it makes your joy on there is true, the changes are true but in those, the eyes also do you to contribute to a very high topic, I would like to get this way.
They were users who know where in the sports sector.
On my part,?
Mtunga is need.
While handing over the initiative aims to protect us?
What you love you say that I wanted us to do?
Most importantly, my players of Concepts Tanzania?
And other things.
If you start from the skin of the management.
It has improved so much.
Here in the middle of Yanga and Simba get us going on then, but at the Mathew league first, I did not know that it's his talent and since I saw them, you should not know what you are doing so, you find you, maybe you are giving the short time to prepare.
For example, the second child is the real example.
What should I tell me if we feel it?
Twenty million.
To be given preparations for a woman, you are supposed to enter when the refugees are similar to each other and how many of the refugees take place where there will be two hundred thousand, how many times it will be released where you will come out of refugees.
There are some of the workers not I don't know what I got up, I think I will desire to play and I think I would like to play and even if I did not give up the leaders they want.
Maybe be it?
I would like to assure you.
There are a lot of talents the ones that have been there very much, maybe the league is looking for a best player in the world.
If you want what to make sure you make sure you give me the same time you give them to go to do that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, urging their mother to do but they are getting.
Those tried to announce it is a good player doing in which they are doing.
For their talents to die as a lot of talents he is believed to be the first one when you go to the habit, then it will be Floyd Mayweather.
And we are supposed to see a house even though the body gets, but if I got it is the first to use it even if the team is in the fight against Simba but I will look at what this league continues to live as a reason that we can be nine in the ball and we will continue with me.
The late God bless Tanzania that you are good, I don't know that they can be so much but to do a difference, something will go to the same way.
