CCM will take a parliamentary seat in Moshi town?
Sei, 10, 2015.

During the campaign heading to the general elections that will take place on October 25, this year, competing in all the parliamentary constituencies in the country, the new speed of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has raised fear among the parliamentary leaders.
Since the start of elections of many parties' system in 1995, it is only two constituencies in the country of Moshi town and Karatu town which put the record of directed by the opposition members (parliament) for 20 years.
In Moshi town region, member of parliament (retired), Philemon Ndesaburo, led a total of that region since 1995, 2015 and in Karatu town, Doctor Kizza Besigye, he led between the year 1995, after being left to Pastor Israel, 2010-2015.
Candidates who contest for the parliamentary position in Moshi town region is together with David Elisa Mosha (CCM), who is the popular businessman of Dar es Salaam, Jaffary Michael (CHADEMA) and Bambucha (ACT-Wazalendo).
The fear of parliamentarians.
The information that was found out of that province are required to have high leaders of that opposition party are hopeful of losing the province due to several reasons, including the low conflict that is evident that the party for a long time.
Reports are hopeful that the conflict is due to the previous step by Philemon Michael as a presidential candidate to inherit the seat at a public rally without sessions of the party to sit and discuss.
"The step made conflicts among leaders of the district and province leaders and the party members who want to contest for that position although later on that issue it made up on the strength of Mzee Ndesamburo,"
"There is also a situation of fear among the candidates vying for council candidates and the parliamentary candidate, especially when they are leading the Moshi Town Council about the interests of those issues," said our information officer.
Another fear has been explained that the private ability of the CCM candidate, Davis Elisa Mosha will be able to unite community groups, as youths and women, and also to stand on the stage and build a big political competition.
"Different from the previous years, CCM had a lot of candidates and also there were big conflicts inside their party, but the current situation is different, that is a different time, that is a different thing, that is now one thing."
That "Mosha" has called me very much, first he has enough money to run the campaign and also has the ability to stand on the stage, and to build a motion and has been accepted quickly in all community groups and to be the host of Moshi (because of Mchaga), "he explained.
The parliamentary secretary of Kilimanjaro Province, Basil Mramba, confessed that in an interview with Raia Mwema, his party is being faced with great opposition in those campaigns and can be able to assume the speed of CCM and to try that there is no conflict inside that party.
"Who is saying there is no conflict if there is no conflict where our parliamentary candidate was reported with all legal sittings of the party and he won the opinion polls to be done, on the claims that are not any foundation," said Lema.
"We are like that party we cannot confirm you even the strength of all parties that have nominated their candidates, should be CCM or ACT-Wazalendo party (TLP), we are giving them the respect to the organizers of our opponents," he said.
On his part, the parliamentary candidate, Jaffary Michael, explained that he cannot get even a bit about the launch of CCM's campaign and that the great issue is to run the old Taarab campaign.
"The citizens of Moshi will investigate on the ones that we have learned in the period of five years we are leading in their council, have done much, in the year 2010, the money has been built for development projects was 20,000 million shillings," he said.
And Ndesamburo, popular by the name Ndayisenga says he believes that they will continue to lead that province because of several competitive challenges.
The speed of CCM.
After the "opposition party" for 20 years in that province, the Revolutionary Party now has been able to come up with the speed of the new strategy to bring him to the province from the parliament of parliament.
The symptoms that CCM is prepared to save that province is a step of bringing a big national team for national leaders who are also in the campaign team of the presidential candidate of Moshi town, that took place at the heroes grounds.
