Lowassa as he did in Ukawa.
Brightiles 12, 2015.

On the night of July 10, 2015, Edward Lowassa received the phone that he known as the second side of the phone he spoke with a heavy voice in Freeman Mbowe, the chairperson of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
The "Mzee, I thank you to pray for Ukawa," is the short message that Mbowe bought Lowassa on that day.
It is the talks between July 10, that is finally the first prime minister of the fourth government in the decision to join the parliament on July 28 this year, approximately two weeks after his name was removed from the race within CCM.
What took place until Lowassa decided to attain that decision?
Until now, they are very few people that know, especially when Lowassa reached that decision to leave the Party of Revolution that he has ever talked from behind that he will not be able to move from.
However, the investigation of approximately two weeks of this newspaper, has revealed to reach these events they were waiting for Lowassa to pray to parliament and finally be approved to be the only candidate from four parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa).
One of the top leaders of Ukawa who talked with this newspaper with conditions of not being mentioned by the name, he said before Mbowe has not called for Lowassa, first he was impressed by the secretary general of the Citizens Party (CUF), Seif Shariff Hamad.
"Maalim Seif is the first to convince Mbowe to look for him for Lowassa if CCM will help him in the race for Maalim Sif I'm Lowassa and Mbowe are supposed to be very easy to speak.
"Said Maalim Seif was on his position as Lowassa in Tanzania mainland (he was the chief minister of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, and he knows that someone who was known as Lowassa gets to the opposition, has a lot of strength.
"Earlier Mbowe was unable to agree with the proposal of Seif because of the previous history of parliament and Lowassa, then I think he will leave he will leave his fellow leaders about that issue, Mbowe was called on true.
"Maalim Seif called a lot and seen in the end, Mbowe insisted that yes, in the previous steps, he did not involve even some of the top leaders of his party," said our source from Ukawa.
After the news of the name Lowassa's reports of the list of five names adopted by the executive committee to go for votes at the CCM executive council's meeting (NEC), that's when Mbowe made his historic phone to Lowassa.
He wanted not to give secret of what is going between him by Lowassa, Mbowe went to other sessions to continue as usual and that's when the CCM Secretary General, Professor Ibrahim Lupumba, and agreed that Slaa should be the candidate of Ukawa.
When you know what is going behind by it, Mbowe urged his colleagues in Ukawa not to announce their candidate for "the time it allows them.
The running mate of Ukawa from the National Examinations Council for Ukawa, Doctor Emmanuel Makaidi, explained that the period of waiting to announce that candidate is difficult.
We were told when we were told that there is a big person that he joins Ukawa and let's wait, there was no one who is supposed to do, "said Makaidi in his talks with Raia Mwema.
In his talks with this newspaper, Makaidi insisted that the only person in Ukawa is able to explain more in details where Lowassa was lucky to join that union is Mbowe.
"If you want to get the whole tape of that event, look for him, Freeman Mbowe (Mbowe). He is the one who knows everything since the beginning, although we are all we're together and we have agreed in that," said Makaidi.
The situation is for Lowassa.
This newspaper has been told that the decision by Lowassa moving to parliament and the opposition in general, did not be received well with each one in his family.
However, Raia Mwema has been told by one of the close people with his family that the politician told her family together and explained about that decision.
"Lowassa is close to his family as they are together with explained to the reasons for him to take that decision and not that all they have agreed with him in his decision but they agreed to support him and that's when he started sessions with Mbowe.
Apart from his family, Lowassa also got great opposition from his political song, the head of Aziz Abood, who was alleged to convince him to change his decision up to few hours before the member of parliament of Monduli, gave his term to parliament.
