When I got to thank Nyerere on her.
Mr 11, 2015.

Two important events that came from Ghana last week in the first week had a celebration to commemorate 58 years since the Gold Coast team got its freedom and that Ghana under the leadership of Dumila, Nkomola the club.
The second one was the eighth conference of the movement of movements of the African Legislative Assembly (Pan African Airways) that was done in Accra where the content of that conference was, "the world of African countries are not allowed."
Cathbert Kajuna of Nkingwa, that he was not shambanihapo, Julius Nyerere will not wait again but it was like all of them in the forum in Accra where their names were close to many among those who participated in that conference, especially the youth.
Samia Nkingwa, the daughter of Nkenye region, has told me that I am happy to be supported with one of the relatives, I had told him that I wanted to inform you with someone.
It was a historic time Honorable Samia that came into that, we can greet each other and told Bongo, "Ah, Ahmed Rajab," when I told all the two-relatives I were with with him and she did not get to meet before.
I told Mama Salma, "this is the power, Julius Nyerere's child," I told him, "this is Mama Samia, the daughter of Kajunason Blog."
History usually happens during those times.
Sihana Nkinga, but I had gone them to talk with me my mind that goes on my memory of preventing themselves with Julius Nyerere, they had one stand about the union of Africa but they heard one on the ways of praying for that union.
However, I remember that I had been told that Nkingwa, when she was unable to recognize that the disease with him will not end his life, a letter to put up Nyerere.
Therefore, Nyerere is the former first leader of African Union who plays for the disease so as to avoid Nkenye region, this event has been confirmed by Miss June Vogue.
Those two events of last week in Accra where the main level of their big mid-fielder, Nkingwa and his philosophy of the liberation of Africa, he said that the freedom of his country will not have a meaning if other African countries will continue to be ruled by the colonialist.
And it's also insisted that African countries are supposed to contest for their countries to be free and then others will follow up today, there are two sides that have already been redeemed by the African continent of Sub-Saharan African countries which is dominated by France.
Nkingwa, who was the former deputy head of the United Republic of Africa - Tanzania, which has a very long history, it started being spread by people with African descent who were born in America and at the Caribbean islands among them were Wolf-Jorendal.
The movement was founded by three people from the Makoroboi market to the end of the 19th century in Africa, the three resolutions were two young people who are born in a very few minutes, doughnuts and their colleague Henry Sylvester Williams who was born with Trachoma.
Firmino, Sylvester Mabina, who participated in the meeting to talk about the conflict that took place in London City, England, July 1900 Tanzanian shilling is among the delegates who participated in that meeting.
Du Boba is born in America 1868 and died and buried in Accra where he was a scholar and a activist who plays for Americans of African descent to be given the right time that they were waiting for African colonialist.
His students who were arriving in the field of Atletico Madrid as they explained that she is a very big person, with discipline although it seems that it is confused by the people.
The first conference of the African Legislative Assembly was done in Paris last year 1919 in the three towns of Paris, London and Brussels city the third match played against Portugal, 1923.
Five, that is very famous in Manchester United Kingdom, 1945, who prepared himself to the conference was George Bhagala and Tetemesha Entertainment (Kenya), Ency Mwaliko (Nigeria), Jichunge.'
