
A student of Huria University, for now.

Story, Denis Ssebo, to listen to him.

A girl, Gabriel who is 20 years old, a student from Eden Hazard, in Kibaha district, Coast Province, has been found dead in a room for someone who has been arrested, Hafidh Mohammed.

The event took place on April 26, this year and brought a crowd that she was surprised by the girl whom they got from the late is alleged to be the host of Makambako City, Njombe Province.

Speaking to our journalists the day before yesterday, mother of Hafidh who is also a member of the area, Zainab Saidi said his son told the occurrence of the incident in the morning before yesterday, he did not know if he had a romantic relationship with that girl because she was not a woman who had a child.

I am very true, I had not met any report about their relationship with this student, I didn't read this morning with my youth while he seems to take place if I tried to get married but it is impossible, "said the mother.

He was a bullet in the university.
The students of that university that provides business education and information, they refused to mention their names that they told the newspaper that, the late was surprised to arrive in Dar es Salaam to investigate his condition who was admitted at Amana Hospital, April 23, this year.

However, they said the cause of her husband gave a lot of questions, as different from how it depends on that he would have carried a big bag of clothes to change, he left her with his mobile card only, a situation that he was going to be going on.

They said three days later, they have been successful and huge shock after the virginity of them will bring information to the death of what happened in the neighborhood of that boy that lives in the neighborhood.

The neighborhood did not know.
The neighbors who talked with this newspaper said that them was not the first time to see that girl, because time after time he was surprised when he was not coming from outside.

They said that all the times, that man was the host he was coming from outside and went to buy food.

Police attend a body in a hospital.
The police force arrived at the scene to hold that body being a bomb in bed and it has no injury, but on his edge, the charges were found together with his skill.

Rumors has it from the neighbors in relation to the shivered, some of them said that they may be used in the attempt to get pregnant, others said it is possible for the girl, he got the knot soon as the man went to help the deceased getting affordable.

The regional police commander of Pwani province, SAKhajida Kopa, confirmed the occurrence of the incident and said the efforts of looking for the man are going on while doctors continue with their investigation so as to identify the source of that death.
