
Chihira has explained the importance of the agricultural sector.

August 24, 2014.

Minister of Agriculture, Food and Administration.
Engineer Christopher Chihira has explained the strategies.
That was done by that ministry for improving the agricultural sector in the country.
Speaking to the Majira newspaper yesterday in Dar es Salaam Chihira said the ministry of agriculture for a long period has passed through the challenge but currently.
It brings hope due to the speed that is needed to benefit farmers from all levels.
Chihira explained that they have been educating the farmers and investors about land.
And the ones that are spread for big investors has invested in the land of Tanzania.
You comes out and given to small-scale farmers, something that is not true.
"Those are a report that you have no fact that so much, it is dangerous to the reputation of the primary country who are investors to arrive in large numbers so that we find success by getting employment and even to increase the economy of the country," he said.
Minister Chihira said that currently the government is in various activities of ensuring that agriculture in the country is continued including talking to investors in order.
Farmers.
"I believe at now, we should know that we have talked to the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TIC) who have benefited from the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TIC) who are taking them to the land, then they get the investors who will make land remains to be government," said Chihira.
He continued to explain that, "that TIC has approximately twenty thousand shillings at Nyamwezi in Morogoro province.
And 20,000 shillings, they distributed for the agricultural sector, will be built for agriculture for rice, where investors have started to come out in large numbers.
Chihira has asked the TIC to cooperate with the agricultural ministry so as to improve the hope of farmers from overseas countries.
Give up as a result of agriculture having a lot of challenges.
However, Chihira said that there is a challenge in reaching the plan of Big Results Now (Big Results Now), but we are being satisfied by the farmers now to start understanding the importance of the program.
