
Ukawa wants Maalim Seif to be the vice president.
APR, 03 / 2015.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), has proposed that TFF should be the first vice president of Zanzibar, Seif Shariff Hamad, should be the presidential running mate in the general elections of this year, Almighty God is evident.
However, the proposal of the chairmanship of that party from Maalim Seif, is that the Citizens' Association (CUF), for explanations that the time to discuss those issues are still ongoing.
This newspaper explains that the proposal of parliament was presented to the chairman of parliament, Freeman Mbowe, in a special session of parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) that took place in Zanzibar at the end of last week.
The senior leaders of Ukawa from the CUF party, parliament, NCCR-Evolution and National Parks (NLD), met in the city for the purpose of looking for ways of that union being involved the candidates in this election.
"The first person to give the proposal of Maalim Seif vying for the vice president of the union was Mbowe and later the vice chairperson, Professor Abdallah Safari, also touched on that issue.
However, those discussions are not so far because CUF said the time to discuss the issue is because Ukawa are not supposed to agree everything about the parliamentary and therefore the presidential issue can wait, "said the source of this newspaper that spoke with conditions of not being mentioned by the instructions that it is not the official spokesperson of the union.
One of the leaders of Ukawa who was in Zanzibar during that meeting, said that issue can be difficult to agree with the CUF because of different political and economic reasons.
"Political, if CUF will inform you that you should give the presidential candidate and it should give him a running mate and it will give me why it's first, if my person is Maalim Seif, will have to come from CUF and moving to parliament.
"This is because according to the law of the country, the presidential candidate and his running mate is a must for him in one party for now, Maalim Seif called him from CUF and that is why there is difficult for a short time, I can say that it did not lie!
", but also do not forget that the party that will be done by the presidential candidate is what will be involved in the whole country to ask for votes and what should be seen now because CUF will not have a presidential candidate, because CCM will not have a presidential candidate.
In the economy, there is also a loss of parties that are usually given by considering the numbers of presidential votes and those of parliamentary seats, it is also a large number of parliamentarians in special seats, because it takes a little grant from the party.
"The problem I think if you will be like that, they have been like CCM, these days they want every region to see that they are leading and they are leading the party and they are leading them to make sure that they are leading and they are leading in the meeting.
If Maalim Seif did not agree with that idea of parliament, it means that he was forced to vie for the presidency of Zanzibar in the general elections this year, which would have been the first time for his first half years ago.
After CUF refused to discuss the issue, it was rumored to discuss the decision of that session and that "the delegates continued with that session which at the end of the parliamentary seat will be held in the election of this year.
Already Ukawa has given out the success of that session by being able to agree with one candidate of the union in all the constituencies in the country rather than 30, six of the province of Dar es Salaam, although it is considered a solution.
Senior leaders of Ukawa who attended the meeting of Zanzibar is the chairpersons of those parties, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba (CUF), James Mbatia (NCCR-Revolution), Emmanuel Makaidi (NLD) and Mbowe.
The possibility of Ukawa came into the general elections together, it depends on more and how Tanzanian will be able to agree on the party levels and the presidency before getting into the elections.
