The way you come here is a person that you can give them income and not knowing how it gets to us, even if I was walking, I was to my family, and I walk for a new family to speak for that new family.
The winner of the famous awards as a pose.
You've been removed from my wife every district.
I don't know the name of contraception I went to Fernando Torres.
And this will be heard.
We are doing so much UNPFA, he wants you to change him and joy?
This is that especially the pedestrians, the head of Mkama district has given a very great help to eliminate our village's head, which may be your partner to get our security district and we have to try to stop the profile of us to be high.
We were very close to all our bodies that we have bought livestock in order to build a good modern house and we will help them but we will sell our systems if we build a modern house as the order of our district commissioner that he said in order to improve their houses.
Women and Ukawa are being left behind in using it well the opportunity for construction of a house wherever you're very disturbing but on the fire is not funny you will make them get married.
I sell at one thousand shillings to welcome Mister.
From the environment.
That issue in an environment once the husband's issues on construction of modern houses is by bottles that is currently in a person to continue having a good condition in the life we have in the past, and even children get a chance to educate even our children, but we are trying, we request all God to cooperate with us in order to achieve life that we have in.
He wanted to attack off the time he is very disturbing, my child went to the university we got but I took it from the university.
Segerea.
They are saying anything?
Coal is found.
Where they should come!
They will increase because the work is helping as our construction is helping us because our construction is helping as we put up residential houses so that we can be able to help women living in our country even by switching off the fees that do not meet here.
Now in this, we request you have never met?
Together with having a lot of prayers for women and youth, it is expected to continue with this plan of better houses so that they can continue to be a lot of income.
However, some of the citizens are still a big challenge to the small number of agricultural produce which is the main pillar for work of patriotism and faith that we are still an obstacle we we need to fear as we build houses for the same time we have.
And the witches.
They are coming to try and let it get a lot, the idea of that you will build houses to be shaken, so they can stay, because many youths who came out to build modern houses and many of them know what they have started to build modern houses and most of them know it.
That is where the groom has been found.
And I know that after five years you will be able to prevent or not come at a house again, maybe if you use a person that doesn't know your natural gas and later he will know it.
