Pluijm has remained with Yanga.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

The head coach of Yanga, Hans Van Pluijm has said that he doesn't know anything even if his fans have brought up a new coach he will be ready to leave.

Yesterday in one sports newspaper it was reported to arrive with the new coach George Lwandamina who is alleged to have been brought by the Yanga Shule Yetu 'company that is paid the Yanga Club.
For more than a month now, there have been rumors of Yanga to change the technical bench on the claims of getting displeased with the performance of the team at the moment.
Yanga is the second position in the premier league with 21 points behind Simba leading with 29 points.
However, Yanga won the championship of the two seasons for two consecutive years to play in the quarter-finals of the African Confederation Cup, the coach who currently has a contract with Zesco United Club of Zambia, is alleged to have come up with the last talks with Yanga before going back to Zambia to set up well and then return to the champions of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.
While speaking yesterday with this newspaper, Pluijm admitted that he did not think about the coming reports of the new coach to the media, "I don't have any information from the leaders or chairman (Yusuf Manji), but I don't know that if they will have reached that decision, I will be ready to leave, a life is going on," said Pluijm who has been a friend of Yanga fans.
When he was asked about that, the Deputy Secretary General of Yanga, Baraka Deusdedit said there is no report of the arrival of a new coach and if there is anything about their technical bench will be announced officially.
"The issue of coach we cannot be able to enter the contract with a new coach when Pluijm still has a contract, but if there is anything that we will put it open," he said.
Pluijm is being faced with doubt that he has been forced to add a two-year contract to coach the team at the beginning of this season.
