

With Benedict Liwenga, Dar es Salaam.
Tanzania's economy is very big, it is so much dependent on agriculture that has employed more than 80 percent of contraception?
However, in addition to employ young people, agriculture is still getting little in the National Identification Authority.
According to the book of the economy of the nation for the year 2014, agriculture has contributed to 23 percent in the country's income and approximately 30 percent in the sales of outside.
Large and quality standards have shows an opportunity to make productive business.
Moreover, the growth of the crops is caused by an increase in speed by the number of people in the world depends on the increase in food needs and sell in foreign markets.
By recognizing the importance of those opportunities, the Institute of Social Research and Community (ESRF) made training to citizens about the new opportunity in agriculture.
During the training the participants who were educated about the farm takes place in agriculture without using soil, entrepreneurship, rearing fish, in dams, tourists and stalls, food and cold drinks.
The director of ESRF, Doctor Tausi Kida, says the growth of technology in the world has increased many opportunities in various development sectors as well as agriculture.
He says that they did research in the Bukoba town, Sengerema, Bunda, Ileega and Nyasa to learn more about the opportunities that are in agriculture.
"Technology has enabled farmers in various parts of the world not to depending on the rains, farmers to use a small area of land to produce many benefits, farmers, so they can get various information about modern farming from the professionals so as to help get the much and good health," says Doctor Kida.
Poultry farming.
The senior health officer from the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, John Mapunda, says that due to the increase of people and community development, the needs of the fish have continued to increase the day up to day, thus causing the fish from water sources.
"In order to deal with this shortage, we are to mobilize the private sector to enter into the fish market to meet the needs of the market where we are to mobilize the citizens to use new technology of stalls which can enable many fish in a small area," says Mapunda.
The officer says the fish that are studying through a modern test is 10 tons, but there is more opportunities of 200,000 dollars, he said the objectives is to produce 100,000 tons by the year 2021.
