That was given to the pre-term.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

The coach of Yanga, Hans Van Pluijm has said the pressure they were with its players in the match against Azam was the source of lack of good results with Yanga and Azam in the Premier League at the end of last week at Uhuru Stadium and a goalless draw.

Speaking to journalists after the game the day before yesterday, the defending champions of the league said that every side had the pressure on that match because both teams made good results due to doing badly in its matches.
The results of the day before yesterday made Yanga to remain in the third position with 15 points and Azam being the 10th position after attaining 12 points.
Simba is leading the league by having 23 points and Majimaji is last with six points, Pluijm said his squad was playing well in the first half and to make up very four positions but they failed to use them and that Azam FC defeated them in the second half since they played well and making a chance to fail to use them.
"The game had a high speed, each one of us wanted to have good results, now if it is making a chance, it does not use it," he said.
Pluijm said they will continue planning for the next games to ensure they are doing well as Yanga is expected to travel today with a plane heading to Mwanza where it will have a game against Toto Africans the day after playing with Kagera Sugar last week.
The coach of Azam FC Selestine Mwesigwa speaking about those results said that he is not worried with his task, since the coach Zuttah won't support the team this season, which seems to be unable to deal with its system a situation that contributes to rise up to day as a result of getting bad results.
I am the leadership of the club we were talking to know the problems in the team and sometimes we have been injured, there are a lot of challenges, but we continue to fight with the day not many will go back to be well, "he said.
He said that every game has been facing a problem of some weaknesses and promised to work on and give joy to the fans of that team in the games that are involved.
Speaking about the game against Yanga, he said he was going to work with a draw with the team that they meet will have long-term experience, "Hernandez said some issues will be good because many players who had already started going back to the squad.
