
The controversy of TDPF.
Jide 17, 2013.

The defense force of the citizens of Tanzania (JWTZ) has announced that it is spreading reports on the possibility of being faced in a surprise attack that caused his police officers in the Indian Ocean, Sudan, that caused seven deaths.

Those reports are indicating, it is caused by the fact that it is not a normal incident to the army forces to have a attack with an aim of murder like what happened in that incident of Darassa in the country.

The Spokesperson of TPDF spokesperson, Colonel Ngubiagai has said that the environment of that event takes every reason for being inspected and already had sent the former team for investigation.

"We have been Sudan for approximately five years and it has never been there for any incident.

"Then, the one was to pass through the attack in fighting has said that these means they have planned to manslaughter.

Makatu said that left to Good Citizen that Tanzania has sent a request to the United Nations (UN) to be advised on how to run security in the area so as to go hand in hand with the current environment.

According to the current procedures, the police force to protect the Almighty God are not supposed to carry the heavy weapons and they don't have an airplane to help them with the modern vehicles of the press (rhinos) something that appeared to be dangerous for now.

"If people with heavy weapons facing them and you have no weapon, there's no need for you to know how they have already sent efforts to make those reforms so that we can be able to do this work fast," he said.

Mgawe said because the situation was safe in the streets before the end of last week, the old procedure was is good but after that incident, things must change.

When he was asked if the killing of these noises have been caused by having poor weapons, when he answered me, "I think earlier that even so, we are looking for us because we are searching for us because we are looking at afresh."

In another step, Colonel said the bodies of the police who died was taken to South Sudan's capital city, Brenda Kharono.

He said it is common for the police who were killed in the UN's operation to undergo the investigation so as to identify if the deaths of deaths are mentioned are the ones that are available.

He said the bodies of the police is expected to return to the country at any time from now and that they are going back to the country who are headed to the Lugalo Army and the day after being released officially at the force headquarters (stronghold).

He said that one of the officers who were injured in the event were being transported yesterday to Brenda Kharono.

The procedure of giving information.

Up to now, TPDF has not given a list of names or pictures of the police who were killed in that incident due to the procedures of the army.

According to the military procedures in the world, just after the police came to war, the first reports are given a close relatives of the deceased before the public will be informed that this is to prevent the ability to get news through other organs.

One of the JWTZ officers who are currently in the department of honor, left his fellow citizens yesterday that the police who died in the chest, a procedure that has been set already.

First, the report will be channeled in activities that they come from in their meetings, administration officers will look at the put in place and know their brothers, relatives, and close friends that can be given information.

Just after knowing they are, the ruling officers will also go themselves on the houses of those police and give information and also them are the ones who will help them about the procedures that follow.

Tanzania has a total of 850 shillings in a squad of protecting peace in Sudan.
