My brothers, the Almighty God rest his skill of introducing this topic because in my good brother.
He supports below while in this topic of our national team.
I think they still have weaknesses in that newspapers, but for preparing programs is this national team for time to time, we can use political funds to get the leadership.
Therefore, it will not be a language that is continuing to look at if you check in the African region.
I think that they got the maize that is currently in this projects or other youth groups, when we want them to go down in their teachings even when we are doing a long time because we are supposed to use these experts because I have been able to use these experts because I have not been successful because we are very close to my brothers.
Because there are aspects that do not have.
The leadership of a long time.
The whole leadership.
They are looking for a place.
We cannot continue to be only.
Preparations for the youth.
We can have a team of youth.
Still our team is still there.
The nation was found.
It becomes a big number of people with the same age, we are holding the top position.
Children of our youth we are doing so that we find children to fill in the position.
This year.
Our youth were required to be.
And games to look for him but you have heard that I have ever been seen in the same way.
We will be able to have professionals and experts to check so in competitions we could not get the youth who could go to go and listen to the teachings, but we want these diseases to find Yanga soccer player and we're looking at the first round in the first round.
If you know here we will happen?
First.
Look for a good work.
Pray for Simba and Yanga fans fighting people when you believe there are different from winning, there is still a competition that will not have a player to make sure that a player can increase there but they do.
That is a team be like one day and it's a good thing is good.
Others are there.
Therefore, the moment says that these types of laws will be productive or not productivity because of the preparations and the election of the national team.
I thank you so much here to this star, our brother Timotheo Mwakifulefule, with the intention of getting married, it doesn't give me the air to be early in Shinyanga and later it's start good faith in all things because.
The whole process has been able to register her as it means that it is making a mistake, we are making a surprise where we are doing so much for the stakeholders in the province of Shinyanga and calm, I have been happy to be the players of national stand as well.
We will get a very good contribution here all of us that they are saying that your work is because you are the child for now, she will give them a game to move forward then it was caused by starting with this topic close to my brothers, the national team can follow or without problems.
It can't see if we will follow up if we will follow up players from different places taking part of the place.
Although not Tanzanians we have.
We are looking for sports, but when we have started something that will not be avoided if you are smoking cigarettes, just after some time it has already been found.
We have no need to be patient that we are going for a long time is that we are making anything related to me.
