When they ended a mistake in minerals, we do not pollute the gas.
FDL against 1st, 2013.

A few years from now, Tanzania's economy will start depending on more energy of gas that we have of statistics show that we have a gas pipeline to an amount of one hundred thousand (5), 40 trillion and this is a very big amount.

The primary thing for us as a nation is to look at which way we will learn from this big gas system and it is clear that we have prepared himself enough time during the discovery of minerals such as gold and our nation has not been successful.

I agree on the current situation of a gas economy that is used to come up with the train which is looking for passengers, it is a must that we get to the train that it will take our country to be among the countries with central economy.

There are primary things that we have like the nation and people are a must that we work with and that we are going to do and we are going to, where we are going to and we are going to be discussed by the ones that will be discussed by the meeting.

We, in the Rex Energy company, for example, we will start something that is called Power Breakfast, cannot get rid of this meeting, scholars, activists, politicians, government people, ordinary citizens and public institutions will meet with various issues concerning energy and economy.

This meeting will be taking place once in the month and invited they will discuss better regulations of gas and meetings, it will be followed by popular regulations that have been known by the name Kocha, and below the regulations, the speakers were not supposed to be told their names or spoken that they said on information outside the meeting.

The goal is to give the speakers the freedom to speak everything with great transparency, without fear of being quoted saying in the media or any place, we need to see the transparency and increase in the issue.

I believe that more than other things, people need to speak about these gas issues, this is something that did not happen when we get in the mining economy and I think it is one of the reasons why we are not affected by our wealth of minerals.

There are issues of talking about example, in the contracts of minerals companies, about the existence of sections that have shown the companies have a responsibility to provide care (educate them) in that sector so that they can benefit from those opportunities.

Until now, I don't know that it has taken place in which way I don't know how many gods are made from the training that were given by the minerals companies.

In the economy of minerals or gas, there are issues that are important that we are doing so that the nation has come out, for example, it is important to know how the nation has come to ensure there is an error in the sector and other sectors.

While the minerals companies are going to the country, they had come up with many things from them to come to their machines, their employees and others who come to their food as a nation, it is a must we know where these companies will help the growth of other sectors of production like agriculture and small industries.
