When you go to the press you'll be careful, it's the first time you came without a challenge that is seen without the police getting tired of an example as a person known as you.
The word that I wrote is the person who affects the child.
For now, you find the most of the two things in the first time so two others.
For a woman and the purpose is wrong, you don't know what you want at one thing because it had the government to serve his support and that is why you're blocking him so that when you go against the police blew himself.
When he saw Listen Mwezi Song and let's go to the date it is God who we have, that we are, is the gift to end to many weeks.
When you go up with this sentence, what I mentioned is that when you go to the environment there is that when you go down there is a confirmation that you have passed through ZECO, but when I comes it is true that you have passed through ZECO, but when I comes it is possible for you to go for example, it is supposed to be careful.
At the beginning of the procedure it was good.
It was going on when I am taking your sim cards that you need directly and I have ever been in the news of the news.
But by time, I continued to reduce when we see things.
Similarly, I remember this day I went to me I was told that you are required to start the police and the station to inspect your instrument and to know what I was chosen and to see what I was chosen and going back but I want to see it depending on the reasons.
I noted that let me feel that he is going to the ministry.
Nick has approximately five thousand shillings.
I urge you an interview of five years which during this time because as to be approved, they also told me that the meeting is because of the inspection of a motorcycle.
Therefore, it does a meaning that you visit, to inspect my website.
It means that the government or for the purpose of the citizens is in order for the interests of there were citizens.
Due to the father of Mister if you want a lot of questions.
Then it's good and have a lot of joy, I put in Iringa a meeting that I explained me to me, he told me that it is the first thing that will lead you to me when I saw it as the second thing that is taking them to Grafro!
He told Mister if you don't know your head, being that only you pay ten thousand shillings.
If you have come with a motorcycle.
Let's go and inspect them if it is not same as parents I will look for me for you.
If the drivers' motorcycle riders have not been completed since it does not mean that it does not affect the farm as it did not wait, maybe if you get married, there is a problem what does it will go to pay again in the sea.
It becomes a problem because or you failed to utilize it.
The preparations will go down.
Arrest him.
To do a driver that was able to give money without stopping.
To leave but I was surprised when I was born.
That this change is a person who does it mean to read the problems like this then.
The look of God rest.
