
Dar don't want.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

The residents of Dar es Salaam are blaming the union of big government more than other citizens of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, has been known.
According to the recent research popular by the name and listening to Dar that took place in June this year, four out of ten students of Dar es Salaam were tested from more government system more than all other areas of Tanzania.

In the research of the citizens of the citizens that took place on February this year, and question the households of Tanzania mainland and the one to the people of Zanzibar that took place at that time when a point to the households of Zanzibar, the answers were under that of Dar es Salaam.

In research that took place in February, 28 percent of the citizens of Tanzania Mainland, showed interest in one government's system and only two percent of Zanzibar benefited from that government's system.

Citizens of Dar es Salaam through listening to Dar es Salaam have shown a difference between them and their colleagues in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar because a few who need the existence of a three government system.

For example, the research of the citizens of the citizens showed that 22 percent of the citizens of the mainland want the union of three governments with 46 percent of Zanzibar requesting the system also to be 20 percent of the residents of Dar es Salaam who were interviewed by that research is the ones that said they want to three governments.

All the three researches in the mainland, Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam takes place through an interview with phone where people from the households (family) different from are asked questions concerning various issues.

Different as usual, in the research of this journey to listen to Dar, questions asked were same as those asked from February to their colleagues in Mainland and Zanzibar.

In another area, the citizens of Dar es Salaam have also shown not to continue with the union more than those colleagues in Zanzibar and Mainland - where seven percent of citizens who were interviewed said they are ready to break the meeting.

In the research of the citizens of the citizens, regarding the 1547 households of the mainland and Lungangira who is when the people of Zanzibar explained about 445 students, two percent in the islands and four percent of the mainland are the ones that led the support of the union.

In a question if citizens want the system that is currently ongoing in Dar es Salaam, where 16 percent wanted the system continue, while Zanzibar was five percent and Mainland Tanzania led by having 25 percent.

The research to listen to Dar is the project that is being implemented by this newspaper of Mke Mwema, by partnering with the Social Welfare Institute (TASWE Saccos).
In the previous days, this research had been done by EXIM Bank of Dar es Salaam which is still holds research between the citizens and the people of Zanzibar.

These research are the first African Continent to be done by using mobile phones.
