
The Parliament of Sweden have learned in the environment.

It has been written by Prisca Tembo.

It has been reported, 03 / 2016, the Permanent Committee of Agriculture and Environment of the Sweden Parliamentary Committee that is made up of five big political parties, has started a six-day tour, to learn of environmental cleanliness in the country.

The committee whose 14 delegates led by the Democratic Republic of Democratic Republic of Democratic Republic of Democratic Republic of Democratic Republic of Democratic Republic of Democratic, Green Resources and Democratic Party, started a tour in the country yesterday and today have met the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo wanting to know more opportunities of investment and also wanted to know more opportunities of investment in the country.
Those members of parliament have also been accompanied by the ambassador of Sweden here in the country, Katoma, where in Arusha province, he will visit the National Social Security Fund (TANAPA) and the Tarangire National Park (TANAPA) and the government of that country.
The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Gambo has urged Sweden to help in implementing development projects in the councils of that province, especially in water projects, environment, energy, conservation, wildlife and other community projects in order to invest in various economic and social sectors.
That committee also is controlling and inspecting various projects being funded by the Sweden Government Authorities in Tanzania. The government for many years, has had the cooperation of development and Tanzania, including the implementation of big electrical projects of the Kihansi, Mtera.
Regarding the farming state of coffee, the assistant administrative secretary of the economy and production Mali, Harith Suoys has told that committee that the production of that product has been destroyed due to various reasons.
He mentioned the reasons that contributed to the drop in the production of that product, between the year 2009 with 2014, that it is an increase in people's homes in the production areas, to rise at the cost of water production, change in the country and go down to the price of the world in the world market.
