
Man birthday is a careful newspaper for all good citizens to fly on 1st, 2012 by Good Citizen.

Today Wednesday, October 31st, 2012, the newspaper of Mwema should end five years since its establishment.

We thank all the stakeholders of this newspaper keenly, they have shown the appropriate time to actions as it is the slogan of this newspaper explained the truth, "this five years to be supported by different stakeholders to be professional and even business is not a good thing.

Basically we are proud of all our stakeholders who have been on the forefront to recognize the borders of our business and their daily activities, that on our part, it's not only stakeholders of this newspaper keenly to our citizens, but also stakeholders of media freedom in the country and even outside the country.

They are part of the history of this newspaper of Mke Mwema, these stakeholders by touching the few are together with the readers of this newspaper, along with the availability of various topics with the aim of improving the country and not to disrupt the country.

Their contribution is important to not only in this newspaper of Mwema, but also for the development of the news industry in the country, Africa and the world as a whole.

As part of the community of Tikrit, we recognize that the journey is long in continuing to meet the needs of the media freedom and the thirst for good administration in the country, we promise to fulfill our responsibility at all times and we will do that for the interests of our colleagues.

We continue to promise the readers and encourage all that, our work will continue to meet the thirst for the journalism profession and we will do that by respect the dignity and our culture such as usual.

If he did not write in this newspaper edition of this newspaper on his article about him and his fellow owners who all of them are patriotic, the writer, Johnson Mbwambo, "said that good citizens are supposed to supervise us, but it is true and will continue to be correct for our citizens, but basically, it is the newspaper of the citizens.

We believe that this newspaper will be supported through its efforts to help improve (in the country), a culture of each other, the culture of delay of corruption and bribery and also the culture of citizens to stand up to oppose the injustice and shivered.

Our aim is that if these culture will be improved in the country, then, the gap between the rich and the poor will also reduced and therefore making our country to continue being safe and continue to be proud of being important stakeholder in this newspaper.
