
By Adam Mkwajuni, Dar es Salaam.
Employment is an important thing in a human life because some of them believe that they are the source of depending on the cost and needs in life.
The importance is the reason for the presence of some students who are in various education standards in the country who believe the employment is to reach their goals if they will return to work hard.
Therefore, after completing their education, those students use different ways to look for work because there are some who do that work to be done by their brothers and others use our website together with other different ways.
However, it is not many among them that use that website, because it is claimed that it is a new is to them thus making them lose their opportunity to get employment that are provided in that way.
The lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, the Department of Social Welfare, Doctor Benson Bana, has requested the government to start a national center that will give employment opportunities through the website which will enable the institutions and non-governmental organizations so as to avoid corruption that is going on.
He says that normally in looking for employment, the institutions and organizations are using a lot of employment and claimed that in European countries, the kind is called "Job Ndugai, where someone will visit the website, to see the kind of work and its criteria.
"Many people can make social networks so as to help that issue, in order to help the issue, whereby on the side of the government, the Public Leaders Ethics Secretariat is the website of the type," he said.
Speaking about the website that supports the financial people that it is doing that is the theft and claimed that it is not all those owning the website, because there are people who have been accepted by the government together with the community.
"There are institutions that are professionally and they are looking for people that are registered and request that you will be able to use these website but so that it can be trusted and a good thing to build a company that it will be open.
Therefore, it will be afraid that with a company that he will be responsible for taxes and to be signed together with having the criteria for being able to do that issue nationally, to be a central mid-fielder who is looking for work with them, "he says.
He says that by doing so, they receive bribes from any kind, although the way for students is new to them and claimed that when he is working (UDSM) it happens when I mentioned the communication way for the purpose of looking for work.
He says that for now, private companies are ready to use that way because many of them are using their brothers and their relatives to provide employment opportunities together with the habit of providing good work and calm.
"Public organizations are the several times you want this, but many companies in the streets are those who use their brothers and be taken against them.
"Due to that issue, our government will be responsible, the ministry of work and employment as well as the office of the president, public service management, through the Secretariat, they have been looking for people to control people who do not have integrity in that which they have been doing fraud," he says.
He says that the job to unite people that are registered are good to be done by the institution or the authorities that's also known by the government that are ongoing in order to eliminate the misunderstanding.
On his part of the team of the degree of Human Resource Locator (transport), in the Institute of Transportation, Sayani Kayuni, (32), says that the crime has not yet been able to sit the school so that they can make sure they should not be ready.
