It is being followed about treatment in India.
Mlabu all, 2014.

When you talk in those talks, there are a big number of patients at the Apollo Hospitals and the Apollo Hospitals in India and their differences were taken to ask ourselves, "we have problems?
That question doesn't return to each one when giving his experience on how health services passed away from their countries, where you have found themselves problems like the foundation problem being lack of ethics among the servants of the health sector.
In their talks, those citizens from various African countries have agreed that the problem is in buildings, working tools, but it's for the servants themselves, it's a problem of ethics.
In addition to ensuring that there is a series of cancer of the Apollo Hospitals, there are also a citizen of Nigeria, the Nyamisana of Sudan who live in every day after seeking treatment and others going back home after being treated.
However, stem cells are the ones that were found in that hospital, we have found themselves associated with a certain level, different from their colleagues from other countries who do not affected more when the debate comes, it depends on the cost of treatment.
While patients from other countries have been depending on their treatment in their treatment, on the side of Tanzania, it is very different from the government without caring about their positions in the nation or their ideology, their main qualifications to benefit them.
"Nigeria is the rich people in Tanzania, but the government does not have time to our treatment while it's its responsibility, they have received health services at home, but they get a solution to them," he complaints one woman from Nigeria in one of the talks and federations.
The mother found himself explaining his thoughts as a result of what interviewed his daughter who was being treated for him for the second time after the drugs that he was given during his first treatment "that was given to them under the supervision of doctors in their country.
The explanation of the mother from Nigeria makes him one of the patients who want to explain his feelings saying that if you have it, you can't know until when they get from the government outside the country.
Statistics from the office of giving health services at the Tanzanian Embassy in India show that approximately Tsh 25,000 only in India for the purpose of getting treatment.
According to the report of that office, those medical equipment are those that were donated to the embassy offices of India in the country for a period of three years ago.
More information from the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare shows that the government, through the ministry in the period of January, in the year 2011 and December 2013, there were 2,282 patients in various hospitals in that country for treatment.
A large number of patients who were taken to that country through that process of appeal for the government is normal citizens while leaders were only nine percent of those patients.
On the on the health officer of the Tanzanian Embassy in India, Doctor Mengi Golandu says that in that number of nine percent of the leaders who were stolen from that country, the other leaders that are in other systems of medical services which are not involved in that ministry.
In his talks with Raia Mwema, Dar es Salaam recently, Doctor Golandu has stated that the diseases that have increased in hospitals in the country include cancer of heart diseases, followed by cancer of 2769 percent and other diseases that involve 3571 percent.
According to the report of the office of the head of health in that country, small children with heart diseases are professionally known as "congenital heart diseases," the ones that lead in large numbers to the list of patients taken to India for more treatment.
