
Who is one of the desire to inherit the arrest of the chairmanship while speaking to good!

Rashid Mkonga.

Its approximately 8 years now is about the end after the appointment of former head coach, Said Ndonge who was appointed for approximately 10 years while wearing the late Sajuki.

Different from the former lover, Said Mwema, has received numerous promises of its performance in the police force and raising many effects including social media, security, defense, and even the law without stopping.

By using his professionalism of Mke Mwema, who before being appointed to be head of INTERPOL's police commander, RPC of Mbeya, who are inspiring.

By following the professionalism that the work of work from his predecessor, RPC of Mbeya, was able to succeed in the great wave of criminals in their time and to reduce the great speed, the problem of criminal killings and even robbery in vehicles.

As a result of that reputation and other things, Said Mwema got a great gift to be appointed as Chief Executive Officer and later appointed by the president to be the inspector general of police in the country, Sarah Kibonde, who was told to be successful in that position.

During the end, there was a huge wave of killings and even acts of violence that was explained to be done by the police force especially during the general elections of the year 2000, especially in Zanzibar Islands, he made the popular name of Nemu.

The chairmanship will tell me to prove to the citizens that the army is in order to serve the citizens and not otherwise, and therefore try to stop the evil deeds for his predecessor, who made many citizens to investigate that army.

However, the professionalism of IGP Said Mwema, who has given numerous qualifications, explained that it is near to end of this year where three results are mentioned to be able to inherit the position as a result of the reputation they are facing and skills of their performance inside the police force in the country.

The one being mentioned in accordance with the different sources have quoted in some of the media is the police commander of Mbeya Province, DCP, Athumani, who was awarded recently by police commander of Mwanza Province Ernest Mangu and DCP, Thobias Andengenye who was the police commander of Arusha province.

Each one among those who has its reputation in good performance made by the army in which by putting the ratio of their performance in the police force, everyone has the reputation that will be mentioned to make ahead the performance of the police force in the country.

By seeing the importance of getting a vibrant leader, an assurance, and Bollore Logistics, stakeholders who want to participate in this process, we will put opportunities of citizens to follow keenly the performance of these commanders and finally vote on Facebook which will be open by the readers of the social media networks to put in the future of the leadership inside the police force in the country.

We believe in masturbation without informing you!
