
Ways that will help the opposition feel.
And the beneficiaries of the Permanent Committee.
In a foundation of self-criticism he doesn't know a lot of political administration, there are several reasons that have opposition in any country that can be able to make sure that it has reduced politics.
The first issue is to implement the long distance system, different opinions from its members at this primary school, it should be remembered that different opinions comes with different thoughts that usually have a lot of benefits to the foundation of the party or the concerned institution.
Uknga region is born or on the management, we have not seen its success in any leadership system.
The second step is to improve their friendship and you are coming out to meet with political ideology or philosophically.
Although it is a step that maybe came due to certain difficulty, the truth is that most of them do not forget yourself in an effort to develop themselves in front of the enemy or the rival sides, but its the right way to give the environmental degradation and its competitors.
Third, any opposition party in any way you need to use it.
It is clear that without the use of medicine, any political system does not like a request, or a non-governmental organization.
However, there is a must that will be used to build their ability to build, with your ability, but not to be dealt with or brought to fear among some of the leaders who have succeeded to use it in order to improve it is like Adolf Hitler.
Four, the opposition is difficult to use it in the government to build, although, with a lot of criticism.
I believe by using those methods, the opposition will continue to implement its responsibilities because of your mind, without restrictions.
We have witnessed the leaders that tried to go against the wave of opposition in their stronghold, where instead of failing, they were seen as the traitors and was born completely.
Some of them are as Peter Bulugu, who was the presidential running mate in the last general elections, who despite vying for the central stage, he has been accepted in the Central region with the basis of having a political cause of the political party, which area that occurred.
Another one is Martha Karoli, who came through her brother.
Those who are not married, since the former member of parliament for Rondo, Raphael Hangi, came through the affliction of those who came through a wave of ODM Party.
The opposition in Kenya is the best to identify their philosophy.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
