
Saturday, January 24, 2015.

It can help the child to be?

Without doubt, you have ever asked yourself why the child gets in a small issue, which is normal, they could destroy the truth and solve the truth, there are several children at home.

If it has been asked why children is pleased by what children's there and it should not be afraid that all children's available in a certain environment, and when they get to them, you need to protect their relationship with you will be left to continue, you have a habit of doing well in future.

What are the reasons for young children?

The age of a child with less than three years, for example, he does not have the ability to say false and even when he is seen in it, basically he didn't understand what is proud because what he could have been used.

For example, he says that he is not known for sugar, he knows that he has gone to me, but he desires to have since he is not known for sugar, it is like a love for what he is supposed to do.

Similarly, a child is available with the aim of collecting the results to say the truth that will cost them and because many times the results include a punishment, a child uses false as a way of his defense should be safe.

How can I help the child to be true but if there are many ways, here I have three major recommendations.

You need to put it?

The behavior of a child is about what he is doing his mother, if you want your child to make it put, then it started because it is not true.

Furthermore, if you use a bad thing in satisfying a child when he asked a difficult question, by a very good explanation but it is a good word "which even so, he can be careful, it can be easy to see a bad behavior.

You shouldn't jump and said.

How do you get a child when you know what does it mean?
Therefore, it is good to put a environment of the child to know that it's possible, to say the truth when we came into mistakes than following false accusations.

Also, they don't marry off by admitting that, for example, it is easy to make sure he can say the truth and still his relationship with you should be avoided.

Then I did not read the environment of masturbation.

If you know that a child has done a mistake, it does not know what they ask questions, you should know it, it is good to address a question like, "recently, it is good to address questions that do not help solve the problem and what is false.

Likewise, do not get a child, "say" even if he is infected with the names of "you are very happy," I know what you feel as part of his life, use the language that is needed.

Khajida Kopa, the part of the life.

In general, it is good for the child that, a mistake is not a bad thing in life, a mistake is an opportunity to ask ourselves as it's being dealt with well.

A fools should be hostile in the 93rd minute, AT threw out 970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, a period of 93949 in the past.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
