The government has created this AIDS message?
Jide 22, 2015.

At the end of last week, a big meeting for scientists and big international organizations being involved in AIDS issues was held in Vasco, Canada, and from the report that has great meaning to our country.
The researchers and those scientists have given information about the new invention that was revealed to have the AIDS virus (HIV), they will live a difficult life if he will be given drugs to reduce drug abuse.
This invention is explained to be more important in the AIDS virus here in the world in a period of 20 years ago, after the year 1996 during that meeting that was held in Canada, the agenda that took place in Canada, was the one that took place in Canada, that was made up with research on victims.
Before that research, a person being found with VVU was same as a result of death, but now after being found on accusations, the victims live a little life because the Tanzanian can follow conditions.
We think that now the government and other stakeholders are supposed to remain in an important campaign to urge people to stop and identify their condition of infection as it will bring in the lives of many.
It was the norm in the past, that someone who used to use fake ARV is the one who doesn't show signs of affected with the HIV infection, but this new research shows that the situation is different.
If we said, researchers and scientists through the Canada meeting is the responsibility of the government to ensure that most of the more people are low-employed and given drugs to reduce their skills early before starting from bites.
It is not true that Tanzania is one of the countries that were affected by this disease here in the world even though the recent statistics show a reduction of infection.
The level of the current infection of 51-1 is that our nation has not yet been able to withdraw from the size of this disease. What is required is to ensure those who receive the drugs, to get drugs early so that they can live a little life.
There are two major benefits of testing earlier on first of May, there is clear the possibility of the spread of infection because the victims will know themselves and therefore be able to protect themselves against their colleagues and also they will live a little life.
This is possible as everyone who will take action.
