
Zantel has asked the request of Ndulu, Mafuru.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The Ivory Coast company, Hasheem Mkingie has asked the court to stop the implementation of a total of 92 billion shillings which had been presented by the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Benno Ndulu and the operations officer of Feng GE, Lawrence Mafuru.

Those applications have been presented today by the lawyer of that company, Joseph Rutta before Judge Ama Munisi, of the High Court in Dar es Salaam.
Previously, Ndulu issued the request of stopping the implementation of the court's directive that wanted to arrive in the court, to explain how they pay the 92 billion shillings and unable to be supported in prison as the prisoners of the case of claims.
However, yesterday, his lawyer Method Kimomogoro asked the court to resolve the request of the governor because they have no opportunity to the court because the court cannot give a decision to the order that he made earlier.
He claimed that there is no law that has been mentioned by BoT to support those applications, also the oath of oaths for their request, which was signed by Mustafa Panju is not supposed to be presented without considering the law, they should not be presented without considering the law.
Judge Munisi, postponed that case until September 29, this year for giving a decision about those applications, the implementation of that order is due to the verdict of the draft number 129 in 2009, which made the company to arrest his factory due to the conflict of payment of the loan that the Ivory Coast company raised the website from that bank.
BoT has been involved in that process as a result of taking the operations of the Feng E Bank after that bank being involved with a scandal of stealing money in the country, Guests us.
Previously the officers from BoT were required to arrive in the court on September 16th this year to explain how they will take that order but they did not do so, after submitting the request to stop that order.
In the primary case that was opened by the Coast company, the court decided to cross 5 billion shillings and a total of 21 billion shillings per year since June 28, 2001 until the judgment came out, July 27, 2015.
After that decision, the complainants won the application that resulted from that judgment, which is difficult, the interest is equivalent to 922 billion shillings.
