
Monday, 11, July, 2016.

The best rearing project of natural farming.

I was not found.
Indigenous chicken is one of the animals which have been used well in the project, they can increase the income of a breeder, system, and it is also a project that helps them to improve the community by improving the life of a modem.

The source of you need to have an accident when they received the ball.

The rearing of traditional chicken is supposed to be a small capital to its start, and in Tanzania close to each household is easy and it does not affect the hen, gender and livestock which are also available at home and not to buy a modem.

The cost of operation.
It is easy to start its rearing and cost, it is also small, you do not need loan and even if the stall is not present, it will be able to start.
The cost of running is very small for example the vaccination.
It uses a food remains that if you could have been discovered, they would have been involved in getting married, maize flour, maize and rice bran and rice bran.
Also, as a result of rearing chicken in looking for food if it is producing a breeder can be able to sustain the food issue because it will be called you very much.
Its benefits of poultry farming.
- it comes or be used easily by its market, it is good and it is open for a fact, from 5 billion and 15,006,25000 people, and selling of eggs are usually from 400 to 500 shillings.
- it is called on the presence of many social networks.
Challenges of poultry farming and downloading from the rearing of herbal medicines, when they received the vehicle.
You're close to Christianity, about the importance of buying traditional chicken.
II has given a spread of diseases such as urologists (Newcastle Disease) which every year is causing a lot of origin of more than 50 percent of the chicken every year.
To reach poor vision / lack of natural farming education, preventing and preventing diseases and also there is no guidelines and provision of correct statistics especially the deaths of diseases that are not recognized as a problem or a problem.

Strategies of improving.
This will happen to prevent it by giving birth to the hen on Newcastle 'Disease, it will be more better if all chicken will be given vaccination to other diseases in the relevant area, for your purpose of chicken you have been sent away.
Farmers should be given education on natural medicine for natural chicken, for example of buying of chicken, the cause of better chicken equipment, better conditions of eggs and a better chicken for the chicken.

An example of the production of the project of breast cancer is the use of professional advice by causing them to rise from 10.

A total of 811.
This means that ten chicken you need an average of one person, thus for ten thousand, it will be ten thousand shillings.
- Tanzania's stand, you will be able to save the chicken or will start by preventing themselves inside your capital is small, as it will build for us twenty-meter meters because after a short period of chicken it will start being big and they will need more opportunities.
- food gets a hen on earth if they will use a lot of food, if they will make food close to you, if they will enable them to make sure you get enough food so that you can be able to make them get enough food if you can be able to withstand the cost.
If you know the drugs of various diseases, your chicken is like that area fail to be attacked by chicken diseases immediately after a little amounts to all chicken and as Kiroboto has said that the discovery is a great enemy to anyone.
Income and valued at 6 in the year, got an award in the vehicle.

The number of having 3,466 votes.
Not registering for year 2016 / =.
Maybe that they are not covered.
A total of catalysts in the year (8-5) = shillings.
Therefore, January up to December, it will have 400 kilovolts electricity which will have big chicken, and if it has already started laying.
A total of 38,905 year of 411 year and more that you will be able to choose the good harvest of the chicken.

Your income for the year.

400 kilovolts Tanzanian shillings per 1000 shillings.
Therefore, in order to get the benefits if you start with a few chicken, in the same time, you will not be satisfied with the effects that you will be among those 400 chicken to abandon the size of the stall like the Dogo or using those funds to buy drugs and vaccination, when they received the money to buy food and vaccination.
After one year and a half years will have a capital of 212,150 chicken which will be able to serve the 8-5 billion shillings per Tanzanian shillings per year.

Remember, it is an average of a price of one chicken to an average of many markets especially in rural areas, but other areas even some of the villages and small towns in the world is sold at a price of 212,150 Tanzanian shillings by 1200 Tanzanian shillings.
Also there is no easy job to find a lot of income, therefore it needs better and better knowledge in rearing so as to reach the objectives of actions more than the goals he would end to study and plan in papers that we thank God, he cannot ask God, you are real.
For today let me end here.
