
The construction of Mbeya City, councilors will take place on October 25th, 2012.

The name SHANGAA-Art of Musa said that you can't know the council of councilors in Mbeya City, when he accepted his decision depending on his small committee.
A few months after the launch of the council of councilors in Mbeya City, it started to come out of complaints against some councilors of the city, especially those who are from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who are many, that they are using their large numbers, laying the interests of the party instead of the broader interests of the party.
Among the areas that were affected by the decision by those councilors is for urban planning, where the decision of the council of councilors has been dismissed because of removing some of the business people, while others were blocked.
As a lot of marriages, that is being done by the council of councilors involves itself in a difficult environment, the directors of that city, who several times have found themselves in conflict and citizens when they get different explanations to the citizens.
Between the examples of cyber crimes arising from the step by the councilors to oppose the decisions that they reached in their council is the one for small business people, 'Machinga', which caused many violence that caused the activities for two consecutive days until when the police force failed.
In recent days, there is another conflict that came from the step of those councilors to oppose the intention of the council of councilors about the construction of the Tanzania High Court and Zambia.
In the year 2008, the council of councilors has under the leadership of the current Mayor, Athanase Kapunga, passed a declaration that will destroy the advancement of all houses that are in the central road of Tanzania and Zambia in the city, that goes through the Uyole Valley headquarters, Snowden?
According to that declaration, the council of councilors decided to be built on top buildings, the aim being to improve the performance of that city which is in the main entrance to the south of Africa.
However, in a step that mentioned many people, including the councilors, business people and ordinary citizens are when one businessman in the country was allowed to cater for houses for business people when there is a declaration of the council of councilors which wants the area to be built on the floor.
The businessman was allowed after the committee of urban planning and environment that was done in August this year, after the agenda of allow the businessman to be sent as an emergency agenda.
One of the members of the committee told Good Citizen that after some of the councilors to oppose depending on the intention of the council of councilors, the mayor of the city, Athanase Kapunga, explained that the decision by voting will be announced later that he was organizing his councilors from CCM to agree with the issue.
"Some of the councilors, especially those from the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) opposed the statement, the councilors of CCM agreed to support the businessman to continue with the construction of that house, being against the intention of the council of councilors," says the councilor.
Due to that decision, experts of local government laws are saying that the committee has broken the proposed law by a high level in the authority of that city which is the council of councilors.
In his report at the council of councilors which took the previous day about the council of councilors, he asked the authority of the committee to revoke the intention of the council of councilors, the mayor of the city, Kapunga, said that the intention of the council is not law, a statement that he cleaned it.
"The issue of construction of the floor is a declaration and not the law," said Kapona Kandoro, speaking to the councilors who attended the action.
However, the statement by the mayor is against the director of that town, Juma Iddi who was interviewed by Good Citizen on behalf of the resolutions of the council of councilors, he said that the intention of the council is law and that is why, in their daily performance if the executives are implementing its resolutions.
The step by the mayor of that town is to supervise depending on the intention of the council of councilors in the committee of that council that surrounds the conflict in the city, due to some of the business people to start, meet, misuse of taxes done by the authority.
"Many business people who are in that area is expecting to do a renovation of their buildings, but all of them have been accepted due to the existence of that declaration of the council of councilors, most of them have been worried that bribery have been used," says the health officer.
The decision by the urban planning committee and the environment has put him in the leadership of that city, that they are continuing to supervise the law or not to stop issues of unplanned settlements as they want the councilors of CCM.
A report from among those councilors explains that the conflict was taken to state agencies but are surprised to see they are silent, a step that made him to the city's leadership in a difficult time to implement its responsibilities.
Unknown facts in the step of the urban planning committee and the environment that was caused by the pressure to the mayor of that town is a decision to take place when the director of the city was on a way that made the businessman to continue with the construction of that building.
The reports from the department of cities planning in the city say that previously the businessman asked the director requesting him to be allowed to do a prayer, an request that was born, but in an amazing environment, the agenda was presented to the session of the committee of urban planning and environment when the director was on it.
However, a permit for the construction did not be given due to the director going back immediately after the decision of the committee, and waiting for another loopholes.
"The director made the ball again, the urban planning officer at the time he instructed the Engineer to provide a permit for renovation of the business person and the renovation took place from Friday at the evening time when the government's office, and when it reached on Monday, it was complete and products were put in place," says one officer from the state agencies in that province.
The writer called a famous businessman who has been mentioned as the source of conflict, wisely, he was given an answer by threats that she was surprised and followed keenly, claiming that he is not involved with the construction of that building.
"A permit it has taken more than a year, it's just the day before yesterday but I was not given, it's not a present, it's not present," he continued with threats as he stopped him about being involved in the renovation of the building, he said.
"We be read by you and let me go back to court, if you go to court, let me follow me, let me follow up, let me follow up, let me follow up, let me follow up, let me follow up, let me follow up with the decision of the council of councilors, including the step of the council of councilors.
Other questions being attacked by state agencies in that province is the step of those decisions to be done at the time the director was on a way, what made him the mayor to intervene.
The director of that town, Iddi, left to Good Citizen that the businessman has started to use that building without being given a permit, with the meaning that the building is not yet confirmed.
More information from the media stations in Mbeya Province are saying that it was not known by that issue and insisted that any declaration that was done by the Council of councilors are still small and regulations.
"The council of councilors decided to be at the Tanzania High Court by Zambia, to do a renovation of buildings, but wants then they will be responsible for building the floor and that there is no permit that will be given because of the normal renovation," says one of the government officers in that province.
It is normal in Mbeya City to see people get anywhere they are doing, including the areas that were tested, and even areas along the road and even areas along the roads and even areas along the roads and even areas they were sold to have the areas of buying products.
When it disturbed all all plans of urban planning it is done on the excuse of politics but behind him, there are all signs that are there on bribery.
