
The big electricity project in Tanzania, Kenya.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Now it is officially reported that, the construction of the 400 kilovolts electricity project which will connect Tanzania and Kenya starts today, is after the signing of a contract between three contractors and the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).

That project is expected to be completed within 24 months which are being constructed in partnership with the government and the African Development Bank (JICA) at a cost of 30949 million American dollars (JICA) at a cost of 650 million American dollars (JICA).
The contractors who will cater for that project is a company, Kalile Power Poll company in India which will invest in Singida up to Babati, by the Bissau Company and France which will build the electricity prices from Bahati up to Arusha.
Others are Mighty One company, Yachoma in collaboration with EMS company of India which will build the way from Arusha up to Namanga.
Speaking during the signing of a contract with the three contractors, the Executive Director of TANESCO, Felchesmi Mramba, said that project will enable transporting electricity of 2000 megawatts for both sides with a length of 414 kilometers.
He said that the project will be built from Singida to Bahati-Arusha up to the south of Tanzania and Kenya, Namanga area and get connected to 96 kilometers from Isere town, Kenya up to Namanga.
Mramba said that 25000 American dollars will be used in the construction of Tanzania and 745 million American dollars will be used to build that project on the side of Kenya.
He said the aim of the project is to improve the state of availability of reliable electricity and at affordable prices in the East African region by producing extra electricity and at affordable prices in the neighboring country.
That step is as a result of the project is part of the electricity project of Zambezi - Tanzania, Kenya (ZK) which will connect that project with the plan to improve the availability of electrical energy in East Africa (EAPP) and the one of the South African countries (SACA).
The resident representative of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Martine Shigela urged the contractors to complete the construction for a long time so that the money they had given to be used for the benefit of the citizens.
