
Those who follow the funds are disrupting the economy.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

As a result of President John Magufuli that he made the day before yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, he was explained that there are citizens who were injured at home, the economists have given their views and said that those are changing the economy and they are supposed to be done by state agencies and they are supposed to be discussed.

Giving his opinion yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the senior lecturer of the economy of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Doctor Benson Bana said the life of the economy is the presence of enough money.
Doctor Bana said the economy of any nation is a must for work and development activities and the financial institutions to be done, so as to make sure you go and grow the economy, but the economy is affected if there are many people living in different ways.
"Some people have decided to resolve the money and that is affecting the cash flow and they use the price of money and said that the bank is only safe for caring for money and if there are people that give funds to banks and to follow up in the homes they have a permit for sabotaging the economy.
He explained that during the life of any nation there is enough financial system in the community, helps to strengthen the value of money and that if the circulation will be affected by the process that can cause a bad state of economy.
However, he emphasized that the primary issue of doing is not printing new money but is to ensure the government moves or bribery and the corruption that are contribute to the economy to wave.
On his part, the Chairperson of the business community of Tanzania, Johnson Minja said those who will follow the decision is to resolve the economy and are supposed to be taken against them.
Minja said that money is not the wealth of a private person and the government's property and it should be used to make sure that they are together with making a citizen to make different payments and that is why all the funds have a number of prime minister together with the governor of the Central Bank.
"People should be able to understand that money is not their property even if they know their disposal is government's property and are not supposed to follow it, it is a must they should not enter into the circulation of money that they will be taken," said Minja.
He said people who will follow the money at their home are criminals and they are doing so because they know the money they got it and it is good for the investigation in the country to have been gathered and deal with them because they consider the economy for private interests.
However, he said together with the presence of that problem, some people do not lose their money easily, there are also citizens who were given their money because of a small understanding of financial issues.
He said that currently in the country there is a problem to rise up on the circulation of money that is caused by planting trees in different taxes, thus the citizens have fear of importation of products outside that they will be unable to sell due to a high price.
He advised the government to check the way to restore economy in a normal state so that business can be held by people to fulfill their products.
