
Nyerere passes away, Kikwete looking for, that decision is your October 21, 2012.

Normally, a dream is translated in a lot of reasons according to the feelings of the person that is presented or receiving the concerned message, but this I wrote them that there is a big message inside him.

This is the second time for the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, came into a dream and time comes when there was a big issue that concerns the fate of Tanzania, a nation that I had wanted from starting from fifty years and I will explain later for now to explain to them.

I have already opened up without getting married, when I am happy, I'm in a very normal house, where I met the real residence of the father of the nation.

Because my work is to look for information, I need me the opinions of the father of the nation, a person who knows her for the pain of Tanzania, his people and his resources and once I had a lot of ideas and fear that made him have gotten tired.

I was forced to ask him about what was surprised since he started on the right when they saw the situation that made me I fail to prevent me.

I started on the right and asked me, "wrote me in my Tanzania, I will answer you where I did not know what I wrote on all my strength."

I got the courage and gave my friend to take care of this news so that I can start to quote his words, by bad luck, I met a great opportunity to write.

I woke up pieces of the neighborhood and we were in hand and started writing those words during our discussions, I have seen a fox for having a small thing of recording, after seeing a short word.

I wanted to know more about her words, and the truth he did not have a lot of talking to an interview that was very short, to the extent of getting a few words from him.

After saying he knows in Tanzania, Teacher said, "we are not involved in a surprise of bribery, eat with bad use of power, it has enabled me to give him," said President Jakaya Kikwete (look for. "

After those words, I was surprised his courage and I was surprised her direction and I was not able to continue with that interview with anyone, in a normal state, I am not someone to fail to do an interview with any person, especially when I get a chance but the teacher entered there.

Before I heard, he asked me to inform me when you missed him because he was tired.
I talked to him and took him up to his home, where there were three beds and before it has gone up, "I told President Jakaya Kikwete in 1995, I believe that our colleague is mature and be clean and have come to write very well."

Those are a few words and maybe a result of being touched by it, the one I will be able to quote when I'm the shop while my face is not diggers.

I have asked me and asked the close people to me in relation to their dream, but I have heard the mix up because I have decided to give them an opportunity especially when I decided to give them those words.

Just after a teacher died, I got to write a dream of told me what I told me that I would tell me what I want to be sold or privatization from the former bank of business (NBC), something that I remember to put it open during his life we were in Arusha town.

That day was a long tour starting from Dar es Salaam, Iringa town and finally the villages and later in Arusha, a few months before going to England for treatment, the journey was to be aired live in England for treatment.
He did not go back again, he lost his life while there after suffering from breast cancer.

But up to now, I don't know the meaning that you want to have a great joy by Mwalimu Nyerere, because before being announced suffering from him, I got to tell my fellow leaders at the time, I got to explain my chief editor who we agreed to have patience before writing the news.

It was one newspaper that will take Mwalo'clock in a week to English language was the one that was forced to start writing news about the Teacher's disease, because the news has been transported to go out of the country, something that was being transported to go out of the country, an issue that was being transported to go out of the country, something that was being transported to go out of the country, something that is not correct, but he is in the country.

We continued to follow up on his news until a day that he had leaving in the country at the Switzerland International Airport (VPL), a day that is only three journalists who were in the airport, Absalom Kibanda who is currently the executive director of Tanzania Daima newspaper, Emmanuel Massaka, who is currently the Citizen newspaper.
That day I remember that at the field there was a group of journalists who came to receive sportsmen that arrived in Dar es Salaam city with the plane of Mount Kilimanjaro that took the teacher but after receiving the sportsmen left without knowing the father of the nation, from the last time to England.

I remember after several professional mistakes happened, I told Kibanda was not supposed to return. I had no reason to say those words and there is no one who consider those words and that is why our photographer. She did not make enough pictures at that event.

I remember that him who did not like people came up because he was the former head of Temeke District, John Chiligati and the police side, was the former head of road safety in Dar es Salaam Province, Salum Mkwajuni, and also one officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who was in charge of protocol.

However, the former attorney general, Andrew Chenge, met with a teacher when the VIP goes on his journey and he was not in the list of who arrived to accompany the teacher and his wife Maria, while the family was represented by two wives who were seen to support the plane that took the teacher while in the sky.

Those feelings are taking the day of his death, when I found himself just after seeing the view of the father of the nation at his home, Msasani and I did not end there because I visited home to accompany the body of the South African army to Musoma and finally Butiama.

It was not normal, because I was not anything more than the clothes I was born and even when I met the organizers in the funeral of teacher, Anbert Kawemama said that he was admitted in his office, we had been sacked by Julius Nyerere's funeral.

However, Benjamin Mkapa, as the president who was in power, said before the grave of the teacher that will go against the grave of the father of the nation.
"Learn from it will grow," and for sure it is heading to now, and destruction "is heading to sign him.

There's no objection that a lot of things that the teacher entered with all his strength until he got her soul, Mkapa noted that despite not being unable to fight corruption, but also a private to be involved in bribery and corruption.

When a teacher entered the state house to benefit, but just after he passed away, Mkapa started a company using public resources including buildings, vehicles, experts and even decided to partner with his minister, Daniel Yona doing all business in power.

In addition to getting openly that the father of the nation was forced to be sold to NBC, Mkapa created a huge relationship with the owners of that bank, the relationship that enabled us to continue to get another house to the neighboring country and the one that was living in Njuweni Hotel, Dar es Salaam.

He is the former President who now we are told that in his blessings, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) has done a lot of joy that the ones that made the father of the nation, usually do a dream after realizing that I have been using a lot in how our Tanzania can be taught. "

No one doesn't know that Mkapa was defended by all the strength by the father of the nation, at that time he seems not to be clean in a big group of politicians who had requested to vie for the presidency in 1995, the teachers at the year 1995, but the teachers told Jakaya Kikwete look for.

When a teacher entered the Jakaya Kikwete looking at Tanzania and we expect the first other things later, we don't answer.

To decide that Kikwete will benefit from his private will and not the fans or people who are asking for him.

It is decided that where we give you the reputation and blessings from God, the Prime Minister after not playing a shame to the people who want to implement his intention.

The greatest aim of Kikwete is a good life for every Tanzanian, but now seems to be unable and many believe that he can be, except he fell in the and the aides are getting married.

Its aides are many including his friends, her close sibling, in the government who every issue feel is Hewala, while the fact is that our president they think they believe in many votes.

It is good for now Kikwete to decide before it is not a lot of time, and we cannot get all those who are putting him down and made him lack the answer.

I remember Simba of the high court, the retired prime minister, human resources, human beings, Mfaume Said, has ever explained one session of the national executive council of the Revolutionary Party, that it is good for someone who missed this ship in early, because it was going on well and celebrated it, at the end of it is all the passengers, together with the captain entering and lost life.

Kikwete, at the time of looking for all those who brought down it is now and do a friendship, Swahili or brotherhood with people of the type and there will be anything related to our country's rights.

This article was published for the first time in the Daily News newspaper, January the year 2008.
