It destroys completely, I didn't know someone who is going back to time, to do, then you have already put the sun, then I go back to now is the meaning.
I was very disturbing, I was born with one wife because she is happy and I am happy to look for others when we go to Dar es Salaam, then we will do you and you know you.
Now why is it?
Now according to the second when I saw Alex I will destroy the ball.
The public is a problem and they are not involved, there are others living in town or another.
You know that I am very few and six years because it is.
When another lady who has been able to say now, for all the years he was called me, he has even called me and today, the initiative has called me if I want it to know your dreams.
Ras Kiduku was I'm with a lot of money and you know what I'm in meat and then you want to only two children alone from you for another reason to pay only one child but I have the child to me.
I don't come with a child like anything related to you.
That are we talk on parole.
Or where is the problem the problem is.
Now, a culture of you has brought you in good performance in the second month I don't know if they don't know if they don't have a lot of money who are supposed to do so, she is supposed to see for her child to go there are things.
If you are now, the late God bless you, you are a big youth you know how your life is yours, the Lord does not know what I don't know what I think everything is no one and if you think everything is nothing to have everything.
Then I will be trying to do.
I will have a hatred and me I can be there and it's not another I have told the first time I've heard a long time.
Even to know that despite one nation now, it has been a lot of things and love, but even the stopping of that candidate, I have never agreed on the week and even if the constitution will not understand what you want since you want to become a constitution is wrong.
However, the pastor changed the words.
The late?
Now, there is the first there is Kagera, I have seen the past old which is called 'products that will I get the first to buy the first time in which he is called bison.
Or in your business here when I was in my business in a business in business here and when the late God know there is no other words you cannot loose.
We should talk.
Now comes up to you when I get to me when you go to me when you go to me when you came to you and then called me then you want me to tell me when I told me when I told this time I come.
Electricity and maybe the week on Sunday.
On Sunday, it is the first day of Mister Sunday the day of people to speak on issues of God, you know that you do that words and therefore it does not depend on Sunday.
I don't know.
I would like to tell you among those who make you know from Monday, until when you go to Dar es Salaam, there should be resolved at work because this morning is proud to take place on Saturday until morning were given priority to see that night.
As night.
Late Jesus Christ, he lacked the good thing that people have been identified himself and they believe that they took this words.
A Kimbari said that it is not know that your things are, what did you do.
Therefore, the issues of told me that when your work came into this day to come and follow up again, they know why I don't know if he doesn't know if he doesn't know if he didn't know.
You know the person who is 76 years old and other than the other than to do.
