
We have the desire to learn from England to get out of EU.
The day before yesterday, the British were announcing the guest of honor at the Union of the European Union (EU) has been reported that after the opinion polls.
The British more than 30 million came out to vote and 52 percent said they want the country to depend on themselves after it was there for 43 years in that community.
The Swahili language says a union is the strength and separation is a problem, this is evident, it is approximately two days since the country depend on themselves.
After receiving several things that have happened, it is believed to have a lot of other things that can be able to protect that country probably they have reduced.
The first ban that occurred in the country is to witness its 200,000 pounds per day in the entire World Cup, it has dropped by 10 percent against the American Dollars which has never happened since the year 1985.
Another is under the shares of the stock market in that country by four percent, according to the economic issues if they discovered that, you can be the first of a great secret of the economy in that country.
The results of that vote has also resulted in a political letter and division in that country, there is a tension between the leaders that were supporting him and those who had been supporting that union.
Already the Prime Minister, David Cameron has announced his resignation from that situation that can affect the nation during this transition period and that the European Union want to remove the country quickly more than it was expected to take the country because it will affect that country because that plan will be against its expectations.
There are effects of short periods that are facing the country, which include the reduction of investment activities in markets.
He also said that England is selling its products in the EU and EU countries, to get out of him there is an indication that it is competing with its customers who can try to fight the business standards.
The governor of the Central Bank of England, Mark Carmel has admitted that he will continue to create a great secret of the economy.
The decision made by England is supposed to be a lesson to Tanzania and all the countries that form the East African Community (EAC).
The breakup of the community have caused many effects including lack of employment and stability of politics, to wave the economy and the existence of a state of not knowing those among those countries.
East African Community has many benefits including economic, political, community and culture despite the existence of various challenges.
Our call is that despite the existence of those challenges, everyone of us should know that most of the best way to prevent us more than what happened in England.
