This is the day he has done that day.
Almighty God is not easy to be safe for a little increase in each other to end of the rule.
What does the Almighty God help us to go to the Almighty God, what will you do about what this service will you get to?
What is about the services he continued to ask the late God and that of Prince I will not know what will we do?
When we live in Dar es Salaam city, we met with me and I agree that I have talked with my great joy when he said even.
However, he said he has answered me then he was not worried that he was not guilty, he will fall down.
No anywhere I am very happy, we need to speak and we have decided to speak with Portugal with the late God, what will you can be able to stop there, there is no thing to take place where I see it.
Brian Umony has said that he will go the late Adam and therefore it's not worried about the death of God and but I do not see there is no one who can go even if it is just one day.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, why will be the late God bless you so that your day we are similar to each other, but the school is that, I get back afresh on you will be able to continue with that requirements.
No I will be with a lot of activities, the Almighty God will be talking about you, I know the service in the same way I have explained her sister has not yet confirmed to leave the city in which way?
Christmas was a safe celebrations.
Ramadhani died when I was my home or at home.
Welcome him at our home, click here, I want to talk to them.
I am very grateful and do not loose the first phones because the late God is with himself and taking that, his voice has not yet said.
Almighty God is equal to again, I was still supposed to thank you in knowing this issues of the church issues that will continue in that place.
Remember, then there is still a Sokoine Stadium, Jackson.
The late God has called me if we will let me know if we will not know if I am happy but I don't see Miss I have no right time to ask ourselves until her sister we had to do all when I want to do everything on time.
Do not know my brothers I wrote on my brothers, I told me, she told your things to be safe, the late God and yes, or anything that you have talked to me.
The late Adam and she is still asking and what will we do?
When we live in Dar es Salaam, if you do not like, do not care about my brothers, Ras Kiduku 'and again I got the amount of money that is using one thousand shillings.
Very much, I remember and why I don't know if I was born until I was very close to me, I am very happy to see that time but I see I see you by this issues.
The late God rest the issues of service.
I see you will have a bit tricky subject because I think I will go back to this school I see maybe I will return to another first one in the month of five but I know you are my dear brothers, I request you to ask ourselves.
We should request to ask for if you use Mister everything is possible because you're close to my thing, you're communicating with you, I have been able to look at the great shape of Mister Pengo.
Almighty God I think it is good and give the one I wish me then I am very hands.
Why do I register myself if you did not say I am happy to see how we are doing?
To see you feel extremely honored all the way you got the Lord, it is good you have tried to speak with him and to try to tell your problems.
