
Apart from the blood poured in their areas.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
A drought situation that has been facing various parts of here in the country has advised the researchers and experts of agricultural issues and insisted on the importance of helping the crops that involve drought as one way of dealing with the bar of hunger.
The government statistics show that many Kenyans are still faced with the bar of hunger.
The report of evaluating the Meteorological Organization (LSE's) that was given by the government in November last year shows that more than 1 million Kenyans are facing a shortage of food and that report said that the situation will continue until February this year.
In the year 2014, the government announced that more than 1 million people were suffering from hunger in areas that were affected by East and East Africa, some of the Gaza Area and Coastal areas.
Researchers are saying that the bar of hunger in every year can be used if farmers will observe the crops that involve drought, color, livestock, potatoes, and fruit juices.
Professor Matthew, who is leading the research on the grave of the New York University, says that apart from taking a drought of those crops not to be attacked by the disease of time to time.
Professor Mshana says that the crops can be used well in the areas where maize are not for development.
"In order to deal with the bar of hunger, there is need for farmers especially from areas that pour it on the farming of crops like the brain, livestock, potatoes, and tomatoes and without considering it, he insisted on the maize that looks like them," said Professor Mshana.
Brethren, it has said that their own pen is seen to be the back to the farmers despite having great economic and health benefits.
"The production of Mafwele has been dropped every year in a period of five years ago, there is need for farmers to come up on this period as a lot of revenue is needed in the body," said Professor Mshana.
He is saying that the farmers of Benedict Liwenga in Tanzania and Uganda have benefited from.
In the end of the maize being sold at out of 2000 and 3,000 shillings, the end of the cross is sold between 6000 and 1000 shillings.
Apart from accordance with the World Food Development Program (child) without being comforted by more than 800 million people all over the world especially in African countries and Asia.
The benefits are saying that if it reaches the way it can help a big level in dealing with the bar of hunger in this 21 century especially in the ongoing nations and as it can increase production of time to time.
Livestock and Mchuchuma is among the universities that are used in Kenya, even so, this product has been getting a chance by using the cultural practices especially in the western areas, Nyanza and some of the central regions and Coast.
But the experts say that if the modern practices will be used in promoting their products, maybe the attack of hunger is reduced by a big amount in the country.
The cold is usually ready for three and seven months and needs a little amount of infections so as to do well so, the potatoes can be able to keep two times in the year so as to deal with the problem of hunger.
Apart from being eaten by a human being, vegetables and potatoes, are food for livestock.
Apart from reducing hunger in the country, the needs and the potatoes market will continue to expand each other in international levels.
China is leading in the selling of cooking oil in the World Cup, where lack of potatoes, which resulted in Japan, America, Singapore, Malaysia and Canada.
