
The rich can now play on November 08, 2014.

While the Surface and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), in a total of nine companies of doing oil in a total, it has been noted that some of the business people have been following those licenses so that they get foreign funds.

The investigation that was done by Good Citizen has revealed some of the business people have been looking for those licenses in order to own a lot of foreign money, which others have been using other different businesses from oil outside.

According to the reliable sources of information, there are some business people who have been looking for licenses after getting an agreement with their foreign counterparts, especially the Arab countries that they will give them oil.

It has also been noted that there are some who wanted the license to expected to do business through fuel that are put in the country without following the procedure.

Business manager (TIN) of EWURA, Engineer Julius Greste, speaking to Good Citizen this week, he said in order to give that license, a business person is supposed to have a company that will be registered in the country so that if there will be a legal problem to be prosecuted.

Grisham said the applicant is also a must for the financial ability to buy 500 tons of oil, to pay taxes and seek refuge.

In order to ensure the business person has the ability, he said that it is supposed to submit it a confirmation of the banks and the others get a bond from the bank.

It is as a result of those conditions, business people with the license have the ability to have a lot of foreign money.

Grisham said that in order to ensure that the candidates are realizing the license regulations, EWURA has been doing the monitoring and monitoring of time to time.

He said that it's as a result of the follow, those nine companies have been canceled due to providing other opportunities to work, the aim being to ensure there is no effects that can arise from the citizens and the nation in general due to lack of oil.

"Due to the openness in the provision and monitoring of licenses, some of them are unable to continue with business, therefore those who remain are those who have the ability to increase oil," said Goshashy.

According to the report of the Executive Director of EWURA Felix Ngamlagosi, April 29, this year, the board of directors of that authority has canceled the licenses of nine companies, the decision that was done on Tuesday last week, at the Tanzania Board of EWURA that was led by its chairman, Simon Sussex, from the violation of the law and regulations of that business.

Ngamlagosi said those companies have been unable to increase oil for a period of more than six months since it to be licenses by EWURA.

The authority has been made under the new law number 414 of the Tanzanian laws, with the responsibility of managing the control of technical and economic activities in the energy sector, electricity, natural gas and clean water.

Other companies were given licenses in accordance with EWURA is KEC Company Limited (T) Limited, Glan (T) Limited, Zoom Petroleum Bulk Procurement Limited (T) LTD, Zoom Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (T) Limited Company Limited and Petit (T) Limited.

According to the investigation of Raia Mwema, information that are happening to the Business Registration and Licensing Agency (JWTZ) show the owners of KEC Company Limited (T) Limited is Karim, and Jichunge.'

MEMOC Company (T) Limited is owned by a bag of China- Gahm and Mantra Tanzania Limited is owned by Gabriel Khajida Kopa, his owners are Amnesty International Company Limited, whose owners are Amnesty International Company Limited, whose owners are Amnesty International Company Limited.

Proin Promotion Company Limited (T) Limited company, its owners are Harold Mpaze, and David Magu Charles, while Proin Promotion Company Limited, the audience found in the country of Kenya.

The following of the breaking of the breaking of by our citizens, by talking to the deputy registrar of the agency, Andrew Mkapa, shows that there is no records about the Panel Mhanga (T) Company Limited and Petit (T) Limited.

Speaking about that, Glawogger who asked the license that EWURA presented several documents, including the registration of the company, which shows his owners are Patrick Odax,, I insisted and Rose Muhando.

Greste, said the documents presented to EWURA are indicating that GAPCO Company Limited (T) Limited company, previously was signed by the name ShS Limited, which its directors is Gajaj.
