
The communication fund is doing a good work.

Information.

It has been written by.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

One of the problems in many areas of the villages here in the country for many years, has been the availability of communication.

Among those areas are the district of Gairo and Mvomero, Morogoro Province and those two districts have two types of areas, there are some parts of the mountains.
In the areas of Mchuchuma is, the availability of communication is affordable, but the mountains in the city is difficult.
However, in the recent years the government started the pension fund for All Fund (UCSAF), who one of its responsibilities is to increase communication in the villages and also fund the mobile phone companies in the country, to take communication to citizens living in the outskirts and that is heard easily.
We have been asked by a tour that was done last week by the Chairperson of the board of TMRC, Doctor Joseph Kilimba, delegates of the board and the secretary of the fund, Justina Masaudi, where they visited different jobs that are being done by the fund in rural areas in the district and Mvomero districts.
That visit and the inspection that they made together with other tour, they did in other areas in the country, for sure they have brought great benefits in the villages, for sure they have brought great benefits in the villages, where he inspected the communication plant that is set in Mandalay, Manguanjuki, Chisholm, those who have been found in the Makulu area, Benoni, Zekij.
Those who witnessed are currently the residents of the villages in those wards, have the phone communication through Tigo Mobile Phone Company, under the sponsorship of Total.
More than five villages in the Mandalay County, including Njekela said that they have no communication for many years, but now they have no reliable communication through the Tigo phone company, that was scored in Mount Meru and supply communication in those villages.
Before being taken to that tower, those citizens had a problem to communicate with some of them being medical camp in the mountains so as to get 30 kilometers to the phone, others were forced to travel 30 kilometers to Msalika as to get communication through the tower there.
The situation was same as well in other wards of the Gairo district of Ihenga town, where citizens were depending on poor communication from a factory located in Kilindi District, Tanga province, a distance of 20 kilometers from those wards.
Apart from the Gairo district, big development in Mvomero County, where KH has been able to get communication in eternal peace and Mashada stadium in Turiani Province together with Donde Village, the location of the mountains in the mountains and drought.
The only transport which was signed is a modem. As to get communication equipment in Masinga ward, the companies will be forced to sell communication equipment in the Mashada stadium, a company is forced to remove mobile companies that got contracts and focus in implementing the projects in the villages, to implement those projects quickly and easily.
It is clear that the fund has brought great revolution in business, economy and the lives of citizens in the villages and we request other stakeholders to come out and support the efforts of the fund to get communication in the villages.
