There.
That woman is a young man, there has been a young man and we go back here to our village and we are telling him for now, there is no one who doesn't see your life and then I don't see what I met with you, I don't see me when you go to the farm.
Advice.
Mind, head of every person found?
When the women would like to marry each other.
We shouldn't call him, but if you are waiting for the first?
If there is a fact that and last is also you know what?
For a period of years even if you feel like you're very little on the way you want to do, but if you want to know that, there is just a cup for a modem.
He said that you are looking for the Almighty God more than the philosopher-scientist, because, there is a need for entering the field so that we can be able to prepare.
But to know one thing I've heard of people they are saying.
Election of the local governments, this year was not allowed, because afresh the process of a new constitution, you have never seen someone who does not lie in the local government elections this year is still getting anything after the elections to take place in ten years now has been pushed forward.
From the left.
News of the past ten and two on the ten and four hours and that is the news reporter in that town now my son because of my heart, but the media used to choose good leaders very hard and not to do things to be appointed.
Listen to his fellow news.
I have not said that it is not a weapon to marry off where a mother comes up and asked how to see me.
When you feel like I am saying something when they have arrested members of parliament was a great opportunity.
What does it mean?
Among others say until when I am surprised by, Musa will see you of us, we want him to believe in me, I would like him to love me.
For instance, what would you be given in your gold mine.
Not it is not God, we will be front of justice but if I was to want the husband to forgive me.
The fire is not good among them that we are not giving out, if you want to say that even my child does not recognize that this child has no reason why I would like to tell ourselves what I would have told me, but we don't tell ourselves what I would have heard, but we don't tell ourselves what I would have written, but we are not aware of you.
And the lady did not Mtwara.
First of the problems I have written, causing pain when I follow me now, its results.
This person did not know the child of the first school?
My time, this is why we say this about this about this, about selling news of special seats, that I will meet with me when I went to my work together and you don't know what I went to my policies and you should stay without even going to there.
Believe in it.
The poor who did I do I don't know what we will bring me how she told the number.
Outside the country.
