Welcome to the series of programs of the ministry of land, housing and development development.
With the aim of educating on the rights and your responsibility, you have been able to get important services in the sector through this ministry, education and knowledge of the land sector and the housing development is important in ensuring that the citizens are important in making sure.
He is looking for them to receive those services for the purpose of its own benefits to the community and the nation in general, especially considering that it gets important resources in life and all human activities including production in agricultural and livestock sector together with sports, this period is starting to check the department and institutions of the ministry of land, housing and development projects.
Which have the responsibilities of providing better services with the aim of wanting a citizen to live in land to have the ones that are involved with the use of its use and testing them in urban areas or villages.
Following the importance of the government in the best use of my sector in the city, towns and villages.
With numerous responsibilities, if I advise the minister of bail to manage land and all the issues concerning the planning of towns and villages.
Make policies and regulations, regulations and various leaders together with managing its implementation in this period, we will look at the national commission plans for use to implement its responsibilities nationally in the whole issue of land use.
Mister James African who is the director of the national commission for use.
Here he knows different activities that are being done by the commission.
For a child.
United States plans but insults was started.
According to parliament number three, the mother to the stars have.
That has launched a period of seventy-seven years.
On the right of the mother and seven mother, that has set up responsibilities although you've put your responsibilities as the secretary general.
Very much on the side of the government and to get attraction to the plans of its use, we build the ability of Europe and the villages to prepare and implement the use of services offered by the citizens from the national commission for land use in general, to prepare themselves by the commission to the citizens in order to prepare.
And on the law of plan for land use it is implemented.
It has identified himself as a problem.
In order to prepare the regulations I would like to inform you, because of giving education on these laws of this program, but also Halima grow the profession to build the ability of the European nations and the villages to prepare their use in general when in a resident of the European Union, they have been called pictures you know there are no other things.
On the use of the consumer, he gave me the truth when you know her as a difference, although the ability to make you have a work.
To go to the villages.
But also we are also done?
If a homosexual club has talked about the law on how to see the level it has put the level of authority to stop at the national level.
The registrar's plan that is concerned is concerned with organizing a national plan to use land use and and provinces.
During the year of year.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam city, we will be able to solve a way to solve the user of the user that protects the user and its huge expenditure in the city has not been completed and to be approved by the cabinet of ministers on the fifth of August, one year.
Two thousand shillings.
Ten and three have played your opinion, will begin officially this year in the last steps to complete and control and providing education to the public.
But if he said at the level of districts, there are things that involve the discipline in the middle and it is a ten job then you have forgotten that while there is a ten way they have forgotten in the village level because it is the work of the commission to change their studies because it is the virgin "which has many ways to them.
The value until Uganda.
This is this time you will give you two hundred thousand shillings even what is happening ten years of getting into the first system.
According to European administration, they have been forced to trust the councilors of that executives, yesterday a shame that has their authority but according to the team's management management in a situation.
When you see that, we have told me the time you came up and now it is work.
If you are saying the villages that are in his district and start to understand that you have never happened in the country because we are learning in.
Now, we have done a lot of work not to eat the child care in their ward and go to the villages.
In what Europe was not able to recover all villages.
Tanzania has been forced.
Until these o'clock in the village or a minutes he used to see if you get such as six hundred thousand, you can say what is ten and five.
The late what I was looking for in the European continent starting to enable them in rural areas in an issue to assure them that the plan is not less than now, it gets the ability and prisoners of getting into the youth and enable them to reduce the effects of getting into the youth.
The preparation of the map of the computer really needed, but by doing friendly evaluation, preparing to collect data and plan to prepare this report, it is also a president by increasing the income, but I put more income in the villages even.
Close the effects of youth.
Also think about joy to have this profession to realize them and the agents to pray for them.
Guidelines for your research does not pollute the condition, that users affected health as they come to the village, you want to increase the number of work.
The spread of the leadership has been successful.
Keenly.
People are forced to do where this is why you will remember them by scoring in the past, maybe it is not with you.
In general.
For you how many gods are there but there were other major users like big number one in the village, here in the deal, there are many mothers who use last year livestock, maybe if it is in the middle.
Here on how to be read to her brother in what we should not accept or obey God, it happens today in front of a certain way we must have that there are many people who can also affect.
And livestock must be used, there are people in the agricultural sector as well as the same.
Mother in the community have plans of names of the community when he says plans.
I have been saying that it will continue to involve the stakeholders who were not involved, they were not involved in involving the citizens.
When you read the books if you are expecting a lot this year, they met at the level of a high level I don't know or else.
The delegates every work and asked me to explain the action is Chinese.
It is a must that life continues with.
I vote today.
Our movements, there is a meeting of the d-Square, the father has fulfilled a hard lawyer, persist so as to succeed if they have built community professions so as to see if you get the mother's decisions in their mother.
Also the elders live.
Again if you get your colleague but what is in you are taught all over the participants of the youth.
Women and his quality, the father and maybe you get you, you were you forever.
There, when you come out to pass through the problem, we are urged the preparations to go through maybe if the man has done ahead of women seated on the ones that will be noted because it is needed by the national commission for land use, the existence of the commission is important to the quality of the educational levels.
Tomorrow.
It means its use is a cross-cutting sector that it involves itself with different ways and I have an assurance from the government such as chicken and stomach which has been able to bring various sectors even so, some of the villages are available and the wildlife now has found how to coordinate the wildlife because of their farms or or the form of a human being.
There is a whole day.
As it comes from very far, there are soldiers who live in the villages, especially in different areas here in the country, to say Ras Kiduku was reported by the contract and it was also planned and the mother goes hand in line with sharp teeth.
.
The management of the first towns before the villages is supervised by the director of security to fulfill the city's plan to welcome him but.
It's going on where I was going back again, there was no reports and also stakeholders in the use of the expenditure.
The video for giving the child to a person, we see it is to promote football and breeders in the way of the strategy.
Very delicious with people to agree and agree on this exercise, we have planned this matter here we have planned and that because of the involvement of the sun, if it is heading to you where people have agreed more so I agree with another thing.
To implement the closing of small laws and small problems which will be affected by saying, the best woman who you will go through or the machines that is implemented and everything done by the plan of a parent has been allowed to be the same minister but it becomes the same minister.
It is very written about our correspondent.
Usually happens and there is a big problem here in accordance with the law.
There is this one.
