The construction of Mwambenja area of Tanga.
Sei 15, 2016.

The process of the construction of Tanga Port in Kisuma area is in the sun and you have forgotten for more than five years now, after lack of it by the construction of the port's construction.

Reports of stuck for the construction were canceled at the end of the week in front of the Provincial Commissioner of Tanga, Martine Shigella when he inspected the port.

While giving a report to the head of the province, the acting manager of Tanga Port, Henry Arnautovic said the port of on its construction has reduced due to the legal job not to make the national advice from the United Kingdom, lack of income as a result of lack of important information to convince the investors.

He said that the telecommunications company is Scott-Governmental Agency of England was given an emergency work to destroy the year 2011 and finish on August 2012 and then they denied the tender to a servant, the Jenga and Natural Resources and Finance, but up to the opening, there was no cause of anyone who came out to return the contract.
"The reason that contributed to not getting high speed is together with the information reports not to make the voluntary contribution that was done by Upewe Promotion and Musoma so as to include the benefits of the construction of a new railway between Mwambenja area and Musoma so as to make the expectations of cargo as a result of the project to give them an important investors.

"There is also lack of important information on the soil must have water in the area of Mwambenja area that concern it by being unable to prepare their rights including the conditions of the tender that the project will not get themselves without depending on" the government was an obstacle to investors to come out, "said the manager.

However, the acting manager was not ready to mention the costs that it was paid in the England company from the explanation that his contract was supervised by the ministry and the port's administration at that time of the administration of the fourth government.

He said as a result of those reasons, the authority has saw it is good to return to the report of not using the government to make it be together with making a high standard.
"The authority announced that the previous contract for the purpose of getting a member of parliament who was working on the voluntary contribution and improvement on the construction of new railway and collection of cargo from the whole project," added Are.

He said the process of the purchase is still ongoing and is expected to be an expert that will not affect the internet that will not depend on a period of three months and after that period will be announced to get an entrepreneur during that port.

However, that manager said that due to the procedures of the fifth term government, that they can be used for local experts until now the process has not been started to look for those internal experts.

Minister of Works Transport and Communication, Professor Makame Mbarawa, and obey them being stuck for that construction and added that for now the efforts are being taken so as to remove mistakes that arose.

"It is true that the NHO company is Scott-RT company was unable to meet the important criteria for being unable to identify their reports on infrastructure such as railway and other things, then the plans are done to ensure that the tender is completed," said Minister Mbarawa.

Professor Mbarawa said that due to the speed of the fifth term government under President Doctor John Magufuli, one of its main goals is to improve the economy of the country has faith that the construction will happen as planned.

His professional analysis shows that the port will be completed will serve 25 million tons of goods and to ease business activities for business people from the regions of Kilimanjaro, Arusha, and Manyara together with the lake and lake regions.

As a result of being given reports to start afresh, not to destroy the local experts, different stakeholders in the city have made different opinions, showing the worried that maybe the port failed to be built in this period of President John Magufuli.

"First did not allow the institution to be given a lot of money not to come up and not to mention the government that will help the investors of building that port and this port seems that there are big entrepreneurs not to pave way for the construction to buy goods from that port.
