
Now we need to discuss.
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

The launch of the draft constitution of Tanzania constitution that took place on Monday this week, in Dar es Salaam city is a historic event in the country for the first time since they were involved in a high level, in the manufacturing of their constitution.

The launch is conclude by their opponents, that deals with fear that resulted in the process of looking for opinions and basically, the direction on how the constitution will have 74 matches is ready.

There are three major steps on first of first, discussions through the constitutional councils that brought up of up by considering the reports that was given by the commission on constitutional changes, the discussion of the constitutional parliament and three votes for the citizens about those recommendations.

We are telling our citizens we are happy that, peace has been happy to reach this step of being involved in another country, this step was arrived for a long time and elsewhere in the blood.

We have shown the level of high level that you have been patient because sometimes the issues of other people are usually avoided, stop foolishness, even so, this step has already been done in front.

That is why we call on citizens now to give their strength to the councils of the constitution that they don't recognize that draft, article 10 for the interests of the nation and not considering that he was just the interests of their group, to be a political party or any other institution.

It will not be good for private individuals, public institutions and political parties to start conflicts about issues that are not in the draft on the direction of giving birth to hatred and violence erupted.

This is an opportunity for every person who is good and his nation is supposed to use well and go to councils and we need to discuss the ones that are in the draft, as our nation nationally, can't loose a time and human resources are not beneficial to our nation, and later.
