The opinion polls is impossible.
On the 18th of 18th, 2015.

While the government is continuing to control the proposed constitution, the former chairman of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba, has said there is no possibility of the opinion polls to be played on April 30th this year.
Speaking to Good Citizen the day before yesterday, in his office in Dar es Salaam city, he said that it did not happen because the time of registration of the voters is not enough for that job.
Following the meeting that took place on Monday this week, between the National Electoral Commission (NEC) and political parties, he said that NEC has changed the time of starting the voters, something that is affecting its performance.
"NEC appeared to start registering voters on February 16 in the provinces of Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma and Njombe provinces, it will not recognize that, starting with one province of Njombe, again February 23rd and says the equipment are still ongoing.
"Therefore, it is difficult to continue with the planned schedule.
"If the equipment will participate in the next month if they started to register in the middle of this month, they would complete the end of March when they started at the end of April and if they could make sure how it will be completed, the schedule has not been completed," he said.
Judge Warioba said if the schedule will be pushed forward it is a must to think about it so that they should not overlap with the general elections that will be held on October, this year.
"There was revealed that the voters' voters, therefore, they know her problems is why they used the time and it should be remembered that the system being used is new and those who have been registered are all people," he said.
The full report of Judge Warioba and Good Citizen is as we follow as Mrs Asha - "it has been good for the government to start using the proposed constitution, because it will help the citizens to read and compared to the ideas they had made and later get a good opportunity to make a decision during voting.
Now, when the opinion polls will be, for sure that will depend on the National Electoral Commission (NEC), which has three responsibilities.
First, it is supposed to prepare the permanent voters' voters, this is the foundation because you cannot go to the voting process until you have a little problem because we have the opinion polls which are expected to be played before the general elections.
In registering all people who will be able to register all people who will have reached 5 years in October, this year, currently there are many youths who will take place early so that there will be a problem because it would take them to vote but they should not have complaints that they are not in the book.
Therefore, it is the responsibility of the commission to register and later to verify so that all who don't have been registered.
If when he completed that, they have a second responsibility, which is providing education to the public and the referendum polls are open, section five has said that it is the responsibility of the commission to provide education to the public.
That work cannot be done when preparing to register his voters, not the work that is taking place in hand with the law and therefore they should be able to plan for a period of two months because the law should not be sworn in, but they should be able to do so without having the permanent voters for the voters.
