We have made democracy in political parties to be availed to you?
Dec 27, 2013.

Our country is in the political tensions among the youth and the ordinary citizens, who don't have interests according to the current system of administration, political tensions and you love the opposition.
These citizens have the rights and responsibility of launching CCM because his government had gone down by this government of CCM to put up his citizens not the issue of debate again because even the party's secretary general, Abdulrahman Kinana has confessed that he stopped by the public meetings.
Basically, Kinana is in recent days he has been doing the opposition work I don't know because of getting tired of the ruling party or by seeing that the opposition have been unable to destroy the government as well as required.
Maybe the action of the opposition members to controlling him and support the issue of new ministers as it is, another thing that the opposition are still supposed to do more than the opposition.
In the normal state, where the opposition is stable and it is ready to take the position of the government at any time, was expected to be the leader of the opposition camp in parliament and his parliamentarians would have an opportunity to deal with those ministers who were found guilty of the committee of Lembeli.
They had been keen, this was a good opportunity to the opposition to make sure that more important in the administration of CCM and even causing the general elections to be prepared earlier.
It's impossible for you to have cargo and then it should not have a lot of opposition members and they have found themselves in the coming elections and they have helped a lot of planning for the coming elections and they will continue to continue with my topic in the coming days.
Because most of the people who want change in the administration system have put their promise to CHADEMA, they don't want this party to stop themselves because they don't expect to be dealt with.
Whoever who tried to kill him and saw the leaders and especially showing that she desires to change in the leadership that they will be afraid of anyone who is not seen to support every person's leaders will be seen ahead of the community by being announced that they are not aware of the community.
Something that will be a offense was done by a leader "A" which will be seen for the offense, but that issue was done by a leader "B" which will not be an offense, but this issue is the Teacher Julius Nyerere called him, that it is a lawyer and hypocrisy of leadership.
Therefore, what we want to be told here is that the democratic elections in the opposition parties should be taken up to CCM aitakapotoka. However, the truth of politics is not there so that in politics of many political parties it's impossible so that it does not be a courtesy of leadership that is in power.
That comes inside CHADEMA is not a new issue here in the world. I will give him a recent example in the South African countries whose democracy will not like Jacob Zuma, former president's vice president, Mbehikya said that he didn't want him to be in the vice president.
