
Thursday, September 4th, 2014.

How is the important needs to the loved ones in the city where he is causing to cause chaos in the world.

In addition to a lot of religion to ban a divorce by its believers, the official statistics of the Registration and Licensing Agency (RITA) show that divorce in the year 2007 up to 2009, to 95 percent of 1,753 students in the country passed for divorce and not?

In the real situation, the reason for the culture is to inform us on issues of leaving, a situation can be bad, so many people can be in pain of marriage and decided to go into pain so as to reduce pain.

In the European countries, where little is the freedom of someone to do, as well as asking for a divorce, the situation is also critical and for example, we are told that when the number of marriages that were scored in the year 1999 has reduced by more than 200 percent in the year 1979 up to 2010.

These statistics show how the marriage institution continues to lose its popularity as well as many children continue getting married outside the European countries, more than 50 percent of children who are born outside marriage has reached 6648 in the year 2012.

Although this issue has been following research since in the past, for now, it has begun to attract feelings of many researchers following the increase of divorce and even when you get married, "we have never found a lot of pain and even to leave what marriage continues to be the institution that is in danger of its disappearance.

Research should we vote about such attitude of the couple that are separated?

Research that was done by AGAPE and was sworn in to the sections of the family issues in 2003) shows that many people have separated because of feelings of lack of honesty, the ones that are supposed to communicate, feelings of love and therefore the important things do not like people who are not happy again and many others.

The previous research have done efforts to know the reasons for traveling from marriage to view different groups including if we start with the sex, the researchers have listed reasons like women living with pregnant women, to change to its priorities as main reason.

Women on their part, they mention alcohol addicted in the same things, when a man failed to go to his financial family, a lot of feelings and body, a situation that is causing joy to return to the main problem.

Likewise, other research conducted by Kitson, popularly known by Goodone at different times, have tried to view financial ability and education in these problems.

On the side of family with financial ability and education sector, problems are claimed to be caused by the loved ones, because of a mental understanding of the couple, there are a lot of communication that do not pollute the life, a problem that does not pollute the life, a problem that does not depend on.

The families with a low-financial ability and education has mentioned the following things that the source of conflicts were discriminated against the body, lack of honesty (EFD), including abandoning their families and work problems, drinking and violence and gender violence.

Similarly, Kitson found that the loved ones who had a huge age of misunderstanding between the effects of children and the problems of family experience and other friends that are supposed to be implemented in the family.

What are the main cause of these problems that are causing conflicts in marriage?

These are called "the reason to leave" loved ones because they are very important because of being unable to do it easily.

In the article of articles that will be used, we will try to view, step in step, the main source of criminal offenses will not try to show how the important things that starts in pain and then cut off the relationship to the ones we saw.

When we will try to show how a man is and the biggest challenge in status and his authority is to be identified and can be identified, an issue that when it was paid by a woman feels and they can be ready to do things that do not benefit from the normal state which eventually makes a great problems.

Similarly, we will show how women with the origin they were given and a great need to get safe and eat at their husbands and therefore we will see how men do not meet their relationship as well as causing the behavior which did not depend on their wives.

When a person can ask you, "a youth, at your age, you do not have a marriage experience, you have the ability to write good things like marriage?

Some of the years in marriage does not have a speed to understand issues involved in the neighborhood and that experience will not be a solution to other people.

It is saying that, when writing this is the results of reading various researches done in the past, the word of the word, that was done by people feared to be involved in an accident and not a view or my personal views.

In addition, although my map of the books can have books from different journalists out of 45 - 50, I don't see the full number of books that I have ever did in discussing the different experience of relationship with marriage.

There, you told me, "the small man does not know you, because these things are very good and do not experience!" The ones who have been able to get the primary regulations that are leading and we did not end on the regulations.

In order to try that regulations, I have been talking to the couple that I have and me be better, at least the eyes, I don't see so, if at least they have been able to confirm the validity of those regulations in the African environment.

However, it's not the objectives of these articles to tell you the reader who is supposed to do that it will be contrary to the objectives of this blog which aims to give a total of a total of this reader is supposed to reduce and see if they have any donation, but the aim of this blog should have never seen that.

Although this is true that those who were written were for private efforts to improve my relationship, there is a possibility that those laws be able to help them and others.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
