
The police department has thrown and it needs changes.
The report that the police who were killed in Kapona was given a donation without getting any answer for 30 hours when he was impressed by the importance of the police department to be dealt with quickly.
Those reports are struggling in the memory of the cases of violence in police who tried to face disaster in areas like Baragumu.'
Despite that police are unable to deal with their ability to deal with crime considering that the number of security challenges are witnessed in the country, it is impossible for a long time because of the interests of the police department especially those of the administration have been forgotten.
It's not good environment living in living, the poor payments they are given, the danger that their parents and so on, are for sure there is no doubt in this department.
However, the police officers have volunteered to sell bed sheets and casting their heart as well as required to maintain peace and security in the country.
We cannot confirm that there are some police who don't have integrity and even in order to implement crime or cooperate with the criminals to implement the theft and killing, but not the right to kill all police on that long time.
It is not true that police officers have been identified as an example of the recent incident where two police officers were kidnapped by the public while most of them were killed and killed by killing the police if they could have killed the police if they would have got an opportunity.
The police officers especially the low level owners are every time faced with a fox which does not be able to stop, not to do but to follow the order of their heads even if it is to implement crime.
They have ceased to be happy and to develop a high level of implementing the bad behavior, it is clear that it is a must for police interests to be emphasized in the body.
The national police services are required to make changes in the police department so as to return to them the legal officers if we want to maintain peace and security in the country including the threat of terrorism.
You shouldn't know how they missed him, "he wrote.
