The one.
One of the constitution is saying that it is every person with disabilities.
Go to discuss there is no different.
It can be an environment and good infrastructure when I speak is that you're with buildings.
Wenje, there is Zuma of a good house but you are supposed to go through the yellow card, on you of the region, you come from.
When a good month, there is a good thing in one month but even if the elderly have been recommended and wanted to understand the differences with my listener.
If you were given, in this article of five and five, we will read the news that we have read so much, the needs and good environment that will be used.
Maybe I wanted to use the transport agencies to get news.
However, I was able to expand the Kanumba to get it only that it is my public water in a good hospital.
The launch of the road safety grounds and communication.
As all good friend and build coughing, even in the cities of cities, we should prepare the punishment to come, therefore it is living in the community of the community is Tanzanians but we do not live on it, it is possible for the pancreas.
Build your house?
It is healed?
The user has the ability to build a lot of houses, in eternal peace, in the above and when they put up, maybe if they go together with the room of who the youth of the work of and a girl child to be avoided, they come from one day after a child.
When you look at you, it is not a same day that you can be very difficult to do again.
They had a answer.
Or at the end of that, people we have been with his colleague, I do not read Mrema, and when you look at a good environment even when you get married, it should not be keen on how the construction of every member should understand but now how come.
The new constitution has also set up the responsibility of every citizen and that the authority is in a very high level with the government to implement all rights under the parent of brothers, relatives, and one person, there were everyone who gave his rights about how many issues were not there.
But he will narrate to you outside the country infrastructure to be brought to the media.
Many other organs for the whole transport sector and our vocational training is taking place.
You know so, the brothers and there are far a person who use anything but for the week?
It has been a problem.
In the plane you know it is a high speed for the disease or mother's property, which person can go directly in the union and go up to the union.
There is a person where stomach.
But a lot of buildings you know that superstition can be taught.
Or when you go in the issues of change, so that we find wisdom in this technology, Mister aims to make sure that people from the public and public transport can be from this week and they believe that they are supposed to prevent the public.
It is so that, then you do not see the shoulder what is it?
You can be a constitution when we are following words that we were in people with a new disability, there are some time they do but also I will talk about something to the person and therefore.
News, we have seen that we don't know the mother in your house can destroy the rights of every Tanzanian to get news and he had to spread me.
According to the law, I know it is true.
The farmer has been called because the reason for getting information is the same and it is a must for you to use a very high speed in the past, and this is a lot of points and the language is very fast, he has said she will give him a lot and afresh if I will be in Uganda but of communication.
And this is in all the government activities, it shows that there will be no need, the farm is supposed to invest in which a language of this language is called Ndugai.
And at the end of the phone you will be understood.
It should be a part of there because Tanzanians with talents and the video do not have a language like what we talk with you together with her sister's sister, maybe.
But it did not end that, I am doing so together with the articles have emerged with his brother who has said the branch like the other day that will enable the existence of alternative communication including the language of Tip Top Group and to announce its information nationally, we should talk to Tanzanians through a period.
Why Tanzanians will be a video that it cares for it, but the explosion was planned and several to someone in the group stages were ten and two.
These these do you know far they're seeing the example like infection.
So as to be able to get a message we want to think about Tanzanians about the proposed constitution and let me tell me and the interpreter translating to his points.
The first money in order to make that situation after this constitution makes the contributing instruments that are supposed to be used to the youth and caused many people.
But also when he is on the news on that club and the services to say you will have health centers where there were human beings who are explaining about Tanzanians using pregnant women and also, he wanted the doctors to know their costs so that there should be one.
We should know but we have to go with an entrepreneur, if he has been infected with AIDS, but when I did not loose a day, it needs to have a high level and it does not use it.
Majimaji will face Majimaji.
In minerals that are above and inside, it has agreed to make sure there was very important so that I can be able to come up because I will be paid a system and another one this year that I will be paid off in front of the work that has been set aside for the purpose of how to see them.
Here you will have joy by being a vibrant person, but their home has been separated but.
But last Friday they will be demolished quickly.
They will make efforts to work.
And Jesus do not have five?
Since the end of the day.
The Swahili has the right to work and get employment to the people.
It has set traditional stoves.
You find the answers of the regulations of the public service in the two article and her sister, the second article not with.
That among the ones that are under they were unable to protect employment and activities in the public sector, one is a chance to be represented by people with all employment in the country.
Then in the public sector, after passing through the proposed constitution, the stations will be making sure that people are the services otherwise, that is there.
Therefore, there will be a great revolution in him, the need for all the child is that I will be brutally murdered is no one.
And this means this means that we have been doing so because our disabilities are dangerous and we should be responsible for other work responsibilities but we look at the issue of work hard to join together with their parties.
They work with TIB by a place where it is for Tanzanians.
But also if you check the proposed constitution it has decided to rights for people with disabilities to get services.
We should be remembered that it depends on the proposed constitution you can give him the front of getting better services but for agriculture, it has said to give it better health services.
You missed the amendments to arrest the public.
Why I am supposed to get good services, then you can give these you responding to the proposed constitution from every Tanzanian, but on the left is good when I spoke about reproductive health.
I talk about example.
In their areas to women and motorcycle riders, what you find you, I was given my friend and this one with a total of war will not be able to rise in bed and this after a constitution through the meaning of a marriage.
Until now I will sell to know if the mid-fielder but not only the benefits of his wife just after leading that it will not have a member.
Or the mother of a pregnant woman is so good when he has been affected in the last minutes, but when you want them to take them on the same minute, after the constitution can be able to ensure that there is a lot of food and be able to ensure that there is a language that you cannot know.
Iringa who came to women with diseases.
Because of the mistake of a good house and even things to organize.
How to prevent diseases to be able to understand their use.
?
He has also bringing about the actual problem of the constitution that he is going on more that has shown great strength that aim at reducing the farmers.
The service of the commemoration is making sure that the man has been born that you were born, Jane Mwakalebela to know the treatment of being able to reduce the oil is things to give the fake information that he will be faced.
Only.
