
20 December 2012

TEMESA to purchase the ferry.

By Theresia Sakali.

The Technical Electrical Mechanical and Electrical Agency (TEMESA) Morogoro Province have promised to make corrections on the air which will be used to expand the machines and heavy vehicles that will be used to develop a high bridge in Kilombero District when the ferry of Kilombero road was directed to collect passengers and normal vehicles.
Speaking at the sixth session of the Nyarugusu refugee board, the acting manager of TEMESA in Morogoro Province, Engineer Magreth Martin, said the way to make sure the construction of that first bridge will make work performance on both two sides with efficiency without being in the coming in and to kill the citizens.

Moreover, according to the renovations, there will also be changes of time to work and it will end at 130 in the evening to 4 o'clock in the evening up to 4 o'clock in the evening at the whole period of construction of the bridge to reduce the congestion of passengers and cargo.

The acting manager said that the work of the year 2012 / 13 is expected to collect 57,97,800 shillings that will be used to pay for salaries, oil, allowances, special renovations, emergency and paying debts.

During the renovation of the ferry, the acting manager said that they are expecting to complete the renovation which will go at the end of the Christmas holiday which was at the Kilombero Sugar Factory (Flightlink) and all the regular areas that will be completed before Arafa grounds in the year 2013.

However, the acting manager has mentioned the challenges that DRC face to be hostile in the ferry of ferry that led to the mud which is currently underway.

Others are an accident of vehicles to break the bridge and eat with water because of the poor system of switching off those vehicles, the leaves and any goal that will take over the ferry area and caused time to stop so as to eliminate the leaves.

On his side, the ruling secretary of Morogoro Province, Eliasa Ntandu who was the guest of honor said that apart from the lack of argument about those areas in all the two primary education sector is needed to enable citizens to protect themselves before disaster.
