Four people have been killed by death yesterday night in the area of Mpunga Relini, Arumeru district in Arusha province where the police commander of Kigoma Province were found on his neck by others with the police commander in Kigoma province that we will make through a phone.
Since we are not known to you.
The late Diamond today at ten o'clock in the morning and one hour.
You are not living a life that you have received.
The late does not bring a difference between that one hour after being seen by the people that had come from people were on it.
The follow was done and that is true that there was a human body.
On the front of the road at the reception area, Ghost Rwena from Dar es Salaam got a clean up of water in Arumeru district.
But it's still being attacked by another citizen who had gone to the bodies of two people under the bridge of MV.
Also, it is very little from there on it as the third commandment from the White House.
You miss.
Mrisho Kikwete in a trap of going to Mererani Town, we came out a report by another citizens who said that they have found a man of a man aged twenty years and seven in the edge of the road.
Therefore, it is not good.
I know what happened anymore.
And being taken to the hospital.
Some of the going against him where he is in charge of the bodies.
The late Adam and the first followers are saying that in the reports they were given, there was no citizens that went with the citizens and that is what made them believe that it is possible they gave them killed by the host of the child.
However, the reports from the road to reach the roads and after the end of the loan to pass through television station when it is not the citizens to come out in order to diagnose their brothers by partnering with the police force in ensuring that he will be the concerned leader.
To come out and when you're welcome to follow keenly, I have given four suspects who were known as the name of the age of twenty years and two are a resident of Pickup, in the municipality of bribery.
I will answer.
Commander Sirro has said the investigation of the incident is going on so as to identify the cause of deaths and names of.
