
We are looking at all the best fine.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

Yesterday the first plane carried out by the government for the purpose of being used by the Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL) among the two planes made him, it was killed at the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es Salaam, from Canada was made.

The coming of that plane is the implementation of the promise by President John Magufuli, he made it immediately after getting into power where through the budget of the ministry of construction, transport and communication, was also an amount of money for the purpose of buying his purchase.
It is our hope that we use all of the Bombardier Q400 type which will be aired live in 6 o'clock in the afternoon and then get a special respect to pass the water, it is expected to return the honor of Tanzania in the air.
That respect is as a result of the fact that there are stadiums in the country, organizations that were unable to take services due to the structure of plots and the type of aircraft they are facing.
The existence of this plane that has great ability to dominate your home in our home is a savior in the air transportation, which for a long time has had doubt because the absence of a plane that could destroy the business competition with reliable economy to customers.
When we want to say after arriving at the first plane that time has come from the management of ATCL, to see the government's efforts and therefore make sure that they are coming from there they are studying.
While considering that the cost of operations of these airplanes are more affordable, being one of the planes that come into the internal market, ATCL has every reason to be proud of the great help of the government in stopping the debts of Twiga Stars.
That plane that has a capacity to carry 76 passengers and six workers is an important reason for the changes required by the organization, which currently has been forced to be a specialist we believe in the air travel.
As a result of the existence of a new leadership and the arrival of a new plane, we are following the mistakes that were done last day, that killed the organization and making the beggars will be wanted quickly and therefore bringing joy to the government and at least paid taxes, whoever doesn't eliminate the promises in actions.
Hitler did not love this organization, every time it is said to parliament the way it is doing so and to fail to give his contribution to the national income.
In addition, we hope that great changes comes to a organization that be aired on benefits and is not to have more than 142 workers and the building of ATC house which is in Ohio road, Dar es Salaam while there is big debts, as it was said to parliament.
This organization has resulted in a long journey including leases of solar energy to be understood, the selling of its ways and the contracts is not true, which did not have benefits to the nation or to the organization.
And it's as a result of that, we believe that this plane of the plane that we believe that it has been born afresh, to arrive at the plane just after completing the process of being signed by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) and started using it, there will be no rally in its operations.
We hope that the operation will be keen on business and services in plots that are for a lot of time to get services due to the kind of infrastructure, which was being used by organizations that were being used by transporting passengers through the air crafts.
We believe that at the grounds like Dodoma, Mwanza, Arusha, Mbeya, Kigoma, Tabora, Mpanda, Kilimanjaro, Mtwara, Zanzibar, Pemba, Bukoba, Bukoba, Zanzibar, Pemba, Bukoba, Pemba, Bukoba, Pemba, Bukoba, Pemba, Zanzibar and Comoros.
Moreover, the arrival of those planes will bring a great revolution of services and performance to that organization which already has made a work squad that is in charge of various issues, including the issue of training of various executives so as to deal with the requirements of that business for now including the issue of doing business in competition.
We thank you a new blogger.
