We can't know what they were unable to work and not at least.
Dec 16, 2015.

There's no doubt that politics is a very important thing in any community that is in politics when we meet with different relations to be economically or community.
However, in our country for many years now it has already been involved in a environment that we can make sure that we do not have a grace due to how politics is used as we have been a nation of politics in every way.
Politics has been left to rule our life to an extent that every person is being viewed as a lot of politics and it is good because we know that everything that is done in our community are fruits, our politics and we know that everything is done in our community.
For several decades now, we have been a nation of political people and this is due to the history of our nation especially in the next five years to participate fully in the process of fighting for the liberation of Africa, to eradicate the colonial era of New York.
Historians know that Tanzania passes inside the books to a large extent as a result of our participation as a nation in the fight against liberation and that without doubt, it is a great reputation.
We were the nation of people who revealed that freedom of one person cannot be completed as the neighboring country reading you in the neighborhood.
However, after getting into the system of many political parties and getting into the economic system of the public market, we will be able to check the way to bring politics in our daily lives and we did not want to receive political changes but we did not want to receive political changes but we did not want to receive political changes but the market is different from.
For a long time now, everyone of the main topics that will be discussed here in the country is political and politics has been left to rule everything that is done, many politics have a great help in our economy.
We are supposed to have various political issues and given you, you will discover that or it is an issue that aim to benefit a certain people economically or it is an issue that aim to disrupt the economic and social welfare of the citizens who are many.
Zille has thrown out the issue of citizens as it is a big issue that aim at improving the development of many people but given a poster for the interests of one person or a small group of people with economic and political goals.
This has come out again last week when President John Pombe Magufuli announced the cabinet of ministers that was eagerly awaited by citizens.
Just after Doctor Magufuli announced the council to start being heard of words here and when discussing his appointment, there is no longer a lot of time to discuss the appointment of President Magufuli's right to discuss the names of the president and each one of us have the right to agree or make sure that the man, on his view.
An issue that is enough to each other, when you were seen to open efforts of wanting to convince the president to convince the president to symbolize the appointment of some people because that reality has no merit and even a little.
Zigamba has been faced with great efforts of forcing the president to defend his decision by appointing some people to hold positions of a minister including Professor Sospeter Muhongo.
It is not a bad thing even if I commend the president in order to do a decision with profit to the nation, but I believe that President in this appointment which she found guilty, a sum of some of us started to prevent it and even write news that concern them in media stations.
When I take a example of the argument that is given out by Professor Muhongo that the votes came out due to an issue of Tegeta Escrow account and that is why he does not have the status or reputation of being appointed to be the minister, again in that ministry that he is clear that there are unknown facts.
The Escrow issue that took our time a lot of time like this whole nation was discussed at large and high risks of the conflict that was done by Professor Muhongo was on a big way is political accountability, and not the results of participation in any crime that was not there.
