The European child said that he used to raise millions to children of Tanzania.
Petit 13, 2012

First of April this year I wrote here on baby Lukaya who is 11 years old in Norwich, England.
That this child, and if the idea of raising money in order to help the children of the village of ango, in Mbeya Province.
This child's intention was to help the construction of a class one which will also be used as a group of books for nursery school, class one and third and third.
The idea of child Lukivi who died after being touched by the pictures through the internet of Mjengwa Blog, it is the pictures that showed a difficult environment that children get education here in Tanzania.
Lukivi has said that the aim of collecting one million Tanzanian shillings has the great desire to be awarded more than four million shillings with more than 35 million shillings of school equipment including sports equipment, more donations has been promised to the child even next year.
That contributions came through a courtesy walk that was set up to small town which was set aside for people of Madibira, Mbarali and neighboring villages, but here at home, there are many people who decided to support Lukeman while through Mjengwa Blog has been contributed approximately four million shillings through the service of sending money through mobile phones.

Transporting the box for donations that were collected by Lukaya and Mrs Karrima Carter during Tanzania would have been a very high cost.
But a Tanzanian, the patriotism Chris Brown will be one of the Tanzanian company of transportation with its headquarters in the United Kingdom, Serengeti National Park, popularly known as "elders of Labor," have received that cargo from Miss Karrima Carter and they have volunteered to transporting free cargo from Tanzania.
For sure, that is patriotism that do not meet standards without doubt, this donation will help to change the lives of many in the village of ango, and the neighboring villages in Madibira, Mbarali, Mbeya.

We expect we have to learn from this child, Lukivi who is why in Tanzania is to have sponsors from Europe and America when you see the state of our schools, they are committed to contribute and improving the situation.

I wrote in the past, that it is the right time to ask for what we can build a system that will make sure you help the control of revenue and expenditure of the government which essentially it is money for the citizens.
And control here is a great meaning that if a country, we will be able to build the economic ability by depending on our revenue sources.

But as citizens, the responsibility of bringing development to the development did not be able to remain in the government and not only, we have the responsibility to contribute to our development.

Unfortunately, what we have been very important to contribute to our development activities, we have been encouraging even to do development activities so that we have been able to do, there are people from Europe and America who are living in our country and others living in our villages and others living in rural areas and others living in rural areas.

There in their countries they pay for money and it's not that they have a lot of money and they don't have problems affecting Europe and America, therefore, its citizens also care so that they can bring donations to our community.

Why then we have been able to contribute to our development activities and instead, we have been the ability to contribute to the wedding, or using our money for a celebration, health or access to clean and safe water.

No wonder, there are some leaders who are proud to be the honor to be the guest of honor when the donations from outside came to come in the country and these leaders of the citizens will also go in the country.

The efforts of baby Lukivi who will accept our responsibility to contribute to our development anywhere, where we are and our responsibility to the public, our leaders we have given priority to leadership.
