
TAZARA workers are looking for cold drinks for pay for three months.

Rashid Mkonga.

The employees of Tanzania Railways Corporation and Zambia (TAZARA) on the side of Tanzania, Mbeya station have suspended the cold for not working or running the machines until when they will be paid for five months they are claiming from that organization.

Some of the 40 workers who claim to represent more than 1000 colleagues who benefit from the central region of Tunduma and Kurasini have made that position in front of the member of parliament of Mbeya town, Joseph Mbilinyi as he requested them to attain their cry in the Ministry of Transport.

"We are requesting the honorable member of parliament, we pray to our reporter in the ministry, we're struggling to go with hunger, we are rumored to be difficult for houses, fees for children have been expelled, their lives are estimated to be difficult until day," said Ramadhan Mohamed who wanted to be the senior leader of that organization.

And Aspro Capital, who mentioned that it is the normal driver, he said that the difficult environment that they have caused the failure to run the train and that it cannot run the train and that it cannot be paid the train and he has been paid his salaries as required by the organization.

"I am a driver of the train and I cannot run the train when I got the soul of people, can I get married, can I kill him, it is dangerous to work in this situation," said peace.

On her part, Hilda Mtaki who is doing the official launch, "41 points" said that his children have been expelled from school and the house they had planned to be expelled from his friend thus they need to buy his salary so that he will continue with the strike until when he will continue with the strike until when he will continue with the strike.

Mtaki said that the organization is for Tanzania and Zambia but employees and the income of income between the workers of these sides do not coincide with that their colleagues from Zambia have a good life more than their side of Tanzania.

Speaking about that scandal, the Member of Parliament for Mbeya town, Mbilinyi said that he has done their cry and promised to forward the issue in the ministry and left the other than revealed that the directors of that ministry including the minister involved have a great intention to find a solution to the problem.

"This is tension, workers are getting up to five months, the ministry does not end, according to the problems of their employees, this is unacceptable," he said.

Mbilinyi insisted that many problems in the TAZARA railway comes from the directors to have private interests, a situation that brings feelings to some of the leaders (not explanation) which are the owners of big vehicles being used to transport goods outside the country.

He said that he has been making noise on the issue of improving the railway infrastructure for a long time being together with enhance security to the Meteorological Authority in Mbeya town which he believes will help to reduce the problems and improve the performance of the organization but up to now, there is no happening.

This newspaper led by the phone and the senior manager of TAZARA on the side of Tanzania Abdallah Shekau gave a member of parliament to discuss the problem of those workers and said that they were working on that issue and he will make calls to these news reporters later so as to give an explanation on that issue.
