Six do not know about Mandela.
Jide 5, 2013.

There are six important things that we have never been put in public and even discourage them, so as to meet the first black president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela, among them, it is what compelled him to come to change in Tanzania in the year 1992, South Sudan reports.

That decision to come to rest in Tanzania is between those six things, and a result of the coming up, and a result of his coming up is to remove the thoughts that is facing him, is caused by giving a divorce and the second wife, Winnie-Madega.

Winnie was not only the wife of Mandela, but he had all the front line in the fight against racial segregation in South Africa, while all of her husband was in prison for 27 years.

In the half time in the country, Mandela arrived at the Serena Hotel which is in Manyara Region for a period of two weeks during a big secret tour.

In his half time, Mandela was together with a person who later was sent to be the ambassador of Tanzania in South Africa, Ami Mpungwe, who he plays the newspaper about that incident.

"One day, the month of April this year, I was called a phone with Mbeyela Secondary School, later he was sent to be the South African president (he will make me vote to receive Mzee Mandela because he is to come to rest here in the country.

"I visited to be with her close to approximately two weeks that he had planned to sit at the Serengeti National Park, we've lived for a long time in the hotel of lodge / Hotel," he said.

In those talks with Mpungwe, that has been published in this newspaper, the highly commended said basically, the procedure of preparing the freedom to come to rest in Tanzania has started being put since the era of Mwalimu Nyerere.

The same time of Mandela, according to Mpungwe, they were planned and his African National Congress Party is forced, due to being beaten in his soul and leaving his wife.

Mandela announced his wife in the year 1992, due to various reasons including a musician, it was known to have a romantic relationship with his son who was known by the name Dumu.

He said most of the freedom, especially the former President of Mandela National Congress Party (ANC), Oliver Wema, were forced to get married by the teacher going to rest in wild animals.

"The teacher had told them that it is not the first, then it is why we talk to me, Mandela did not come up with in the year 1997," said Mpungwe.

While you have written the incident of Mbehikya said that the journey took place in a forced to Elder Mandela who saw the vice president needs a long time due to the issue of arbitration, the Democratic Republic of Congo.

Another second reason, apart from the divorce industry, if you explained about the explanation of Ambassador Mpungwe said this newspaper is together with his disappointment with the leaders who do not care time especially during the meeting.

Another reason is to make calls at any time without caring about the same time without caring about the same time, without giving instructions or asking about something about leadership issues, an fourth issue is to love to force people to take Christmas holidays with each year, when he was the president.

Five is unable to appeal for the purpose of opposing the election results that made them to power, but the six issue is her love about the environment of the environment.
