
Nyerere and the project of construction of United Nations on October 18th, 2012

My brothers, we launched the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Day this week.
There has been a topic that involved the coalition issue in writing the new constitution. There was a vibrant listener. I went to listen to him and learn.
But when we talk about the union in writing a new constitution, it involves also a big project of construction of the national union where Mwalimu Nyerere was started, and even so, we see the moment you will rise and leave our nation in doubt if it involves the construction of the national union.
The teacher entered the stable foundation of construction of the national union (nation-building) to build a human community and believe in the fact that we are all brothers and that our country does not have religion because our country has many years to build the basis of patriotism in their nation.
We see now, the work that took many years, due to the ones that we gave birth to the foundation of some of our politicians, they are heading to protect their interests according to our country and they are ready to use their interests and of them around them.
Most of us now get a heart of patriotism in their country, there are even someone who want to tell them, "there is no good symptoms to our nation because there are no good sign to the nation, there is no good sign to the nation.
The country has themselves! "There are some of us not to be touched by this country, they do not accept to have the strength of fighting the evil deeds that advertise the world.
Some of us have started a shortage of love and their country is dangerous and we must have the courage to fight for the interests of our country and it is happy to have died by being shot more than malaria diseases in the country which has human resources to enable us to build enough resources among our resources.

June 16, 2004 when I got to write this newspaper on the Majira newspaper, that Tanzania has all problems, problems of us.

I wrote that Tanzania is a very good country and it's a great country to be proud of because Tanzania is a very big country in the area where a country with a lot of resources, land, natural fertility.
However, Tanzania is one of the most poor countries in the world because what is big missing in Tanzania, we should build up now in a high level of people from different groups of going in a style of "every person and the ones in their country continues to reduce.
