District commissioner of Manyoni, Singida province, when it reached the ban on selling of charcoal a day in the district, the late is supposed to control the speed of planting trees in the district and business in the lake region to be held without all the damage caused by the environmental destruction.
A long-term problem of drought continues to meet the district of Singida that caused poverty to citizens being led to being given solutions to the government to identify the main source.
Giving birth of masturbation regarded as usual and he does not make that business.
That head of that district has got a problem and faith.
Now, it is banned for any person to fall down and therefore, in the teeth that has mentioned, there is our government of the villages, when they sell it as a stars in controlling the events.
Upbringing is found to send pictures and legal action should be taken against him including being taken to media stations in the province, Aqsa in planting trees and to go further further.
And I started again.
It is a letter from anyone broke.
Do not lie!
I haven't heard on the roads to clean up the white house so that you can be in Manyoni.
Saying this is a certain period of a man he has gone through I believe on how their tree planting exercise were in five years ago.
The world is two hundred and eight hours, we were able to take the team Black Americans' six and nine percent from six percent.
The past two hundred and ten thousand, six hundred and ten thousand, one hundred and five more than five hundred and ten thousand shillings on claims of last year is by fifty and eight hundred thousand.
The representative of the agents of forests have been appointed is Ban Hashim in the city, let your impatient and the other stars on the internet.
Some of the citizens, there have been a habit of bringing up a tree planting trees, then you have forgotten that we are equivalent to other crops.
It is similar to planting trees and return to me?
Alcohol like then there are other allegations so that we can be avoided.
Manyoni.
Usual.
