The draft of the constitution, Taifa Stars is taking off the net?
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

Big changes have been done in our country according to the draft constitution that was launched this week.
This is a great changes to have ever happened since the year 1977 and it is the year that the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania followed great changes in the year 1977 due to great changes also in the leadership of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and even inside the system of government leadership.
Well, in this world, social changes lead to political changes, and some of the bodies are saying there are two reasons related to these changes because of the relevant communities (thoughtful narrates) and any other foreign reasons (non-communicable diseases).
On our part, we see that the reasons for inside and outside, in addition, have been able to reach this step of the great changes of the constitution.
And in our community for its-inch width, it has a primary reason to be happy about these changes, because, it is same as a human being who was given a cup with a half of milk.
You will understand that if he is happy or he does not think about how he didn't know the cup that is looking for you, "a cup for milk" is showing off and is showing hope that is just a half and it involves having bad expectations (not in the Tourism Board).
Private, let me take this opportunity to congratulate the members of the Constitutional Review Commission for their good work that made him to take this step of the presence of the first draft constitution, but another one to be commended by the great courage of leadership, is the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Jakaya Kikwete.
History will remember President Kikwete with his courage to leave on the thoughts and to be ready for the first time in history of this country, to sit on one table with all the groups, including the opponents of his party to discuss the future of our country.
Because this constitution did not concern the future of our political party but the future of our country, political parties come out and leave, but our country will also be accountable if you can be a member of a certain party, but your child is not a member or leader of different party.
With the courage to lead this process of the constitution, and basically the major changes to the interests of the nation, President Kikwete gives a great changes to the nation, President Kikwete gives them a big changes in the system, economy and community, not just following a new constitution that is coming up.
And in the current world, there is no one who is able to prevent changes arising from economical development in the community, for example, the former Russia and the country in Russia and his people did not believe what they have seen.
Gmwaijonga has said that when it was found while the big changes of the system in Russia was getting two names, Perisic and Gallas.
Before the big changes, Russia was faced with the problem of existence the thoughts and thoughts and lack of transparency in the community found fear, many issues were not attractive.
However, inside the end of there, there was a strong desire to marry off the girl, it will be remembered for her silence and making Russia be a modern country as it appears from now.
And for sure, "the birth of our new constitution is same as our nation, it is equal to our nation, it is supposed to move forward and start to change our nation's dreams, because of making our country's dreams or more than private goals.
Our country is like old houses, let us continue with our union to make the work of improving our house and to get a new view, to raise them at the old house, can also affect the house itself.
There will be poles and pieces of bricks for giving back to time, so as to check up and new bricks will also be slaughtered, therefore, and there will be able to break your house.
Because, in the community, the changes should be discussed in addition to the new thoughts, and the society is in addition to lack of faith in new ideas which were implemented by people who are not supposed to allow others to participate in the country's leadership.
