Madam Rita has spoken.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) in collaboration with the company of brokerage of Joy, has thanked the Benbros Motors LTD and gave a period of 14 days, it will have paid an amount of 769 billion shillings, otherwise, the property of that company will be sold to the auction.

While speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam City, the Assistant Manager of that TRA, Kinondoni Province, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they have reached that step after claims from that company that is owned by Rita Paulsen for a long time without paying.
TRA, with the company of brokerage of Yono, arrived at the Mikocheni area in the city yesterday morning were at the company's offices and told the concerned parties concerning the debt, an issue that those involved were not found.
However, the operations manager of that company known by one name has arrived in that office and asked the officers that he had started communication on how to pay that debt, "there is a letter that we had begun to do communication with TRA, about this debt, but the ability of the company," he said.
However, the owner of that company is alleged to have taxes since the year 2009, and he was using another name in that company and after a short time he scored and opening the Benitu.
The debtor will be a company that is called another name and asked me of paying the government tax since the year 2009, but he did not implement it instead he decided to score against the company and open this debt he has been told, "said Rutta.
He said after seeing the time it's tired and the debt would continue to increase without the debtor to show the efforts of paying the debtor to be given the debtor to follow up the debt.
On his part, the Director of Blessing Foundation, Harmonizer being suspended from that company and from now the guards of Yono will protect the company after 14 days, who were given to pay the debt they pass, will take another step of selling that company's property to the auction.
He said that the debt is big because it is a long time, it has not paid taxes, it has not paid taxes because the debt will be paid because it is being paid in time that is being paid for time that is being paid in time.
"We have been given the job to collect debts from government debts and we will continue to arrest all those who will be given because the aim is to make sure that our country is growing by collecting enough revenue," said Kwelukilwa.
Kraehenbuehl said that the work of continuing to collect debts from other government debtors continues and now they are in various steps of collection including running the auction of various debtors in order to get government funds.
