And the spokesperson of Chidi Mapenzi and we know where we know where we know where we are part of the talks while we look at the whole issue of education.
I am saying that education is the key to the life but in Durban is called education if it is not for the teachers, when it's found, when they come out, then we are talking to him.
My lawyer of Mister Musaizi says is the director for advice and upbringing of the sun, a group of technical education in a short time.
Also, a guarantee doctor in Mkwera, who is the executive secretary of the National Executive Council of technical education seems to be very good for the money they want to celebrate the second child and high students.
Others by starting our talks.
Responding to the responsibility.
Ras Kiduku was found.
For a time to talk like it has explained that it is a national council of technical education without the establishment of the parliamentary law for the third six year, still a big responsibility of conmen against the training of education and technical training.
That are given by three are far.
Today.
Just to sleep?
The instructions of what we should be thrown out and can be able to distribute our responsibilities in the first three, including the coordination of medicine, the Almighty God bless you in the main entrance fee of the training that are not able to manage the quality of training to that training.
Why is the Almighty God?
Human resources and resources are other property, if you deal with the criteria and the required levels, Said Said the second responsibility to advise the government in different issues concerning technical training and the third responsibility is big.
There was a recent history when I don't know most of our problems and because it has been started in the foundation of different procedures, the late us have the responsibility to tell them to help the Island.
Get you and ask for that opportunity for short, we have those big responsibilities, but we did not know that if we are going to the law, I don't know that you are not seen in you.
The late God is now.
As required we are trying to hundreds of citizens but solve the challenges of here and there.
In addition to our discussions, they are required to make sure that every students of the teaching colleges would like to be taxed.
This procedure as you like to talk about the second commandment of the program to take a new teachers.
Or the?
Ask for why that we have been forced to give information because there are changes in the procedure that had been used.
That year of this year, have been used two procedures.
The truth so that they were teachers or for teachers we expect to look for people who go to study teaching.
And there will also be changes in the curriculum because there are different courses of teaching that are run for universities, the late God bless Tanzania, most of the Tanzanians did not have, Charles Msonde, the most importantly they want to study teaching.
And it is a good thing here I think that the council is under interview.
Therefore, they were seen and they were involved in a big amount of teaching and diploma colleges.
But at the end of last year, the readers do not have a report of changes also.
It will be new curriculum and to give them all the teaching of primary and vocational training that will be given to them when they were told when they were told when they were told when they were seen and they got to change the late.
Normally, people had I request to marry off their coach but now you will study teaching, you want to have got a first bridge until when you will give birth to you.
Therefore, that he was coming from Job Ndugai, another vehicle is that while being involved in learning.
In general, we are not having a procedure it has said that if the teachers of the primary school the preparations have to improve their studies.
Therefore, it is not good.
This journey who have been taken to study teaching to previous teaching because the government is true, it is important to teach my work according to the needs of this country, there is a directive that we have already in that province, there was a directive that has already been done in which every primary school has a class.
And the great success is to ensure that all classrooms are taught.
Therefore, with a great speed of sponsorship since in Africa, the teachers for the teachers do not expect to study science teachers, it will be a big challenge to the honorable president of the year that, there is still a shortage and what to close to them at the end of the teachers.
Lack of nutrients in a time but vote.
Therefore, it is not good.
We took this also that when the youth were quoted by joining the studies of science and money.
In total of a total of eight hundred thousand youth, two hundred thousand youth.
The Almighty God went to pay where the Lord Jesus.
We are expecting to get this matter.
And we were there and the two pictures that caused many love to be paid?
