
To contribute to removing minerals of shot on products.

It has been written by I heard.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

Many products that are produced in industries are mentioned to have minerals of water, that is explained by experts of health issues that have a great ability to affect the human body, especially children and pregnant women.

The minerals that currently has been removed from petrol by a large extent, are used more to produce houses belonging to houses being the body that makes the color concerned or get married early.
In addition, minerals of trees that producers of color do not use, are mentioned to cause color, a situation that is caused by many not knowing its effects, because they believe the color of the type is good because they believe the color of that type is not good.
However, different nations in the world have seen the importance of ensuring that the citizens are aired by the effects of those minerals by putting procedures and quality standards of products that will destroy the production of goods with a bullet.
In order to show that Tanzania is keen on that issue, the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in collaboration with the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (LHRC), made a workshop in the country about the preparation of the quality level that will destroy the use of those minerals at the houses of houses.
That workshop that ends today has caused representatives from countries of the East African Community, Ethiopia, South Africa and China with the main aim is to ensure there are no more products produced by those minerals in the African region and other nations.
Acting Director of TBS, Edna Mdoe said yesterday that international statistics show a need to have a strategy of controlling the use of those minerals on products because it is not only that they are affecting human beings but even the economy.
He said those statistics show that a mental level can be reduced due to the use of breast cancer is 985 million as interpreted as it is equivalent to a loss of 467 billion American dollars in the economy.
He explained that, they have organized to make sure they reach the world requirements of removing the deaths of water in products by the year 2020 so as to remove the danger of losing their mental ability, because that issue is possible.
He said the strategy started in Ethiopia at a meeting that involved various countries that agreed to make it an issue, that the important agenda to be implemented in actions of all the concerned countries.
Ndumbaro said that for now, Tanzania has not been able to reach the required levels of not being shot in color and that it is being implemented in a step so as to avoid the great importance of the economy, together with providing an opportunity to various stakeholders including business people and users of products that have been shot on the effects of those minerals.
He said they want to reach the amount of one acre of minerals in every corner of color and by the year 2020 with having those minerals in any product that is expected to be completed.
Senior Operations Officer from UNEP, Estrada, he explained openly that the citizens including the stakeholders in production of products, are the great contribution that made those goals to remove those minerals at different products and not color to home alone.
He said he believes that together with the citizens and the authorities involved in controlling the quality standards, the ones that can give them fruits in any issues that are not allowed to be done with good intentions of protecting the health of those people.
I communicate with TWU (TBS) to agree with the cooperation of business stakeholders, including the users, that they have already started production or use of products with minerals that have a problem.
