Do you talk to business people who are good to have a phone number of customers?

It has been written by I heard.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

I'm talking with business person, Leonard Kazoba of Mbagala, Dar es Salaam, who wanted to know if the business person having a phone number of products or services is a bad behavior and if it is wrong in business.

A question that will like that like that, was asked by other two business people, including the small business of second-hand clothes, who identified himself as Shukuru Kawambwa, Tanga and James Silayal of anyone, I saw the other person or even a customer.
As a result of that case, I would like to be understood that, any business person has been big, under the middle and one of them, he can bring any business issue in this platform and not because others in accordance with the network, honesty is the issue that really needed.
It means that a customer is not supposed to change the use of those number and start using them in a system that will participate in the concerned countries, the network has said in the developed countries, business people with the importance of having mobile phone numbers usually have a special book.
He does not need a customer or for the purpose of making sure that there is a new product has been put in the market or if he has never done its products and other reasons, then they will be found easily.
That book is explained to the network that it can be normal or electronic systems according to the way the business person who represents the phone number as it decided or due to its development in science and technology.
It is said that there are some who don't like to put their data in that technology and there are some who use them, to know its importance and to use more than any other ways.
Similarly, the network continues to clarify that you use the phone numbers of the customer "your" of products or services is not a bad behavior and not for a business offense.
Putting the dangers of the use of those phones is supposed to be availed and to also care for a business person or certain business people who have his phone number or to be given, and start to be only a problem and even if it is not taken directly to be a problem.
Why can it be shown to be a business offense?
As a result of a modem that explains that, even if a customer has not given a phone number with his intention, when he gets a phone with a business person who doesn't know what's a good relationship with business, there's no reason to enjoy each other between the business person and the client.
An example of donations that is explained in that network is together with the customer without keys to the shop that bought products or get services, forgetting the investor and to make payments for the mistakes that the network has said, it is normal for a business person to find him without being involved, especially when it has paid more money to do.
"There are some who were seen to be remembered by using the phone from those who received them to their products and there are some who have been informed about products and new services through the phone numbers which they did not give the business people who will give them use in things like they met in issues that have no benefits.
The example of these things is mentioned by the network as well as talking to other customers on issues that are not in the federation, to give permission to the phone by giving birth to other people, who use the number of phones in non-primary issues, who use it to sign him.
Apart from that, the white house says that it is not good for a customer who know that it is a problem to distribute phone numbers to people outside the family to do so, because he is in the fire.
Likewise, it is advised that it is good to be taken early to business people to put good systems in protecting the number of use and use, to avoid any difficulty if you are seen, there is a probability of both two sides that are involved in trouble.
Business experts are continuing to explain that when it comes out of a customer or wife to the customer, the husband to the customer or a business person, is easy to businesses affected even so, experts through these networks are explaining that having a client's number among them not knowing your business.
In the opinion, we're talking to our writer through phone number of 752, 739, 90, 90, 90 percent or email support @ mkito.
