

And Christian Bella.
We put up this article of last week by protecting the environment that contributes to a large extent to build the behavior of our children, in this article, we will look among four groups of children arising from the type of upbringing they are given.
Child then calm and.
This is a child that believes that the parents and stability and believe in and see you are in safe environment, it is not dangerous and does not lie without any reason why when he gets the opposition when his mother refuses, he is still easy to kill him.
Likewise, it is so much and he has a clear love for others and as the way he continues to grow, it is easy to learn with her colleagues in peace including peace, "I will inform you by the father or mother," these actions are the results of the upbringing that concern them, which he featured in which he accepted.
Apart from this group, there is a group of children with the challenges of the soul, they don't know safe and those involved in three small groups, the ones who live with people, do not accept to believe in secret and those who missed him.
Child who is competing with people.
This is a child that you believe but who do not know more than others and basically he has not yet been safe while others are why he has a habit of protect yourself and others how many times he can have a mental ability.
As a small, he can have a habit of not caring about when he was left out by her mother and even if he can get married, but when he knows her, she does not have a close relationship with her mother and the habit of saying that she does not have involved in a certain way.
The baby does not lie!
This is a child who is worried about what he did, even though he wants them to be better than him, but basically he doesn't know much and he can't know a lot or even when he meets with people who understand what she knows in, and he can be very happy than usual.
This is a child who was affected by the behavior of parents who are not available on the body and they don't jump and when he knows her, even if he knows they love each other, although he knows how they love each other, although he knows how they love each other and to get rid of your cooperation.
The holy martyr.
This is a heartless child understood that you have no value and others who have lost their meaning as he is a child who doesn't have feelings of others and she does not understand the feelings of others and that is why they are mutilated and bake.
What is taking him to be careful, upbringing doesn't respect his thoughts as well as parents do not want jokes in front, abusive and lack of decency so that parents living with maggots, can use a child like how to protect themselves from their pain so that they can be one reason.
