
A houses of 120 minutes to be removed in the safeguard.

It has been written by Lucas Raphael.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

District commissioner of Urambo, Angelina Kwizera, has done a two-day operation at the North West reserve area to demolish and burn in 120 houses of 120 households that were built philosophically to the wildlife park.

That operation is aimed at checking the destruction of environment that had been done in that reserve.
Speaking during the operation, he said the operation that took place in Teya Chai village, Ihanga village, Ihanga village, Ihanga village, Ihanga village, Iumbu village, in the district and all the areas surrounding the park will be sustainable so as to restore the lives of forests in that district.
He said that the operation has succeeded due to good cooperation that they got from the government leaders in the village and ward by partnering with the defense and security committee of the district.
In order to control those attackers, he ordered the police officers and all the squads that are concerned to protect that reserve to make an operation every after two weeks so as to identify the attackers that will try to go back to the park so that they are arrested.
"The job will be sustainable and strict legal action will be taken by someone or any group of people that will be known to go to do its activities in the park," insisted Mgungusi.
He mentioned the destruction that took place in the reserve to be carrying out of trees that was causing to leave the wildlife who drive out of hunger without following the law, destruction of timber and drinking water, the construction of residential houses contrary to the procedures of the reserve procedures.
He said that the government is not ready to see the reserve areas to go away by few people who do not have good intentions while saying that the law will take its course to control that situation and they will not seven centers that were built in areas which were built in areas which were built in areas which were built in areas were built for the reserve.
In that operation, quail is accompanied by the squad of police officers, the leaders of the WMA, Immigration officers and prisons officers together with the acting director of the council, Florence Mwindadi.
