Like today, let me know your position not to kill me.

It has been written by OthmanMapara.

It has been published by 19th September 2016.

Many community in the world focus on the importance of serving parents.

Even the holy books of God rest that other things may be more further and explaining that if you respect the father and mother, you can live many years and well in the world, this issue can be difficult or a very much in the world.
When you are in any community living in life, be for parents, the husband and wife, school, universities, at work and wherever you know your presence.
But there are also your presence of bad luck in the life of the ones that live with them in the community and not to bring feelings of problems and they will also be a good neighborhood to some religious books have also said that a good neighbor is the one who sell their husbands.
There is a reason that I got that in one of my year holidays with one village in Lindi province, the residents of that village still live with it because they are continuing to remember due to how it made them in their normal life.
My host, who as a result of good ethics, I request that I get her name, but you will not wait for you, but the readers benefit from the same way, being the old man and a female child, Mzee Chilo told all the act.
His female child after completing class seven, was married to the neighboring village, while the male child was forced to continue with their studies up to form six, then later is unable to work in Dar es Salaam.
In that step, the villagers believe that his colleague has lucky enough to have at least one child with a good work in the city because another time he went to visit his parents and see how he used to help the financial family.
It is a family that was expected to be looked upon by a lot of two eyes on every situation in the village because it seemed obvious that their lives were little compared to other villagers. But the biological father of the youth started swell parts and as it was expected, the mother forced his child to ask for money for treatment.
Contrary to the expectations, a youth who at the time he had gone and was lucky to have two children, he did not answer his parents about the donation, but also the letter did not support him to see his father.
The second side, his father used to be bad to an extent that he had to be admitted in the hospital but the medical funds were problems to an extent that the villagers do not believe in their family that they don't have money.
That death was surprised by the villagers and truly that early they thought the family does a habit of claiming that it does not have money to put their colleague.
A youth when he arrived at the burial after not supporting her father the time for instance, they were unable to sing in the funeral of explained that it's better if they would have been able to give their fellow musicians to know that she does not have a donation to them.
Every person has pointed a finger to the young man on how he abandoned his father while having the ability to recognize your position in the community, do not recognize them later.
