
The commander of Lowassa is swelled by his fellow beauties in 22, 2012.

On November 10, year 2012, Hussein Bashe, a politician and the representative of the executive council of the Union of Youth of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM) who is also a member of the general meeting of CCM, following a bomb meeting.

In that meeting with the journalists has been reported to kill him and his colleagues and at a big way to see Edward Lowassa, he is alleged to serve him, against the allegations of running a dirty campaign against the chairman of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete and urged the members to vote for no longer.

Those allegations were known as a result of the newspapers in the middle of last week, he gave these reports, and the conspiracy was planned against the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, who was vying for one of the ten positions for the National Executive Council (NEC), through the Tanzania mainland group.

Those reports were cut off in hand with one of the delegates of the general meeting from Morogoro, I will now mention those involved in their names, and Mboya was one of the ones that were mentioned to be leaders of the program, a situation that was formed, coordinated and implemented by a group alleged to be announced by Lowassa.

In that meeting with journalists, Jafo tried to come out of those accusations and at that time there was a bomb that had explained to the permission from Membe who is accusing to be a person who is used to carry out of people against President and claimed that she was a good person.

That Membe has been a person from being carried in his political life and even in a normal life, giving an example of what he used in the year 2005 till now, he writes that he writes that he writes that he writes that he writes that he writes that he writes that he writes that he writes that he knew that he knew that he knew that he knew that he could be elected as part of the ten best position.

Yesterday's statement was not paid for free since the time he said that he was working on actions, being the continuation of activities which will start several months ago and finally been released publicly by the member of Morogoro.
In those activities they were given to the list of 10 names that they had planned to be elected as possible while insisting that the name Membe was arrested.

In the Rock City Conference Hall which was taken place in elections, Bashe, and his colleagues were seen to have forgotten the position number 14 in the list of candidates should not be discussed in the hall after the work that was done last night in different areas where they had reached delegates.
It was expected that today evening the election day could be prepared for food at night with one big shot, where many delegates could have been invited so as to put up "stand" he didn't answer Honorable Membe when she was decided that the elections can take place on that day, their plan should not accept when it was decided that the elections can be held on that day.

At the morning of November 12th it appears to be Membe who had gone the victory of honor "and that he had already sent his position in this verdict of the decision (decision) in the party and that was ready to prepare for him to vie for the presidential seat in the year 2015.

While he doesn't know the desire to do with someone who can't know much and to represent this group photo with all the followers of his group, Kandoro, was quoted saying he was pleased with the victory of Membe, claiming that this victory is not supposed to be proud because he had already been called by young people, "he told him, she told him Mama Salma Kikwete and his child Ridhiwani Kikwete with her child Ridhiwani Kikwete.

It is a must that I believe that I don't know it, or I don't know her education because of the employer and how she is used as an important mid-fielder in the processes are for Lowassa, and are forced to believe that Hussein is not a good mid-fielder of the class.

But by looking at how this issue did not have done by his answers, I would like a problem to conclude that, Mboya is dug well or professionalism in political activities and especially political politics is small and dangerous parasites.

For instance, it is yours, it is difficult for you to help him a opponent you don't know or know her strength and especially a big politician and that the goal of Membe was to be the first winner.

Mboya is saying that those who got high positions by voting to continue yesterday was in campaigns that had gone to every corner of this country, using catalysts and sexual violence every time to delegates, others used the opportunity to supervise the elections in the provinces and district so they used the opportunity to oversee the elections in the provinces and district so that they want them to be elected as president.

Against him, Membe did not win even one province, including Lindi where they came from because of a lot of time he was in a work tour outside the country and few times inside the country while in that meeting they did not be involved in the night before the meeting.

Following, when he spoke during the platform of politics a way, he says that Membe to thank Mama Salma and Ridhiwani Kikwete for conducting a short time to save this ship and was part of their responsibilities to make it possible to give a victory.

Salma is a NEC delegate and the general meeting from Lindi and he had the right to make sure that the candidate from his province appears to be a good lady who was enough to say since the year 2007, Mama Salma was a good friend of Membe and was expected to even this year with that responsibility.

What he did here and his colleagues are as alleged that Barcelona should thank Lionel Messi for scoring the victory goal as Messi was a legal player of Barcelona, who was registered to do that responsibility for the benefit of the team and even the coach he has planned to do that responsibility for the benefit of the team.

Players are registered to do the team's work with Salma and Ridhiwani not different, they did not have different responsibilities and that of serving the team, maybe, he was supposed to know this, earlier when I was supposed to know it, earlier when I was supposed to know what Membe is like to know the ability of his team.

Hussein also told him for not knowing the history because I don't have for example 10 years since he was a youth of the school, and maybe that's why he can't know how President Kikwete had a plot to vie for the presidential position and he found himself well.

The subject of free I arrived here is that NEC's position is not less in the presidential race and that is why if the country's presidential race would have been Kikwete and maybe it is because of the next presidential race, so that he can get involved in the field so that he can get involved in trouble.

In this step, with this victory, Membe has confirmed that he is a national leader who does not depend on competition and who do well in the country, when he has been attacked and claimed that the elections without a confirmation of someone's campaigns is possible or without violating the ethics and regulations of the party is possible.

In this, Jafo has noted that this is a bomb expert but different from Al-Shabaab or Al-Shabaab, he denied him himself and those who kidnapped them and those who kidnapped them and those who tried to make their work fast as they want to achieve their goals.

Furthermore, he has noted that for people of his kind, then Lowassa did not need her husband outside the State House, I saw it is a terrorist who has decided to be 'Siri ya Mtungi' against what he desires for war.
Congratulations to Minister Membe by making sure you know!
The writer of this article gives the scope of 30th next week in Mbeya Province.
At the end of the email news, when it was killed by 30th @ gmail.
