
The disease has brought a blow.
By Kenya's News Agency.
The maize farmers from Elysee Palace have lost approximately 500 million shillings after 10 acres of maize were destroyed by the diabetes disease known as summoning demons.
The Indiana governor said that, Alex Tembela, said this has become a big blow to these farmers especially considering that the maize is not only food but also ways of living in life.
While giving his speech at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport, the governor said his government continues with the national government to see how the farmers who lost their plants will play with the two governments to look for ways of controlling the disease.
He urged the farmers to put in mind the advice they were given by the agricultural officers and urged the farmers especially in their areas to rise in the valley of the park, to climb mountains.
We we urge the farmers to climb this plants instead of maize this season, then you have already used to buy the maize, "said the governor.
He said that his government has used 120 million shillings to cater for the construction of nursery primary school in every part of he said that most of the stations have reached an amount of 80 percent to be completed.
"This shows the importance we gave out education in he said that he we understand that so that we find good results, it must be good," said Tufani '.
He urged the residents to stop all their activities to rise in the reserve area saying that along with the environment, that situation is a threat to the lives of the citizens that live in the valley especially during this rainy season that is happening against land.
Speaking after reading the speech by the president, the Chief Officer of that county, Moses Sethole, urged the residents to consider the security plan of Nyumba Kumi in an effort to deal with the lack of security in the area.
He said it is something sad, that recently the business people in the city, captain lost their lives of thousands of money after their products being stolen but wanted the employers to answer to their shops.
"Security is the responsibility of every one and we cannot stop our shops without knowing then our properties as they start complaining.
