Joy is back.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

Yanga yesterday celebrated his joy to his fans after winning 3-0 goals against Majimaji in the premier league match that was played at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

The defending champions of that league have got victory yesterday after a draw without scoring in a match against Ndanda that was played in Mtwara on Wednesday last week.
Yanga won the leading goal in the 20 minute, scored by Deus Kaseke, who passed the ball in a penalty that was played by Simon Msuva.
Previously, the referee for the match, Emmanuel Mwaniki from Arusha, gave a penalty to Yanga after the Majimaji player defeated the ball, but the referee wanted to return again, when he felt the winner was decided to return again, at the third time it was decided to return.
The first half ended with Yanga leading by 1-0 goals against Yanga in that period, Yanga made a lot of positions but they failed to use while Majimaji was playing in the 74th minute with the referee where refusing to claim the scorer was lost.
Five minutes later, Tambwe added that the third goal for the victory of Juma Mahadhi.
From the Sokoine stadium Mbeya, Azam yesterday continued to collect points in that stadium after scoring it 2-1 at the Nangwanda Sijaona stadium, Ndanda got a draw without scoring and Kagera Sugar.
While at the Mwadui stadium of Shinyanga, Mwadui out of a draw of 2-2 goals against Stand United at the Mabatini stadium, Ruvu Shooting has told JKT Ruvu by scoring 1-0 goals against Simba, Simba will host Mtibwa Sugar at Manungu Turiani Stadium.
That match is expected to be tough and fight against them due to those teams going on each other so that when those teams meet with new coaches, Joseph Omog is Simba and Salum Mayanga of Mtibwa and all the picture that they wanted the title according to the quality of their squads.
Mtibwa Sugar when I met with Simba or Yanga is open that it is playing for a long time, but at the end of one day, one day they emerged with the victory.
Last season they met the first round in January 16 this year, Simba emerged as a victory of 1-0 goals in the game that was played at the National Stadium, where Simba won 1-0 goals.
