
Malawi has softened his stand on 01 / 31, 2012.

Tanzania being led by ministers, Bernard Membe, minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, the head of land, housing and human settlements development, have condemned the environment that prove the controversy of the boundary between Tanzania and Malawi in the Lake Tanganyika area, South Korea has confirmed.
Membe and Tibaijuka who arrived in Malawi, on a special plane of government, had caused a huge conflict between the government's delegation of Malawi, a point to reduce them "the arrogance" that they had previously.
As a result of those ministers, for the first time since that conflict will be demolished quickly and brought about fear of war, the delegation from Malawi has discussed their first position of planning to refuse to stop doing research on oil in the Lake Nyasa region as Tanzania has ordered.
The sure reports indicate that, Membe was forced to believe in themselves with an amount in internal meetings, including the secretary general of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Development, Patrick Rutabanzibwa and the fellow secretary of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and International Cooperation, John Haule.
Membe who was explained to have no blessings from the commander in the army, President Jakaya Kikwete, urged the Health Insurance Fund to continue with research in the lake region when the talks going on, an argument that previously has been discovered, "insisted and obey them.
Tanzania has issued several topics to confirm that until it comes from the Lake Region from the border of Malawi, Mozambique, gender, and 11 and 11, thus making the whole area in east to become Tanzania's property.
In those sessions, the team of Tanzania also presented the map and the borders of the English Premier League and Malawi that they had agreed to improve up until the lake region as it is in Malawi and Mozambique.
We shall also set aside from Malawi that depends on the contract that was set by the British and the German year 1890, Nwankwo Kanu and to say that the contract seems to be used by Tanzania and Coast of Malawi, by saying that the agreement intends to be used in other areas that were mentioned to have been mentioned in all areas to be mentioned in the middle of water.
The statement by the leader of Malawi team, the minister of foreign affairs of that country, Ephraim Kwesigabo said that they want to increase the problem of up to the lake region to go directly so that they can be able to continue with development activities without fear, "believes, according to some of the delegates who participated in the discussion session that now Malawi has changed the previous position.
"We (the Mose), we want this issue to follow up with our progress so that we can continue with our development activities without fear, we are thanking our leaders, President Joyce Fissoo and President Jakaya Kikwete, by putting up a position that we will end a few days ago by the team of experts from both sides.
News about the sessions of those sessions, say that the real situation has continued to increase in the MEMKWA centers, different from Professor Tibaijuka, together with Professor Tibaijuka, together with the experts from the Ministry of Water and Ministry of Constitution and law.
However, the reports indicate that getting to the Minister of Security of Malawi is a political strategy to the minister who is a member of parliament of Kasyome only to be the intention of wanting to vie for the presidency of that country in the year 2014, is expected to compete with President Joyce Fissoo, who took the position of the late Doctor.
Mutharika ruled that it has been explained that political politics from Malawi will destroy the problem of up to Tanzania.
The experts of Tanzania and Malawi started talks in Dar es Salaam city before going to Malawi in the capital city to qualify and later Lilongwe town without an appropriate time due to violation of the lawyers of all the two sides of the two sides of the two sides.
Already Tanzania has already announced that it will protect its borders with any cost and warned the companies that are doing research on oil and gas in the Lake Region to stop using its planes in the lake region, on the side of Tanzania.
After emerging with those differences, it was accepted that all the sides to meet in order to end the crisis, through the way of Diplomacy, together with prevent the statements of protecting themselves through the politicians and media stations of all the two countries.
