The claims that Ben Tanzanians don't like looking at least not only if usual I don't have two times.
Roads of great vehicles and the roads of small and small cars, he says that I don't know what I don't get pregnant before your marriage becomes good.
A teaser sin.
.
On the mountain.
Your news from your news we are being faced after seeing a day like today's day when you came out and I have ever heard many times then I was with my colleague who is David or when you want to be tough and like it.
As usual we have a topic on our first topic, there will be no need to separate a small cars for a big council and they shouldn't jump and claimed.
Therefore, when we come out, it is still very true but if you will see our delegates from here, we will discuss you to know what we are still in the air, but there is common to know how many people are still in the air, it does not mean by her daughter.
Comes out of switching off while following the first claims of a motorcycle that he is there.
Small community.
When it comes to the issue of free.
People are offering primary schools to separate roads of big vehicles and small vehicles to view, we will talk about security and not to be taken to the roads as an issue of our road.
If I would have done this there goes against them.
Maybe it is a black bikini.
What are big things and to remove the cargo.
Earlier that they have been given children at the road not facing the standards they carried as usual, I would like to cooperate with the stakeholders and the citizens that we know more.
And the ability.
The government is unable to look at with them because they have a lot of things, then you will make a lot of things to the blood in a period and expansion of the vehicle can have a very big percentage since there is a little rate since it was brought to the road.
Moreover, vehicles.
Big vehicles.
You can be a good thing.
Because I have a family that he put the road.
Although you will get a mother and even if we put your account that you are only example, that you will receive you and maybe I am just that we don't know that we are just as the government to resolve it is another one.
The roads are supposed to be accountable because we believe that I believe I'm coming from my sister we will bring him a problem and any place of planting, looking at each other here in the middle and there is a problem to go to all.
Let you look for the important medicines that I'm in pest due to a very big percentage of the accident as a period from Mlandizi.
After that silence comes a thorough beating they had decided to agree.
The roads are supposed to forget where in school, I decided not to do a sim card that is mentioned in place where people have faith but up to more, the people affected by normal ways takes it from.
For him as a third person up to the place until when the mother went to him.
Baby Boy ', as we go through, if you were mentioned is what is mentioned or we know that there is time to answer on Tuesday and like.
99 points to be separated by a big road and the road waiting to miss.
It makes it a teaser?
Like that, I have made it easy for a time you have written the father.
The body was a shame for a father to look for a woman and they have not seen on the way and we don't know your father because there is no reason why you want to get a little way, but we want to see if you want to make sure that the road could be able to see the road because there will be a problem if we want to pass the road.
And direction for reasons are different from the strike because the road is not supposed to fight against them.
He has said.
Their husbands.
I would like to inform you that the quality of her family to improve it is so good that it is giving a lot, it does not mean that there is a period of making the roads it does not know but there was no good direction for a word "we are still using the roads.
When eating the roads it has not decided but I see people of today, let you find a Bajaj that has been having a lot of articles but my friend I'm in the roads with Mister maybe if there are ten tons when I am supposed to feel.
The road is a friend for the words that doesn't be avoided.
If you eat with me I went to him from there I thought the Big Results Now (we are coming up until when I stopped the answer, it has contributed to each other that will be responsible for our road the preparations to go through it.
Themselves, it has also a chance to participate in all the father to protect themselves at the foundation of coldness for Women's roads since it will be able to avoid divergence claiming that the roads of the bus will put it more than the normal vehicles.
Now, the action will be released to be released early before legal action comes up but to come from the road.
After the government is wrong if Cheupe bus vehicles seem not to be treated but to be done so as to reach the road, Diana Mwiru came into that year and give you that next year.
A penalty that was released on Sunday last week, got a hole in one trillion shillings.
Hours you are a lot of money that I have been the father made, but if we got the money given, our road has gotten it.
It is possible to choose that is to take them in Pwani province, I know if you sell your cleaning so that they do not take much more than Muslims they get to, it is there.
I think.
There are people open.
Law instead, the technicians need the Ambassador to ensure we will not take advantage of the community with young people that do not be responsible so that we can be responsible, we do not make sure that the budget was like when I get there.
In addition, there was a certain time I had gone to go to me we have been in line with spongers.
My voice was told there is no longer.
News reporter.
You can be avoided if you finish on how to return to him, they have shown me that I have said people with interest has been sacked.
Instead of continuing.
When the road comes here, we said himself is not allowed to be bullied.
On the road.
What does it mean?
We will be able to be used for it.
That picture comes?
There is it that the government was giving out.
Buses are ongoing.
In front, I saw Mister Pengo, Mister on the right there are events to told the picture after an accident which he told me that he wants to talk about something.
You are vying for the first time.
Its disappearance of Mister it is not forced to go back and be involved or the relevant services to things like, therefore it is possible for you to learn.
