68 years the UN is not insufficient.
October, 23, 2013.

The United Nations (UN) on Thursday this week, October 24, is attaining 68 years since it was started, October 24, last year 1945 and the collection of 51 countries of the United Nations are currently competing for all countries in the world, about 193.
68 years of insufficient, is a long period of getting experience on various issues, starting with disasters, dirty conditions of peace in the world without forgetting the importance of this instrument is operated up to until the age of 68 years, although the journey to reach it has had several hazards.
Many things have been witnessed in this period of 68 years, which in general, they have aimed to make the world a safe place of living in a good example, apart from approximately 15 UN organizations and development projects (UNDP), various committees have been made.
The committee as part of dealing with terrorism, the military committee (JNIA), committee of the peace committee (Peacock Hotel and Missouri) but we have also witnessed the establishment of a court like the International Criminal Court in Rwanda (ICTR), do not meet the requirements of the International Criminal Court in Rwanda.

However, together with these congratulations, we believe that many challenges and at enough amount, UN has been using enough challenges in various parts of the world, for example, he will not depend on the trend of efforts of the United Nations' Commission on Drugs and Human Rights Commission (TGT).
This committee that was started in the stadium of the economy and the community of the United Nations (Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (C) in 1946, in order to help the Council (EPOS) in controlling the international agreement on drugs, still has not done enough efforts.
Still various countries in the world have continued to be sold by the wave of business and use of illegal drugs, despite the Executive Council of the United Nations (TWTZ), in the year 1991, to expand the scope of work of this committee against drug trafficking (CNOD) in the year 1991, to expand the scope of work of this committee against drug trafficking (CNOD), where the world has witnessed some of the old legends of drugs in the world.
There is no great strength together with UN to deal with this challenge that destroy the strength of one country and then the world in general, if the great efforts are being taken to eradicate terrorism in the world, we advise the strength of that level to be able to deal with the wave of business and use of drugs.
