
Saturday, August 16, 2014.

I understood that in the third exhibition of upcoming stars this week.

The upcoming poets which was organized by the Young Africans' institution has reached its fate this week at the two-day exhibition, that took place between 13 and 14, at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam, they have left several training.

First, they have been able to be understood well that the students have the biggest of doing science, contrary to the claims of time to time that science is not born and are not in use in schools.

In a period of two days, I have witnessed how many students of secondary schools, many of the wards are required to try to solve challenges facing them.

Secondly, these exhibitions have confirmed that science is life and does not require high-cost equipment to encourage schools in this exhibition, students have shown how they can use normal devices that are available in our environment, so as to investigate the challenges they have seen in the community and their environment.

It is true that our schools are being faced with many problems that destroy the teaching in general, there are lack of teachers with capacity, laboratory equipment and so on the song we have tried to show it, but it is possible to use the things that are needed.

For example, in the environment where certain equipment are not so much and we have already prepared the students to look for assistance from the researchers and students who are close to them, but also help students to see the real environment of research, a situation that is expected to grow.

It will be remembered that many science teachers have complained of lack of equipment as a major impetus in building science culture in schools, but these exhibitions have confirmed that there is a great need to grow science, equipment are not for the biggest challenge to promote science, equipment were not for sure, teachers find out science subjects by using their environment.

The third issue, we have seen how students can be able to come up with new discovery with the aim of expanding their daily lives and even to reduce poverty by using abusive culture, but through this exhibition that is coordinated by Young Africans, it is expected that this activity can be done by young scientists, but through the purpose of this exhibition that is coordinated by Young Africans, it is expected to make sure that this activities can be taken by Young Africans.

For example, this year, there are several students who need several technology like the system of voting in a way to write a short message of words (SMS) and so on how, we see how students can use the phone and creativity to look for answers of our daily problems.

Similarly, the improvement of science experts in ensuring that the thoughts, behavior and culture of science starts to be built early, it seems not to increase the importance of investing their social responsibility in science and symptoms show that the investment is sustainable and is not a good thing to be followed by other companies that want to bring benefits to the community.

The participation of politicians in these issues, can be the ones for youths to see the importance of science and last year, while being the guest of honor at the launching ceremony of the gift, Honorable January Makamba, the Deputy Minister of Science, Technology and Maasais.

This year, famous member of parliament who was a former deputy secretary general of CHADEMA, Honorable Zitto Zuberi Kabwe, got an opportunity to visit the exhibition and to listen to these upcoming stars as a famous politician, that was a great attraction to the youth.

Finally, that afternoon, the Vice President, Honorable Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal, while being the guest of honor at the ceremony to give a gift, followed by the Minister of Science, Technology and Communication, Honorable Professor Makame Mbarawa, he urged the youths who participated in the exhibition that the government will continue being together with Young Africans, to ensure that this important project is sustainable.

Agriculture and research which took place in the first position this year was written by Dollaso together with Salma Khalfan, from Lumumba, Zanzibar, and another prize, those winners will present at the exhibition like this in Ireland, known as Young Africans' and Technology in the month of January 2015.

Second winner, Upendo Singinika Sange inside Saint Secondary School.
Christina, and Lusilile villages were involved in the use of the Maasais' in controlling the diseases.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
