SACCOs in Moshi Municipality Council have agreed.
October 13, 2016 by Paul Pogba.

The party members of good and bad politics made up of the workers of the department of agriculture and livestock in Moshi Municipality and the County Council of Moshi in Kilimanjaro Province have complained about the leadership of that party for failing to serve in accordance with their constitution.

That bill was started in 1998 and the workers of that department for an aim of helping others in various community issues such as usual, the disease and even when a servant should not support him.

The party has more than 200 members and every member of the federation are paid 20,000 shillings as its contribution every month in his salary.

According to the constitution of that party, a member who is given 500,000 shillings will be given to a close sibling as the husband, wife, parents, child, so that those funds will help in the burial.

In addition, every member is given 50,000 shillings when he becomes a patient and was admitted to hospital with 500,000 shillings, every member does not retire from work.

However, together with those agreements, the reports from that party explain that from last year the leaders of the party came out the provision of money to its members without giving them bad instructions.

While speaking to Good Citizen as they ask for their names not to recognize that, those members claim that they are not seen as the basis of getting money when they get problems.

"In the whole period there are members who have got the ability of being close to their close people, they were admitted and others have retired but the party does not give money if we have agreed in our constitution," explained one of the members.

Those members were waiting for payments for their salaries (Monbusho Scholarship) that shows that their employers are in Moshi Municipality and Moshi Rural Council for all time bought 50 shillings and pay for those funds to the district.

"Every time we are questioning the reasons of not releasing money when a member is in addition to our leaders, they have been able to explain reasons that you have been taken to you and do not have money from voluntary money," said the member.

They added that their leaders have also been unable to convene the general meeting of the party which is currently happening in January every year, thus failing to get an opportunity to discuss the issue.

Those members are worried that maybe their money have been used by leaders and efforts to get the chairperson of the party, Joyce Kessy, he refused to speak about the complaints by those members claiming that he is not the party's spokesperson.

The report that Good Citizen has received from political parties and the security agents to deposit and borrowing (Saccos) in the provinces of Arusha and Kilimanjaro, shows that it has done a huge number of money that will be done by some of the leaders, a situation that has made many members to lack funds for loans.
