
What has the government called to put open the disease of Mwakyembe?
August 19, 2012

I tell you to write this article by two-crime, I am pleased that it is an example of the articles which have already written in the newspaper, tomorrow you can be looked at home by the police officers or the security of the nation and will cause unnecessary deaths.
I commend him early to them that there is no new issue in this article that can attract these things that have not been open in many media stations and not the eclipse.
Therefore, there is no new here, apart from my motion which I believe they recover.
If you will not follow it, then, their aim will be to listen to me (me and others) to get back again about this issue.
My brothers, this issue that tries to write a big problem here is dangerous to the deputy minister of construction, member of parliament for Kyela, and one of the war against corruption in the country, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe.
Its very close to two months now since Doctor Mwakyembe entered to India where the goods are given to the treatment of disease which until now the public has not been explained officially.
I have decided to go back to his home to give my condolences, because our colleague of our citizens we don't want to see him immediately when he went back to India, he given you an important thing on his condition and I believe it is wrong and maybe be defeated in his home.

Listen to me to see and give my condolences and give me more, and the news I have read in Tanzanian newspaper always, the edition of January 4, 2012, the first page that carried the head that is to be avoided, Doctor Mwakyembe has a heavy secret. "
In that report, it was explained that the health of Mwakyembe is unacceptable, because despite getting treatment in India and continuing with the treatment here in the country, his condition is not small.
According to those reports, about the shivered in the legs.
It's not therefore, "we have also explained that, the head has no hair color because she has lost all times being together with Nyusi, how it makes them time to put a hat the head of the blog and even in the legs.
Other explanations of the situation of Doctor Mwakyembe is not seen, with the heart and so much, the courage to go to see him, and I think it only to see Doctor Mwakyembe through this article, God will help them to save your life.
The truth is that, by what happens, Doctor Mwakyembe has even if he will see me, he cannot be Mwakyembe from the one we don't like to.
For sure, he will need many medical services to us (in the picture) and advice from champions of the world in that profession to forgetting all that led to them with his life as usual.
When I think about this matter that his disappointment the commander of the war against corruption, I believe there is something that is not available in the way the government of President Jakaya Kikwete meets with the issue of that government leader.
However, before I am not talking about that issue, I should start by congratulating President Kikwete for the step he took the quick action to take him to India Doctor Mwakyembe from his home and saddened by the situation he wants.
News reports from the church is that President Kikwete was saddened by Doctor Mwakyembe from the state of Doctor Mwakyembe from the minister of health and giving instructions that he wants to see Doctor Mwakyembe is taken to India for treatment within 24 hours!
In my view, as a way I saw how I stopped me in the journey of India's journey, it is a confirmation that our president is pregnant and love.
Kikwete can have a lot of responsibilities, but the truth is to remain when it is self-employed and a man, and those are the reputation that give her condolences to God!
Regarding the issue of writing, I see in how his government continues to follow up on the issue of Mwakyembe, I would like to give him this liquefied mixture of government in achieving the public against corruption.
On how I do not know, Doctor Mwakyembe has returned to the country and a long report of doctors from India who kidnapped the government because it is the cause of the deterioration of his health condition and that report has presented the government because it is the government which took the India for treatment.
You can be able to have any objection but it's doing, this is this which has built in feelings of my feelings is that Doctor Mwakyembe wants the government to place it in the report of his doctors that he had to be given to India.
Some of the people that we believe that they visited his home, it's not only non-malarial in the report, but he has also said that if the government will continue with a wig?
Now if I am correct that Doctor Mwakyembe wants the public to be included as a report of those doctors of India, I did not understand what the government has called to do that.
Answers after the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Blacks, "said the Majira newspaper (this edition of January 4), showed that the issue of Harrison Mwakyembe is not allowed to have no wisdom in her.
It is true that the person's disease is the secret of a patient, but I think it as a patient wants the secret of his disease (disease) in front of journalists explaining the decision made by him (Kikwete) falling on stage, Mwanza Province.
Let me do not tire us here, we will not talk about the normal patient here and we will talk a patient who is the deputy minister, member of parliament, activist for human rights and one of the commanders of the war against corruption.
Listen to you, here we want you to talk about the leader of the minister's level, other senior minister in the government, and who is a member of the investor in the fight against corruption (Samuel Sitta), they will not end the public that what happens, Doctor Mwakyembe is poison.
By Samuel Sitta, it is not only to serve the public, therefore in a period of 45 minutes of ITV, he said that therefore, he was quoted by the newspapers on his home when he went back to India.
These two people - Sitta and the chairman of Kyela District, are very close people with Doctor Mwakyembe, and therefore it is possible for the concept of being given.
"Poison" is out by Mwakyembe himself (from DR Congo).
Now, if the environment is this, because the government does not see the importance of putting him in public the report of doctors from India so that the truth is that you see how to do that?
If for example, (for example, (for example, (for example, (for example,), what happens it is bad poison that will be used to kill him as the Russian citizen in London City, Alexander Shangani, the public will not be careful.
But also when I understood that it is not poison, it is the logic or the logic or the public on it is not allowed to leave on those thoughts that Doctor Mwakyembe made poison that follow up on the end of the weekend.
Recently, there is a problem with the minister of health to follow the meeting with the journalists and to get them, though in short summary, what is the report of the doctors of India?
However, the report shows that the problem is poison that was given to him, there are danger of people to be informed, especially if the police force is said, that they started investigations to know how the poison that has planned for Mwakyembe?
I ask all the questions because the issue of Mwakyembe is not normal, and it can be a incident of its kind in the history of 50 years of our freedom.
I am saying that because he was not even before he was not faced with this situation of the body to be dealt with and burn in Magoza village, with the hair or bake.
Mwakyembe will not end the public that his life are in danger.
This is a member of parliament and assistant minister who will get into historical books as he is the first member of parliament in the country to write a letter to the head of the police force in the country (IGP), who complained that there is the murderers, who had been forced to kill him, and then gave out more information on how that he has followed by a car when he was on it.
Sihana Nkinga, as the history of Tanzania's history of 50 years ago, there is a member of parliament or minister who has been given the official letter to the chairmanship of honor, he is happy with the aim of killing him as he is wrong to watch him.
But though the chairmanship admitted the letter of Mwakyembe, there is no explanation that were given up until now if there is no one who was arrested in relation to the claims by Mwakyembe or even to explain the public the investigation of that issue.
Now, the public should not be stopped by the chairmanship of investigation of those complaints that had been presented by Mwakyembe about people who want to sign him, suddenly he was faced with the great disease with rushed to India - the disease that he himself believes that his source is poison!
Currently, in this situation, and in this environment, where the health condition of the deputy minister has not been restored after being taken to India for treatment, the government does not make corrections on how the report of doctors from India who kidnapped them so that the truth is a public.
I have been told me, it is enough for the government to give a statement now about what happens and put it publicly that the source of what happens when Mwakyembe is still alive so that he can have an opportunity to agree with that problem which will be explained by the government or passport.
God bless you so much, but if Mwakyembe will remain in the same time before the rights, anything that the government will follow up after he died about him, it will not be trusted by the community.
For other words, it is good for the government to have a woman now about the source of the disease of Mwakyembe, otherwise he dies.
I have decided to finish my article by told me that Doctor Mwakyembe is in the right time to save your life and God will help you to save your life. God will help you to see if you are able to love, in order to fight against corruption.
On the side of our government, I would be emphasized that it has a responsibility of educating the public of Tanzania about what happens, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe.
