
Manji threw her the match of Yanga, Simba on Saturday.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

Yanga's chairperson, Yusuf Manji has condemned the contest for the friendly match, Yanga and Simba for handing over the area that will be built at the field of that club involving the Indian Ocean, Geology, Kigamboni.

Yanga and Simba are expected to be played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam after the day after tomorrow in the Mainland Premier League that is expected to be sexual excitement due to all teams.
The hopes of Manji handed the area yesterday afternoon in a brief ceremony that was attended by the minister of internal affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba and officers of the Kigamboni government.
The chairman of the council of sponsors of Yanga, Fatma Karume was the one who came out of the area on behalf of the club where they were also Doctor AnjKatundu who is a member of the council of sponsors, the representative of Yanga's performance committee, Samuel Lukuwi.
Manji has handed the area having several factors that are remaining before being handed over the team after the day after tomorrow.
After being handed over that area, the sponsors of that club are expecting to officially start the official launch of their members next week, that area has approximately 15 acres of the area that is happening at Uhuru Stadium.
Speaking after being handed over that area, Fatma who is the first lady of Zanzibar, Abeid Karume Karume, said before reaching that step, his council made a session with their chairperson, Manji.
"After the members asked for themselves in the general meeting that they want to end, we (the council of sponsors) we sat with chairman (Manji) and agreed on this issue," he said.
On the side of Minister Nchemba, who is a member with the lover of Yanga said he told Manji to stop the dream of developing the Allianz stadium in the Jangwani Club and to look for another area.
"I talked to Manji to continue thanking Manji as to build it in our colleagues (Simba) that are going in Bunju, we go to Kigamboni, but we are in the field while every person wants you will take, we will go and go," he said.
Already, Yanga has three awards for this stadium that were handed over last year by Beijing China construction company (T) Limited company (BN) of China which will take over two years to be completed at the cost of construction, shops, vehicles and exercises (not only).
"Stadium" B "its cost is 40 million American dollars, while the same," C "is 30 million American dollars, although all have the important needs of the previous years," he said.
According to the map, the stadium of A which is very fast, will have the ability to carry 50,000 passengers, as it is in B Province that will take advantage of the main platform that will reach 30,000 dollars.
Yanga has decided to take the Geology area after was found to be given the area of illegal fishing due to that area being a danger because it is a reduction of water.
The Jangwani area, apart from being a big valley of River Msimbazi, which is the largest Mosque of River Msimbazi, but there is also a big pipeline that can take water to Muhimbili National Hospital and another that can take them into the sea.
