
The ban on the oil industry.
By OMR.
The national strike of employees in the oil sector has started in Nigeria, a situation that gives the production of oil in that country leading in the oil production in Africa.
The BBC news agency reported that, long distances for vehicles, this was witnessed in petrol stations in the country.
The party of the officers of the oil and gas centers (Mister YG) with what is participating in the oil and natural gas centers in Nigeria (NRF)) are saying that the strike will continue until the government will continue to deal with their homes.
Those parties have emphasized that the government intends to prove the business people that aims at bringing change in that sector and in the organization to improve the machines for clean oil.
Those parties also want to take back to work to their representatives who had been sacked by oil companies.
Therefore, those parties depend on strikes among different issues about that sector.
Currently, those parties have condemned the government of controlling the machines in cooking oil and poor infrastructure of the road in that country, a situation that causes the transportation of that product.
At the same, you want to remove the price of electricity that can be reduced by the theft of oil is abolished.
We we start a strike.
You will end up the production of oil, because employees in every department have not done in the work, "the chairperson of the Party of Mister Sanya, Shaweji Swart, he told the Reuters news agency.
But one officer of the oil company said that the strike is not expected to affect production, because they need to increase the support of many industries that would like to sit down.
"It will be difficult to leave the oil industry, and if they will play down, we will have to succeed again after one week.
You can never take action like that, "the officer told BBC.
At the same time, three students have been reported by others that were kidnapped in the attack that was done by Taliban militants in one school sponsored by the army in Phiri did not know in Pakistan.
The four fighters that had asked the armed police arriving at the school and later he was heard.
