
We have surprised many bishops, now we build one country, Dec 27, 2012.

The Christians Tanzania platform, December 25, this year of 2012, has given a huge statement about inheritance of religious institutions in the country, a statement that without any doubt, it needs a free way that is not supposed to be able to protect themselves.

Although the statement has been released as Christians, but it is clear that the declaration is evident in the whole country together with all citizens without caring about their religion or guardians.

In general, the statement shows great complaints from Christians, some of the citizens from other religious leaders and on the other side, that statement has contributed a finger to the government for being unable to be responsible, to an extent of building feelings of every religious leader to be responsible, a responsibility which is legal and even constitutional.

In a certain way, on our part, we recognize that the statement has been published in this newspaper, it has been faced with a small problem which however, it did not affect the heavy message that intended.

Those problems involves a clarification, the statement aimed at opposing some of the religious issues that are being spread, by bad luck, and some media houses that are supposed to be dealt with according to the law of the country.

The statement has mentioned part of the issues of senior officials in the government are Muslims and because of that, the issue of that the country is being led by the system is not for primary, it's a basic thing.

We think this is a problem because, religion also have been used to build a motion so as to stop the previous issues of religion, we would like to see our senior leaders religious leaders without any other issues of religion.

However, in a big part of the statement, we join with the leaders to market a finger to the government that it is part of the blame to these bad symptoms of the religion that is going to take them to the country.

It is not enough, every time I would like to hear leaders of the government when I went to rebuke religious events without any actions while it's understood that the government is the comptroller of all symptoms of peace and peace of the country, symptoms of religion that are trusted so much in the country.
