Mkapa, Mwinyi, Karume will meet to save CCM.
APR the year 2015.

The Advisory Council of elders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is expected to meet any time recently for the purpose of discussing the direction of that party in the general elections this year, has been known.
That council is made up by the chairpersons and deputy chairpersons of that party in the previous years and that meeting will be the first time since it was launched two years ago.
Making sure that council are retired presidents of Tanzania, Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Benjamin Mkapa, retired presidents of Zanzibar, peace, Karume, and Doctor Salmin Awadh, the retired prime minister, John Cheyo and Pius Msekwa.
One of the delegates of the executive committee of CCM who is close to those leaders told the newspaper this week that those leaders will meet for the first time so as to discuss important issues of that party including the issue of who to inherit the party's flag in the next elections.
This council was forced to meet how many times in a year or because they feel it is important to meet at the same time when I was told that they are ready to meet.
"As it is now, it is important for them to meet.
Before the party's sessions will begin officially, it is important for the council to give direction of what should happen.
According to the changes made by CCM in 2012, the council was made with an aim of giving advice to the party in different issues concerning the party and the government.
The establishment of that council has been caused by the decision of making the retired leaders not to get in the high sessions of the party as it was in the past.
According to information that was released by the executive council of CCM during the establishment of that council, Mwinyi will be his chairperson and Msekwa has been given the position to be the secretary of the council.
In the way is now, that council has a equal number of members from the mainland and Islands, whereby every side of three delegates.
The race for contesting for vying for CCM has risen up and now there is a report that the opposition between the rival sides has reached in danger.
This newspaper has a report that some of the ones mentioned to vie for that position right now get difficulty even drinking water or eating food together because of security reasons.
Up to now, CCM has not announced that when his candidates want to vie for the presidency they will start taking forms for the purpose of wanting to be approved by the party, a matter that has brought in a political situation in the party.
At the time the elders of the elderly comes out of words that it has been made so as to remove those retirees in the party procedures in the same procedure that was scored by the name "to remove it."
Speaking to the press just after CCM announced to form that council three years ago, the secretary of ideology and propagation of the party, Nape Nnauye said the council did not involve the aim of removing those elders at the party meetings but to give them a broad range of advice to them as required.
"The creation of the Advisory Council of the elderly has been due to the thoughts of the elderly and retirees of the party, who have noted that there is need to have the instrument due to various reasons.
"A big issue that has been revealed is for a NEC decision to form the Advisory Council of the elders of the decision which basically was followed at the NEC session in April the year 2011 to Dodoma, a session that aims to take place on changes in the party.
"The session of February 12, 2012 (NEC) refused to change the constitution of CCM of the year 1977 to allow the establishment of the council," says Nape.
In the instructions that was given by Nape on the website of CCM, that leader said the idea of the establishment of the council was attributed by the advice of some of the elders, the retired, while considering the large numbers of the concerned meetings, and not a plan or strategy to address those retirees as claimed to have no great intention.
"It was a advice that after retiring from outside, they are forced to attend national sessions every time, then they should be given the time to rest and they are required to attend the sessions which are many and sometimes it takes place on Wednesday night.
