

And the Ministry of Development Paul, (OPATA), Dar es Salaam.
During our country being in various activities of making steps economically and causing many citizens to remain poor, there are some of the vision that Tanzania has a lot of opportunities to come out of poverty but the problem that is there are many citizens not to be responsible.
Calvin Martin, the Manager of the Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) in Dar es Salaam, is among those who believe that the country has many opportunities of getting poverty, improving social services and citizens living in good life.
He has faith that the philosophy of "mystery" that was started by the fifth President, Doctor John Magufuli, is required to make sure that the country will make great steps economically because there is evidence of some nations especially in Africa which have been able to make great steps economically.
He says he has faith that anyone do not work hard and knowledge, it is a must that to be reached in any issue and that faith has helped him to succeed in many things until when he is.
"All days I believe that work hard and professionalism will cause success and I am happy to see some people especially young people who were sitting without working when they have enough energy and the benefits of the nation," he says.
He is saying that there is a great importance to build for build a good environment of doing work to be employed or to be self-employed and added that many jobs are in the agricultural sector, livestock, industries and technical issues of different types.
He says he got higher education at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), where he was awarded the first degree of science and was among the graduates that did well in the year 1993.
After completing their first degree studies, he joined the masters degree in school, he allowed more in science and Administration where he graduated from the year 1997.
His first employment was that the East Africa Company which was in the production unit.
He says that for a short time he was able to understand the field of production of beer with actions, they have started a diploma of production using solar energy in the country of England and after working with that company for three and a half years to join the TBL Group company.
While with this company, he has been able to hold various positions up to the position he has planned to have soon after managing the TBL factory in Dar es Salaam.
One of the big work he's' proud of inside the company is to supervise the construction and start of the Mbeya factory.
"The job to start a factory was one of the challenges in my work, but due to the skills and experience in conjunction with my colleagues, we have managed to see this factory is one of the company industries that perform well, being under the leadership and employees of the company," he says.
Apart from getting the school education, the Catholic church of TBL, already Calvin has participated in various courses in the company and outside the country which have continued to give information professionally, technical, administration, operations and management of industries in success.
"TBL has a lot of things and there are modern machines and many times we have been getting training on various types including systems of industries for success" which we use and has shown great success, "he says.
He also says there are training on administration and various systems that will enable the managers of industries and heads of groups to run their activities well, they know how to provide priorities in different issues and a good program of working plans.
