China and a worship of "mystery"?
May 15, 2014.

My friend, a friend, him Nganga, has got lucky enough to get the work of the English girl, one of the Chinese.
It was not easy to get that job because false were used to be used by the girl, Nganga, not for instance, and not a young man to the girl in Lagos and his friends all know her.
Ngaka has identified himself as a black American though in America even he has never taken over, Nganga told the child that he was coming from Georgia state, a city of Atletico Madrid in America, and that he is citizenship of two countries, together with Malawi when he released his father.
Ngaka could not get the work of the girl child as he says, because the Chinese are believed to have any professionalism especially in the English language, not in Africa and if you get from South Africa then get a white one in South Africa.
When it has already started living here Shanghai, for three years, Nganga has enough experience in the past, to get enough experience in the past, while they had a lot of work to train children, "the parents got a class every day inspecting its teaching and giving instructions.
The experience of that experience which she got through the Tanzanian girl, Hellen Syria, got the work to teach English, children and one week forced him to register their children a class and requested him to make sure that his mother he told him, he left the Chinese for two others who were called in an interview.
"Life here is not easy for a black person and on how they believe white skin, even if they had been looking for Swahili teachers, then it needs not only have the origin leadership of the language but also a white man," says Ngapa.

Nganga has a heavy work in removing this Chinese child because every time he is going in class to change her from China- 1 billion to American dollars.
Most of the work of teaching and even the other work, which requires the skills of the English language here Shanghai, China and China in general need the origin of the English language, "the Holy Spirit," a great opportunity more than Koscielny and Memba, have a great opportunity more than black.
Many White men who are in the East African countries are not seen in the East African countries, many do not know the English, a few they have caused them, but I believe that we have a good opportunity to get the English teaching work more than the age of the age that are living in Msaranga.
There are some who succeeded to get long-term work to teach English, but the black woman must make sure you get from the countries or one of her parents comes from in the second time, that day will be called for an interview, he does not want jokes in his American dollars.
There is no one who understand about discrimination of Chinese like Damascus town, a fashion model who is taking part in the second term and has also been for the teachers for a long time and he has never been called in the purchase of more than 10 times and he has never succeeded.
"If you go to live here, the Chinese are very happy, I know the citizens of Russia, Ukraine, France and other countries which English are so cunning, and even I have gotten a lot and even I have gotten tired.
When I asked Damiba, what should I ask ourselves about her power like the other African countries, he told me that he is not very much in Kenya and that he is not in bad state, therefore, it is not a must to think it in it.
Damiba, says the Chinese like to use Africa can help them to learn English, but they are not ready to pay as the Chinese want to pay, "he will use that opportunity to strengthen its English ability.
Recently, I met with the head of one center for teaching English, James Martin, a citizen of Canada for the talks said that it is true that parents are supposed to teach their children English, although not from the age of all who know English.
He says that many African countries have been complaining, but him as the owner of the center is looking at business and therefore the customer gets the king when he wanted to recover.
Many Chinese are not knowing English but the new bus station for youths who are in universities and secondary schools, have been unable to learn that language as they want to go to study abroad later.
However, the Chinese view about who is a lot of teachers who do not cost them because of many from the ones that do not have the skills of the language, most of the teachers who come from the countries that come and English, most of them have no skills to teach and identify their skins?
