Constitution: 2 / 3.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

There is a report that the law on constitutional changes has been planned to be researched on during the parliamentary debates on budget, so as to deal with other things, it has softened the conditions of passing the article of the draft constitution and finally the official constitution that will be called for opinion polls.
Those changes will involve 83 percent of the law in the year 2014, which is the one that made up the commission on constitutional changes and the special constitutional parliament, putting on article 26 (2) of that law which is aiming at terms of special constitutional parliament.
Article 26 (2) says, "for the proposed constitution to be approved by special Parliament, it needs to be supported in large numbers of the number of delegates of the special Parliament from Tanzania Mainland and two-thirds of the number of delegates of the special Parliament from Zanzibar."
Speaking about the program, which is led by delegates of the special assembly of the Constitution and the Citizens Constitution (CHADEMA), the Secretary General of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilfredy has said that that is the illegal plan that is continuing to disrupt the new constitution.
Doctor Slaa said the intention of the change is the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to lack the number of two-thirds of the members from Zanzibar and previously, they believe they can get that number by to lure them by visiting some of the members of Zanzibar from the Citizens Party (CUF), but their plan is found a wall.
"CCM don't have two-thirds of Zanzibar and to fulfill that legal action against the constitutional procedures, it is a must to have 16 members from another side of CUF and they had planned to arrest the members of CUF but currently their means has been successful.
"Which he decided to do not like to pass the first round of the draft constitution as he said, they will use the Parliament of the Republic during its sessions to make corrections on the law of constitutional changes.
"Now this is unacceptable, it is equal to Yanga team that plays for Brazil in Dar es Salaam city and because Yanga plays for home, then it wants to change the law in the middle of the match.
Attorney General (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, said for a short time he cannot talk about that issue in that time they have been wanted.
The Minister for Constitution and law, Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro was not supposed to speak about that issue. His mobile phone lost the whole without being received.
On his part, the Secretary of the Special Constitutional Assembly, Yahya Khamis Hamad, he spoke with our writer saying he has no information about the plan to make corrections on constitutional changes.
"I don't have those information, that is the first I hear from you but as usual the parliament of the United Republic has its procedure to work with the government as it is organizing those changes," said Hamad.
Three conditions of UKAWA.
In another step, Doctor Slaa spoke about three procedures so that finally the delegates of the Parliament of the constitution that were from UKAWA to return to parliament, continuing with the debate of the constitutional parliament.
According to Doctor Slaa, it is the first must for the leadership of the Constitutional Assembly to give an opportunity to the chairman of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba and the delegates of his commission, explaining the misleading reports that was done by some of the delegates of that Parliament against the draft constitution that was presented for the debate.
"There is a big possibility that has been done against the draft constitution that was presented by Judge Warioba so that things can be able to go together with our delegates through UKAWA to return to parliament, it is a must for Judge Warioba and his team should be given a chance within the parliament and many other things, it is a must that those issues are happy," said Slaa.
He mentioned another challenge as what he termed as wrong, conspiracy and threats that were done by the delegates of CCM including President Jakaya Kikwete, that the Federation of the United Republic of Tanzania (JWTZ) can overturn the administration of citizens who will not affect the situation of lack of money.
