
Saturday, October 11, 2014.

On October 16, 2016, participate fully the concept of lack.

Since the year 2007, the day of responsibilities of,.
Other singers from all over the world so as to discuss important topics that are there.
They have been placed on one day, other bloggers together, are usually procedure of breaking the air.
By educating thousands of different posts the issues of water, changes.
The behavior of poverty, food and the strength of together.
This is proud to be a official guest of that day.

Use this opportunity to tell me the world your opinion about the concept of caring about you by writing your story, it will distribute them to people my view, not knowing how this Thursday, October 16 in collaboration with thousands of other bloggers.

Other bloggers, we tell him!
Since the year 2007, constitutional changes has been used to unite other singers from all over the world so as to discuss important topics that have been put in table as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as a good project that is building a habit of fighting for another time this year, Global Partnership is proud to be a great participant in that day.

When you have been saying that lack of equality, you do you have a lesson?
The word of discrimination can be compared to many so much, something that is the reason for making this topic to hit news headlines, diabetes, gender, social issues, and other factors that give your opinion and experience in your blog, and we help them to discuss every kind of lack of equality.

Join us as BISON.
To participate in the previous day of responsibilities, you can register your blog on a special website of constitutional changes and revealed that you can write your article in any language, from 108 people who are believed to be written in this article, 1032 participants from 108 countries.

On October 16, we will understand the articles from the journalists of Global Partnership in all over the world - stay tuned for eating!

This article was written on Swahili at the Global Partnership.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
