It is a historic position for CCM to register the mockery.
Brightiles 19, 2015.

Recently in a debate that was organized by Mwalimu Nyerere Institute, apart from other speakers, I saw him and listen to Mzee Joseph Butiku, I believe most of us have got an opportunity to listen and listen.
I saw Mzee Butiku looking for two books that were written by the teacher, "Tanaka and Babu," I see the importance of returning and to be left to the office of the Prime Minister Rashid Kawawa and he saw the importance of returning and to be left to the public and that there should be one of the other leaders that are not involved.
And that's when the most important thing of "mystery" and for sure that CCM is currently available and by reading this situation, it is a chance to see it, it is an opportunity for the party to serve the heart of our party.
CCM members have a must to see their truth and at the time around them so that it was said to be said by the chairman of the party, Doctor Jakaya Kikwete, he told him that the party has a must to study at times while Kikwete had helped his party to understanding the truth that is living with them, now.
I have ever written this, that there is two ways for someone to clean up his room, you can be able to test for them but they can also get married but they can also give him under the Parliament.
If you do the last mistake, who will get in a room, you will be able to sell it in a room, when he will stop the behavior, it is the day they will be told by the parliament they will be told by the people to be surprised by the others to be heard of it.
It is good and it is good for us to have procedures and discipline for following the procedures and the discipline of following the procedures due to the law and discipline which go with the violation of the procedures.
And here football is in the ruling party, CCM, the Revolutionary Party is the ruling party, therefore it has the first responsibility to prepare procedures that will be followed inside that party when it is in power, this is not a opposition party.
Inside CCM started having a foundation that led to the establishment of the party, if we start with mothers of Tanaka and Jeff Staford, this is a very dangerous matter to be remembered, the mother of CCM, Tanaka and Jeff Stibel in the handover.
But the current CCM has been seen to have been touched by business people, scholars and others who are trusted people here because of even those with their professions, especially the Party of Revolution, some of them are believed to participate in the country, "said the issues of citizens, it's not good things.
CCM right now has been faced with some of the leaders of religious institutions, CCM, for now it is a big institution in which it has been people of every way, there are groups.
Well, there are those who were admitted to CCM because they believe in goals and actions of the establishment of the party, but there are one who are rushing into CCM with goals and private purpose of helping them to cross the country as they want to go.
Some of you are ready to use a millions of shillings to go to the leadership inside that party and they are rushing into that party not to cater for their evil deeds, to protect and defend their personal interests and of their groups.
