
Yanga is supposed to wake up, Shungu Sei, 27, 2012.

Yanga is in talks with three coaches, two from Brazil, including the former coach of the Tanzania national soccer team (Taifa Stars), Marcio Maximo, and another one whose name was not identified by Raqqa, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

News from the Yanga soccer club has said that, talks with Marcio Maximo, it is still a difficulty that is why it is important to talk for another coach for work of training Yanga after sending away the coach that they were in Belgium.

Together with that, Yanga has also started working with its former coach, Shishi, returning to coach the team.

Yanga's strategy is the new coach who arrived in the country before October 3, when they will battle against their old rivals, Simba SC and according to the real situation, Shangani, the teachers waiting for more opportunity to come and work again in the desert.

In a period of three years of doing his work in Yanga, from 1998 to 2000, Sheke scored Yanga of the East and Central Africa in the year 1999 and several games of home, including the FA Cup, Nyerere, union and championship of Tanzania.

He left Yanga after some of the club's chairperson at that time, Tarimba Abbas after saying that he has gone to France to study at a short course of FIFA, but he returned them and told that his good report if it has a team of that country and he was going against issues, thus he was seen a red card.

That was surprised when the former African Sports coach of Tanga at that time, Charles Boniface Mkwasa has been employed as the team's manager and after a short time, Sheke was removed by the former coach of Yanga, while being given the head coach.

Marcio Maximo is the coach who, Yanga love him so much and it had come to teach that team instead of the Belgian who was sent away, Tom Saintly, "that is why the Jangwani players are trying to go back again.

Yanga is in the process of looking for a new coach, after sending away its new coach, after sending him a long time for 80 days, who now his position is given by his assistant, Freddy Felix Messy won until when it is available, another coach.

The Deputy Chairperson of Yanga, Clement Sanga has said that in a meeting with journalists at the club's headquarters, the junction of Twiga Stars and Jangwani, that, bad results and not forgetting the requirements of the leadership, yes, has made it a lot of change in solving the contract.

Furthermore, Sanga denied the claims that the coach has been expelled after some of the club's chairperson, Yussuf Manji.

"The team is going to Mbeya, to get a draw by Prisons, he complained about the services, but we are the reports that were seen, he allowed them to go to play time just after the match there are many factors that we cannot say in public.

"For example, the team drew in Mbeya, we want to do one place in Morogoro, he asked the team to go back in Dar es Salaam city, again that players were forced to go back to Morogoro while the players were very happy and this we believe even to be defeated by Mtibwa.

"The team went back to Morogoro, we decided to remain at the camp because he was surprised saying that a big team like Barcelona in Europe have not seen him, that is when he wants to stop his contract," he said Sanga.

Sporah Show is leading Yanga in 14 days in the 80 days since he started in July this year, they are inspiring.

In those matches, were six matches of the East and Central Africa, the Kagame Cup, which enabled Yanga to take the crown, which lost only one match against Atletico Madrid.

Simba plays for Yanga in Zanzibar after Dar es Salaam will be at the camp in Zanzibar to prepare well with their old rivals, Yanga in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League that was scheduled to take place in October 3 this year.

However, if the camp will come back in Dar es Salaam on Saturday for the purpose of playing Prisons and going back again to the Zanzibar camp to continue serving their home against Yanga.

In that game, Simba is in danger of missing his best goalkeepers striker from Uganda, Emmanuel Okwi, if the Vodacom Premier League committee will decide to follow the league regulations as he said.

Okwi was given a red card for one hour for the mistake of breaking up on the JKT Ruvu player, he went to revenge for the match played last Wednesday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam and according to the regulations, that is an offense for a three match.

However, Okwi can get married, if it's just the report of the referee and the Singida municipal that will take him, although that is very difficult, because it did not be given one card directly, but making sure that his punishment is to sit on stage in three matches.

Already Okwi has lost one match on the day before yesterday against Ruvu Shooting and when the premier league committee met today, it is expected to increase two more matches, against Prisons and against Yanga and after that, he will be free to continue supporting his employer.

It is not secret, heading to the match of old rivals, Okwi is fever for Yanga, especially when remember the way they woke up in the last match, scoring two goals on the 5-0 victory and caused two others.
