Kibiga.
Dec 80, 2015.

The owners of industries and public organizations that do not be 17 out of 74 companies have been directed to various investors in the country, they have shaken the land. "
Those owners are those who made an agreement between those public property, it should be able to follow the use or violating other procedures, now have been revealed after giving him officially, they will be charged compensation.
The former chairperson of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on public organizations (POAC), Zitto Kabwe, has said that the fifth term government will return the honor of Tanzania.
Zitto told our citizens that together with being some of the industries and those public organizations that are outdated, they have a bad state, that action is important to show that Tanzania is a country to be keen.
"The very important thing more than all in the decision to arrest the investors who failed in developing the industries is that Tanzania can't know how you want to, and you are left," he said.
Speaking about those steps, Zitto Kabwe said after losing to the investors who went against the sales agreements, they will have to pay compensation by not developing the industries in accordance with the contracts.
"It will help us to know the truth and set well the truth, it is clear that the verification exercise is not done keenly, my committee said that he stopped the Controller and Auditor General of the government (CAG) to make the truth," he said.
As a result of those steps, Zitto has denied President Magufuli and President Vladimir Putin to make Russia for how he decided to leave the country to stop corruption.
"What is the way he made Putin that in 2000, she gets divided into big rich people as restaurants have not been beaten by Khloe Kardashian of that nation."
Record and directive by the government.
The government through the registrar of treasury, gave that announcement on November 18th this year, urged the investors to present their contracts at the office of the registrar of treasury to identify themselves as part of the implementation of the promise of President John Magufuli of signing up the farms and industries thus investors also discuss use or not improving.
In addition to that announcement of 30 days from the previous day, the condition of some of the industries is bad.
According to the report of the permanent parliamentary committee of public organizations (POAC), that was released in the year 2012, 17 organizations and private organizations were not doing well.
Organizations and industries which were murdered at the same time is the skin factory of Mwanza (Mwanza Tansort), that was sold by Pan African Development Company, Tanzania Electric Supply Limited Company Limited, that was sold by Hans Noma, Arusha, in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro.
Other industries are the agricultural tools of Mbeya, which is owned by CMSA company, Arusha, Mwepu Ls that was sold at Kyela District, Kilimanjaro, TRON) that was sold by Divine Kweka, Cellphone Company Limited that is sold by Eleuteri Mangi - LTD, which is sold by Pickup, Limited.
In that list, there is also a factory of Trambalu High School LTD, that is sold at Quality Group Company Limited, a factory that has collaborated with GSM Foundation (2000) LTD, Lufunyo Nkinda (T) LTD company, Ubungo Plaza in Dar es Salaam and Moshi Rombo, Totoo organized.
That report shows that organizations and 42 industries were doing well when 15 others did not need to work on the required levels.
The views of that committee was that many investors have been unable to fulfill those contracts of their contracts that they got in the government, so the government is supposed to arrest the people of the organizations and the industries because others do not give credit to promote organizations and industries.
That report gave an example of the factory of Mang'ula and Kolo Toure Limited, which led by Saint Mary's International School in the year 2007, that the investor apart from being unable to promote the factory as it was accepted, also several machines were removed and the others that have been removed and the others that were taken against them.
Therefore, the condition of the skin factory in Mwanza, Mwanza, Tchao, the report says that the investor had not done anything to continue with that factory and there was no signs of any symptoms of it.
"Many machines have been found and the ones that were left are in bad state, the area of the factory has been sold to the neighboring areas of the machines for transporting minerals that is owned by the Caspian Sea," says part of the report.
