
Heading to the general elections of Yanga, Manji got married.

June 3, 2016.

The chairman of Yanga Club, Yussuf Manji has taken the official form of defending his position in that club, with giving his accusations to some of the leaders of the National Sports Council (BMT) and some of its members who want to eradicate that election.
Apart from Manji to defend his position, the vice chairperson, Clement Sanga has said he has taken a form to defend his position.
Manji has taken the form when he will defend that position with the aim of developing the development of development in the club.
At the time of taking the forms, Manji did not hesitate to talk about the scandal of the general elections, while the membership card is Mohammed Msumi after being alleged to have conspiracy by TFF together with the directors of BMT to disrupt the club's elections.
Apart from Msumi, Manji has also stopped the membership cards that they won the forms to vie for Yanga through TFF until the issue will be discussed by the disciplinary committee.
Manji who was seen to have arrogance and go to the members of Yanga, a voice that were taken and was surprised to plan for the conspiracy for sabotaging the elections.
The voice that were heard through the headlines, were shocked about what should be done so as to make sure he give him Manji at the election.
Speaking to journalists together with the members of the club, Manji said that the TFF leaders say that they don't want to do elections, something that is not true.
He said that since last year they wanted to do elections but TFF killed a letter and wanted to leave him until after getting the general elections of the country.
He said they had agreed with that issue and decided to move forward, but in January when they were in those activities, Alex Witselfor for his father and decided to stop the process.
What is expected to announce more is the claims by TFF that they did not know it of their leadership while there are some members who requested them to increase one year.
"During our general meeting that took place in the police hall, all the members who came to move to our issue and this year so as to complete some of the things we should not enter in the general elections," said Manji.
He said TFF should know that Yanga's elections are not there for the purpose of private interests but there is because of the interests and development of their club.
Speaking about the constitution of that club, Manji said that after their constitution of the year 2010, there was a shortage that they were told to make corrections and increase some of the committee.
Those renovations caused the increase in discipline together with ethics and they did so as to restore TFF.
"If TFF went to us to make sure that we are doing and today they are saying the elections will use new constitution means they did not register our constitution," said Manji.
He said they are unable to understand the aim especially the TFF and BMT to their club is why so many times they have been restrictions that are not aware that they are seen to cause their team.
Manji said that TFF have tried a dirty game and urged them to bring back economically, an issue that has planned to make a certain amount.
"TFF have sponsored us in the contracts that is usually warned as the club, they have also been doing a lot of things that is not fit and we cannot believe that until today, our gifts in the FA Cup is still not given," said Manji.
Moreover, Manji instructed the head of the department of information and communication of that club, Jerry Muro to take that evidence to the media so that they can be able to work.
"This evidence will be taken to police by TAKUKURU in order to take action against those involved, also Muro will be following every week so as to give information to the public and to know what is going on about these people," he said.
On their part, TFF through its spokesperson, Alfred Lucas said that the federation will give an official statement on the election on June 8th, this year.
He said towards that election he requested members and Yanga fans to continue to be calm in order to protect the current peace.
