
Minister has given money to the teachers who gave birth.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

After the decision to chase them, four teachers who were involved in acts of actions in Mbeya Secondary School (Mbeya Town), the government has said that concerned colleges can advise the alternative that they will understand the existence of different environment and that it is considered in the decision to chase them.

The Minister of Education Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako said that the day before yesterday when he spoke to journalists in Mbeya province where he was on a tour to various schools in that province.
Professor Ndalichako said the decision that was taken by his office contributes to the small laws that were scored in the University of Dar es Salaam (UDA-RT) that affect the mistakes that can involve the establishment of the student.
However, he said that the decision that was taken can be looked into afresh and involved in the concerned colleges in the weight that was taken by the ministry will be seen to be in the environment and reality of the concerned event.
Four teachers who were on actions in Mbeya Secondary School were expelled from universities after the decision by the government due to being involved in breaking the student of Seeing is abolished, diplomas, and violence on September 28 this year in that school.
Those teachers just after a part of the video being distributed on social media recently, the ones that were involved in the colleges they were studying are Frank Msigwa (he is alleged to beat him more to the head of Mbeya-UDSM, and Evans Sanga at the Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial University.
Responding to a question about the number of 12 strokes, it is supposed to be given if the punishment for a student who is going to go against the instructions of his school, Professor Ndalichako said that if he would like to get a student to be, even if that is possible when students consider ethics.
"Any punishment for a student is given when he was known as he's contrary to the ethics of his school, if all the students will observe the ethics I don't see if there are some teachers who missed the student even though these these are received as a result of lack of discipline," insisted Ndalichako.
He urged the students to consider the ethics of their school, saying that it is the only way to enable them to live well with their teachers and also to perform well and requested parents to teach their children, saying those upbringing will enable them to improve their work.
In another step, that ministry has said that the education system of the year 2002, number 24, has shown the provision of 12 strokes and there is a must for the improvement of the head teachers in a result of the exercise that makes a total of 12 strokes.
That ministry has set aside the provision of that punishment, but he has urged the students to avoid various mistakes that will enable it to be faced with 12 strokes because they are going to study.
Acting commissioner of education, Nicholaus Zacharia said that the day before yesterday when he spoke with this newspaper about the punishment is supposed to be given a student with the whole issue of ethics for students and teachers.
He said that 12 strokes is usually given by checking the size of the offense, how the student is health, its health and to make sure their homes are given by the head teachers or teachers who have been confirmed to have the head teachers in a short time.
"In that punishment, it is a must for a female child to identify female teachers, maybe if the school does not have teachers of the gender, therefore, we need to know that they have come up in school to study and they have not registered themselves so that we build better relations between the teachers and the student which is such as a parent," said Buchosa County.
Buchosa County said in improving the relationship between the teachers and students, the ministry in partnership with the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi) will ensure they reach one class one with 1 million students and 45 students.
On their part, the Federation of owners and agents of schools and private schools (UVCCM) for the province has urged teachers to follow the special document of government in removing students, including being close to the students when they err.
It has been written by Joachim Nyambo, Mbeya and Theopista Komba, Dar es Salaam.
