Four days of watch the Escrow account.
Dec 4th, 2014.

They were four days of conflicts in parliament that spread feelings of many citizens, men and women, youth, and the elderly in the villages.
Depending on the issues were taken on in parliament, the debate moved to the streets and Escrow to be the main topic in the bar, homes, areas of work and more in social media networks and more on this issue that made Tanzania's interests.
Citizens had a right to be keen and caring about it during the period when the nation needs each other to strengthen the primary and education services, water, health and infrastructure so that the tax value of billions of shillings was lost due to corruption and corruption that would have reduced many.
If there are some loss of taxes, there were also acts of injustice to reduce the real value of contracts so as to reduce the collection of taxes so that TANESCO could be reduced and maybe if the funds were done as a nation due to corruption.
Several cases of corruption have ever happened in this fourth phase of our country's administration of our country's administration in the previous scandal, the ones that were unable to resign, again some of them were unable to supervise those under them, which essentially has caused him.
For example, in the JayMillions Promotion, the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa who resigned together with other two ministers, while in the operation of cheating, four ministers received the levels including the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, Minister of Security and Fisheries Development, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi.
This journey, a situation has been a lot of those involved, especially the political leaders and insisted that after he made the donation of their resignation from every corner of the government, and maybe a rumor that JK was involved in order to allow Bank to get the whole bus without lack of coaches.
However, maybe the parliament would have been one decision by requesting those who were mentioned in this scandal to release the level, the work would have been easy to make sure that some of the members of CCM want to protect those suspects.
We are supposed to believe that CCM have put a stand to defend his colleagues "at any cost but if it has been confirmed later, there was no stand like that or if it was not accepted by all.
In this to agree with my friend, one who wrote on the social network saying that, "the disappointing issue, the members of parliament should prepare to look for people," he will be able to look for people, "he is" to build a shame and to give them a shame. "
However, after a short message to the few members of CCM who were able to defend the suspects of corruption, it's not possible that they failed, but events that were given to the future of the new album of improving democracy, transparency, accountability and competition in Tanzanian politics.
After the tension between the resolutions of the committee that was formed, the ruling party members of the ruling party and the opposition camp sat and done talks and reached the consent, the resolutions were called without being opposition.
The only qualifications to vie for the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, Ann Makinda, showed weaknesses in the high level in looking for constitutional changes, national consent and the national debate.
However, Speaker Makinda did not know the person who came to them that parliamentary decisions would have put him in another conflict by the government, in a period that has already been a tension by the court, "I will be heard of who complained.
Fear of Makinda was a probability that if the parliament is implementing its responsibilities, to advise the government, according to the law presented well, there was no reason for fear.
Any case, its good leadership and wisdom led to the creation of a committee that was made up with the resolutions that was adopted by all sides, they stopped his weaknesses.
"Nyati Spirit Tanzania and consent did not end at the committee that was formed as a result of the resolutions, but also one position against corruption joined the rivals in CHADEMA, Honorable Zitto Kabwe, Freeman Mbowe together with other delegates of UKAWA were able to sit on the table and set up a strategy and the stand of bringing to her to the government.
