17 December 2012

The statement of President Kikwete will be on Saturday.

By Rose It.

It has been a normal issue to financial institutions to offer loans with great interest and to make a low-income citizens to fail.
This is as a result of many loans that are given by those institutions to have great interest, to make sure that the ordinary citizens fail to use those opportunities.

This situation has been contributing in a large extent to increase poverty to many citizens by being unable to use the opportunities they get in taking loans and to protect themselves in business due to having great interest.

As a result of that situation, a situation of poverty in the country has been continuing to have people to continue improving their businesses by failing to promote their businesses by lack of capital.

As a result of that situation, it is a must for financial institutions to consider the real state of income of ordinary citizens and to plan an amount of interest which will enable them to help the community benefit from opportunities of loans and enable them to grow economically.

Recently, we have witnessed the President of Jakaya Kikwete looking for all financial institutions in the country that offer loans with low interest loans because the interest of 18 percent that are given by the institutions are big and they make them to use those opportunities.

He gave that statement while launching the affordable housing project that were built by the National Housing Corporation (NHC) at the conference hall in Dar es Salaam city.

He says that reducing the interest in loans will help reduce bribery in their areas of work so as to get money for development.

I saw that I urge President Kikwete and emphasized that all institutions to work on that order so as to improve the economy of many Tanzanians.

Apart from improving the economy, it is also a reduction of interest, it will enable citizens even those who do business to sell the capital as well as starting other businesses that will help them to grow their income.

President he said that they are faced with the speed of the bank in the provision of loans and said to eliminate the ones that were destroyed, people in the lower level and that is why people did not overlap.

I have been said that it is true that a big percentage of the low-income citizens have been unable to use opportunities of loans offered by the bank as a result of difficult conditions.

It is an indication that the biggest percentage of the banks are usually paid people by using bond of property that are nontransferable including documents of farms and plots that cause their opportunity to arrive there.

For the banks to do that, it is clear that they are in the country for the purpose of seeing a few who have the ability and continue leaving poor eyesight without knowing.

This has been caused people with low-income people not to look for even one day to borrow the bank from being unable to withstand the criteria for the criteria that are given by many banks.

This is true that poverty has been continuing to affect the low-income citizens because they are forced to borrow the money from private people again with great interest.

I have seen the habit of some people with money to offer 100,000 shillings per month which is equivalent to an increase the cargo that makes him continue to remain poor.

Let it reach a time now for citizens who have the ability to see that there is every reason to help them and caring for a small interest, so that everyone can improve its income and be able to get money to grow their capital.

I have come to a reduction of interest in the procedures that are concerned with the provision of loans will enable many people to use those opportunities and run business and increase their income.

Therefore, in addition to all, it is also good for the citizens to stop and use the loans they are given for the purpose of continuing to pay for human rights and not otherwise, there are some of the loans and learning.
