
Lipumba went to the executive council of CUF.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The national executive committee of the Civic United Front (CUF) has organized a agenda to give him Professor Ibrahim Lipumba in front of the executive council of the party's leadership so as to explain and defending himself is why that action taken against them due to his followers and causing the destruction of party property.

According to information that was released yesterday by the deputy secretary general of that party, Nassor Ahmed Mazrui, due to the action of breaking the party's office located in Buguruni, Dar es Salaam and caused the destruction of property, the executive committee of Taifa has called for a session of the national executive committee that will take place tomorrow.
"This session has been called according to article 85 (5) and article 108 of the CUF constitution of 1992, the edition of the year 2014 season that was held from 4 o'clock in the morning at the CUF headquarters," he said.
He said according to article 12 (6), (7) and (16) of the CUF constitution of 1992, the Executive Committee of Taifa has organized a agenda and made it to Professor Lipumba in front of the council to explain what it taken against them.
In another step, Mazrui said that committee has refused the opinion and advice that was given by the registrar of political parties in the country, Judge Damiani Mutungi.
He said after getting the opinion and advice from the registrar of political parties in the country about complaints that had been presented in his office by Professor Lipumba and his fellow members who had been taken against them by the executive council of the national leadership, the committee failed to oppose the understanding of advice and opinion that was given by the registrar.
He said that committee continues to supervise the decision of the special general meeting of August 21, this year that agreed to resign from Professor Lipumba as the chairman of the party and the decision of the National Executive Council of the National Executive Council of the national assembly on August 28th, this year.
He said that the decision is to strengthen the membership of Professor Lipumba, Magdalena Sakaya, Mafoto, Abdul Razaq Badru, Masimba, Masimba, Musa Haji Kombo, Mac Makumbulu.
He said the CUF constitution does not have any article that gives the authority of the registrar of political parties to receive an appeal about the decision of the sessions of the party or to prevent the decision of those sessions.
After getting 11 arguments, Judge Mutungi returned to his office of chairmanship Professor Lipumba, a situation that led the economist from the party at the office of that party in Buguruni and brought up confusion from the party members.
