
CHADEMA approve the problems.

It has been written by our journalists.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

While today's followers of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), have organized to do meetings and demonstrations in the whole country, the executive committee of the party has announced the completion of that campaign given by the name Abdulkareem.

The step of the end of demonstrations and those meetings was announced yesterday, after the parliamentary committee will sit the day before yesterday and agreed to stop the campaign due to the request of the senior leaders of various religious leaders in the country.
In addition, people from different regions including scholars and religious leaders have congratulated that step and some of them advise that the demonstrations are very disturbing because they don't be productive because they don't affect the size of peace in the country.
The demonstrations were banned by the police force in the country to prevent all political and internal meetings by explaining that there was a sign of a result of the involvement of peace in that meeting.
Moreover, President John Magufuli announced that politicians are good to focus on development issue instead of running meetings in various areas that are not administrative and demonstrations that are not final.
While announcing the decision of the end of the campaign given by Tanzania Union Against Dictatorship (JKCI), the national chairperson of parliament, Freeman Mbowe said after retiring from writing the request of those leaders, they have decided to postpone the meetings and demonstrations.
He said that they have decided to postpone the demonstrations and the meeting for one month so as to give an opportunity to the religious leaders to find solutions to the issue by meeting with President Magufuli and his government.
Religious leaders, that organization said that apart from various religious leaders of various denominations, also various public institutions have requested and requested to postpone the wall for a time so that talks and discussions are being done.
"We recognize that the great contribution that has been given by all religious leaders in the country in protecting the peace that is in Tanzania and in the economic and social welfare of Tanzania, and we understand the importance of our religious leaders to look for a goalless draw," said Mbowe.
However, he said if the efforts of those leaders will not be able to give birth to fruits during the period, meetings and demonstrations will be held starting on October first this year, urging the members and their leaders to continue doing preparations.
He said that he called for religious leaders a lot and it takes a nation with its people and it should not be trusted by a easy reason, therefore, can't increase religious leaders in the good environment.
He said in a period of one month since the announcement of a wall, they witnessed the country being known in a period that he has claimed that Tanzania has been charged with fast on how he gets the administration of the deceased.
He added that the reason caused them to have demonstrations and their meetings are not supposed to fear police but it's because of talks and if they would have continued with their stand of making those demonstrations, it would have been able to control the peace of the nation.
Furthermore, he said after those leaders also asked him to go back to parliament because they will meet with the speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai, they will meet in Dodoma for the purpose of discussing the issue to return to parliament.
He said since the announcement of that campaign, more than 230 leaders have dropped from 28 others including the Deputy Secretary General of Zanzibar, Salum Mwalimu is being held by police Mister Salum is being held in Simiyu province.
The member of the executive committee of that party, Edward Lowassa answering a question by journalists who wanted to know what he spoke with President Magufuli when they met at the 50 anniversary celebrations of 50 years of the Retired President Benjamin Mkapa and his wife, he said there is no big issue that they had speaking with President Magufuli, but he wanted them to inform them.
"We are among our colleague who is able to refuse to support the president how I wish him again in the general elections of October last year and failed by Doctor Magufuli's presidential candidate and three other parties at the Dar es Salaam's general elections, Professor Benson Bana, said that parents have used the loopholes of religious leaders to get rid of religious leaders.
He said that they are not supposed to assure you of the religious leaders because they don't have parties, but their great responsibility is to pray for all of them and to lead them in the way that is wrong.
"I am not seen that those demonstrations, that if they have raised the religious leaders, we thank religious leaders, but they do not end in the meetings and demonstrations there are many things should advise you," said Professor Bana.
He said 977,886 students do not like to see those demonstrations, but they have also been forced to see their president, because it was not being conned and to be taken for them they want to be used by that is the culture of Tanzanian.
He said that, he noted that the strategy of the party cannot produce a bomb attack, and that they did not have another way to be pressure for religious leaders, public institutions and other public groups that were required to make sure that he is doing and if they see you can be unable to be silent until 2020.
General Ambassador Seif is a good thing on his side, Commissioner of Dar es Salaam province, Alhad Mussa Salum, said they will start stopping the meetings and demonstrations of the wall which he would start today is a good thing and that is an indication of going to the religious leaders.
"You cannot change the government or not true, it is not a good thing and if we believe that, we should respect religious leaders and we believe that we will inform you, so there will be demonstrations because that issue will end before October first.
The lecturer, the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Bashiru Ally, said the plan of demonstrations started was started since the previous day announced, because it is a plan that shows to break the peace together with the foundation of the national unity.
He said the plan was a mediator to consider the difficult conditions for state agencies and even worried about the foreign politics.
"
He said the party could not be able to use the media to submit its problems by taking different issues, and if the law is not supposed to sell up and if the existing law is successful and strengthen the existing laws.
He also said if they would have seen a parliament from a must, they would have gone into court, and added that they have forgotten the country's peace without any reason and to recognize that they are political party that does not follow the law, regulations and procedures, demonstrations will be done by hooligans.
Minister Modi added that the deputy minister of internal affairs of the country, Hamad Yussuf Masauni, insisted about the desire of peace in the country, and politicians are supposed to obey the authorities and laws of the country and they are encouraged to help citizens to participate in events that have no benefit.
He said the government will not accept or will not have talks with the intention of breaking the country's peace.
"As their intention is to get the popularity, that is unacceptable, and the citizens need development," explained Masauni.
His Worship the Deputy Mayor of Ilala Municipality, Dar es Salaam, Omary Kisyeri said that the parliamentary step is good because many citizens used to fear due to threats that happened.
An economist from the Vingunguti county councilor (CUF), has said that despite their claims of wanting to have political meetings, the way that they want to use parliament was not correct.
The outgoing member of parliament for the northern region, Amani Golandu has said they have received the delay of the protests for the honor of leaders of the party and religion and explained that, they have given a period of month if they will not agree in the primary issues, the protests will be held.
The police were arrested earlier yesterday, various leaders of the provinces in the country explained that they are organized to make sure that he will hold demonstrations where they had signed with the support of dollars.
Morogoro regional police commander, Uluguru Mlaki and said the police officers of that army have organized to deal with all those who will come out to hold demonstrations of the wall contrary to the law.
Commander Matemu said that yesterday after the completion of the exercises for investigations that started at 12 o'clock in the morning by walking several kilometers, being one of the daily responsibilities which were involved in defense and security forces of Tanzania (JWTZ).
Kebwe, Gambo has met the Provincial Commissioner of Morogoro, Doctor Kebwe Stephen Kebwe, said the day before yesterday here in the city to become security and security agencies have planned to deal with others who contested for protests.
The chairman of the NCCR-Mageuzi Party, Maulid Mwita, speaking with the newspaper yesterday said the national leadership of parliament until the province have not involved parties that make up Ukawa this issue, therefore it did not be involved with the union.
He said because it is an operation of one party, can't support him in their protests.
He said the security and security agencies in the province have planned to ensure that there is no violence that happened or protests.
And the union of traders of the Kilombero market in that town said that they will not participate in the protests due to the political effects that they had to face in the past.
The chairperson of that union, Abdi Mchomvu said that today they will join and cooperate with the army to do environmental cleanliness in that market.
It has been written by Kataatul, Lucy Lyatonga, Theopista Komba, Fransico Kimasa Emmanuel (Dar), John Nditi Rashid, Morogoro.
