
It's just a long time before the star of Urughu location.
And in Igunga?

The ability to make issues of issues are necessary for its journey to be one among the ones involved in Kenya and international days in future.
Olemedei has won 14 years old, only upcoming stars now, who continues to do a huge success at the Old Trafford stadium especially in the tournament for vying for in the English Premier League.
He says that he knows his name while at the age of 10, at that time he was a class four student at Kibaoni Primary School in Nairobi city.
This profession is' proud of for now, he said that the old legends of soccer especially the Holy Quran and Lionel Messi who is asking the Barcelona club from not to take.
"I saw her talents in my home with a very small age, gifts to me that I stopped from Barcelona's striker Lionel Messi who is playing football," upcoming stars have said.
Although, he has done a heart to give birth to soccer, he says that despite breaking the field well, he will also work hard in the society to be one way to build a better life in the near future.
"Though I have shown my professionalism at the field we will give you the educational opportunity for the intention of doing well in the whole country, a situation that will change my life on the near future," upcoming musician said.
In addition, upcoming stars have been among the candidates who attacked the national team in Kenya when he joined the Global Education Link (KCPO) in the year tomorrow.
A resident of Obrey Chirwa, who owns it well in the between AFC Leopards Soccer Club has threatened to be a player to register it immediately after his upcoming player has been able to maintain the best results of that team's victory of 'Imebaki Story.'
Together with that upcoming goalkeeper, he was among his team's squad that scored a crown of Mathna Youth Sports Association (MYSA).
Other awards of the club which brought the winner by the star OAFLA, is together with the crown of Delhi.
This unique share of its kind in the field of playing football is the one that helped him to join AFC Leopards team that is in the past.
However, talents of his life continues to raise, and its expectations now is to see that he is believed to be among the old legends of soccer here in Kenya and international days just soon.
It is the expectations that is taking down and doing exercises for taking each other under its coach George Kiiza said that he resorted to his efforts in the training is to contribute to its game improving, a situation that will encourage us to feel such as Lionel Messi and Christiano Ronaldo.
