
28 December, 2012

When we pray to the government, we're preventing the advice of what to do.

In the year 2012, we got to thank religious leaders, scholars, activists, and other groups in community continue against the government to take action against various issues.
Among those things include a huge difference of income among the citizens that can cause conflicts in peace that we have together with the employment problem especially to the youth.

There are some who said that there is an importance of the government to end different problems facing citizens so as to resolve the peace that can be dealt with.

Others have urged the government to respect a democratic system because without doing so it can bring peace.

We are saying that, the problems that we have are many but have not yet confirmed the step of disrupting peace and reputation that we have in the world.

The peace that today we are trying to play for, is looking for each one of us will marry each one of the government to grow the economy and remove poverty that can succeed again.

The people that are using a religion is to disrupt the peace that are supposed to recognize that there is no religion that causes the collapse of peace.

There is an importance of religious leaders, activists and scholars of peace and to advise the government to take action so as to reduce the challenges they are facing citizens.

Make sure that the government in different issues are the primary issue but when we urge the government to take action so as to make it successful.
The cries of what we believe in is a good thing.

For example, when we talk about the problem of employment it is good we urge the government to make it more on agriculture and educate themselves so that many youths do not get into the farming production, business and change their lives.

There is a problem that has started coming out recently to some of the political parties, the ruling party could implement its policies which they believe will help reduce the citizens, another party is spreading and said that it is their policies.

Those parties are going on more so as to give the government's conditions on the connection of the concerned policies instead of giving their advice on its implementation if the way we see in education policy.

The truth is that the foundation of democracy that we have is that of the concerned parties of politics to cooperate in different issues so as to stimulate development instead of strengthening citizens.
He gave birth to hatred in order to improve infrastructure that was built at a high cost so as to get the government.

Conflicts between politics that have no benefit to the citizens are not for the citizens to improve their lives and it's important to advise the government and give efforts to implement its policies for the benefit of our benefit.
