
Prisoners masturbation.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

The number of prisoners being reduced from 38,000 shillings to reach the prisoners 34,000 in the short time since getting into power in the fifth term government under President John Magufuli.

Those have been said today in parliament in Dodoma by the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Hamad Yussuf Masauni when responding to a question by the nominated member of parliament, Sophia Simba (CCM) who wanted to know the state of prisons in the country, the strategies to reduce the number of prisoners and also as the government has built Tanzania to arrest all over 20 years ago.
Masauni said the government has a plan to improve communication in the country for the first phase as the availability of money because there is still need to participate in many areas.
"In the financial year of 2016 / 2017, the government sent money to other development projects and others because of the renovation, expansion of new dormitories, buildings buildings and the purchase of various equipment," he said.
He said the aim is to improve the services by prisoners and the prisoners to meet the criteria for human rights "he said a reduction in number of prisoners results from various efforts being done, including Tanzania's construction, he said that 20 years have been built.
He has mentioned the parts of the construction in brackets as MKEWADAR, Mbarali, Igunga, Igunga and Simiyu Province (2003), Kilwa and Mbozi district (2005).
Others are Mbinga (2007), Chato (2008), Kiteto District (2009) and the prison of Karatu, that was built in 2010.
The Deputy Minister said up to now 43 district have no prisons out of 90 district, an issue that causes Tanzania Prisons in another district to have great congestion in the country together with being unable to build prisons in the country as well as failing to conduct a renovation of the Children Prison in Upanga in Dar es Salaam city.
However, Masauni said the prison army of Upanga in the country under the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, the situation that forced the minister of bail and ministry, Ummy Mwalimu to answer.
He said that in this financial year, two billion shillings have been built for medical camp to serve the elderly, renovation of houses to improve the behavior of children who had been taken there were small and they can be awarded that behavior.
