Government to fulfill the promise of switching off social war.
By Charles B.
President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto, gave a lot of promises to Kenyans during the campaign before the last general elections and even after being sworn in and entered into power.

For example, promised to provide insights from students of class one, three million ownership of all farms are in the country, to build tarmac roads for a distance of 10 kilometers to this year, the growth of a length of 10 percent and more than 10 percent.

But on my view, the main promise between all that was the one to connect all the Kenyans of this world as well as required to fulfill the progress they have been witnessed in the country in the year 2007, they have been witnessed in the country on 2007.

But three and a half years in power, still Kenyans have come from different communities to be fighting for one reason or another for example last year the fights broke out between Boris and Meru where approximately 10 people who were arrested are said to be responsible for the conflict and violence of livestock.

And early this year the violence led to the local society, being faced with the Maasais' in Oldonyo Sambu area where three people lost their lives.

Listen to you, only one week later the local society and if they registered themselves in the Kibiga area, that is found in the Kibangu river that is found in the Kibangu area and Kisumu number of six people were arrested in violence.

Meanwhile, the deputy president has been looking at the Diamond's government is in the race to make sure that they had conned all Kenyans without their lives or not that it's not good.

But his plans to attain that goal by saying that the main parties to be postponed apart from joining the new party of Diamond party of Kenya (JPK) is not good.

In my opinion, what the political leaders do not want to do this time, they are supporting them despite the situation that they are coming from different communities, while the government gets enough money so that it can achieve the consent of the community especially those that are living in their areas.

The national union cannot be reached by urging people to join with the two political parties, Jubilee and Cornell universities. It will be remembered that the fights have been occurring in the country since the days of administration of one party, Nwankwo Kanu.

, you shouldn't give me a lesson.
