Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has appealed to people who are doing cheating to citizens as national identity cards will be being provided by payments and added that all the costs in the preparations and renovations of those identity cards will be.
The prime minister has given that warning while responding to the questions there and then on the parliament in Dodoma town among them, among the national identity cards, the permanent vote of cheating in the form four exams last year and the second payments to air crafts here in the country, our writer is a specialist doctor in the country.
It is on Thursday in parliament in Dodoma city and as is the fees to start questions there and then, the prime minister and among the questions is from the member of parliament of special seats, Betty Mkwasa, about the national identity cards.
So as the issue of national identity cards have spoken by government for a long time.
And citizens are waiting for hope to hope.
What is the meaning of Tanzanians about the development of this exercise.
Previously the previous action of some leaders I start being taken.
A finger and so on, as the first step, the first process is the process of preparation.
Therefore, the identity card is.
Certainly not what I will go to.
But we agree that it is good in every bus that you can be able to provide information from time to time to show how the journey will be able to get into the procedure.
They made when they drew in the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe about the documents and reputation of voters.
The government is giving a statement to I am the right to vote is to have an income of voting yes, I believe it is in the general elections because most of us want to help us in this elections but there are many things that we can't know where we can't know what we can't have from BoT those who deserve every time.
As a member of parliament, Mwanachoma, greeting Mshamba, wants to know the government which takes the step of the elections to now a malicious message.
You need to be prosecuted?
And that is the one that led in all issues.
I'm in such acts.
What should happen?
During the campaign meetings.
And that is why many times when it is in a level that is wrong.
The results of the election.
The person who was in the race will have an opportunity to go to court, the prime minister also asked about three hundred thousand students and three of form four whose results were canceled due to cheating.
Why, the government is not getting back to his past and because many ask for them to register themselves for the year tomorrow they want to register their exams if Toto is wrong, I request for him to help there.
How did you say I have heard.
Look at it.
Freddy Manongi said I'm just a little position this issue, let me follow it well and that I believe it is a parent and children are learning because but I want them to continue supporting these children together with the teachers who are still discussing them now that it is good that the habit comes.
The payment of payments to the farmers of elephants have risen to him again.
The prime minister will be.
Most of the Tanzanians there is true that we should be calm, because the money for his contract will be complete and it's also possible for it to take its responsibility to make sure that this issue now they face her in the Express club.
