
Five types of fear that are affected.
These fear of these are involving us from other different lives and at the end of the day, we do not have people to live life in every time.
However, in that situation you may be blamed and sometimes you say that maybe if you are unable to succeed more because you have a lot of money or any time it has said that you are supposed to reach you because you are orphaned children, the widow or a lot of fear that you want to reach our goals.
The fear of separation, most of the people have remained with life that is every day because of fear of being criticized by many people have been able to continue doing an issue because there are people who criticized the issue that they were doing.
For example, there are some people who have talent in singing and in that, there are some who take their songs in different radio stations and when they are told that their songs is bad and they are usually given up and that is the fear of being criticized.
Similarly, even in business people have been told by other people that you cannot do that and because someone becomes the fear of being criticized and believe in the end of the day he is doing a certain thing.
Also, it should be remembered that this is the great poison that makes a dream of many people, but remember this kind of fear there is great success in future, the fear of getting success in the future.
When a person told the results of this matter, it's after twenty years because the person has fear, will face me, "I told him," for example the same time I will have heard a long time when I will be feared.
For these examples you will be touched by those fear, in which way it has been postponed to do a certain kind of success, as a result of those types of fear, so as to evade a lot of things you will die tomorrow but you to learn a lot of things like you will live.
The fear of failing, this fear of fear that it has been praising many of them and basically it is that before deciding to do a certain issue, you get various answers that you can't know that, there are some people who believe that they are still unknown.
My call to you is that it is fear of failing, believe you are more than the winner in your matter.
The fear of helping others are, we are some people that we have been private people in helping others that we have been people not to visit other people, while we believe that doing so we will participate in our thoughts.
Other reasons are believe in doing so is to benefit others, as we believe it is good and we should remember that you are a good thing even if you can't know if you are.
