967 days, his wife were scored in prison.
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

Last week, we identified himself, together with other things, do not recognize that we are today, we should release another one place of this article.
If it did not be enough, after he told the police at the police headquarters to Charga Empress have agreed with other cases of murder of a veteran politician and the famous member of that country, Andre Coulter, started being talked.
Andre Cooper has been killed in the year 1991 and there is no one who was arrested and presented with those killing, for approximately five years there are no any action taken so as to speed up investigations the case for the killing is complete and they are expected to be arraigned in court.
However, talking to rumors that the killing of Cooper has resulted in bribery cases that affected the Belgium government in the years of 1980, it explained that many government officers have received bribes from Agnetta.
But Agnetta has been filling those allegations immediately after being arrested, but between the year 1994 to 1995, the scandal caused four ministers of Belgium to resign as the Secretary General of NATO government (Belgium), Willy Dar es Salaam, who had lost the reputation of taking that position due to the scandal of bribery.
On the 12th of September, 1997 when the nation is going on to fight and increase in leep, police in Mkonga area have finally announced his arrest by Alan Van Der Westhuizen, together with five other people including one police, and all of them were opened to charges of being involved with the killing of Andre Cooper.
Van Der Westhuizen is the former minister of that country and a famous person with the author of the books, once he was quoted in the past, claiming that he is the shivered from Saiwa.
Van Der Westhuizen who commanded the killing of Coaches Association so as to resolve the scandal that was facing the Democratic Party that was quoted by his close people before his killing, and he was quoted saying that I will put everything publicly that I have been accused by the scandal, I will ensure they are involved with the scandal.
In his action of wanting to stop bribery actions that caused the government of that country, an accident that brought together many enemies compared to friends during the funeral of Coaches Association called Mwanjala, was quoted saying, "it is something to remind him that among the mourners who had gone into the grave of my father, there are some who will fall down, after the death of my father."
However, Marcela had believes that Van Der Pluijm.
Bihagaze (concerned) and the death of her father in one way or another, "something surprising thing is that he was unable to listen to him at the funeral of my father," said Marcela.
Investigation of 'strike that had been done well by police did not take place as a weight case, however, after the killing of Coulter, police have received reports from someone who had already been given any importance by police.
The prosecutor in that case of Cooper has organized a series of bags, claimed that those cases have no any relationship, but the truth is that those cases had a clear relationship, because those cases had a clear relationship, because those cases had a clear relationship with the owners of the criminals in the area spoken to South Africa of Belgium.
After the truth of that case, Cooper has been known to the citizens of that nation showed up their differences with the police force and the law institutions in that country, where they had an assurance that those complaints had been involved in bribery when the complaints had been involved in bribery.
In the year 2002 when the investigation of that case continues, Van Der Westhuizen and his close person in 2003), that case was started to be heard by the suspects in that case which was a driver of Hans Van Der Westhuizen and another person known by Gioia Tauro Chambo.
Just after the 300-thirds report of the investigation report of Quiros that were put in public on April 15, 1997, the report put it open that there was laziness of communication between those units involved and investigation of that case, where they did not show any importance.
