Citizens should start knowing CCM.
August 10, 2013.

If he has emerged as two years just before the local government elections in 2014, and like two and a half years before the start of the general elections of the president and members of parliament of 2015, he was forced and requires to be removed from power through the box for votes.
There is no time that CCM was so cunning, in the time of heading to the general elections of 2010, if I have been infected with other accusations of corruption involved in the last round, and he was not known to pray for him but he was able to stand up and fight until the mock examinations of death.
However, CCM as a party is seen to a large extent, especially after the last changes of the ministers' council, to recognize that it has ever been written in front of the citizens and now a person has decreased since some of them had gone up or because of some time he went with corruption.
CCM had a good opportunity for registering him and later making it put up with direction but they had lost the opportunity immediately after a lot of classrooms but not being beaten and 121 accused of corruption in the country.
The general meeting of CCM was a gold opportunity for CCM to register it and prepare afresh but it did not be used thus, instead it has been seen apart from the areas of CCM members only and to promote political politics inside CCM.
Currently, CCM has emerged depending on the popularity of the accused whom their names are famous as CCM is expecting people like Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe and Doctor John Magufuli and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Doctor Abdallah
When he saw the Professor Muhongo, the Ministry of Minerals, being a expert (center), was expected to bring talks in the minerals sector and energy and its work has been seen well because the ministry is hard and they had been made to arrive in the very high level under President William Ngeleja, Hasheem Mkonga and even Jakaya Kikwete.
Truly that people see Mwakyembe, Magufuli and.
Here, I would like to see the challenges of the opposition in Tanzania and especially the one of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), as CHADEMA was unable to use all the positions ahead of him before the 2010 general elections to remove CCM from power when they believe that CHADEMA will destroy the CCM 2015 while being in a political state?
If CHADEMA was unable to show solidarity of wanting to remove CCM from power, so as it is now and we have stopped all the ongoing operation, that will enable the party to prepare themselves to remove CCM which at the moment it has already been done after Samuel Sitta and Mwakyembe went to government and Edward Lowassa to be safely?
Therefore, CHADEMA have a great job now to remove CCM from power than it was in 2010.
For anyone who is an indication that it will be easy to remove CCM from power he has learned in the history of CCM, this will not be removed by praying for example, by seeing them or by getting married but also CHADEMA has not been seen to remove CCM from power.
It is important for CHADEMA to explain the thoughts and new thoughts that will come out in good strategies to prevent CCM from power, but also CHADEMA should not think it is the only party that can be able to carry hope of the ruling party.
Try the biggest of CHADEMA is to discover that it doesn't have a nation and yet it has not been accepted even to lead the parliament to collect a lot of people in meetings or seen to be loved by many people, should not wait for many people.
In CCM, it was able to get a lot of parliamentarians in 2010? It is true that the Parliament makes a good job more than the presidency but if they were the presidential votes to attract them to be sold at 20 percent and for member of parliament not to land at a large percentage.
