To be a driver here when I was light.
It is nothing.
This mother is now.
Ras Kiduku is good.
What's the mother welcome her in the real life?
I say without because he said.
I was saying now I was pleased by the deceased.
Why is now I want us to believe that he did not put that money and he had done the work he had done, he did not know what he didn't know what he didn't have a house, she is paid a place where he is paid.
I was looking for these hours to be careful, as this one was going to sit again and for a small child where there was a person who will go for their house now again, it's not a big person to God and even he does not know that it is a shame.
He finished, even when he was surprised and he started saying anything.
When he told me that he told me that his younger one does not lie on the time they talk. and now I failed to talk about him and that's when the time they talk.
However, they had talked to him.
The late God bless you, for these days he desires to vie for the same way and to stop them talk about it and there was no problem.
He said people have told many people that he told them that, in-law, he has decided to look for him but I think he was doing with those money.
Every person has been written by the late God you know if you have given someone a place to sit with my colleague, you want to go for you good people again and to go back again.
The late God is not very happy, saying that when the lady was speaking with a lot of time, he was speaking with a lot of time now, I had failed because these days they did not do so much even if they do not have.
It's like you have gotten tired even if you are your desire to get into a phone since then the child is why I don't have a lot of words, but you can't see your mind, then I see what I met with each other, then I am happy and then I do not have a chance to go and then I do not have a chance.
However, the other period for instance, you can't understand what goes back to children like one hour they were two or a girl child, but the youth know it.
How do you know you tell me what he went to me in a fast rate.
The late God bless the mother that he is doing well but it does not return to you.
.
Now it has worked on the media even if he does not wait, he also wants.
And we are there?
We have not been put up, you can't have a system when he is called?
It is.
The sacrifice of life through National Electoral Commission even if the activities was not only one.
A higher education is how a life is in life.
It's like it's true that if it is not a truth, it is a fact that we have gone to their lives and they have failed to take them and it has been.
When they ask you?
Now in the past, our father speaking to our father, while speaking is a tough time, I said most of us went to home, maybe there is no one who did you do, but now there is now a place and the office was unable to do what is now and they are unable to do?
The late God is now and they are unable to tell me who this one can't understand you.
They do not get a bonus by the late God even living in their issues, let me feel even if it did not allow someone to go for him and Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with Listen Mwezi Song with L@@
And it's good to give them a lot, they are coming as a result of the problem they are coming from him and they have faith.
The late God is like that even when he is not even my brother, I have not disappointed the one day I mentioned is like that, he said he told him to do his work together with me what should I do with me.
The truth is always displeased with the man it is something even when you can't know that, this is this young man, this is not lack of person, says there will come out for what I got to you for what I love.
Almighty God bless you this one's father's father.
The late God went to him.
Another job, I told the late God I think it is easy.
The late God bless you the following day I asked me, she told me that I have gone to a house, I think it is one.
The late Adam and returned to school now reading me and went back to the morning.
Almighty God had gone to read with the pace when he stopped him but he left alone for work but they start to study from nine o'clock in the evening so that, therefore, there is a lot.
There is a lot of money to return to Nairobi University again.
The residents do not depend on the house and the height of Wence I will get to get out of that house.
I have hurt the parents to help the parents and from this money, maybe I got married or I see it is a loss.
For now, you know that he has left the late you know that the late God rest the whole year outside it repeated on the month.
Things are.
However, the mother Lucy had asked me how many names have gone to let me tell me if he had gone to make me feel good, but he does not eat it or go to the end of last month it was direction.
Life and this month of year and one month.
Now, even when reading what he was going to be written.
Now I will go to say I don't have gone to announce you, she's going to stay alone for now I see what he was going to go to the end of that class when you see her, you don't know what your mother did not want them to get their girl.
That he was defeated and Jesus said that he knew that he did not happen soon and leave it.
I'm saying what I did, I live living with her alone, it's not easy for this time and it is not easy for this time to say it is not true and he told the minerals that I've not left to what I went to.
The late God say you told the right is a problem and you say that we have decided to do when I know how I don't know what I don't know what I don't know what I don't know!
He decided to Iringa to go back and asked me now, let me see what this person had not been able to do the love you like the mother and he is supposed to go up until the same time.
He informed you a month or two months to return and that is the one he thinks to do that work but at this time it is not sure that he does not go back but if he is saying he will go back but inside, there is the effects that he asked himself.
The late Adam and therefore like all, I know it was thinking you can't know this year he believes that she is doing here, I don't know what is doing here, I know what she is doing so that I don't know what is not seen, he said if you know it.
You cannot do you.
When a man's meaning, maybe he knows this one is no place.
The late God come at all.
The late Sajuki said that I would like to tell me when the graves, I told him there is my cemetery.
Instead, I feel I think this is no place.
He was thinking that he didn't go but now it is just the same, it is only God and we do not like yourself when I am good.
Probably, I did not love you for a person to come from his house but even discourage them.
Hai won't know your knowledge, I am at the moment if your at the end, it was now known for now, has ever been reached there even if I had told him from now.
The late I told me for not seeing him and I did not want the truth when he told no.
When the late God rest this one we saw.
Also, it is also known.
Now now is the job and this number uses?
Recently, the office we were told to make sure that they want to choose people with you know.
The late I don't know why they want to give them office or?
