The late?
And the author of the islands still continues to follow in the islands or it is the first you will be informed with glasses on the air it is the constitution of the special constitutional parliament who was reading or told me that we should not have written about the interests of the woman with the whole issue of gender and other visitors here and we should not meet them.
Whoever doesn't get time, we look at these issues concerning different issues that are happening, she's been written in the proposed constitution that does not depend on the women.
In the first day not to be fifth, article eight of the proposed constitution talks about protecting the employment of women.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we should be a woman when he is in the pregnant woman.
This we should speak about because we have witnessed in some areas that we want to do in Nigeria, the private company you find the mother when he is in the neighborhood to lack of production.
I have followed me.
To say the truth, so that it has also been received with great joy when we go to Dar es Salaam to make it be among them.
When we go to Dar es Salaam, we're the activists of the women's rights but I believe also with more joy especially for women who are in the age of getting.
Because in the system we have now more than the market.
It is very easy to see when we get in Dar es Salaam to see the ones that are in the private sector.
Because the great importance is to get the benefit of these children and to enable women who are in your age of getting children as an important part of giving birth to the country because the nation is supposed to see the country's work as a situation that is required to do.
And it is legal and it was done so that children can be able to grow and women to be able to continue.
While giving that contribution to people not this one.
This is an important thing.
And we believe that the current foundation has enabled us to move the law and various policies and enable one one who has to be informed by this kind of work to take.
Another step by accusing this type of companies I think this areas on issues concerning sexual abuse, particularly to women in the areas of work, there is an issue of getting jobs together with playing soccer and to play soccer.
Professor shivered to contribute towards.
I think it is due to the sister the preparations have to be transferred to the private sector in women who are praised.
First, it is not only women who are pregnant but.
When women reading me that when you get that interview you were asked, they have not been married.
And leaving you.
Or the only one has been married you can lack work but they see that it is a load to carry pregnant what is short.
Therefore, the constitution has noticed that to carry pregnant is very attractive, but the person who does not work in, these days we have forgotten that?
They do not want to look at the section.
