It is no longer.
It is no longer.
You are good, the news for your money for me is also safe.
Sadness, according to I don't have four schools that earlier it is very good, I am going on while you end up, how the baby is safe and you're welcome me if you're welcome him at my home, I would be welcomed at my home, I can't jump and Mister?
And Mister I is safe to go in this work which is safe and Mercy what is easy to hear that I was happy and that I am happy.
Almighty God rest his family?
The late?
How is the family?
The late?
It is not happy about the family and the family is safe, the family is safe and inside.
The late?
There is a cancer and Chapati, what I'm in the afternoon at the same time when I am happy, I don't see you so that I will be a good teacher and if you can be read, then you can be read after that mother is safe since it is a problem.
Why does it come to who cared for.
The aerial balls will fall in positive development when I have and where everything is my grandfather who wants to continue with you, the late God bless you, then if you are in different schools in a condition of the child to love them, then you see you.
Most of them should start at home, you should know that we help each other to inform you and I am very close to when I start looking for that work, it can be able to marry off the marriage but also there are things every issue.
Three of the greatest job all of us are about God what do I think about?
I ask I think about what the late?
But we can say that when he was done, we did not know that we have planned, but it was not safe and you missed him under her sister.
Dynamite is safe, I don't know if your sister comes here, the Almighty God bless you well if we have other people that concern them so that we do not understand the body, the late God has added that I have added me.
I have said it is good to see me for a long time, do you take them to take them recently, I urge us to leave or even at the same time you missed the child.
This is why we use if you are using the body is to see if you eat it because they ask you.
It is a must that I will welcome me when I met me.
I am happy to hear you are safe, the late is now remember to look at each other time or passport for him to go at home, "AT has said that you can enjoy me.
When you get your same as Ras Kiduku was not known quickly, I won't end the school to get her work and let me see me if you know how he does not use it, "I am not ready to end the school.
While at the end of the previous things, we expect Dar es Salaam to see if you get a God's life or when they are my mother is safe.
When the child even I have talked to.
An old man?
It is a things to speak with him when he put a man or a time he cannot be.
Why is my government to Haule was the great name.
Almighty God is not there.
He spoke to the late?
It was treated too.
It's a way he went to pay the debt for the hospital and they were injured.
