
A good opposition is important to democracy.
The leaders of Mo Blog.
While the government of 'half a half' made the invention of the country so as to stop the violence against the year 2007 / 2008, some Kenyans have points that he had not been involved with the opposition in the government.
This was after the ones who were vying for presidency, Mwaura who is in the SB party, Raila Odinga, has decided to form the coalition government to be under the management of the former secretary of the United Nations and the chief technician (black spectacles).
The Retired President Paul Mbaki got the presidential position with Mister Odinga with the prime minister.
The analysis of political issues together with scholars in the country have criticized the coalition government and said that there was no good opposition party to ensure that the government is implementing its road responsibilities.
On April 2009, more than 50 members were led by the member of parliament of Muembe Makundi Ward, Abutalebi will make sure that the government decided to strengthen the opposition side who had criticized the government of the coalition.
However, the government officials led by Mister Raila Odinga explained the proposal saying that the government cannot kill them because the members of parliament were not involved with excitement.
And the former member of parliament of Lugumi Enterprises, insisted that he was going to be the opposition leader because his party of Mount Meru did not be among the parties that were in government at that time.
A few months ago, the leaders of CORwena from some of the leaders from the ruling party of Jubilee, quoted saying that Kenya does not have a lot of opposition because the number of parliamentary members of Plasmodium falciparum.
Now the union of Lufunga is being led by his head Mister Odinga, who engages in eternal peace, we are determined to be a political situation in the country has continued.
Although, I did not support the way used by the opposition to ensure that the government gets their national talks together with huge statements that have been issued by some leaders of Correa scored by some of their modern opposition parties which is important in every nation of democracy.
The United Republic of Lufunga is a must for requesting for the interests of the citizens and to avoid issues that may be given, because there is no gift of value all over the world like peace.
