I have found himself the work of being married?
Dec 30, 2015.

One thing that I have complained of great strength during the campaign is the fight against corruption and corruption, Sihana Nkinga, because I wanted to lure them because I wanted them to lure them and I wanted them to help the citizens what I want.
Citizens are seeing themselves so much and corruption, and they are tired of those acts, and also my prayers and corruption they will not be touched by corruption and corruption actions which could be used to build development projects for our people.
My party, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has been built in the basis of refusing to stop corruption and corruption that is why of the main faith of CCM is that says, "bribery is easy for justice and I will not give or receiving bribes."
For a Tanzanian partner with his faith, he will not stop stuttering on the front line in fighting corruption and corruption, while speaking in parliament on May 1992, Mwalimu Nyerere said the following on bribery and corruption has no great importance for the development of people than war. "
This is a great words of someone and the leader who stopped him and agreed to evade bribery in all his leadership positions because we will focus on bribery and corruption they have gotten very happy, they are not ready to persevere the interests of the government that will protect themselves on bribery and raising the corruption.
I have promised citizens, and I want to fulfill my promise to them in front of the Holy Quran, that I will fight with corruption and corruption without stopping yourself and without any truth, the drugs can be afraid, and I have found himself the work of having her love.
I know how they are pain but unfortunately, it does not have another drugs and therefore I wish all honorable members of parliament and encourage us to vie for him to me when I support these boils.
I understand the difficulty of the war I have decided to measure and am saying I know the difficulty and challenges because involved with bribery are not small-scale people with huge effects of the country and the development of our country, by people with great importance of leadership and service that they got from the consent of people.
Therefore, I am able to succeed to be able to get great cooperation from parliament and other organs in the country and with the responsibilities of dealing with these actions, they will be satisfied with them because citizens will be ready to give their cooperation in this fight against corruption and corruption.
In dealing with this problem, I had promised to form the court of corruption and corruption, it is my hope that the concerned leader, who I will hear them that they are involving themselves with corruption and corruption I will never play immediately.
After I take those steps and other legal procedures will follow Honorable Speaker Makinda what I want to say it is that my government will follow up closely the movements of the leaders and executives so that they are involving themselves with corruption and corruption.
Because without doing that, bribery and corruption they will not take it and that a song is looking at each other.
When I went up and spoke to the citizens during the election campaign, I promised that I'll make a small government to work together so that I promised to form a government that will serve people in fast and not to fall down.
I urge the government servants, especially those who are lazy and killing them, to prepare themselves for a long time now, then because the servants of that kind will also lead the language of the government which will lead the language of the fifth term.
