
The organizer of Zitto Kabwe, Professor Muhongo!
October 5, 2012

In my view, the current council of President Jakaya Kikwete has a ministers whose ministers can be able to drive out three different groups.

The first group is of ministers who have gone to and sitting for special seats, while they don't have a problem or any love to change anything in their ministries.

These are those ministers who are in the country (they are not pictured) when it comes out of their instructions and do not get any reputation of printing work from those ministries are leading.

At their home, I saw it is the ministers and they are getting payments and payment of all the positions related to that position, then it is enough for him who did not want him!

The second group is that ministers who have advanced the other things of the ministers who had qualified for the same style, and not the argument that were good or bad.
In short, the performance of these ministers you're following the footsteps of the ministers who had qualified for their new songs, but they have continued with the ones who had kidnapped them, even if it is bad or passport.

You can say this group is one of the ministers whose performance is the one of "business," these are for sure, you cannot inform you that it is the agents to change.

It is in this second group and that the first group is making ministers who take a minister as a way to get a quick wealth, and because that, the country is self-thirds of the ministers on corruption.

The third group is one of the ministers that you can say that they are agents of change, that is, you have gone into their ministry and plans that they will not cause a lot of new things to work so when they can be remembered in those ministries or when they register from service in government.

These are ministers, who plays for do, those ministers do not lead the time to get the consent, "from the State House of President Kikwete, that's where it is supposed to do something that is good to the citizens, a situation that has been taken to their business authorities.

I can't know that during the long journey of performance of our ministers, it can be a minister of the third group or even if they can also come from the second group or even the first one.

All that is possible, but any way the ministers who are reliable from our country has been destroyed, because of corruption, they are ministers of this group.

In my view, it is in this third group where it will meet ministers, who plays for ministers like Professor Sospeter Muhongo, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor John Pombe Magufuli, Doctor John Pombe Magufuli.

In the normal state, and in a normal life, stem cells are supposed to support these ministers by at least until when they are supposed to support ministers of this group so as to support the ministers of this group so as to help the ministers of this group.

But by bad luck, the situation should not be done if the experience shows that political politics or insult words, are not wrong, lack of control of those ministers in order to bring change to work in their ministries.

And on that reason, instead of removing our accusations by exposing our accusations to the ministers of the first group, "business person," we are saying this in their ministry to try to improve issues so as to bring a solution to millions of ODL students who depend on services of their ministries.

And I would like to be understood that I would not understand that I would not want to know anything (I will be the last person to do that) but I believe that they are unable to do well more than those in the first group or second.

And also to realize that there is need, and again we do not do that, we are being led by the truth, and not by directed to protect privacy of the party, hatred and worry to revenge.

A good example is the accusations that surrounds the internet, right now the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo said the source of those accusations is the new order for the new board of the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) through implementing all the 26th contracts of oil and natural gas in the country.

That step had several colleagues including the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, whose appointment is accused on the media network that has caused a big debate.

He has accused that his order is why or the skill of looking for your reputation and popularity!

I have read the bill, and although I am not an expert on oil and gas issues, and not an economist, but I see that the prime minister did not care about it, "he said that the prime minister did not recognize him," he has said that the prime minister is wrong, "said the song 'Fulfill Your Goals'.

For us that we have been following up for a long time the political journey of this member of parliament, we must know that it has its own history and some of his issues against Professor Muhongo, have reduced, and feelings are that they have its history in the scandal of being stopped by the Chief Justice of TANESCO, Engineer William Mhando, a few days before the ministry of Professor Muhongo has not presented his budget in parliament.

I am saying that, the reason you cannot believe that is Zitto Kabwe, the one standing in parliament said that he had a lot of noise about the contract of Isa Buzohera, to Zitto Kabwe, this is the current one who claims that the Minister Muhongo advised the authority to review the contracts of oil and gas in the country to run foreign investors.

Friends, right now, Zitto Kabwe, when he was at the time he stopped the noise in parliament in the contract of Isa Buzohera, that he did not know that by doing that he was a threat to the Tanzania that does not have investors?

Listen to me, he himself has admitted in his workplace and that his committee of POAC that led it has directed TPDC (CAG) to inspect all the 26th of oil and gas, and that four are only four effects that are against the government revenue.

Like that, why is what he sees it is bad to Professor Muhongo urged the contracts to obey it and it is not true that by doing so, Professor Muhongo claimed that it's not true that by doing so, Professor Muhongo did not turn up because of now, Zitto Kabwe did not turn up by that?

And on his view, it's when we tell you that you have forgotten the foreign investors so that we can organize afresh the contracts of gas and oil, and maybe even if the minerals are not supposed to go through that contracts because we will make sure they can't hesitate to move forward.

I have said that I am not an expert in the gas and oil sector, and not an economist, but I don't need all that to know that (through afresh), contracts of investors is very common in the world of many government especially in India, Vunga and Brazil have done so.

If that is how, there is a problem if Professor Muhongo urged the new board to go through the contracts of gas and oil but why we are not heard of India, Brazil and VocationalTraining together with investors in that sector because of passing through the contracts?

It is clear that the investors who will run for that reason or who will fail to invest in the country because of that reason, are those who our country did not need.

It's a person who doesn't know that the oil and minerals sector in the world have been arrested by international investors on social networks with a habit of Mafia, and those who change poor countries like Tanzania being a white farm?

In my view, it is a happy that you have done all investors and we were left with our culture of oil and gas because of the sake of our future generations to welcome to the country through an increase of Karav Dhingra.

Another argument of Zitto Kabwe, that contracts was never reviewed by the past and there is no good thing that is available, it does not have enough weight to prevent Professor Muhongo with the responsibility of supporting Professor Muhongo with the meaning that they need to be satisfied that the interests of the nation have been allowed in that contracts.

I conclude my thing and agreed with Zitto Kabwe in his other argument as one of fighting the transparency in those contracts.

That is very true that the public should be able to know that contracts, and not to hear that it comes back.

Another argument that our problem in the sector is of more system and policy has weight and I think that is why Professor Muhongo is saying this so that we can have a draft of gas policy and the draft of the gas law as soon as possible.

Those, even so, it's not for the excuse of not searching for that contracts.

We should organize afresh, while the process of making changes in the policy and the system continues, finally, we don't know that "we should decide the nation by signing those agreements so that the law can take its course.

He insisted that my aim has defended Professor Muhongo, but even in our current environment when he comes out of good work, we have already explained the support until when you confirm any problem that he is "an artist" just like other ministers who kidnapped them.

In that meaning, up to that, when he comes the groups of the first and second phase of the ministers I have explained to me that he is a minister who plays for forgiveness, no one doesn't be shaken by corruption.

Right now one doesn't know that, under his leadership at the ministry, the cost of electricity production decreased since it was last year?

There is possible Professor Muhongo has a wall that is known to lead that ministry as he claimed to Zitto Kabwe, but if that, it will help to protect oil and natural gas and other resources against investors in Nyereregete, and like that, it will also help to raise funds for the distribution of electricity, then it should be like that - not the use of electricity.
