
Health for 40 years or more.
In the issue of nutrients, the main agenda for people who are forty years old or more, is to take precautions so as food and injured in their location should not be the reason to increase the body and not to be weight or faults.
A person can control the increase in fighting in the body if he will reduce the intake of red meat and oil foods that resulted from animals and he will reduce his foods that have been planned.
Also, he will increase his skills of fruits and vegetables, he will increase his skills of food resulting from plants, he will increase the use of food made by natural ways, and that they can be filled with fire.
A person who at least two cups, vegetables of three cups in a day.
Kitambi or the weight that will go to them by a huge percentage is due to the habit of eating carbohydrates, sugar, drinking water, drinking alcohol or drinking alcohol, lack of little food and lack of enough food and not to do exercises.
Weight and taxed is a major impetus in many diseases like diabetes, stroke compared to the heart diseases.
When a person is at least five years of her body, it's in great changes.
The body is losing Stamina because of human beings such as pneumonia, continues to reduce the strength of working.
Also, the eyes do not depend on how to see, focus on its ability to hear and the body's immunity in go down.
Likewise, bones presumed to be weakens and lost its own ease in selling, the skin starts, Kitambi and sharp teeth.
The disease like diabetes, blood pressure, cancer, stroke, and the heart diseases, the problem of the reduction of male and female children starts at the speed.
More than that, when a person gets fifty years, his heart has reduced more than one billion and a half hours, his lung disease has reduced more than 400 million shillings.
It is saying that, a very important person have been used so much by that, a person should not depend on bad behavior of life like drinking alcohol, drinking alcohol or drinking water, not to do exercises and not to get enough water.
Currently, here in Tanzania, the number of people who are self-driven and safe water is increasing rapidly, and the increase in pressure diseases, heart, diabetes, cancer and loss of male and female children.
They are annoyed by big people who are normal or more, who are also those with great responsibilities in the family or the nation.
Bad qualities should be great to people who during their same time they did not get their health like they eat with amount, not to do exercises or work from them and lack of enough time to rest.
On the side of mothers, they should stand to get their fees on every month (aerial balls), there is also increase the other health challenges when he gets more than ten years or more.
