This is the one he is "Edu to elder Ngoyai Lowassa.
Jide 17, 2013 by eternal peace, elections.

The year 1995, when we start from the process of running the first general elections after going back to the system of many parties in the country, within the Revolutionary Party (CCM), as usual, some of the cadres and their partners who were in the presidential race, started by the mud.

The Prime Minister and the first vice president of Retired President John Samuel Malecela, is among the cadres of CCM who were affected by a big margin in those politics, when the mud was claimed that he had changed her religious religion and getting married.

It is supposed to be observed, as a result of changing his religion, now she has been given the White name of Tuesday, and that for that step, the moment has been done by Tuesday, Samuel Malecela.

If it was explained that, i reached that decision to change his religion in order to make its plan to be given financial support of billions of shillings that will enable them to arrest the members of the sessions of the CCM and eventually they get to cater for his campaigns.

On Tuesday Msuva was alleged to have been impressed by the Islamic government of Iran, and that the government was the government that had promised billions of shillings for the purpose of praying for presidency.

I have remember that incident on Tuesday Malecela, after the last week, all social networks are to be distributed to pictures of the opposition party, the member of parliament of Monduli, Edward Lowassa in a group photo with the leader of Sunni and relatives in the side of this region of East Africa, Sheikh Shariff Hussein Sakali.

Various photos that were spread inside the social media networks and people with different goals, her mother shows Lowassa being faced with a special sticker with a special envoy from Johannesburg, and Hagutwa, while having a grandfather's grandfather who died in order to receive a very holy martyr.

According to the network, Lowassa urged the agreements with Sheikh Sharif Swart, after making a fundraising for collecting money to start the Radio Ikwililo, which is owned by the Council of Muslims Tanzania (Bakwata), Mwanza Province.

I have said earlier that those pictures are spread on the internet and people with different goals due to the heavy debate from the effects of those networks, which some of them were unable to write the explanations that are taking them to a Christian way, which some of them were stolen after completing the oath of closing the five pillars of Islam.

According to my knowledge, the oath of information and five pillars in the country, which every Muslim and each one who comes with each other on the right wing, gets a supporter of Allah without stopping the issue, getting married and pilgrimage.

The contributes from those pictures and distributors of those photos in the direction and view, by any way, they did not have good intentions to Lowassa, but they had a good intention to Lowassa, but they had an intention of looking for information and called a new name on Tuesday.

A small problem in the distribution of those pictures and information that was accompanied by those pictures, contributes from the photos of the pictures and those reports, they did not use the new name of Lowassa, that now he will be called, El Sheikh to Ngoyai Lowassa.

Those are the political parties under the scope of CCM, and especially during this period of heading to the general elections, Lowassa has been reported to be among the cadres of CCM who are vying for the 2015 presidential elections to return.

It is said that apart from those races, he is mentioned to own more than 80 percent of all the delegates in the sessions of the party's executive committee (CC), the Executive Council (NEC) and the general meeting.

Although Lowassa has never been able to put publicly his intention, but the eyes are not allowed to see the reception when he did a official tour in some regions where he has invested his political and financial resources for example in that event recently in Mwanza town.
