
The president of poor and wealth of corruption died.
By OMR.
Lusaka, Zambia the president of Zambia, Michael Chilufya, who died at the age of 15 years, he went to a level of clean up to the central railway stations to the biggest office in his country in his country to remove corruption but he acted against the political enemies.
Sata before yesterday in the England Premier League where he has been receiving treatment to the disease that has been reported for a long time but that is not seen.
For the followers that voted for him to go back to office in the year 2011, he was a man of actions that he didn't want jokes.
What is not reached is that, I would like to enjoy more politics of the destruction of his enemies.
Mistakes of her husband, political enemies, media houses and even the factory was faced with a attack from a man that was buried and the King 'Coaches Association' (King SCA).
He once said at the whole council he threatened to brought down his private government if he didn't have done more better work.
The end of the end of the rule of honor, has witnessed the stern action taken against the journalists who came to report about the rumors of suffering from him for a long time and "the journey of time in European nations will probably be the aim of getting treatment.
On January 2014, the opposition politician was accused by accusing his reputation for call him.
On June, administration in that country passed the three activists of the opposition side claiming that he was near him.
The victory of protesters made many not expected to be elected for the fourth time with reforms of authorities in the country of calmness, revive hope that, things were starting to be good for the whole nation of South Africa with a bronze medal, but the sex of the Tanzanian.
He talked about the poor defending champions while launching a plan to change that nation for a period of 90 days by dealing with corruption, reducing the amount of employment opportunities and agree on a better contracts and once ever heard one time, "Masau boasted.
However, it was revealed that it was aimed at fighting his war against corruption and it had a political enemies with his political enemies, including his predecessor, whose appointment was stolen from various charges against corruption and being removed from outside that country.
During the election campaign, Sata promised to set free media houses due to the government's ethics, but soon when he took the authority that stopped the journalists, offenders, and newspaper leaders of the national television and newspapers.
Michael Chilufya Sata arriving in July 6, 1937 in the northern region of the area that was dominated by England of the northern region, had a small level of official education.
