
A high speed of travel.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

An accident and the problems that are caused by a motorcycle transport now has reached an end, this is as a result of great changes that are being done by the government in conjunction with drivers of the transport agencies and among the reforms that they will be given number tow.

That number together with the name of the driver is the one that will be responsible for data.
Drivers also will be forced to put on a draw of all time they are not at work and his identity number will be in a draw.
That is to ease the driver of a motorcycle that was not easily available when they did a mistake so that nobody would inform the police as it is now.
Passengers before being carried in being carried out by a motorcycle riders through his mobile phone, he will be able to verify the validity of a driver who has paid taxes by using his mobile phone numbers.
"The aim of doing so is to avoid acts of some of our drivers in doing acts of preventing their passengers including steal phones, but also we want every driver to look for the driving training.
"The aim of bringing about the changes is to legalize the air transport so that it should be officially announced, but also the official launch of this new system will take place on October 18th this year," said the Chairperson of the Union of drivers in that province, Michael Masawe.
Masawe was speaking at the end of the week at the annual general meeting of the community of doctors who are doing work in the Christian and Christians hospital (TCL). In that meeting, the issue of a motorcycle accidents that are discussed in partnership with the doctors.
Masawe has also said that the step will reduce drivers of motorcycle riders to be used in robbery.
The Revolution Party is done in partnership between the Mkubwa na Maendeleo party in Dar es Salaam city, Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), the police force for road accidents in collaboration with three municipality in Dar es Salaam city.
Masawe said that in those changes, everyone should be being done or a group that will be officially registered in the relevant municipality as well for data and it will be shows that the number of drivers who are in that activity and their names are also said every time will be with the leaders that they will ensure the new procedures are implemented by all drivers.
"
The Director of the roads of SUMATRA, Mike Seo, said that the program will make in collaboration with the Bodaboda Party in Dar es Salaam city is in the final stages to be completed and now there are some of your things in the last steps, "he said that they start in Dar es Salaam and later that plan will be taken to provinces.
He said they are preparing to register all motorcycle stations in Dar es Salaam city as well as preparing for data for all motorcycle stations so that they can be a driver that they will leave outside that system which is aiming to ensure that every driver makes a training and get licenses.
"The driver who will do a whip, and was unable to register with different groups that we are making it now, that will not be allowed to run a motorcycle, we want to look for another job," said Cardinal Pengo.
The head of road safety in Temeke Region, assistant superintendent of police, Solomon Mwangi, said tickets and they are forced to arrest the motorcycle riders by using strength because they are not unable to stand when they are suspended.
"If the police have been able to do this one that is called entrepreneur (strength) I think this situation would have been bad, we are doing an illusion.
Mwangi, said that it is good for the transport system, we change, because it is now a motorcycle that, I will play the police force not to get married because they don't know even if there is a convoy for the leader.
