
The tax of entrepreneurs in Mbeya on October 6, 2016 by Felix Mwakyembe.

The habit of contraception is to love foreign products, the influx of taxes, contributions, fees and bureaucracy in government institutions are needed in the growth of the industries in the country, it has been explained.

Those restrictions were thrown out during the southern highlands exhibition, that took place in Mbeya City from September 28 to October 3, this year.
Those exhibitions were organized by the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization in the country (SIDO).

While giving his greetings on the launch of the exhibition, the Executive Director of SIDO, Professor Sylvester Mpanduji urged the restrictions that are facing entrepreneurs in the country to be together with competition that concern products from outside and the habit of citizens to love foreign products that are produced in inside.

Other recommendations that he mentioned is that the influx of funds, various land taxes, the increase in the value-added tax (VAT), Property International Company, tax tax (roads) and the ones for development.

However, that director explained their satisfaction with the efforts taken right now by the government to reduce tax and contributions for small businesses.

Some of the entrepreneurs that participated in the exhibition complained about more that bureaucracy in the government, saying they are derailing the steps in their businesses.

"We are happy about the president he says that we are going to the world of industries when his people are married, the problem is TFDA, said Sarah Cooke, the director of Mrs. Neema Rusibamayila.

The entrepreneur complained more saying they have gotten tired with the trouble they face at the institution that deals with control of food products and drinks as well as the one that is supposed to do their products in Kenya.

The step of those entrepreneurs to produce their products in Kenya is due to the non-employed products in the country to be below compared to here, together with the time they are using a very short time whereby they are saying they have to be employed within seven days only.

Among the conditions of starting a factory is an entrepreneur, that I will give special seats for the purpose of removing its products, it is a must that most of them don't know hard due to lack of capital.

"Why do not allow China products that are produced in homes," he told the entrepreneur.

However, the auditor of Food from TFDA, Sakya ay, released their stand saying that the food business and strong drinks, therefore, it is a must to consider the professional conditions.

He said TFDA cannot allow you to go back home because those products may be used by people, where in homes there are many things that they buy the products that are facing and pest (TIN).

Another thing is the testing of products where the expert says that before getting to the user, it is a must to inform you and to save and important information of their products.

The chief relations officer, the organization of Vientiane (TBS), Thobias Andengeye, says together with those restrictions, about the response of entrepreneurs in improving their products is small.

"Together with giving them training, entrepreneurs usually do not affect the ones that do not affect them," he says in order.

In ensuring Tanzanians are providing services to the citizens, in August this year, TBS won the regional office in Mbeya town together with the borders of Tunduma and Kasese district.

The Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya, Amos Makalla promised to bring together entrepreneurs of that province and the institutions that are concerned with their work which are TFDA, TBS.

While opening the exhibition on behalf of the minister of industry, he ordered the district commissioners in Mbeya Province to be responsible to pay the cost of those training to the participants from that sector.

I will end.
