Simba's leadership has been charged.
October 30th, 2014.

Being led by Simba and Yanga soccer club, it needs strategies and conditions of high level, it needs to have a hard life because all the teams are forced to sit on top, because that team is believed to be abolished. we will be dealt with.

But also, you can't understand that one of the leaders of those teams like you have not been a person of disputes, lot of promises that are not just on earth and also.
He told Bongo Five "in a certain way, because of giving a lot of promise that the end of the day it becomes difficult to improve due to the environment itself.

I have started using this two teams due to having such behaviors, I don't have a plan to be followed by Yanga Club, who have set up a long time in Kahama City, on Saturday this week.

The problem that is currently there and one of the talk in the media is the Simba club, which this season may put record of giving a lot of goals even in the last two seasons, though I did not see the price but it's because I will see their wind.

Before playing with their old rivals Yanga, he went to South Africa to set up a camp to prepare for that match with the aim being to start getting the first win in the league of this season by scoring Yanga.

The ball that was played with Simba against Yanga was encouraging to its fans, a situation that caused some of the leaders of Simba to talk to the media saying they have found themselves in the South African camp and now their team could be able to win the games one followed.

The Saturday of last week, things will be discussed while in their match with Prisons at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya City, "virgin" was sent away with buoors, in a draw of 1-1, while the hosts playing in the injured minute.

That draw saw Simba up to the chairman of the registration committee of that club, Zacharia Hans Poppe has said that he was quoted by some of the media he accused the blame to open the coach of that team Patrick Phiri claiming that he has been giving him a chance to be appointed.

The leader who has great honor in that club, did not hesitate to say that Simba's leadership did not return a difficult decision if the coach will not meet and stop putting a Kiemba who is now seems to have no contribution to the squad of the investor.

As I said earlier on Simba and Yanga club, it was closed, as a coach, seems to have no benefits and there is no additional benefits, more than threats and that ousting is being done from players, coaches and leaders.

Simba accused the signing of Kiemba, Haruna Chanongo and Shaaban Kisukuru. One of the reasons that were mentioned is together with lack of discipline and a drop in standard.

Who advised Simba to be a player in the fourth match, already you are forced to remove it because of getting a high level if you are not supposed to do when they wait for short time they left him?

These are some of the hearts of Simba's leadership which for sure you can be able to get out at the peak of success as others who we think for now and these these are getting in our big club like Simba as a result of lack of certain experts in those teams.

For example I ask you who is the psychology lecturer in that team? The answer is no reason because if he would have there and he would know that his work could be able to build himself more players more than visiting them.

The day before yesterday, I heard Kiango, saying that poverty that was used to become Kiemba and his colleagues has been extended up to others, now if the whole team is believed to show the low level when you get all the players?

I think there is need for Simba's leadership to sit on Friday this week they have planned to meet again to discuss another way to look for the source of the problem and what I think now is like threats that I have been given three matches which is supposed to get a victory, then the wind can fall down.

I think that some of the leaders of Simba are not supposed to say that their game being followed by Mtibwa Sugar is very difficult for them to get the first win after being shot in Mtwara Province, but also they should remember that since the start of this league at the moment it is a team that has not been buried until now.
