
Who are the implementation of the constitution that has been certified by a mistake.
I advise you to support him and to respect the government last week by making sure we got the new constitution, the constitution that involved all of them and the main problem that affects many Kenyans.
All that has not been asked for this new constitution as well as other special issues.
I give them a cap and even more than the lawyers, politicians, and non-governmental organizations, all who did not sleep until when this constitution was prepared to pass through mistakes.
But at the moment the opponents for this constitution are not successful, they have banned all two sides to measure them by such as given.
This constitution is loaded with transparency and even in secret, not those in government who voted for himself, not to defend their governors who at the past time they want to plan the strategies to oust Islamic directors on this accusations or not an error in the project.
Benedict Liwenga, the University of China- Pesa which are in the country, I commend the government for recognizing the challenges facing the education sector in the country, as it is shown in the budget of the budget that was read last week.
The government has done well to increase the money in the education sector that are usually paid for many times, in addition, private institutions have been distributed because there are some companies that require in the education sector.
In this century, there are still complaints that are studying under a tree with iron sheets, money for the last year's budget that have been set for this year have been set aside here and people who are not guilty of tribalism.
I would like to tell our leaders that if you are in spreading us here in the country, we will not be able to protect themselves as required.
There are people who have a vision of leading the country and end all this but the surprising thing is that people continuing being killed by the government and the government.
What's the work of if you can't affect the community of these people who live in power but security is the only thing that the government is free and if you failed to fund the team of Harambee Stars heading to Brazil to view the World Cup.
If the promise is a debt, if the president had promised he would make sponsors if they could have won the CECAFA cup then it is not a lot.
Whoever does not sponsors and the water so as to focus on them, we should be able to say it is in the near future, the president should remember it for the Kenyans who are of hunger.
Lawrence Kadinde said that when he is in the same time Raila Odinga explained that people should remain in the Saba Saba day, he will give them a lot of work that can be made in peace, but to wait for presidential elections together with the others who will be made.
If it will be discriminated, you will get the position of implementing those decisions that you want to be followed by the daughter of Queen, University of Egidius Mweyunge during the heroes memorial area where they get opposition from citizens who need change.
A good example is the skills of the rules and regulations, Professor Ngama, Thiago Silv, when he came back and was received by her side, why should we expect to implement these countries and if they want to return home because we should not get back home because we should not wait for them?
