Here and it is very important to know.
Now according to the new secret of the public for the purchase of public funds for two hundred and ten thousand, which has started to be used since December ten and third, it needs medical equipment.
And the real person of all these things do not affect the use of drugs to ensure that the country get treatment equipment of continents and the ones who are.
In the Indian Ocean is happy to buy medicine for medical equipment and the laboratory equipment within and outside the country for the purpose of providing health services in all areas in the country, therefore, until now seven percent of drugs were ordered outside the country, so as to benefit from outside the country and all of our needs to be from outside.
There is a great needs to be able to make drugs in this country I think I call to Tanzanians who can have.
They want them to start various medicine industries under the constitution of the constitution and that is like drugs.
A very high level I am pleased with the church here we will see you get pregnant.
And for a long time we get beds, but we see if we were given out if you look at a lot of bed sheets and one hundred percent we get here in the country.
And a teaser?
For your questions, when you see for instance, you don't know the logo of all the fans here in the country, it is something to be proud of especially to the laboratory that Jokate got from.
We have no time in dancing to the citizens who want him they would have done efforts to see that those with the ability to start a lot of drugs in the country.
In the whole exercise of receiving bribes there are two types of receiving goods here in the first type, it is the one that has come up through the port.
It brings back into light weight of her second kind are those who think of us.
They are put one directly on our journey.
I have received.
And spread.
And also there is another girl.
But they are put one directly until the time.
All our regions in all regions are collecting the estimates of drugs in the line.
In his area and then?
Or.
After getting that show.
And we support it as this one of those customers in the concerned region we are to try to fail.
He went to go to the reality.
While completing the residents that are committed in Dar es Salaam.
And the unit of parliament should prepare your needs in all regions.
M s the Ambassador of Same West has released nine regions and the regions made a chance to ask for drugs from the headquarters for all the previous years, we have agreed with drugs from the headquarters every week after two weeks.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, we're the same time for a child that becomes six for all times, but if there is a shortage of certain products then I will sell it every time after one week when they get those phones, "I will sell it every time after one week when they get those phones.
But in good time that has come from a recent months, that we have been able to buy a load from passengers from India from Uganda from where we are using drugs from those who can affect our customers for some of the products.
For sure that more than that if you put it the modern of.
To see that the father in these diseases are the Ambassador of Zanzibar and in the sun that there are first time when you read it today when you go to the Bible that you do I am happy to ensure it is hard to make sure it is dangerous to them as required.
