A great secret of the government.
Dec 18, 2014.

One morning, April 1947, one woman turned out and got into the headquarters of the Maksimir Stadium in London City and coldness.
When the mother, according to my colleague, he asked the defender when he came out to leave inside and put up with cold drinks.
After getting inside, that woman entered into the level and asked where there was a bomb that is swelled by a crowd that was carried out by the crowd that was carried out by the crowd that were kidnapped in the morning due to the crowd of people on the morning, he wanted them to return.
That bomb that was carried out later, because it did not explode because the machine that was brought together were discovered that the machine that was brought together.
That is where there is approximately 10 ministries of England together with the 10 houses of Dumu street which are office and the residence of the prime minister.
The terrorists who were involved in the attempt did not give up.
The death of a bomb that was carried out in the field of the Maksimir Stadium, the England Police Force, had not know the woman sees a bomb that was a terrorist attack, one of the terrorists who was fighting against the English authorities in Palestine.
Dynamite is used to make the bomb that was given by a woman and the another one of the girl child who was injured in war with one leg of fake phones and he was able to return to England, dynamite, unfortunately, and follow up inside the fake leg.
The aim of the audience of the England Premier League was to make attacks in the country so as to convince the England government to be free in Palestine.
That woman of the GAA-fielder who broke the bomb attacks in the Office of the Maksimir Stadium have been arrested in Belgium that he was killed after the European Premier League had a big investigation in the European continent. The department is for 5, 6 months and the unit of "police officer of London.
Likewise, the department of 5 percent of the age of 5, was able to recognize the terrorists' winner in the United Kingdom.
The Ugandan leader was known as the management of Neem Emam, while he was born in 1913, the police force and those at the time was part of Russia under the Blacks group.
Strangeness of the things is that the Kizingo group has married his leg for the first time Palestine, with the age of 29, later he was the six-year old minister.
And there was a surprise of him, that a terrorist was awarded the Peace Prize 'award as well as the former President of Egypt Anhela Kizigha, because they were Israel leaders and Egypt those countries have reached an agreement of peace.
No wonder is that until today there is no peace in Egypt, but there is no peace of Israel and there is no peace in the whole country.
Another reason is that the peace award was awarded a person like him, a terrorist who caused the killing of a large number of people since he was competing for Israeli American dollars until when he was the leader of the entire African continent as it is dominated by Boers.
Those are among the surprise of the history, or maybe it will be correct if we are saying that, it is between the surprise of hypocrisy what spread in history.
It's just recently where the British Government has authorized that people should be allowed to read the secret documents of his foreign departments since 1945.
In those documents, that's when you be able to see those reports on how the British intelligence department competing with the terrorists from the Central Africa in 1940, 1950.
Those documents are saying that in the era of "a cold drinks" between the China and western countries, a big threat to the England's security was not being Sovereign, the United States does not be Soviet Royalty, but it was a citizen of East Africa.
The days the terrorists did not hesitate to say and they were not involved in Islam. They had a fools should remain in the whole world like terrorism from East Africa is not a new thing in the history of terrorism.
