That issue of discussing various budget after the budget of the prime minister.
There are the minister of the country, the office of the vice president and the environment that will give them the budget.
The minister of the country Samia Suluhu Hassan Mwinyi said the government will build a sustainable environment to strengthen the union.
For the financial year, there are ten commandments and third, the office will continue to be implemented by the election manifesto.
Plans for the development of the country together with great responsibilities, office of the vice president that are involved in the union as required.
One of the organizing committee of the committee together Simba has players' players.
Questions of the union.
Two to coordinate the economic issues and legal issues.
The constitution in the union is for the benefit of both sides.
Three giving education to the public through radio, newspapers in the newspaper analysis and participated in the national life.
And four are to coordinate the union issues by ensuring that the ministries and non-governmental organizations are not there.
Speaking about the good environment Samia Suluhu Hassan said the government in collaboration with various stakeholders will continue to implement the management of the environment here in the country for a financial year, I don't know the money becomes a total of one hundred million trees.
But Kanye West want them to be forced to return home in the whole country and out of that match being faced together with one hundred and nine hundred thousand.
This amount is twenty-eight percent you find the two who were planted in the opposition's office in the office of the vice president, Lissu said time has come for the government to open its real history of the union claiming that it is not known to the citizens that are many.
He said.
Those documents will be given light on what happened to the senior officials of the party, who without their presence being recognized by the revolution history of Zanzibar and the union.
The permanent parliamentary committee of the constitution and administration have proposed the government to increase the speed of looking for the solution to the problems of the union.
That's continuing to insisted that it is good for the government to review all the sectors that are seen to have this problem is to get a solution for the benefit and the development of our union.
From the parliament in Dodoma town, the second time is.
