When we vote today, we're going on, if we live it.
MTVs, 2013.

Several times I do not think about some of the rules and use where we were asked if I asked me if the ones who wrote me if you get to you or not, but the answer I got until now, and many people in the world have ever been doing a lot of evil things and a foolish thought before us.
This gives us the qualifications to be a foolish thought, because they were arrested others whose actions have been affected.
Some of the poor households were unblocked and the growth of people that have ever been affected in the past, but the others were a lot of jobs to come out and actions of some people in the community or the whole community.
In one way you came into my memory, I would like I don't remember the system that resulted from Aisee Mjengwa (Abed), if we are not less than us (Swahili) or Essar said or another person who died.
(To those who don't know, this one was a scholar, a scholar, a scholar and a philosopher-scientist who died in many parts of science and research, and Essar said that he was a slave 'the one who lived for 600 years before Jesus is born.
The thing is that, which doesn't know what is inside, as a tree while cutting a tree) cutting a tree for a tree while he was looking for fine for one person who attacked them, but he knew what he fell, but how he would stay, but he didn't leave it.
His sentence has claimed that when he got that branch, he found a ring on the branch, and did not turn down, but he did not die.
When he introduced himself, he wanted him to explain what he knew that he would fall down and because he was trying to inform his talent from which he says there is a must that you finish their conflict, because there was no difficulty on its kind.
A lesson that we got here, together with making sure that we help the branches we have carried out, it is that in other environments you can attract people who do not recognize them or those who don't know themselves or those who have many important activities in the country, they have told them.
Therefore, how is the way it happened about the case of form four students failing to be badly in the last year's examinations by using many ways have been told the government that it has dropped a new branch and it will continue using wood without caring about it.
When a vote is that, in the third phase, under the presidential candidate, Benjamin Mkapa, when it took the step of switching off the education that was required by the government regarding its sponsorship given to the children of this nation.
The branch was impressed by the government that was already set aside, by the government (together with all of us), but it is possible for the government to realize that it has dropped, but it is possible for the government to make sure that it is possible, and that is why the government intends to save it.
The government through the commission to kill its own its future, and in that commission caused the former director of Henet Ward, when the organization was forced to take him a few days before the branch going into a short time before a branch faced with a whole tree going against them.
Many national issues are difficult, they have the entrance fee of various obstacles that are seen and they don't work hard and they decided to deal with them with low standards, and many times you're following the experts with professionalism at the high level.
No one that fell into the collapsed building in the country, is similar to the sitting, it is equal to sitting on the branch and those who have been unable to inform the truth that is not open and even discourage them.
