
The parliamentary committee started on Monday.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today 14th October, 2016.

The sessions of the parliamentary committees are expected to start on Monday next week in Dodoma town, they will receive the views of various bills including the bill of information services of the year 2016 and information of performance in various ministries.

Those sessions that will happen on October 30th, this year, will also received the analysis of information about the accounts given.
Those sessions are preparations for the fifth meeting of the parliament that will start on first of November, this year.
The report given to the press the day before yesterday by the department of information, education, and communication, the office of the parliament, Dodoma said that the constitution committee and law will discuss the bill of law of the number 3 of the year 2016 and will have sessions to receive the opinions of the stakeholders about that bill on October 21.
That law has a total of nine laws that will be implemented by this bill, "the Committee on Services and Social Development will discuss the bill of information services of the year 2016 and will receive the views of stakeholders on October 19.
Apart from those committees in the sector, the sub-law committee will do a meeting to receive the opinion polls of October 18 and 27 about the small law presented by the government at the fourth meeting of parliament.
Also the nine committee of the sector will receive a report on the performance of ministries that are supervised by the committee including the committee of foreign affairs, defense, and security which will receive and discuss the reports of representatives of the Parliament in the East African Community Development Forum (SADC) and CPA) (East African Union).
Another committee that will be involved in receiving reports of performance of the ministry is the Public Investment Committee (ITA) that will receive and discuss investment reports done by organizations and public institutions that will take a two tour in Dodoma province to follow up the performance of the ministry.
