Laws and girls have died more injured after one of the teeth that were shot and broke out in the wedding celebrations in Saudi Arabia.
The government officials unable to say that the player was shot dead by the explosion that was shot dead today, the wedding ceremony was held today at the wedding ceremony and asked him to believe in the celebrations.
But the question is Jeremiah is a normal issue to the wedding schools together with an event to be shot.
However, last month the government of that country had banned the celebrations to leave that incident.
The government has now said that they have arrested three people who use one radio station in that country that has left Mwanza Province just after falling down the studio they were doing a live advertisements.
A reporter of radio, Hinterland, said the money urged them to give them a lot of time when he was doing an interview with one hand in relation to those actions, eating bribery and go to the police force in the country.
The people came out and I did not come out in the advertisements for asking for gas and then broke down and ended at that studio.
I don't have been admitted in the Ivory Coast hospital.
Where he was stolen he had bad luck since Monday he was attacked by his condition going on.
However, the journalists and the love will continue to promote unity and patriotism in their work by releasing.
And the work of looking at the environment is going on in the east of the east of America.
Where Benedict Liwenga.
The big destruction after that is facing the country.
Already many people have died due to a heavy rains and many others are forced to abandon their homes.
Already the government in America has announced some of the areas in the city, there are those areas.
The government in the country has started using water catchment areas in various streets that he fell for those areas waiting to play in his normal intention in America where President Barack Obama has not been forced to visit the poor areas instead of continuing with his presidential campaign instead of continuing with his presidential campaigns.
Tomorrow if he was continuing with his campaigns.
Easily.
Obama has apologized to the government together with the National Examination Council of Tanzania, to give them an opportunity for all the natural people and Kimbari said that they would like to see for him for him to talk for them, it is against him during giving donations.
The opponent of Mister in the race for presidency this week, met today continued with his campaign in Florida after participating in the exercise to help the lawyers and floods in their examinations.
He has urged his followers to be.
