
Dengue news is still a problem.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

And listening to Dar in the third round that took place in the month of six (June) this year, it started among other important things that it has shaken the country, and especially the city of Dar es Salaam.
In that research that has brought together with 334 students from all districts in the city of Dar es Salaam, several questions were asked, for instance, as a step taken against the disease that can save people's lives and if the citizens know the steps of taking us from the Dengue disease, and if the citizens know the effects of the Dengue disease, and if the citizens know the symptoms of this Dengue disease.
The results of listening to Dar the third round shows that three people out of ten equivalent to 287 percent have not seen if there are any efforts to save the lives of people against the Dengue disease, while four people between 10 to the citizens of Dar es Salaam, equivalent to 347 percent and be satisfied with the public education about the Dengue disease.
On the other side, three people out of ten citizens of Dar es Salaam, equivalent to 309 percent, they believe that there are efforts to educate the public about the Dengue disease that is being done by the relevant authorities, with 57th and 7 percent do not know anything.
About the knowledge of citizens to take appropriate measures against the Dengue disease, three people between 10, equivalent to 42 percent have the knowledge of how to protect themselves from four out of ten, equivalent to 32 percent they have no knowledge on how to protect themselves against diabetes.
On the side of knowledge of the citizens about the symptoms of Dengue fever, the results for research results show that three people out of ten in Dar es Salaam same as 29 percent have the little knowledge about the Dengue one, while five out of ten percent have enough understanding about the Dengue one.
Moreover, two among the ten students of those citizens of Dar es Salaam, equivalent to 21 percent they did not have any knowledge about the Dengue symptoms.
This opinion polls of the citizens of Dar es Salaam have resulted from the research of listening to Dar in the second round, that took place last month, being faced with 334 votes.
This research is to listen to Dar it is a project that is being implemented by The Citizen newspaper in conjunction with the Institute of Social Welfare (TASWE Saccos), Data System, this research was being implemented by the transparent organization, that is under the Institute of FASDO.
Other results of the opinion polls of the citizens of Dar es Salaam about blood will continue in the next edition of this newspaper.
