
A big earthquake in Bukoba.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The occurrence of the size of a red card of the 57th minute has happened in three provinces in the country and more than 10 people have died and 120 others were injured while many buildings were destroyed.

The provinces that was reported to the earthquake are Kagera, Mwanza and Mara.
Also, the earthquake has decided to accept a city of Kampala and Rwena from Uganda yesterday at 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
The police commander of Kagera Province, Augustine Oldonyo Sambu said that the earthquake has happened in nine o'clock in the afternoon and more than 10 people have died.
Previously, while speaking on phone from Dar es Salaam, Commander Oldonyo Sambu said that eight people have died and later said that the number was increasing and they got information from the provincial hospital that they have received the bodies of 10 people and they have qualified.
He said nine of who died is the residents of Bukoba Municipality and one is a resident of Karagwe district.
Commander said among the injured in the 15 students of the secondary school in Jihadist school, they are in the provincial hospital, they are continuing to get services. "Said the forces to save including the police force are continuing to save.
He said people who were injured and who died have been redeemed by the human beings and the media.
He said others have died from the spider plant that is caused by blood pressure and more than 40 houses affected.
"It is true that the earthquake has occurred and caused a huge destruction of people's property, deaths and injured and still continuing to receive more information," said Commander Oldonyo Sambu and added that until yesterday evening they were continuing to receive information from different parts of the region about the deaths and injured.
The agency of BoT has explained its size.
The chief executive officer of the agency of geology in Tanzania (GST), Professor Abdulkarim Muruma said that the earthquake is big for a half of the high level of Rémy at the 10th minute, has continued to take place in Dodoma recently.
Professor Shumbusho said that the earthquake has happened in the whole of Tanzania and Uganda, 47 kilometers in the north of Bukoba, Kagera Province and because it is a division of land in the southern highland region near the Lake Victoria.
He has urged the citizens to be careful because as usual they have taken a big earthquake such as it was followed by the small number of land in a few days ago, "this time in order to avoid more effects, there will be tired of trees at the open stadium and of vehicles to stop immediately," said Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
He said that for now, the experts in their center for breast cancer which are continuing to get more statistics from being a division of the earthquake has been very close to Lake Victoria and later they will release a report about the incident in details.
The victims say some people who were affected by the earthquake in Kagera province explained the newspaper that the areas were affected so that the province is Bukoba villages in Lubara ward, where some of the houses have been tested and getting a foolish thing.
We were at a concert, we heard that the whole house is shivered and we hope that electricity has had a problem, then get out outside, "said Berya Nkingwa, a resident of Bugesa Ward, got a teaser and others crumble in that ward.
Another resident of Bukoba villages, Lubricants.
"Tended up from outside, my house has been destroyed," even the elders are saying they have never witness the incident.
"It was at nine o'clock and a half hours when I was born inside, I was very happy and I was born inside, but I have written inside, but I thank God because I had to open the door and safe," said Kashimba of Bukoba town.
Another resident of Kasese district, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that his house together with some people have been affected by the earthquake "here when I was born and we are outside my house, I met my house including my house," explained Lukaya.
The statement by the Provincial Commissioner and the acting head of Kagera province, who is also the head of Bukoba District, Deodatus Mwiliko said the earthquake has happened in the whole region but the reports they got are from Bukoba Municipality and one of the districts are still underway.
He advised citizens to take bribes from the health centers that are close to them so as to be given the service because drugs have been brought enough even though the beginning they started with the government of the province was forced to raise funds to the shop for a private person.
Mwanza Province, Mwanza Province, the police commander of that province, Ahmed Msangi told this newspaper yesterday through the phone that the earthquake passed for a short time due to two seconds and until yesterday evening, they did not have any reports of effects on human beings property.
"Here, the earthquake has been known and until now, I have not got a report if there is a big rally which have happened but it has shaken the country," said Commander Msangi.
The reports from Mara province, explained that in Bunda District, the reports indicate that the earthquake has reduced in two seconds and there is no effects to human beings or buildings that caused the fear of some people.
The reports from Musoma district say that the earthquake has shaken the city of several months and one house in Musoma town got the truth and there is no effects to a human being.
Social networks are some of the news that spread on social media, it shows that the earthquake has a size of 557 kilometers and happened a distance of 40 kilometers from Rouge, Uganda at 9 o'clock in the afternoon by the same time that occurred in Bukoba and other areas of Mwanza and Mara.
Magufuli whispering something at the state house yesterday, President Magufuli has sent condolences to the head of Kagera Province, Major General Salim Kijuu due to several people that had come from that earthquake in various areas of that province.
In those greetings, President Magufuli has explained the risk of being carried out by the reports of the incident that had caused a big number of people losing life, others being injured together with the destruction of property. He has said he is collaborating with all the families affected by our brothers, relatives, and friends.
"Through you, the head of Kagera Province, Major General Salum Mustafa Kijuu has urged the heads of their neighboring provinces that were affected by the incident, I give my condolences to the family, brothers, relatives and friends that lost their brothers and I advise President Magufuli and pray for all those who used to be patient quickly.
It has been written by Theopista Komba, Stella Manyanya, Stella Nyandu when he arrived today in Dar es Salaam city and Angela Sebastian, Bukoba.
