The union of the union of education in science and culture UNESCO through Skype, is expected to reduce the reserve area of Ilula town in Iringa province with a size of two hundred thousand shillings, and take part of the project of the Tanzanite mineral quarry at the area.
The UNESCO position has been emerged as the minister of resources and tourism, Ambassador Khamis Mkotya, journalists in Dar es Salaam city who already has already brought about those changes and the government to take precaution in protecting the environment during the implementation of that project is that our bank's information has all the efforts that he made.
Two weeks ago the problems were made and it was a mistake.
They are when they are talking about the effects but they are also speaking about these companies, then even more.
We agreed to be told, why the investor is even in Japan to bid farewell to the minister of resources and tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, after going back from UNESCO where he participated in a meeting organized by UNESCO where he presented a request to prevent a shortage of internal auditors so as to see that after voting.
Welcome him, the committee agreed that we help us that you benefit them up to them.
In the south areas to the victims of the area, but he will go to his place a place, it is a result of a period of 60 kilometers, it's been eaten by a low-old phones, even if it is a penalty.
The area and or not for this is a area that is there.
Likewise, Minister Nagu explained that the steps taken by the government in ensuring that it is being implemented in success but also they will put aside time.
That the company will make its own activity to build Urban Authorities of URA.
We will agree that payments which will have to give payments for being able to help the first in the end that they make sure that phone becomes a good environment but it's also good.
It is in help.
People who are in the areas that were affected.
Previously the director of tourism in the ministry of resources and tourism Ibrahim Mussa has talked about preparations of the tourism conference in the world that will take place here in the country later this year.
As he said he himself is understood.
For example we have and we will continue to work.
Welcome very much in this three months the ones that lasted for?
It was injured.
On his part, the Executive Director of the tourism organization, Fredrick Sumaye, has praised its efforts to improve the tourism sector while insisting that the economic and social development will succeed in that sector.
Listen to him?
There is a story.
Dar es Salaam.
