
The former President of Israel Shimon Peres died.

The 29th September 2016

The former Israel Prime Minister who was also the President Shimon Peres has died at the age of 93 years.
Dar es Salaam got a stroke in the two weeks ago and his condition was bad, suddenly on Tuesday.
Peres who was one of the suspects who died from the politicians who were present during the establishment of Israel's nation in 1948 he was appointed as the prime minister of that country just two times and immediately as the president.
He won the Nobel Prize 'award in the year 1994 to his contribution in discussions that made the signing of a peace agreement between Israel and Palestine, last year.
Peres has ever said that Palestinians and say that they are very close relatives, "couples do not depend on and they can have a very close friends."
Peres died while being treated at one hospital that is near the city of Tel Aviv in Wednesday, where his close relatives were close to him.
He was admitted to the foundation stone in a critical condition in Shela Mboto Ward after he was faced a stroke on the 13th of September.
President of the United States, Barack Obama told Dar es Salaam as a close friend.
"He was led by the vision of honor and personality, he told that people with good intentions they can bring development together." Said Obama of Dar es Salaam was awarded the Amani Nje stadium together with the Prime Minister Yaida while later was killed, and Chief Justice and Yuksekdag.
Dar es Salaam, I was born in 1923, I will fly the police and mine at the area which is currently known as VFLWimbledon, Bells, and he was chosen by Kunzugu Ward (Israel Parliament) for the first time in the year 1959,.
He was serving in the government of that country 12 times and immediately as president and two times as the prime minister.
He was thankful, as a lover on his previous years, and he led a discussion of not to also lead Israel for it's still a nation.
He was on a government that has authorized the policy to be built through a residence of Jews in the areas of Palestinians and believe that were abducted by Israel.
However, he implemented an important contribution in the availability of local peace agreement with the first contract between Israel and Palestinians and say that they could have done an effort "to live in peace together."
In the beginning of his political life, he was given a responsibility of managing the army and purchase of weapons that are used by Henet Ward, Israel army.
He entered into the contract with France to give Israel army planes of Carage.
Moreover, he helped to start a nuclear industry of Israel.
He was the minister of defense in the year 1976 and Palestine have banned Israel aircraft and brought up to Entebbe in Uganda and he led the efforts to serve more than 100 kilos.
In the past he stopped the headquarters of the Kiango, but later he changed the defending champions of peace.
Many times, he spoke about the need of not having a difficult position about land conflicts and say.
He continued to implement many public activities in eternal peace, through its non-governmental organization of Education for Peace, which gives a close relationship between Tanzanians who will be known as' Money and learn.
The year 2013 said, "there is no alternative for peace and there is no reason for going to war and he retired from his position as the president in 2014.
