Political parties covered.
May 15, 2014.

The recent explanation of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), that there is no political party even one that has presented a statement of property to come at their disposal, to make sure that is in the government according to the details of the secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa.
According to the fifth law of the year 1992, the political parties with permanent registration in the country, section 14 of the law explains the conditions that those parties must present their responsibilities in general, every year.
It is as a result of the requirements of the law, CAG put forth recently when he presented a report on the inspection of the political parties with registration, saying that there is no longer party that had any legal requirements but that was held are parties so as to undergo an inspection of its accounts.
We believe that there is no political party until now that has presented to the registrar of political parties, a statement of all assets and the concerned party, something that is against the law, "said CAG, when he spoke to the journalists a few weeks ago in Dodoma town.
In the strength of the views of CAG, our writer is communicating with some of the leaders of political parties so as to get explanations about the statement of CAG and in one way, those political leaders have complained to the CAG statement.
In those communication, the Secretary General of CHADEMA, Doctor Slaa said the foundation of the party's statement made a statement of property, it's a challenge of government which he claimed to be able to put regulations and direction on how to implement the law of political parties, especially in financial issues, inspection and wealth of property.
"I don't know the CAG wants to say what especially I have a letter of the registrar of political parties, it gives the government to have a statement on this issue because any laws in the world is a must that this law of political parties in the area doesn't have regulations or guidelines.
For example, our offices of CHADEMA every region has its account and its information and those offices have the authority according to the CHADEMA constitution, to run their issues if passing information from the district and elsewhere, it is clear that the issue that causes a problem.
"But if the regulations and guidelines had already been easy even to change the constitution of CHADEMA in the issue so as to make the constitutional system of the party to get those information from other offices and eventually meet the requirements of the law without any difficulty," said Slaa.
He said earlier on the office of the CAG prepared to make a dirty environment against political parties including CHADEMA by announcing that the inspection of accounts has not been done though the first, there was no guidelines for the issue but also some of their political parties have been made.
Slaa emphasized saying that when he gets a penalty, "he touched me for political reasons, we questioned him why there is no guide, today the CAG wanted the law to do regulations or guidelines and that the situation doesn't know the difficulty of its kind."
Apart from Slaa, on his side, the Secretary General of Revolutionary Party, Abdulrahman Kinana said his party has been following all legal procedures and has set up a special procedure to have the hopes of passing its issues.
The translation of the statement of CAG.
In a way, the statement by CAG has its meaning that all political parties in the country, from the Revolutionary Party (CCM), CHADEMA and the Civic United Front (CUF) with more strength in Zanzibar, they have been breaking the law of political parties within the year 1992.
Those parties will break the fifth law, article 14 (5), that makes the conditions of parties to announce all their properties at their disposal.
That situation has taken place during the time that, for approximately 22 years now, political parties in the country have been in the leading competition in the year 1995, in the year 2005 till the election, the general election in 2010, the parties they have been presenting on stages to consider the rule of law while the parties they face the law to put conditions on how to run itself.
