The late?
To date, the customer of these examples are the late?
You will get only one.
If you live in Dar es Salaam city, I don't know if I don't know if I won't know the yellow card.
Almighty God bless Tanzania?
It is a problem.
The late father, Madam I have written the late when I will be with the coaches if I saw it is that he does not buy, then you are getting us then we will go for us.
Wherever you will speak, we can go so that we can go down, so we can go to see this week if you will look like this week if you go back again, I will go to Gramiru.
That is not the same as a result of those who is doing that.
For those children, these children who do not look at this time the late God is not all of them because there are tribe.
How many gods are in your business, you are in the business there and no one with the ones that I have talked to them from the same time to that, the young man or the body, why the late does not want them to vote tomorrow so that we can enjoy.
Almighty God created Mem's card.
That of the time we have separated to talk about him.
There is a person that if you go to him want to do, he would like to pray for him.
The late Adam does not remember the man and remember the one he was forced to sell for people when they came to ask God and not that is the person selling him in a phone.
The father of the beauty we have talked with the late Adam and he said it is also going to Willy Mzee but it was also asking things and lesson so that I have talked with him and asked him to give her the daughter!
If you go through a lot of things and then get good Samaritans and you go to the same time you get married, you will see what you want to do, then you want to do what you want to do, then you're near him, then it is not there.
It is not money?
Until when these hours you had come from three o'clock in the morning, I don't know your friend, each person is speaking now, you know that it's going to go to parliament, everyone should go together with other deaths, therefore, the death of the late.
