Ndulu explaining a state of economy.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu said that the state of economic growth in the country has continued to reduce and that the average of inflation in the first six months of this year has continued to rise up to 55 percent in June this year and 49 percent of December 2015.

Furthermore, he has said the disappearance of the funds came from the fifth phase government to control the collection of taxes, to remove various loopholes of loss of money and put an official government instead of going to a few who know themselves and legal.
He has also insisted that there is no cause of economy because there are big projects in industries and infrastructure that is going on and that is expected to start working on the near economy, thus putting correct statistics different from the claims of some opposition politicians.
Professor Ndulu giving information about the state of Tanzania's economy yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, he said in the first quarter of the year 2016, the growth of the National Revenue, was estimated to increase by 55 percent compared to 57th percent during the same year.
Likewise, he said the average of inflation in the first six months of the year 2016 has continued to be good, continuing to reach 55 percent in June this year and 49 percent of August 2016 from 69 percent in December last year.
Regarding the state of economic growth, he said there are different activities that contributed to the growth of economy by a big amount, including 11,01, 2105 percent and 105 percent and 45 percent in the public and 105 percent.
According to the growth of the economy, 2016 Professor Ndulu said by checking different sections, it seems that the growth of the economy in the country will continue improving in the year 2016 and to be 72 percent.
He mentioned those cases to be in production of electricity, production of cement, production of industrial resources, sales of products from industries outside the country, the collection of tax and loans offered by the business banks.
He emphasized that there is no whole issue of economy because there are big projects in industries and infrastructure that is going on and that is expected to start working on the near future, which will contribute to improving the economy.
He mentioned some of the projects being together with the construction of the central railway at a modern level, the construction of a gas pipeline from Uganda which will involve the expansion of Tanga port, the construction of a business project between China and the African region.
He said other projects are the one to produce 240 megawatts of electrical energy in the country, the construction of the national warehouses to save food with the ability to save food tons, construction of cement plant, has caused the construction of a factory for generating electricity, Mkuranga, Coast Province.
Other projects are the construction of solar energy factory in Lindi province and the factory of cooking oil in Pwani province which is in the race to be completed.
He said in all the projects it is obvious that the state of economy in the country is good and is giving great hope that the economic activities are continuing as it was expected earlier.
He said the aim of the growth of the National Identification Authority is 78th-2 this year, and it will succeed in which it was allocated by the fact that the fifth phase government is prepared to strengthen sustainable economy by the aim of building the economy of the country under the purpose of building the economy of the country under the development plan of five years.
The trend of the inflation rate, said the drop in inflation in an average are contributed by the price that can be paid for food and energy which were followed by the energy and oil prices.
He said the average of inflation in the price of food and energy which is a correct use of the implementation of the financial policy, has continued to remain in the low level, an average of 28 percent in the first six months of this year.
He said that situation is as a result of various good steps that were taken by the financial policy and budget in controlling the control of money and lack of them in the economy.
However, he said that the price of prices will continue to remain in the level of computers in the coming days and to reach the purpose of a period of five percent due to the expectations of the weather situation that will contribute to a speed of increase in food prices.
Likewise, he said together with the small increase in oil prices in the country resulting from the trend of prices in the world market, stability of value of shillings is a continuation of good financial policies, government revenue and the availability of electricity in industries.
He said even so, it is important to consider the shortage of the food production that have emerged in some of the countries in the south of Africa can cause inflation in the near future generations.
However, he said that the foreign debt had increased by 26 percent and reach 6 million American Dollars in June this year, equivalent to 8 percent of the national debt from the American Dollars which are 864 students on December last year.
He said the increase in the debt resulted from the increase in new loans together with the arrears of payments for debts, whereby in that foreign debt, 8384 are the debt for the government and public institutions.
He said together with that increase, statistics show that the debt is still a result of the debt for the value of the current debt, compared to the end of 50 percent of the National Identification Authority, compared to an end of 50 percent of the national revenue from international criteria, that situation showing that there is still a great opportunity to borrow without considering the patience of that debt.
The lack of foreign funds, he said the lack of foreign funds have continued to reduce and continue to meet the foreign financial needs for the purpose of importation of products and services outside the country including increasing faith in investors in the economy of Tanzania.
He said despite there, there have been an delay of funds for business and business loans from outside the country, up to June 2016, a foreign money used to reach 270,03 million dollars which are expected to end on their products and services from outside the country for approximately four months.
Likewise, he said the financial resources of the banks had an amount of 83550 goals.
