
Does England be able to revenge?
(Nakheel) Brazil, hostilities, England and Italy will be removed today at Manerumango village, when these teams will meet in group D match in the World Cup finals.
Unyiage and bad state of the stadium are just some of the problems that are facing the teams that are facing the teams which are facing each other since old.
While the South American champions, Uruguay was scored the Africa, they wait for other matches of the group, England and Italy, who destroy the stadium today, everyone wanted to have an emergency victory so as to get a good position to qualify.
The English Premier League popularly known as Arsenal has been identified by the former coach of Liverpool's former coach Roy Hogson, Cesc Fabregas has leading the group and qualify for the 16 best round.
There is a man to love in that area which is close to the big forest with Akitanda, and it is expected to shivered to the teams while the stadium will be condemned to be in a bad state.
The head of that state, Carlos Bongole said that the stadium is in a bad state and need more places to be dealt with by parasites.
These teams met in the quarter finals of 2012 where Italy managed to qualify for a penalty after the normal and extra time to end with a 0-0 draw despite Italy to rule the ball.
Owning the ball, there will be a great aim for every team but the England striker, Wayne Rooney to hope that his part will grow, in order to deal with their opponents.
"We have enough energy to participate in the field and we have the ability to participate in any team that we shall get," the star of Manchester United said.
"But in the international soccer, especially the level of the World Cup, you cannot just get there and started attacking him, but you must have a plan.
This is a very big soccer in the world and we can be found to get married if you will never know it, it will we have to go after our plan which we have been organized in few days ago, "he said.
Though the expectations that England will win the crown on July 13th, these boys are involving young people but the scorer of the English Premier League season.
All the eyes in the match will end in depth the international mid-fielder of Italy, Puntland, who passed away of the European Champions League in the year 2012.
The mid-fielder for Everton, Ross Barkley scored for the age of 20 years, Lukoo Shaw of Southampton who is 18 years old and Raheem Sterling who was born 19 years ago is expected to lead the attack together with Wayne Rooney and Daniel Sturridge of the Liverpool.
While Danny Sserunkuma has been disappointed to participate following an injury, equivalent to his colleague Alex Oxlade Chamberlain who is expected to be at the field to strengthen the central platform.
Wayne Rooney and Sterling are vying to play number ten in the 4-1 system with 3-1 goals and who will play on the middle level will have a difficult time to welcome them.
Eight years after leading Italy to win that crown in Germany, Pickup, who is 35 years old is believed to have dropped by a landslide win in the World Cup.
He is expected to inherit the destruction of destruction of weapons, Mario Balotelli has bought England to destroy Germany in the Euro semi finals.
Italy is also aimed at hiding the crime of 2010 where they were eliminated from the group stage.
"We know that England is a dangerous team that has reduced because it has many young people and they will be happy," Percent "said.
The schedule have been launched today from Colombia to Colombia to cater for one o'clock in the evening, Uruguay and Ivory Coast (4 o'clock at night), Ciara and Japan (ten o'clock in the morning).
