Truly Vincent Kigosi had killed his family?
Jo'clock, 2015.

Speaking about the relationship of Vincent-fielder, Janini said that in a period that Joosub, was pregnant for their third child, Vincent Kigosi had brought him a special food wife in the school.
"All of we want to see these young people the way they want to be when they go with," said Janko David.
For the last time, Mchaga answered that she has two weeks before July 4, at their home, "they were seen to have joy and they were talking about their plan of building a big house," said Janini.
Mauricio Macri who was living with his wife in that house for all time and even other friends of Joosub, who attended their wedding ceremony in Las Vegas, they did not know if the couple had separated, and that was their second marriage.
The riddle of investigators in that case, were required to marry off, it was to prove that Vincent was an Baker at home in California, while the killing of her family is emanating or Ohio as he claimed.
Police were sure that Vincent Kigosi was involved in the killing of his own family, and that was resulting from the reports that they had received from his neighbor who claimed that he saw Vincent Kigosi, outside a house while living with her family when they came from the murder.
Starting from starting, the investigation police started following up on the journey of Vincent Kompany got into field up to Columbus claimed that Vincent Kompany will run the vehicle for a distance of 5,500 shillings for three days, but Vincent Kigosi had insisted that Vincent Kompany got stuck for a distance of 6500 shillings for three days.
Representative of the mobile phone company that is where Vincent Kompany will take away from the police that sometimes the employees of the company are playing a big game to play for a car that was used by Vincent Kompany got a distance for 20 hours, while in the vehicle given a distance of five hours, that vehicle left was reduced by the police.
Another person who plays for that vehicle after Vincent claimed that he was running that vehicle for several hours in the suburbs of the vehicle broke the vehicle for more investigations and even so the vehicle broke down a distance of more than 5,000 shillings while the vehicle got a distance of more than 5000 dollars.
But Vincent claimed that on the 2nd of July 2003, she left an eye on the field so as to Los Angeles where he went to the air to Ohio where he was using his term as his brother Melisa, however he claimed that when he was using his term as his brother Melisa, however, he claimed that when he was using his term as his brother Lowa.
Vincent claimed that when the killings made, he was a distance of more than 2, 300, it has been possible to have arrived in an ancient attack on February 6th, July, 2003 to be his family and then traveled with Ohio this evening on the 7th of July, while even his brother admits that the day of murder was Ohio.
It made a three year police to collect an evidence to arrest him as Vincent Kigosi, two FBI officers had sure that she had not correct the person involved in the killings and not another but by Vincent Kigosi, but the difficulty it was about the killings and not Ohio.
The FBI officer of FBI, got a thought of taking them to the fight against the air the vehicle that was opened by Vincent Kigosi, Ohio road at the inspection station of Bhagala and Maasais', where Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
However, the FBI director believed that Professor Mahege could make sure the type of pests who were found in the return to the sun and is found in the country in the United States, as usual, being attacked by the experts due to their source (yellow card) and the areas they are living in hardship areas.
