
King Mohammed of Morocco makes a historical tour.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

It has been published in 21st October, 2016.

For the first time in its history, Tanzania expects to receive King Mohammed VI of Morocco after the day after tomorrow.

Moreover, the tour of the king, apart from being involved in building between those two countries, will also be able to request Tanzania to help being received in Morocco to the African Union (AU).
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the minister of foreign affairs and East Africa cooperation, Ambassador Augustine Mahiga said the visitor will be big and of its kind.
"Two reasons for this tour of the king here in the country is Morocco found themselves from the African Union of 32 years ago, but recently, members were given a letter from the country to go back to the union because it will talk with the president," said Ambassador Mahiga.
King Mohammed VI of Morocco will meet with the privacy of President John Magufuli at State House, followed by the official talks between them and a message that followed by Ambassador Mahiga said the king will come from Rwanda, and he will have a tour of visiting other countries in Africa to speak with them on his office.
He said that tour will also be used to improve the relationship between Tanzania and Morocco especially in economic and business issues because of these two countries and its people considering that the country has succeeded in different levels like infrastructure, health, minerals and security.
That minister clarified that the official tour in the country will be from Sunday to October 25th this year, and after that he will be holidays for five days where he will have a different places like the private walk.
Likewise, he said King Mohammed VI of Morocco will use the opportunity to visit Zanzibar and meeting with President Ali Mohamed Shein and he will visit the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NIMR) for the purpose of seeing the tourist attractions available in the country.
The tour which has focused itself more in improving the economic and business cooperation, the arrival of the king will be accompanied by business people from Morocco who will meet with business people in the country.
