The challenges they are facing Uhuru and Nani.
Memba, 14, 2013.

Make sure that this week we will look for the presidential effects of Uhuru Kenyatta. For the announcement of former President of Kenya, Uhuru and his Deputy, William Ruto, have passed up to now, to deal with one point where there are two other things that are facing them.
First, two cases have been presented on Wednesday night before the Supreme Court of Kenya (ACIB) with urging the free electoral commission and borders (IEBC) that they stopped the results that was given the night before Saturday and showed that the presidential elections are Uhuru and Ruto.
One of the cases has been taken before the court by the United Republic of the United States by Raila Odinga, the ODM Party leader was presented to court with civil servant in the second presidential elections has been presented in court by civil society organizations and those cases have not reached 14 days after the charges were opened.
Those will be the first cases of weight to have ever been heard by the Supreme Court since that court does the creation of two years ago.
Those cases will be heard by five judges at the judges when they decided to be true that they were done in the city and to witness the previous court, and especially to counting the presidential elections.
If you get that decision then the presidential elections will have to be dealt with at a period of 60 days from a day that is being administered in that judgment.
The judges when they decided that the elections that were done are legal, Uhuru and Dutch, will be unable to stop their positions in the period of 14 days from the day those who had been announced as winners.
The followers of Raila have risen up about that case, there are those who want to support the charges, but there are also those who could be unable to go to the court then Raila can't recognize that their part has failed and they don't want it to be in a critical condition of not worried.
But as it is that Raila Odinga was used to attack the Uhuru of Uhuru and put her way to these mysteries?
He mentioned the second time that deals with Uhuru and Ruto, which is their case in front of International Criminal Court (ICC) which is in his headquarters in Lindi town to inspect, Holland.
No wonder, it is that the case was contrary to it was expected, it is one of the things that resulted in building the two accused who were fellow candidates in the last elections.
That case is the ones that caused them to cooperate in conjunction with Yannick Bolasie of recent years now Uhuru and William Ruto.
"It is healed?
QS Mhonda J.
How do I get out of anything?
Recently, they have seen its symptoms that the case against Uhuru has been relating it and that is why it was not aware that the Court of ICC has opened up on Monday that was led by the late Francis Khibhisa and Uhuru.
Before the March 4 election, we were not ready to be told that those cases are in front of ICC will destroy the elections to prevent it even to take place.
Secondly, if we are told that those cases will be discussed in the main issue of being discussed in the campaigns of taking them on the two that are not there.
However, Uhuru and Ruto has already been announced by the Electoral Commission as the winners of the presidential commission that we should not get the future of the presidential candidates who are facing criminal acts.
All the two cases have now been postponed for William Ruto, is expected to be heard on May and of Uhuru in July.
Those two have been forced to find out that they don't have intentions to resolve the case of Henet Ward, therefore, they say they will stop the journey to go and inspect them to attend case files so as they want to go there.
In Tabora town to inspect the range of 10,00 Tanzanian shillings from Nairobi for a car or 10 kilometer race, for a period of approximately six days and five hours when the plane is for eight and a half hours when the plane is for eight and a half hours.
The presidency and his vice president is working for every day (it does not have a normal time on Friday or Sunday) and all the positions that will be able to deal with any challenges that will remain at any time in the afternoon.
