
The agriculture first runner up with a small farmer Dominic Shoo, 2012.

"Don't understand what I believe in a small group, for your father, he has seen it better to give them roasting or in the 54th minute through the 12 of 12, 32 with 9348.
In the first part of this article, the previous edition I explained the way the small farmer is owned by a small group in the country that led to and given energy and international relations, has been led by international and international relations, the World Bank (WB), 97,949 with the International Monetary Fund.
There were 970,089, the IMF are in the 93949 years to start what is called the program of "revolution of the church" here in our country has been given the name "agriculture first."
The purpose of the program of a scholar and the economy is to verify and remove flaws in the agricultural sector, and how it will bring change by saying that most countries are not ready to enable the poor country to improve the economy of those countries.
In addition, his natural technology has been renovated and the killing of technology in the poor country is an important thing for the development of the country and it is important for these countries to be independent and continue being rich and continue to live.
Now a rich country, by using his fellow organizations, Makabe made a 970,046, child health, child health and even more than the United Nations, are taking the international leadership and become the world government in ensuring his policies in the poor country.
We have prepared to give a last blow in the way to disrupt the agricultural sector which is the lives of citizens of these countries, the last blow is through the purpose of ensuring investment in agriculture and opening the door to the agricultural sector in the agricultural sector.
The defending of the Revolutionary Party want to be attracted to the farmer and a small farmer in the use of agriculture, so that his position taken by the one who WB is seen.
"The sustainable farmer" for a big farming, is with using big modern tools of agriculture, reducing the seedlings and good infections instead of natural fertility.
The group that is swelled in agriculture and causing havoc in the African continent, including a total of 3338,667 that were made by the African Union, the African Community and international organizations together they make sure that they can be called "the union of a small farmer" (transmitter) that doesn't know the problems or the language of a small farmer.
This group, since the colonial era, the one that heard about the African countries and its people to deal with being part of the economic growth system of the world.
And even after Uhuru, some of the countries made efforts to come out from that system (including Tanzania) under the Mwalimu Nyerere leadership, like the way we saw in the first part of this article, but the history was heading to get off.
When speaking to Kunduchi Beach Hotel and antibian, June this year, it is part of TEC for history that move from the National Housing Corporation (NIMR), an agent of the international economy that will make it a small farmer.
It is an undeniable truth that our agricultural policies will be paid in 1949 years since independence since independence, were prepared and they are still continuing to be prepared for the great help of TEC without featuring a small farmer who is the one with the country.
It is because this policies were unable and will continue to be unable, even if you shall return to the same time you go ahead, follow it to see the policies in a short time to see here we are at the end.
In the year 1960, just after Uhuru, we are questioning the two programs from the colonialist that was organized by the World Bank, one was aimed at improving agriculture in order to improve the production of households by strengthening the services in the country, not to produce fruits.
The second program, it was aiming to change the agriculture that was 970,089, a period of 93949 with a way to centers for agriculture projects, they were 970,089, for a period of 9348 they were injured.
There were 970,046, through a period of 3398, they were appointed him from "modern farming," to use modern tools like "sustainable farmers" for example, under the management of government officials.
But by that, it was not seen that the idea of those farmers and that, because the African farmer does not like to do without being involved in the and supervised by the program and it did not succeed.
Until May 1992, there was only 23 projects of the type with conductors of the crops being involved in 3,400 families, more so that the program occurred more in business production instead of food production.
After failing in those programs, the government of the first phase, it reached an alternative program for agriculture, which has now been affected by the policy of the central market of globalization, and the program of "agriculture first left is the one that will destroy the death of those related programs.
But it should be remembered that, in the past, the program like "politics is agriculture.
"Farming has died and fell," they were able to produce enough food for the use of internal and fight against the local market without a program.
"The Revolutionary Party" or "agriculture first left."
The achievements as it is determined by Ghana in the year 1988, under the program of "operation known," played 970,089, which was sent by the president of that country, Plasmodium falciparum.
So, it is not worried about thinking that the agricultural sector that concern the invention and implemented by TEC, who themselves are the source of agricultural problem, will affect the sector?
Hitler did not mean that technology is a savior in the agricultural sector of Tanzania, an example of the Asian countries and Ireland in America, which led them in farming for great farms and use of rice, wheat flour, but it was bad technology.
Incidents of plants were set aside, land uses natural fertility so as to investigate the farm, natural gas and pines, who helped to give birth to plants wanted the use of drugs with poison that were not independent, the health insurance will also be paid in 949 years at the farms.
When it is when more than foreign companies and input handling, they have a reliable market, because without using the crops, they did not have a lot of infections of plants which are believed to be faced with great use of drugs, plants, and drug trafficking.
Therefore, TNBC has emphasized that the Revolutionary Party is not only open doors for technology with great cost in the economy of the country and to our people, but also it will be able to remove business companies outside agriculture so as to avoid our economy.
There are more than 50 companies that advertise the business of the volatile situation, 970,089, in the world by making sure that our natural fertility is affected by the United Kingdom, IHI (Iloha), in the United States, by mentioning few things.
Under the first time, all the companies will get the market of its reliable products in the country at the price that the normal farmer can't jump and therefore was removed from the "Revolutionary Party."
And this was known since the previous day was opened by the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (9705), which was called on the program of "World Health Organization (IP), and those companies have received that gift by joy so as to expand the market for the third world.
The grace of those companies are not yet confirmed, the increase in suddenly in the members of WP, from 13 in the year 2004 to more than 100 names in the year 1976 and Zakenda, Tyrese Gibson, Timbo Kalugira, Tyrese Gibson, Yvonne Cole, Rwangisa.
Two countries in East Africa have been lucky enough to join TP, being represented by companies such as Bring Feng Gwao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakamatwa kwa Wakala, and more than 40 companies in the district.
Apart from opening the door of the business companies, program.
"Agriculture first left," it will welcome a land attack from big investors from outside that will be made by non-communicable diseases, which was made by WB and the IMF are required to enable that attack by Itofali, without the government or the community to intervene.
Regarding how to be announced by recognizing that using land under the electronic program, the small farmer will be able to get loans from foreign banks that involve the international market to promote agriculture and land.
It should be remembered that, it is on blood pressure and IMF are unable to fulfill our national bank of business, at 970,046, and following that step, the interest standards have reduced, despite the conditions of borrowing being difficult for a normal person.
For a small farmer getting it in front of borrowing from foreign Bank of NBC, NMB and would have been unable to sponsor his land, his fate is unable to restore the loan, "said TIC and TNBC, because it is targeting them to return the loan and without a shame, they are proud of them as a shame.
We are examples of Zimbabwe where the very few years of that country did a lot of rebellion so as to make sure that the old rivals of Kizingo said that more than 400 farms come out to land for patriotic whereby more than they have no land.
There in Mozambique, Tanzania are continuing with land under the new law of land and a similar program, "agriculture first left."
Apart from the land problem, the use of technology and agricultural machines will improve dependence on agriculture and aspects of farming and exchange experiences from outside, Nuzulack Dausen which must be shaken by foreign funds.
The reduction of the price of those things will make all the benefit from agricultural and the banks to provide loans and because the banks and the banks in the country have been done and agreed to stop the income of the market.
For example, the year 2000 only, Zimbabwe lost more than 90 million American dollars because of the price of those products from outside the world, the profit that has improved and the big farms did not benefit from the citizen, or to bring development in the country.
Therefore, investment of this way, instead of benefiting from their country, they do not benefit from outside the country and the companies to compete.
In the 1990s, the income from the tax in Zimbabwe was only 32 percent of the expectations, despite that sector contributing more than 16 percent of low-scale farmers, if she is found with a small environment for investors, if she is found with a small farmer that doesn't know the small farmer.
Great sin for this program of "agriculture first left is in order to sell it.
"The truth is in their land, and denying them the loopholes of developing agriculture and their lives, health, education and small salaries.
We know that the program of "agriculture first first, will be implemented in the country with approximately 40 million shillings which is equivalent to 28 billion shillings per year whereby more than 70 percent are poor income of 500 shillings per day.
There is a cow of more than 17 million in the year 2002 / 2003 with 93949 billion, whereby a cow wants to 35 billion shillings per year, there are more than 12 million shillings, a letter more than 4 million shillings, and other livestock.
In Tanzania, it has a area of minerals of more than 800,000 American Dollars and if all the minerals will rise, approximately 3,089 kilometers are the ones that will fall in farming and livestock production, investors and wildlife conservation.
In those statistics, it is clear that agriculture first will give birth to big conflicts between investors, farmers and small-scale farmers for land in order to save life.
And they should come out in women "Walter Delhi" during the land of a small farmer knowing that it is possible for all the fate of but it is used to fight for the "Mau Mau fighters and" Palestine "of Tanzania that are not seen.
