A new constitution is better if you need to change the level of thinking.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

This article explains the recommendations of the media and broadcasting sector in the process of the creation of the new constitution that is going on at the moment.
It is clear that the constitution is supposed to have important sections that use the rights and freedom and so on, explain the responsibility of one person and the institutions in the community.
But it is clear that the constitution cannot say everything that is why most of the constitution do not have short summary of what is intended to avoid other laws and as usual they get details on the law and other regulations of the country.
However, it is very important to be noted that in the community that follow the democracy of many parties, the issue of freedom to explain and that the media is given a great weight.
And there is an important thing that we lead the security of justice and freedom of the media in the democracy of Kiliberali as it did in this past articles, questions that led my research and freedom of every person to have opinions, including explaining through the media.
The second foundation is the right and freedom of the establishment and free media stations (to have private schools or public).
The third foundation is the right of every person to have freedom to work hard and be connected with a person or any institution as well as being affected by a person or any institution as well as causing the interests of the citizens and the country as well as usual these interests have been sent to the constitution.
The fifth foundation is to put the system of accountability, the media bill to promote, it is clear that the media and journalists are realizing their responsibilities for freedom and by considering the ethics of their profession.
The six foundation is to ensure that (Tanzania) is made a small law for the purpose of protecting the rights and freedom of explaining the news that is in the constitution.
The issue of controlling the media "Kijukuu cha Bibi K" as the other stakeholders explained as an issue that appeared as a primary and important thing in the community, which aims to protect the rights and freedom of other parties.
Important argument is that the constitutional situation is composed of protecting and removing the country how to run for many years to come, there is need to avoid control the media in a way that will end again freedom of the media which are important in removing democracy.
The government has also no reason to have already agreed that all the power from the citizens like that says, the constitution is being led by a human being, then it is clear that they are evident, a situation that is led by a human being, then it is clear that they are usually known or even with a mistake of helping them to remain in power.
And because the government is leading the country on bond of those who seen it, then it does not be responsible to them and even one way to follow up on the government, to ensure that it is supposed to be aired by the government when it comes to do so.
And even the concept of blocking the media without the legal procedure used by this law is contrary to the culture of democracy of many parties is to respect the rights of the origin to be heard first before being sentenced.
Likewise, it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that it is needed for the media that is owned by public schools to work on the basis of profession so that to be able to improve professionalism and ethics in other media because it will not be able to improve professionalism and ethics for other media because it will not be able to improve professionalism and ethics in other media networks because it will be ready to loose our readers.
I have written this in this period being my small contribution in the process of the creation of a new constitution that was officially launched by the government of power.
And until when I conclude on this article, our country has also witnessed many issues, many debates, many conflicts, follow up for a lot of poverty and eventually getting tired of the process.
