The controller and Chief Physician in this government accounts is.
He wanted to review afresh the structure of the budget to deal with the problem of the debts that you will have the accounting officer after lack of money due to lack of taxes in the informal sector.
He said that in the city when they were in the city of Dar es Salaam during a meeting with the stakeholders who met to discuss the way to improve revenue collection from the informal sector when he went to.
There have been complaints from the budget not to give a lot of needs that are derived from the small income of the government and therefore the stakeholders will decide to discuss and discuss on how to increase the government's income and to reach the end of the year you find the debts that we have said.
Our procedure is a system.
Tomorrow's system should not be?
You are not recognized by the debts.
But you will find that there is a lot of debts we have said there is no need to look for our procedures.
The availability of the budget for the budget and its management.
The budget to be used as an instrument.
Where Society know you have not been found.
On his part, the retired chairperson of the board of revenue authority (NCCR-data) has said that the country is required to improve the energy sector and infrastructure so as to ease business activities and create a conducive environment to my taxpayer, I am welcoming us to understand what we want to do but we saw them.
I don't know there was not true that, I know that someone is saying that the police squad but it was because she does not want it, they can pay taxes, because I was able to go for the celebrations to be told, we have at the same time we are needed.
How is your place?
All the others that we know most of us we have very disturbing.
Now this is just a soul.
Therefore, it is a must we increase the scope of natural resources.
The statistics of the revenue authority in the country show that fifty percent of their business people are in the informal sector that he did the collection of taxes to be difficult and which causes the revenue to know including Eliona.
