
The consumers of industries needed.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published on May 6th, 2016.

A big news in this newspaper, yesterday's edition associated with a precaution on food security, especially maize flour and each other, it was not safe.

The news resulting from the research that took place in several modern machines in Tandale and Kinondoni Municipality came to be the preparations not to stop the conditions and downloading the maize by maize flour or cows.
Among the conditions that do not be taxed is to bring in one machine to one and enable them to move without them to the required levels, therefore to prevent them in danger of getting diseases due to the waste that starts on the farm up to that loss of illegal immigrants.
But in further, it is not removing the drugs to avoid sexual abuse, which are dangerous chemicals that make poison that concern health effects on the consumers that resulted from lack of experts from the solar eclipse and also Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) and warned that, the requirements to be avoided if they can have the effects of consumers.
In general, it has been explained that evaluation of maize that doesn't maintain quality standards can cause poison that can cause cancer or the growth of the child, to reduce the body's immunity and especially in the sun.
According to poison experts, what happens in hardship areas and it's enough for human being, when she gets a human being, there is bad luck and that this poison can be buried.
Basically, this news is not to be taken for little, because if it is true they are supposed to stop the conditions and caring to fill in the market, for sure there will be preparing for forgiveness from many.
Yes, there is no objection that many residents of urban, for instance, in Dar es Salaam, use more than these types of foods that are available in large numbers.
The system of life of every day to prevent each other contributing to those residents not having a period of preparing food in the environment they are doing, therefore, in a big part, they have no having to buy themselves so as to be used.
If the truth is this, we think the relevant authorities should direct the energy to provide education to the mental health of different types of food so that they can be able to organize a safe environment with an aim of protecting the consumer.
We ask ourselves, there will be the benefits of giving a food consumer that has no quality, that will affect the life or affecting its health and for sure it will have been affected by a great extent and therefore give it a big amount and therefore give birth to this kind of products.
In addition, together with the efforts of spreading education to the low-scale farmers, it is good to make sure that the inspection of time to time is taking place in the relevant industries and distribution of food, but also the action will begin and non-governmental organizations are important like testing and destruction that is evident in industries.
And if possible, get it ends in the only goal, but the quality of all the industries in the country will be discussed with the close eye for those steps, we can be sure of the security of their health through food.
