
New methods will be allowed to deal with crime.
And.
The report that was released last month by the National Housing Corporation (Forum) showed that security officers are still using the old buildings which were used for 1970 in dealing with crime in the country.
That report also revealed that the cases of inside here in the country have reduced, for a period of five years ago from 248,448 shillings in the year 2008 to approximately 394 desks in December last year.
According to the safety of Forum, the cases of the crime that was reported by the police services are only a quarter of the ones what happens.
Last week, experts of security issues were listed to different areas where the criminal cases were banned from some of those areas in the areas of urban and poor neighborhoods where there are low congestion.
This weekend by the police commissioner, David Kimaiyo he gave an order to vote and killing suspects of livestock that are found with weapons in the breeders areas.
According to Mister Kimaiyo he said that the government is expecting to start a special operation of a gun with Barbosa from Barber Shop.
Crime President Uhuru Kenyatta, through his report to the press, he emphasized that the involved in attacks that already ended up with four people including the Gahura ward in the Rift Valley area, they will fall down.
Despite the cases of the terror attacks, lack of crime in a period of four months ago, criminal cases have been forced to sit down and brave at a speed in the recent days.
Although the operation to arrest a gun a gun has bought those weapons that are dangerous against the law is very important for the law to be done by the economic growth in the areas of breeders and other parts of the country.
So, those criminals have got that weapons?
Call and urged people who own gun contrary to the law spreading them to police stations have been given but the crime continues to go down.
Apart from announcing the gun, Mister Kimaiyo said his officers are going to look for the source of those weapons and cut off the officers.
