
Maghembe is added that VAT has not affect the income of tourism.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

The Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Professor Jumanne Maghembe has said that his ministry has set aside great effort to make sure that the tourism contribution at the National Examinations Council is 20 percent from 5 percent per year. According to Minister Maghembe, the increase of value added tax (VAT) has not affected the sector and instead of revenue have increased.

He has said that the aim of putting that statement is to ensure that the quarter of foreign funds that enter the country arose from the tourism income and that is possible because up to now, there is a speed of increase of tourists in the country.
Being interviewed in the period of we implement this program organized by the department of information, details and the National Television station of TBC1, Professor Maghembe said the ministry is prepared to implement that and be in this tourism season that started having results of work to announce the country on tourism issues.
"The biggest season of tourism has started and we have seen that the results were done, tourists who come to Tanzania this year are many, for example from June to August this year, compared to this period in last year, there is an increase of 20 percent of tourists," said Professor Maghembe.
He said that the increase is not only for the tourists who come to the country, but also it has increased the tourism revenue by 22 percent and insisted that the increase of value added tax that is charged in tourism services in the country has not affected the tourists that are in the country.
"It is a good thing to see that there is an increase of tourists that get in the country, but also there is an increase of revenue by more than 22 percent despite people talking about things that do not know well," said Professor Maghembe.
While clarifying, he said the beginning of the new budget of the government was announced this year and said that the government has removed the tax payment that was set on the tourism law of the year 2006, which brought me the increase in value added tax for all tourism services.
He said in the year 2015, at the time of preparing the 2015 / 2016 budget, the repayments of the tax will be discussed by stakeholders in accordance with the time to prepare for one year and that this year in the 2016 / 17 budget started the taxes, and stakeholders complained so that they were causing it.
"Together with that, the tourists are very happy and the truth is that tourists are coming in Tanzania and the increase in tax has not affected anything, the entrance fee for eight million dollars, what he wanted is to postpone the journey because of the increase of eight million dollars, what he wanted is to postpone the journey because of an increase of eight million dollars, what he wanted is to postpone the journey because of an increase of eight million dollars, what he wanted is the attractions and stability of the country," he insisted.
He has said, the real example is that during a period of one month, the Tanzanian Embassy in America and even England has provided grants for 100 tourists while the ambassador of another country, Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda which are using the increasing cases of tourists not more than 10.
As a result of that step, Professor Maghembe said that they have spoken with Germany who have organized a squad that will come to the country to vote in various national park and they will not be demolished because they will pay for treatment costs in the tourism sector.
He said after that work will go back to them and those pictures will start to be shown in December this year up to June this year at different television stations in Germany, Australia and others in Europe.
Speaking about the tourists who put positions on big 100 organizations for the purpose of doing their journey in the country, 98 percent of those tourists have implemented their journey and therefore making Tanzania be the first country in the world to have an increase in tourism.
Speaking about selling of animals production in the country, he said at the moment the government has banned transporting animals from outside the country up to where good system enter, said in 2010, there were carelessness, which is causing the wild animals.
"Twiga Bancorp, 4123 that were kidnapped by the Prime Minister at the same time, had banned the big transportation and it's not to go to 27 groups, but we have seen that transportation was done without a good program," said Maghembe.
He said the animals that were being transported to live as well as the field so that, and pests who were tested for little money that are not beneficial to the interests of the country, though the country are doing a lot of money that are not beneficial to the interests of the country, though the country are in strategies of fighting and managed to arrest the queen of gospel musicians.
We are continuing to oppose and controlling the business and violence against the elephants, because our elephants have reduced, approximately 50,000 people now have reduced up to 50,000 people, all those who have arrested now in mistakes of crimes and we have countries that have died in the mistakes of violence, "he said.
He said that any person should be big or small in the war, there is no doubt that the ones who are involved will be arrested and should be forced to increase the security of those animals by taking pictures and to show the areas they were involved by the police who follow up.
