
Bribery in music was not started yesterday or the day before yesterday.
Last week I wrote on article about the old schools' band, it is clear that most of us about those days since I have written many phones and even the names of the musicians I have heard, it is a lesson to see many others were touched by this article.
Today I will talk about an issue, there is very difficult to understand the meaning that those who can prevent them are the big suspects in our country, and every day will take a huge problem in our country, close to each day and so as to look for justice, services and so on.
The art of music has not affect that problem although it is very few times that you know, this is due to one reputation of bribery, the victims should be in a position that he knows that she desires to go down, they shouldn't have a lot of unity.
Bribery in music is not a new song even a little, and it has put a lot of musicians for many years and to make the music lovers to hear a lot of songs for many years and bribery, it has been done for different reasons in different times.
In August 1970, there was a political conflict between Tanzania and Kenya, this situation led to the borders of these two countries to be beaten, this situation led that the procedure of Tanzanian musicians to go to Kenya record, because that time the country was a company that has the ability to give him a lesson.
The Tanzanian musicians, are forced to depend on record and finally their music were sponsored by the Radio National Team and the music industry was the one to depend on revenue from the entrance fee in the bus.
Therefore, the musicians opposed the radio to shoot their songs not to read and encourage lovers to get into the exhibition before recording, musicians who had requested them to put bribes so that their songs will be discussed in this committee and for sure the band has not given anything done by this situation, she was recorded.
Bribery at this time was in different ways including cash, or even to make sure that they get bribery when they get in the music show they will cost drinks and finally the transport of returning to him, or maybe that he had gone into a place after music died.
I remember one band from the province that was to take place in Dar es Salaam and sacks of maize caused the responsibility of this responsibility after the songs was released and eventually was recorded due to bribery that was alleged to have an amount of programs so that music can move on different programs.
In the year 1990, private radio will begin by many musicians at the time they believed that it will be a start of great success in music, a situation that was not affected by the bus and sure the musicians from outside the country had a great speed and for sure the musicians from outside the country were married and that they were doing a big exhibition in the country.
In this phase, musicians who wanted their work to test in the air, is not for the purpose of doing business in the exhibition, but also about the distributors or distributing them, the live's managers and eventually getting contracts and distributors.
The musicians who did not get in this system did not get a chance to be heard in the air to sell the region and eventually a large extent, to break the agreements between distributors and the live, which has place musicians in the state of preparing for a lot of work to be given to him.
A hole should be given out and bribery of sending and sending clothes to the love, alcohol, alcohol and so on, for example, there is a famous presenter who wanted to do a holiday because his son and even so they did not make their songs though they loved.
In the year 2004, the Tanzania Football Association (TAMUNET) organized questions and dealing with various musicians, the questions required to know if the musician has requested them to know if the musician has requested them to know, the names of the, getting bribery, media stations that are famous in bribery and so on.
The answers came back, a new look comes out, that even the live radio stations they were in the group received bribery.
Statistics show that the center between therefore, leads the surprising thing is that one of the station was leading in claims of receiving bribes from the gospel musicians, when he was told that it was a must to control him from his name, even when he was told that it was a problem to help him clean the station, he did not want to say that there is a problem.
A great issue is to be open up with procedures that show that some of the stations are supposed to try and put procedures of getting off from bribery.
