
The Miwani Health Center to be the District Hospital.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The government is intending to entertain at the Makole Health Center in Dodoma Municipality as the district hospital so as to serve us by using more citizens, it explained that the government moves to Dodoma the health needs to increase.

That was said yesterday by the deputy minister, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi), Selemani Jafo when he made a surprise visit to the center.
The health center founded in 1978 has the ability to serve more than 300 patients to 350 patients in day.
He said when the government was able to go to Dodoma, the health needs will be more better, the situation that has forced the government to change that station as the district hospital and the process has started being together with the plan to build new buildings.
He said there are issues of doing so as to meet the criteria of being the district hospital.
He said that station will not make sure that district hospital's budget will be able to serve many more citizens by using its obligations.
Also, the deputy minister instructed the health center to be done, it has started collecting revenue through the electronic system by October 15 this year and he will do another tour in October 16 so as to check if the directive has been implemented.
In those areas, most of the areas are smoking of people, other places are making machines, "he said and added that the areas where the machines have increased from six times, a situation that shows a lot of money that were collected had gone into the pockets of people.
He said that it is not correct that center which is making many people to collect seven million shillings per day.
While reading the report of the health center, the chief physician in charge, Doctor Sauda Mtibua and said that center is raising 300 patients to 350 patients in a day while having 110 workers.
He said that makes the services of giving birth to pregnant women and the average of pregnant women who give birth to a day they are 10, in line with providing an emergency surgery for women who fail to give birth through normal ways since October last year where up to now pregnant women have been given that service.
He said that the availability of important drugs has reached 90 percent, but the drugs are coming from drugs (MSD) does not meet the needs of the station thus a big cargo of those drugs is caused by using various income of the station.
He also said the procedures of getting investigation equipment like ultrasound and Xhosa culture from the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) are continuing.
He said the first step of closing the electronic system is complete and the whole activity of putting the system will cost 500 million shillings and is expected to start being used on October 15 this year.
