Women did not be allowed in singing Taarab Zanzibar?
Memba, 14, 2013.

Many men who engage in Taarab music, popularly known, "do you feel lost by choosing entertainment that are found by women.
Taarab music has been able to increase in using many cases in the towns of Coast, and especially in Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Zanzibar where it involves their fees to get married, "he wrote."
But many do not know that the Taarab music got to South Africa in the 19th century, in Unguja, women don't be allowed to sing, vote and playing music.
Records and history about the old Taarab music reports indicate that he has brought this entertainment in East Africa, is Sultan Kipingo, Barbosa from Bin Said, who landed in Zanzibar between 1870 and 1888.
It is alleged that his son had other than the music, and therefore he had ordered groups of entertainment from Egypt where men are the ones who died and making all the certificates at the dance field of Beau El Nino.
According to the records, the Zanzibar islands is expected to show the ability of singing Taarab that is mentioned by the name Mohammed Ibrahim.
It is reported that Ibrahim, while in Egypt, he learned in the Guvnor's Day (GNP) which is a difficult way to learn more that all from the Taarab music industry, Gmwaijonga has said that it is a lot of few musicians who are doing to play the agency.
After completing the training, Mohammed Ibrahim comes back to Zanzibar and started supporting her fellow people in singing and making the Taarab group, before starting the first Taarab group in this region of East Africa that was noticed by the name of Zanzibar, Taarab Academy.
Later, the name of the group changed and also known for Zanzibar Food Museum Club, a name that until today is in the islands but now the group was known as a national group, in addition, the group was used as the Taarab group in Unguja.
In 195, the second group of Taarab was started by the name Nakula Undule.
In 1920, the first woman in East Africa came out for slavery and apologized to singing Taarab, was also Miss Mtumwa Jumanne, popular by the name Sitti is mentioned in the Arab language, although the Swahili was used for a little amount.
According to historical documents, new poems will be written in Swahili language, but it has been easily read in Swahili language, this was the origin of the United Arab language, thus using another language it was to get good costs.
It should also be remembered that the Taarab music had been used to entertain the Arab Emirates which many of them were from the Maasais' and it was not allowed to be defeated in the streets since it is not used by getting income as it is now.
Sitti is a gift to Saad Kawemba, who is reported to be the first person from this East African region to record his voice, singing music in India at one popular studio in that time that was also known by the name "Master Jay Z," although some of the books have mentioned that studio by the name of Colyvas of the studio.
Up to now the name of Sitti is a Zimbabwean, Saad Abdul who died in June, 1950, it has not been cheated in the mouth, that the man is supposed to save women from the ban of singing and making music equipment, to a man doing so she seems to be true because it was no wonder because it was a surprise for the woman.
