
The infection of HIV from the mother to go to the child.
Statistics of the World Health Organization (WHO) show that 25 million children in the whole world live with AIDS virus, this is the statistics that were collected in 2010 to cooperate with the United Nations.
Many of the children that are born with HIV are from poor countries including Tanzania.
As a result of making steps in order to improve the use of drug abuse, they have helped in pregnant women with VVU, to give birth to children who do not have infection.
There are few ways that cause a child to get AIDS virus, the first way is the way for mother to go to a child which is before giving birth to the child while in the stomach, when the mother gets and when they get.
In the East African countries the danger of getting infection is 20 to 40 percent, while being one between the countries and the country, between 20 to 80 percent of children who were born with VVU, while the danger of infection can be paid by 80 percent of infection.
The availability of drug abuse together with new services of medicine are continuing to help in success towards the infection of zero by the mother to the child.
Other things should be able to bring infection to the child is to be awarded blood of a person with VVU, to prevent it is more than enough people but for children maybe it comes from sexual excitement to the child.
Also, as to contribute towards a needle, contributing towards a needle, making medicine, equipment, lack of alcohol equipment that are not HIV infection.
The following things are putting the mother in the danger of stealing a child.
The mother of the high level, which is transmitted by VVU, with bites from the body's immunity and a big amount of VVU.
The existence of diseases to prevent it is dangerous to diseases such as skin rashes.
Problems happening at the time of giving birth as a long-term pain, caused by bottles before four hours of giving birth, be given a way of giving birth, getting married and using a device of attracting a child.
Breast cancer during the time he is still getting an example of breast cancer, breast cancer screening and a black bikini.
This is the things that at a large extent are dangerous to the child that is born with the HIV virus.
