
It was taken in prison for refusing to drinking alcohol.
Eby Benedict Liwenga.
A man yesterday was sentenced to one year in prison and the court of Nyami and refused to consider the treatment of tuberculosis.
Anthony Mtaka has been taken to court facing a charge of failing to consider the treatment of tuberculosis at three times between November 19, 2013 and April 2 in the area of Tena, he from Nyami.
He admitted those accusations in front of resident magistrate, Catherine Mbilimnyi.
According to the arrest of protesters in coughing,, the defendant was found with that disease and started treatment on November 19 this year.
He explained that the explosion was forced to sell those drugs after three months and he started drinking alcohol, thus endangering their lives and other people.
Mister Mwangi said that the investor had been directed by the villagers to consider treatment but he didn't understand the residents of that area to make report to the police officers who focus in court.
"Lack of treatment you can endanger the lives of other people since they can cause conflicts," said Mister Mwangi.
However, the investor asked for the time it can give another opportunity to respect his behavior.
Judge explained that the disease is dangerous and will have been emphasized in prison for the special exercise so that he can be able to consider treatment and recover.
In addition, he from Kisenga, the police have arrested four women who brought out four women who received the health officers to give their children the vaccine.
Those women from overseas countries have condemned the nation today, that they did not accept the officers to make those children the vaccine due to their religious faith.
"Why does it mean to see our houses having good intentions and we do not want this exercise to give children the vaccination, when we want to be given honor and we will allow our children to be taught," said one woman of Nyalile.
Another woman said that the church faith is still participating for children to be given any kind of vaccination.
However, later women agreed that those children should be given the vaccination after the police intervened.
A lot of plans to destroy the liver, Elly Njau-Benichou, said that those women have already qualified for five days which the vaccination was given and that's when the officers are forced to inform the police.
The officer said that the exercise to provide the vaccination which was completed yesterday led to 241,000 children who are under the age of five years in Mkonkole area.
Nairobi.
