Nyalandu saluting the professor.
Jon 09 / 2014.

The Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism Lazaro Nyalandu, "has surrendered and added one delegate to make the citizens of Ngorongoro to the new board of Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), after citizens to hold demonstrations last week.
Citizens from Ngorongoro District took demonstrations on Tuesday last week and threatened to score the main entrance gate on the park, a step that could affect the tourism activities.
Previously before the protests, the stakeholders of conservation and tourism together with social leaders opposed the appointment of the new board in the report that was reported for the first time with this newspaper last week.
Despite opposing the appointment of the board, traditional leaders of the community of farmers of the Maasais' that live in that reserve made a meeting with journalists to oppose what they used in the areas of building a new hotel in line with the management of the park.
Some of the community leaders and the public concerning the appointment of the board on claims that it had not been interests with the citizens of Ngorongoro for the basis of the appointment of Nyalandu that depends on Swahili, and give birth certificates.
The new board of Nicrox, was made by the chairperson Ambassador FulMajano, Job Ndugai, who is also the deputy speaker of parliament, Juma Pinto, David Mrisho, Ephreim Mwasumilwe and the reserve officer, Doctor Freddy Manongi.
The protests.
Hundreds of those residents from the pastoralist communities, were kidnapped while carrying posters with the intention of alleged to be the registrar of the Maasais' in the NCAA Board, while getting married by the leadership of the authority, being together with not heard by the government on various problems.
"We want the representation of the authority so that we can be able to have decisions about our fate in Ngorongoro," she claimed that those citizens who were involved in the road area of the authority for more than three hours and claimed to be heard their problems with the minister who at the time he was launching the new board of Ngorongoro authority.
In addition to claiming the representative in the leadership of the authority, those citizens of Ngorongoro also wanted to stop immediately after the plans of increasing the hotel in the reserve, saying that the construction of the hotel is not only to control the environment, but also it will increase the land conflicts in their livestock.
Those citizens also congratulated the minister Nyalandu that, it's just recently during his tour in Arusha region, President Jakaya Kikwete gave an official directive that to have another hotel in Arusha region and that investors with a plan to build the hotel then it is good to invest in Karatu town that is in the outskirts of Muhimbili.
"We want the directive by President Kikwete to make sure that we cannot accept the new hotel in our reserve and so far is that there are some investors who have started to test the areas that are in water sources," said the traditional leader (LSE's), Francis Ole Nasha.
The traditional leader added, "Ngorongoro will die due to the directors of Nicrox, to enter into the corruption cases of distributing areas to investors without following the website (General Management System) which is the ability to run internal affairs."
He said that as the citizens that live in that park, they will agree to see that the criminal system can be used by people who are greedy for money, without caring about the effects that came up to hand environmental degradation.
Nyalandu saluting the professor.
After seeing that the situation continues to be bad and those citizens want to break the main entrance gate on National Park, while he was forced to stop for a period of the launch of the board to listen to him.
Responding to their claims, Minister Nyalandu promised to work on the issue of being a representative to the citizens in the board and promised that he will implement within one week.
"Inside this week I will appointed one representative from your community to represent the Ngorongoro board," said Minister Nyalandu.
He explained to that his ministry and the government in general, is going to respect their views and recognizes that the legality of their lives in the reserve area as the law has shown.
