
For five years, I have to listen to you, what is it's why we want to resolve it on 1st, 2012.

Just after creating a big government, President visited every ministry this year, it is the last year for his first term, if it is success then it has been contributed by its directors and if it's fail in addition to those directors.

In this first term, its journey has been heavy, with very important training to the nation due to his previous government in parliament and especially after parliament to use its muscles to the interests of the public, it is a big number nationally.
This first term of President Kikwete has also witnessed a big level of carelessness and accountability among national directors, because of carelessness, who have been confirmed by the private president in its evaluation and senior directors of some ministries, at the beginning of last year.
In that step by President giving statements that prove that the existence of civil servants in government is clear that this first term did not reach the peak of the citizens' expectation before voting for electing the president, members of parliament and councilors, in the year 2005.
Japan will make some of the statements by the president and its directors of four important ministries in the country that would have been working on a high level of success, then the nation would have been different development for this five years.
The Ministry of Energy and Minerals, this ministry is very important to the administration of the fourth government, it reaches a big class in the sector of leadership in the country.
Despite visiting the first ministry of his leadership, President Kikwete was forced to meet with the executives of the State House, March 3, last year, in order to evaluate their performance when he met with the leadership of this ministry and its institutions.
In the ordinary way, an evaluation can be able to ensure that there are two things on first of first, if the plans are not available and secondly, the success is big and therefore look for direction for being successful.
As a result of that made in that meeting, it is clear that the plans did not be similar to the ministry, six issues that came out and confirmed the weaknesses in fulfilling the responsibility of out of those six months and stop very few.
First of first, President instructed the sector of minerals to use them fully and especially the issue of the license to look and attract minerals of those licenses which were mentioned to be used without considering the conditions of its contribution.
It informed the government that have violated the licenses of the licenses they were in the second phase, the commissioner of minerals in the country, by using power and its legal authority to take action immediately to stop the mining of poultry farming in areas that are not required.
As a result of that situation, there are a lot of questions to ask for us in this fifth term of the conclusion of first term President Kikwete, the Deputy Minister and Minister have helped enough training that the meeting was supposed to provide a message that is not able to provide information.

Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism February 24th, last year, President met with the leadership of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and its institutions.
Among those who sell water from outside the country, to strengthen the forest safety in the country, control and control government officials who are not faithful and those with responsibility to manage that safety is also lack of public service that it talked about the forests.
It was explained that the efforts will be used to encourage a tree planting trees, the statistics were piled up because they are planted 75 tons of trees, 962 hectares that were bought every year (in illegal business and legal business).
The leadership of the ministry had been directed to supervise and control the forests sector so that the sector can beef up the national income as it is in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, instructions or instructions are forced to intervene in the pockets of the ministry of energy and minerals, an order that forced President to intervene in.
The Ministry of Education and Vocational Training on February 18, last year, President met with heads of education, evaluation of education sector in the State House, he wanted to return to the procedure of all the schools using one type of books, instead of every school using its kind of books.

Meaning, it is that violence in the education sector was high, it cannot be productive to the nation. President was quoted saying "we need education that is equal to all schools.
"During this time you are giving us to the extent that now we have taken our education in the market where every head teachers is discussing with the writer's statement, we are making a lot of books for allowing this issue, but the heads of ministries have been making a lot of violence and maybe the situation is safe.
We shall think that ministries with experts together with the old legends of Education did not see that problem?
The executives who were supposed to supervise every time in their office, the best way to grow the nation, it should be remembered that these institutions of education have started since the year 1992, after the policies of one type of books will be removed and start the special policy of books for teaching.
I will see it is approximately 17 years since the public policy started until President Kikwete to speak about that.
I think about the president when he woke up in front of the experts he appointed to help him in the education sector in the country, "I am not happy because every school's education to discuss and add the agreement between the head teachers and the increase.

The ministry of infrastructure, the ministry of infrastructure has been given a chance to coordinate the development of infrastructure, including the central railway under the Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL) in the hands of foreign management from India.
January 16, last year, the leadership of TRL met the president, line with the Vice President Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, the minister of infrastructure Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa arriving at State House in Dar es Salaam.
TRL is owned by the government of Tanzania with 49 percent and the Race of India which is 51 percent.
Several months after that sitting, strikes among workers led in TRL.
The tax payment of Ukawa shall be difficult for the organization with a foreign investor who was called for him and returning in front of the government.
The nation witnessed the technicians of TRL, open the train stations so as to help their fellow citizens to travel to more security, claimed that the headlines brought by the investor have no enough security.
Many questions can be able to emerge by touching on sitting on the leadership of TRL and the heads of the country, the management of TRL said the false front of the president, Vice President and the chief secretary.
So, the minister of infrastructure and his fellow executives in the ministry have taken that step after TRL is unable to obey his promises in front of the senior leaders of the country and so, the minister who came to explain the promise of TRL in the front of his fellow leaders we will do not be careful.
President visited the markets in Dar es Salaam only that the beginning of his administration, President visited every ministry, but he arrived even in big markets in Dar es Salaam city on February 6th, in the year 2006 when he made a surprise visit to visit the markets that sell in Dar es Salaam.
The biggest challenge that is going on until today is that the president revealed that loss of those markets while business people from the markets have been charged tax for entering and from some of the markets were bad to ask ourselves, in this last year's first term of President Kikwete is the situation?
During the first term, August 14th, year 2006, in Serengeti district, on a six-day work tour in Mara Province, the president urged all leaders at work performance and administration not to work in order to have new ideas.
According to the evaluation of evaluation and some of the ministry is obvious that there has no great importance in the issue of accountability, there are two big things, first of first, President has been patient so much by people who were unable to have enough ability to increase the speed of development in the country.
He has been patient so much for leaders who are professionally known by political leaders, the leaders who have been the source of blame to the government she is leading it is that you used to be patient during the best record in the State House.
Besides the total of a total is that, in his first term, President Kikwete has failed to use its power to be sold at the peak of the quality, while at State House she has claimed to use its record for failing to make sure that they need him, this was confirmed by his statements that are faced with great steps.
God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
