
We sell electricity to our neighborhood.
Petit 10, 2015.

In the central page of this newspaper, there is an interview between us by the executive secretary of the economy of the Southern African Community (SADC), Doctor Maasais', who for good luck is a Tanzanian.
In one of the issues he insisted on that interview is number Tanzania it can benefit them economically if it will decide to invest in the electricity sector.
In his opinion, and in the real situation, Tanzania has a great ability to produce a lot of electricity to an extent of being able to sell foreign countries and have a lot of foreign funds.
This possibility is big because of the number of electricity sources which God created us in our country, as we want to increase production by using water there, coal energy is there and there is also a probability of using the sun.
While other nations are struggling to look for new electricity sources due to that caused, Tanzania is important now to start planning and prepare to be a big electricity producer.
In the African region which at least now has had a lot of peace and many countries have big strategies to improve the economy, it is clear that the electricity market will continue to grow every day.
There is also a strategy of strengthening industries in the SADC area of starting this year up to 2063 that was launched recently, which they made the area to become a country with the economy of industries.
These are things that, without doubt, it gives the reason for Tanzania to decide to focus on this area of electricity production.
This increase in production will help to end the problem of electricity here in the country and up to now, half of us shall get electricity and this is a problem in the war to grow the economy and fighting poverty.
It is good that the government will continue under its experts to view how Tanzania can benefit from the business of selling electricity within and outside the country.
This is not the only business, but it is one of the solution to fighting poverty in the country.
