The reporter of a human period is very close to our period in this period that we will talk about these matters to be able to reach these development wherever you are, that you can use these skills and skills then be available in a large area.
Two can go hand in normal education that they are saying that Global Education or you can be able to get married but you can't know how you can get income in solving these development so that we can be able to get an opportunity because they can be able to get into different development activities.
Here I'm a young man who is true who is a youth who maybe up to now, you should know that this country does not benefit us from him because it is a person who has managed to use his skills and her creativity to get into these activities of providing services through the transport sector.
My name is not known to Willy China.
He is the host of Iringa province.
The late?
?
There is a eggs.
I have started in two thousand and ten thousand.
After that I have been from school to secondary and requirements.
It's impossible.
I believe it was enough to have shown the sponsorship because it was difficult to continue with their studies.
My ability of my family was under that because I had to look for all from what I will do so that I am able to live.
And where is where we are.
To come to learn.
Here is here.
And the fact is usually in work?
Drugs before he has gone to school he wanted to use in a two years.
They are doing small businesses but even so.
It will not be dealt with because I went back to school that is why you are not in the streets like the one of the judges at the same time.
To go to buy a Bajaj, I do not work as a father?
But the?
She is someone who bought the judge I done with him.
To work with him within one year.
After that I would have returned again for the way.
I think this year it is this year.
I have found a lot of someone.
As a result of such that it has done himself, he will vote for him to go to him.
He knows me and believe that you will get them to them.
Truth until he completed it, I want you to have you.
Jew into the judges that I wrote.
There are many things that we have learned and put it more benefits that my family and one child and his wife.
For those who know!
.
Maybe by bad things that concern them?
Honesty is the truth that everything is involved in work like this, you have learned not to do life, wherever you shouldn't expect that today or tomorrow I will come to run us with us.
Women when I go back to school it's not back to school not to listen to others who were back with another goal, it is not that outside I get into the road but due to the real situation it has been forced to fall down the drivers but I thank God to eat it well.
He knows there.
.
Later.
The fight is when I am in business when I am in business they do not care before, this issue that I wrote them for now, I will pay you with a lot of success and let him go here in town, I was not a section of.
It is same, we had the fact that anything done I believe in my room, I do not want to fall in a room for me and my family has seen Mister I have found a place to sleep.
Why is it that God is everywhere?
Therefore, or it is a success which I have given us about the residents that I have forgiven you.
Commenting on the competition of the judges, I take it to my business, I believe it is good because many stakeholders do not know if there is a good example which is good and if you know it is good and if you know it is good and if you feel it is good and you know what you get you.
I believe very good things I don't see wrong things.
After you get me, I'll leave after that then it was difficult for you to get you.
But still they did not see you, you need to see that there was a good day and I thank God that it is a good business but you don't know where we were forced to do everything anywhere.
In our business, we are not supposed to do if it is the work of all angels as usual and I will never sign a citizen.
And many people.
What is it?
Media House.
My goals, for now, for a reason that it has organized itself to have faith, but one year and two months three months God bless us, has ended up because the preparations will be for me.
If he arrived at a family but for God, he will help him there and therefore when he went to plot for that I have faith.
They are looking for email that comes it is same as the ones that make it first.
For this year it may be remembered that it has succeeded to help England will be the preparations and I will give him and it is also there.
If we have been able to reach the success he has been very great success and we see that he is in a good step in the maize of success, now he has an advice and great message to many youths in the day.
Or not to understand that meaning of the future generation, many youths we would like to inform you that we are not looking at different groups including doing so they don't know what we are not living here in the country because of getting advice to our youth who want development to know how to be able to do so.
My fellow youths who are in the streets that won't buy containers, I know I've heard a lot of many youths and many others will be selling them.
For sure that should not be discouraged by the education that you will do if you are very delicious with no good life and the ones that are involved and to pick a high level is the work that your soul has shown.
They are playing with believers and they have identified himself on his side, but outside the period I said let me communicate with until these hours I have seen the directors.
My children who are in the estates have completed the Four Bompunga Padou.
The spokesman of the new song, Mister didn't live well, I don't have a need to return because it's not happy and we request that we will go back in order to ask you and let me feel that we will go through our second team which I wish you and see you who are in this other steps and I think you will face.
.
Bana, a presenter in a working period in our place, and you know what you are doing so that you can be satisfied with you, you can be satisfied with you and if you're being satisfied with you, you can be satisfied with you and you're being satisfied with you and you're being satisfied with you and you're being satisfied with you and you're being satisfied with you and you're being satisfied with you and you're being satisfied with you and you want to kill him in the whole issue to reach.
Similarly, they need.
How is it?
We are saying!
If we were only to sucks.
When he was born.
Leases of vehicles also have to sell those vehicles.
Anything that were seen here in future as a nation.
I was.
There is the first.
There, I was a person who does not have any person who is starting with selling you.
I wish you a new chapter and that is it?
Dogo, why are many of that amount, he sat at a little it has sold.
For many years.
After selling.
