Uhuru Marathon is starting with Benedict Liwenga.

July 31, 2016.

The Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL) through his show that is not clean up of Grand Malmo, has failed to sponsor the Uhuru Marathon race in 2013 at an amount of 20 million shillings.
Announcing the sponsorship in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Marketing Manager of TBL, Focas Malengo has said that they have found it better to sponsor those races because they have a good aim of strengthening the union, peace and solidarity among the continents.
Regarding the sponsorship, Kylie Jenner said that in approximately 4 million shillings will be used to provide various prizes to the winners, with 66 million shillings being the entertainment that will take place on the night of the season.
"The truth is that any nation in the world is fighting for a stable economy, and there is no economy which can grow, therefore TBL is like the company that makes these products here at home, he says it is important to join and encourage all our colleagues to ensure that these races are being held in a great success and to be more successful.
"I will explain to the foreign companies and outside the country to come out and continue to give anything that they have, so as to make these races that have to carry the ability of our nation but also to come out in numbers to participate in these races.
"For these prizes we were issued today, we believe that it will be a stimulation for them to do enough exercise, so as to ensure these funds are found inside the land of Tanzania," he said.
And the secretary of the Uhuru Marathon, Innocent Melleck urged Tanzanians to come out and how they get to participate in the races which have a great intention of urging our responsibility to consider and protect peace, unity and solidarity among them.
He said that the gift of the first winner is expected to be paid 2500,000 shillings as they attended the importation of 21 and 42 shillings, this is on the side of women and men.
The second winner will be on the side of women or men for 21 kilometers or 42 kilometers to leave 5 trilion shillings, four hundred shillings and five are expected to take place in Dar es Salaam, December 8, this year, where they started and end at the Arena Sao Paulo Arena.
President Jakaya Kikwete, is expected to participate in the race, with more than 100 members led by the speaker of parliament, Ann Makinda, they have committed themselves in participating.
Those races divided into four groups that are 3 kilometers for the purpose of getting 6 kilometers for all people, 21 and 42 kilometers which are special according to the stars.
