
The child that led by a vehicle still continues.

It has been written by Anastazia Wambura?

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The family of baby Amne Jackson has requested for treatment support to their child who are going into power with the problems in their head and brain as a result of a fire accident and a car has been handed over 500,000 shillings given by good Samaritans for the purpose of taxes for the year.

The handing over that money took place yesterday at their home in Cambodia, Dar es Salaam and Human Resources Administration Officer of the Government of Government, Tanzania Standard Chartered, (TSN), Salome Magato, those funds were issued by good Samaritans who did not want to mention his name for the purpose of tax for one year which was complete the day before yesterday.
"We have come to hand over the money that have been issued by good Samaritans who did not want to mention his name after our newspapers reports to write news that can be used for taxes like it came out," he said.
And TSN is sworn in the newspapers of today's newspaper, which will take place on Sunday, Daily News, Sunday News and Spotify Network.
While speaking after receiving those funds, he was forced to send himself after failing to prevent him, and thanked those who were touched by the problem and pray for God so that we are inspiring.
I thank you so much people who are giving them to save my son's life, I also thank the leadership of this newspaper for the great work that we have contributed by good Samaritans to help my son, "he said.
He said after the start of treatment as a result of contributions by people who were touched by that problem, Wilson Massawe (11), has continued to improve while the price is ongoing.
However, he said up to now, Wilson Massawe has not started exercises for the body such as required by his doctor, Professor William Matechi, due to following up a letter and urged them to go to Lugalo Hospital for the treatment of that treatment.
Previously, you don't know another person who did not want to mention his name which aims at one hundred million shillings, explaining it being touched by the affliction of that child. The money had already been handed over and already Wilson Massawe has started treatment.
Wilson Massawe and his brother, Ibrahim (15) got an accident on 28 February this year in Magoza village after falling with a vehicle of the second yellow card.
The accident resulted from Ibrahim Ajib by the thigh of the thigh muscles, a situation that has affected the veins that deals with the stomach, a disease that is professionally known as "Kibana," and affecting the ability of giving birth.
EXIM has a special needs, diet and more treatment so that he can be able to return to his normal state so that he can also care for the identity card of asking for voting.
