
Port's port will be given when you are at the foundation?
Since he was announced to be announced one year and more that the Port Authority will be in the hands of the community, there is no open results have been seen to show that issue has been implemented.
Some of the business people of T in Pwani province right now, who think it is why the office of the Tanzania Ports Club has been silent and understood the news about that issue because they believe that team is in the hands of the community it will do well in its participation in the Tanzania Premier League.
The former player of that team last years, Ricky Solomon, is among those who want to be able to make sure that the team passes in the hands of selected people and members of that club.
"We are told that the team will be in the hands of the community but something they seen as a dream because there is no thing that has been seen if the team is successful and supervised by the Coast people," said Solomon.
The former defender of the Port and Harambee Stars says he is saddened by seeing that team which has been sponsored by the Port of Kenya being unable to end in three top positions at the national level of the nation.
What's a thing that Band has failed even to do well in the premier league but it is why we are happy to remain in the league at a time where we are supposed to enjoy our team to finish with all the top positions in that league, "said Solomon.
Solomon who is the chairman of the Kenya Premier League (Khajida Kopa, he urged the port's officers to start registering members and later to be done, where members should support the leaders of running the club's issues.
"Without doing so, we will know that the club has not been in the hands of the community, we want the clubs to be taken by people with experience to take advantage of the club but this time many people cannot make steps for development," he said.
Apart from wanting to take place in elections to break the leaders of the port, Solomon said that the club's intention to be supported by being called Ivory Coast FC, "he said there have no difficulty of the army officers to provide information about the development of the technical director since many times their phones are not taxed.
But the Chairperson of the Port Funding Club (BFC), Ernest Mbani has been able to inform Israel and the Coast to make strategies to strengthen their club's fans so as to attract many followers to witness the match of the Port of Tanzania.
'Sura Surambi' has plans to make many the Coast fans who will arrive at the home ground, he from Mombasa to cheer their national team, "said Mboma.
He says they are doing plans to make the fans to go and support when he played the away matches.
"We have new plans this season to make sure that the Coastal Province need more to support their team in its matches, we have sure that you get enough fans and to cheer up players, no doubt we will win many matches," said Mboma.
The head said that they are in Mombasa (HM) in planning plans to encourage the students of that college together with other fans to cheer that team when he played at home ground.
Mbani says they are doing the plans to get a group of fans from Medi's University of Meru in order to encourage his students together with other fans to cheer their continent.
"I urge you who love soccer and they thank all that you want to have their team and accountability to cheer their their matches.
We want to support the certificate of our team so that they can get to win the premier league or end in good positions, "said Mboma.
Although it has been the actual problem of getting the technical bench to explain about the registration of the new players in that team, Mboma Sana Group and Coast that the club has already made three new players for the purpose of strengthening the squad of this season.
Mbiku said that club has set up the best mid-fielder for the year 2010, Anthony Mavunde, from the English Premier League club and another one is Anthony Katunga, Yanga FC striker of Kugunduliwa school in the Coastal Region and mid-fielder John Ndeki.
The head said they have plans to look for scientists from other parts of the Coastal Region, who can reach the standards of playing the premier league and requested people to recognize they have their standards, to arrive at the training stadium to the African Sports Club.
