

And Joseph Masikitiko.
It's a long time, with skin disability and male eyes, at a short time, open mouthed, which is affecting the teeth that were made well by making a small loopholes of preventing themselves in the middle.
His voice that doesn't know is another attraction, a long attraction like Twiga, is among the reputation that told them on the list of beauties of Tanzania with the attraction for the ten years now.
Do not forget that in 2013, he won the name of a girl with more conflict (Sporah Show) of one newspaper in the country, carrying his fellow participants who participated in the finals, Elizabeth Michael 'Lulu,' Nelly Mwangosi, Jacqueline Wolper and Jokate Mwegelo.
Wema Sepetu is one of the few beauties in the country from Miss Tanzania that does not have a lot of many beauties since they were started in the competition in the year 1994, but many have already been lost on the map.
Achia who were behind him, since he released, Wema in the year 2006, more than four beauties who stopped him, most of them have forgotten completely.
It is easy to say in the year 2006, it was very important for the participants and especially those who are high positions out of five beauties who registered for the fifth term, four up to now they are continuing to kick off in different art.
Behind Wema, Jokate Mwegelo who is unsatisfactory performance, the actor and Bongo Flavor musician, fiancée Lisa,, model and actress and Irene Uwoya, that took the number 5 minutes to Bongo movie star.
Together with that four beauties from Miss Tanzania 2006 in Tanzania are from him, Wema seems to be accepted by the fans that it is a great star for this is.
In the easy language, I would say Wema is an expert-products that is a big institution that can make a lot of money, Wema is wealth through his talent and maybe it will help many things.
I have been unable to write this article so as to put baking paper, therefore, you should know that there is a broad way, therefore it would have been better and its benefits if they start quickly so as to make for himself.

The attraction of Wema.
If you feel that Wema is not a brand, it is not allowed and does not have a hard investigation that you will give you a quick investigation about Wema and anything about Wema, it does not understand what is the work of fans!
Wema has no reason to answer anything and even when you give him in which style, there are his fans that there will be standing for his purpose for Wema when he is accepted.
Another one that helps him to understand and be loved in the way he is touched by various social things, he has helped many people including the stars, Kajala Masanja is among them.
At the time he was on the scandal of going to prison or he was a fine, Wema is what he did not fulfill the 13 million shillings to help him to citizenship and overlap with the afflictions of the past man, Wema did not lie!
