December 31st, 2013.

The office of CHADEMA participates.

By Queen Lema, Arusha.

In a bad state?
Usual, unknown people have been seen to be the office of the Party of Democracy and.
Development (CHADEMA), northern region in Arusha province and set it on fire.
It was causing a high speed.

Speaking to the Majira newspaper.
The secretary of that region who is also the secretary of CHADEMA in that province, Amani.
Golding, said the incident.
It happened yesterday morning in those offices that are in the Ngarama estate area, town.
The day before yesterday.

He said people.
He entered into those offices after the close defender from Spain.
A big way, planting in the location of the office, to look for the foundation stone.
The importance of switching off the fire is on fire, suddenly it was able to explode.
Therefore, the real aim was not been released quickly instead they moved to the pitch.
Starting to run away when our building is being successful.

"After people.
Those to see you shouldn't read the room, they made a huge loss of electricity.
That caused the rooms of a bomb attack, shivered and finally moved to the pitch.
They are criticizing while the fire continues to save. "We cannot say they were.
The aim of getting this room which is organizing the important documents.
Their aim is to lose the evidence of various things, "he said.

In another step.
Golandu said that event.
It is showing that there are some people who are using time and a lot of ideas.
Leaders of Chakwama, while he very surprised some of the leaders that came up so that they can be taken to them.
He is together with the member of parliament for Arusha town, Mister Goodbless Lema and the chairman.
The district, Ephraimu Mwasanguti speaking.

"Until now.
We must inform three people in this scandal, already we have reported the police so that they can report the police.
Their investigation, but our building we have to put a lot of security in all the records, but even until now.
We are not seen in the losses we got, "he said.
