The sponsors are the sponsors of that violence.
October 11, 2013.

NMB Mwanjelwa is in Mbeya town has continued to be volatile, heads that involve small business people, it has officially opened up as' Machinga 'and his government so that they do their businesses that they will have, even because of violating some of the regulations and procedures of the city.
Some of the government leaders at the city center, district and province have reached an action of not knowing the cause of violence that comes up once in that popular area in Mbeya town.
However, together with the controversy of the cause of those violence, some of the leaders are alleged that politics should place executives in a difficult time, they did not understand what to each other in accordance with the law and their procedures we are facing with restrictions of politicians.
Politicians with them on their part do not vie for a result of each one to check the interests of his party more than the public, to them is happy and the procedures were put into just after the interests of their parties are protected.
When it comes to the business people of the area of Mwanjelwa, politicians should stop stuttering on law, while CCM explained the management of the law to stop voters, on the side of CHADEMA, the violence that is needed is capital and to be a threat to the law and procedures.
In violence in the previous week, the business people of Mwanjelwa and Soweto in their shops insisting that the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Mbeya Region to stop its decision that wants the traders to buy electronic machines to buy the electronic machines for procurement and sales (EFD), that claimed is expensive.
According to the manager TRA, Mbeya Region, Akitanda, has said that the machines are being addressed by 800,000 American Dollars every one, the money that was even so, are being affected by the concerned business when they took its accounts to the use of that machine.
The price of these machines were planned and the sales and already more than 200 business people in Mbeya have bought using them, others are business people in Kyela District who after being educated, they have bought and use them.
"Education have never been very much, why Kyela have bought and use them?
NMB's business people want to be given free as it is for water sources, but at the same time unable to recognize that the money will be used, therefore, it is only a procedure used to give birth certificates, instead of the one they used to be used.
The business people who are required to buy EFD is those who use their sales start from 14 million shillings per year and who has not completed that amount of using that machine.
Among the benefits of the electronic fiscal machines as well as to help the business person to consider the purchase of procurement and sales so as to remove from us the discomfort of those machines.
"Even a businessman himself can fall into the accounts and to pay taxes," Masau boasted.
