
"It is a dream of Tanzania to be the economy of industry.
Dodoma members of parliament have said it is difficult for Tanzania to achieve the aim of having the economy of industries if the government will continue to return to implement projects with great contribution in that sector.
While reading the views of the committee on industry, trade and investment for the year 2016 / 17, the Deputy Chairperson of the committee, Miss Vicky Kombe said that they are not satisfied with the way the government has launched a budget for the implementation of various projects.
"By concentrating on these statistics, it is obvious that many development projects will continue to be implemented in this financial year will not be implemented," said take.
He said that committee is supporting the government's intention of making the country to be the economy of industries by the year 2025 but it is not involved with the pace of implementation of that intention.
"This situation is going for Tanzania to be a country of industries if the government will continue considering the implementation of projects with great contribution in this sector," he said.
In the opinion of the opposition camp in parliament about the budget for the ministry of industry, trade, and investment, the member of parliament of Moshi rural, Anthony Mavunde, said that we can reach the nation of industries for 422159 billion in the year budget for development funds for the ministry of industry, trade, and investment, "he said.
While presenting a speech to the budget in parliament yesterday, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage said among the self-scale industries that were renovated, the 45 industries that were working, 24 have already been closed down.
"Our plan is to make sure that the 35 industries that have ever happened quickly and before the first half of the financial year, which starts on July first this year, the fate of not less than it will be known," he said.
He said the fate of not less than a lot of industries is not less, for the owners to implement the sales contract or to be given new investors to ensure they promote them, "he said.
That ministry has requested approximately 1 billion shillings in the financial year 2016 / 17 among that, 41 billion shillings equivalent to 51 percent are for the normal use and 40 billion shillings for the purpose of development use.
