
When we say the problem is the ability, thinking we are supposed to do!
Deodatha Makani, 2012

I request that you allow me to repeat the what I started, while close to one month, apart from this time I believe that I am understood.
I wrote this "because there is poverty that is there in Tanzania, it is poverty of not having people with ability to lead in accordance to the construction of a modern nation with people that are free and same as a result of the ability of leadership that we have done to them here."

I continued to say, "all other things that we see today are only signs (SMS) of the problem that is ready, we are supposed to look for corruption, misuse of public funds, bad use of public funds, bad use of public funds, so as to find leaders with the ability to lead."
The problem of Tanzania is not the scholars or a skillful professionals, we have only many people, we have affected us, the problem of Tanzania is not strategies and policies which are required to be launched by music and songs, and because the problem of Tanzania is not a solution to the nation's direction.
My brothers, as the leadership of Tanzania would have been equal to cook food, then we shouldn't say that his problem is not a clean up, it's not a clean up or tomatoes, because all, there are very fire!
We have discovered a fire to cook with our food we are doing, there is a better food.
Therefore, a clean pan has lived in plenty, other organs have been affected by people of hunger, the problem has become no fire again.
When we voted to President Jakaya Kikwete, we believe that he will cause a fire that will start a clean pan, let us feel, we have seen someone who are trying to ask for a fire accident but he has remained with her alone until a knee injury.
We have noticed that now people with hunger are many, and many foods need to be buried and there is no place where we see the presence of a fire that we have dropped out and started to break the fire in what he has thrown out and presented to the ship.
When I return this subject today, because events of recent days continue to confirm that our problem we have the ability of our leaders.
I request that I use an example of a shortage of electricity energy which has reached where I hope to get married so that I can be a must for this time.
The energy problem did not start today when explaining it is Doctor Idris Rashid which he talked and how the debate to buy or not to buy the Dowans Company has succeeded and believe it completely that the shortage of electricity in the national grid just came up by suddenly just the few days they go.
If you think of that for many years we have been happy about electricity and every house having its electricity in every estate, there are electricity lights, so they can be dealt with.
The chosen committee of parliament led by Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe said this about the emergency problem, "had caused TANESCO to enter the contract with a mobile phone company," Honorable speaker, for approximately three consecutive years from the year 2002, our country was faced with a problem of lack of enough rains.
"The effects of the problem especially in the production of electricity, have started to be seen in the year 2004, and by the end of the year 2005, it is obvious that the country was heading to a large area of electricity shortage, shortage of energy and minerals and the leaders of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.

Most of them have noise about the section of "
However, it is good to look at the section "d" what has said right now should be included the efforts in the production of electricity in the country because the national programs of electricity production in the country and the power produced through now, "when I was surprised by happy about that a mental ability and heads of this country do not agree something that even the child is not knowing!
That in the year 2009, the month of March, the leaders of Tanzania found that "it is the biggest gap between the real electricity needs in the country and the electricity generated from now."

Why, it astounds anyone during his speech in the year 2004 / 2005, the former Minister of Energy (who is faced with charges) has advised the private sector to participate in developing the electricity sector in the year 1994 to 95, the government entered into an agreement to continue improving the electricity sector in the year 1994 to 95, the government entered into an agreement to continue improving the electricity sector in the year 1994 to 95.

At the moment we asked himself is when our government led by the Revolutionary Party (CCM), he noted that there is a huge shortage of electrical energy compared to the needs?
In the year 2009 to at least starting from 1992, the answer is Iniesta, now, it is the leaders who agree with something that they played about 18 years ago?
The leaders that evade the biggest problem, despite the leaders present, he knew the problem well (that there is a shortage of electricity energy) the recommendations of this problem has been the necessary due to those who do not have a lot of recommendations at this time until now our leaders have come up with the following recommendations.

To buy electricity from free producers (EFD) like IPTL.
To collect the machines for producing electricity like companies and Richmond.
To build those ponds affordable to produce electricity.

However, all the big ways and small others that they have organized and expanded so that this has not removed the energy problem in the country.
The only way that you don't want to take care is that of implementing a big energy project, which will remove the problem of electricity shortage immediately and I believe it is because they don't know what they believe in the way they do not affect the energy project and it will be no need again.
The easy solution and quick solution is the construction of the water dam at that river who is aired live under the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Hall and it has shown the ability of that project was done since the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere project was seen to have the capability of that project is to produce 2100 megawatts.
Its meaning is that if we had been able to build that dam and put up a lot of their own kind (one with the capacity of 40,071 tons) because there is nothing to IPTL, Mchuchuma is, Mtera, Mtera, Sweden, and Housing of God.
Right now if you sell all sources of you to talk for him in the country that is being used in our grid which have the ability to produce as 97 percent only!
Now you ask you, if there is a source that has the ability to remove the problem of energy shortage, a problem that he knew for more than 20 years now, why this government will not have stopped from that project?

The answer you will be able to get if you say it is "lack of money"! My brothers, it is true that the problem of the problem is not money or not for the needs, a problem is lack of leadership with the ability to do so, they can't want to implement the big project.
In order to ensure research should not make noise, for the government to start building this dam, if we decide this work, it will not take over seven years and its importance is not tell them.
The international newsletter of "Water Front and takes construction" edition of October last year, is saying that if the dam of Rufiji will be continued, it will be the biggest dam in East Africa and it will give a big increase in energy production in that area. "
That newsletter seems that due to the economic changes ongoing in the country, a big amount of electricity will be used in the country and there is another even to be sold outside the East Africa region.
As it was the past years, I will not expect to hear in the budget session that the government has finally given an explanation and they have planned to start the construction of that project so that finally they get into the energy problem.
Why I do not expect to bless you because you can't build a bridge that will bring down the dam where they can be avoided if you can be easily in this year.
If you lead you, you want you to look at what we witnessed, last week is the truth about those words, a person who cannot lead he is following up and instead, he is growing very few people.
Tanzania has no reason to have a shortage of electricity production.
Look here, I have not spoke about our ability of nuclear energy in which we have people, and would be able to think about it would be used by this type of project!
When I know it is that they have been unable to lead and now they are blocking us from threats, ignorance, and Ndeki.

Now, these leaders who think they are following what they were required to make sure they were done by politicians and journalists about what they came to do, currently, it is mentioned a few days like what you missed to see if he knows her who is heard!
My brothers, to continue with these leaders, it is continuing with the thoughts that those of those affected, the thoughts that are blocking the visitors and assume the thoughts that are poor starting from how they started and how to come and alternative thoughts are supposed to come up and alternative ideas who are facing the opposition.

Brethren, you don't know the words of Doctor Rashid that if the country comes with the darkness, the industries were unable to work with the hospital to provide services, then the one to blame to another.
No, if the country will go in the darkness, if there will be a huge shortage of energy and one to blame by Mwakyembe is not a lesson to the journalists.
The one to be criticized by lazy officials, who do not have a vision, to decide, to think about what I think and that they should understand among them, an amount of failing to study at times.
Yes, it is not only TANESCO to be blamed but all politicians who have a chance to lead our nation towards the energy of energy but up to now they have reduced because their administration will be open, and at the end, it will be the one that will be known as Yaida.

Because they don't have the ability to lead and now they should decide to be involved in threats, then you should know that there is good leaders, I would like to say 'and we are saying that there are good leaders, I am saying that there are good leaders so that I will be happy, "I am saying those who do not have good efforts and the management of our decisions are this being an obstacle to our development.
They don't have the ability to have power, they have good work, they have good vehicles and for sure they are doing well.
The leadership should be taxed is not afraid, make difficult decisions that you will remove inside the citizens, a situation that has changed to do anything that they will face.
Yes, when that time is there and now it has started to reach me or those who think that everyone will give you a message, you should make sure that you get married or not for you, otherwise, I know you to do!
