Kibanda Maiti in Johannesburg, Dar es Salaam.

In a situation that is not normal, the family of Said Abdallah.
Buguruni in Dar es Salaam, has been forced not to vote afresh after.
Kibanda Maiti in child Sophia Said (1) who died on malaria disease.
Being found by unknown people and his grave being left open.
It has spoken.
That incident of its kind and one that left many questions.
It occurred last night on July 20, 2013 at the peak of Buguruni in Buguruni.
Mangaka County in Dar es Salaam City. The late was buried on June 20, 2013.
It is no longer.
It was praised the area of the scene and found a crowd that including a family of.
In the end of thanks, when they read the grave, it is open.
Mbao and a trees that was used for the funeral of that child which was found at the grave of the child.
.
People continue to place yourself while they think what's the meaning of the incident.
That is Said who is the biological father of the deceased arrived.
A surprise, where he was unable to prevent and start on the right.
After the situation depends on a little, our writer entered the same time with the man where he had this one to say.
"I was found?
Even to explain well since I was born and I have never seen the grave.
He was quoted saying the bodies did not like to be known as it known.
"I was at work.
Time is not long since I was surprised by my in-law, Said Masoud.
Who's living in this areas, she told the grave, it is wrong and he does not see.
Inside his.
"He said so bad, timber and trees that were used for day.
The funeral is part of indicate that those who did this action is.
Those who failed.
I understood the strength, later I met here and come here and I have arrived as soon and seen many people am surprised when I was surprised.
The grave is so true that the deceased was my child.
The first one, I got up the twins and now he has remained the other one called Salah.
"What is surprising me is that the deceased has been arrested on 20th June and the grave was quoted in July 20, it is why one month has gone down.
"Snowden?
Why do you have taken place until now there is no one who was surprised while being involved.
This incident, it is possible that many things of witchcraft, will go to give information.
Police and then we will fall into the grave.
"Said the truth is very happy because my son is where even if it is the late but I know where he is."
.
Chairman of the Local Government of Colleta Mnyamani, Lydia Moyo.
In the scene, he was asked by the writer about that act.
He said.
This is an surprising incident, the police are supposed to look for bodies?
They are doing a comprehensive investigation since this event seems not to be done.
One person has.
