
Tribalism is wrong for development in the country.
And put it in eternal peace.

Give them a lesson so they said that the union is the strength and separation is the weaknesses of people with a union or true it is easy for them to make progress in development, otherwise, they are very easy for politics that are dangerous poison that are dangerous to democracy.
Bena there are many who believe that the African nations was not ready for democracy, and maybe it was best when I am happy under the leadership of the bridge to leave and to welcome a democratic leadership.
But by a good thing or bad, all the African countries came from his freedom and time is not time with two hands to resolve the democracy of many parties as a sign in the western countries that the Africa has shown.
When we pray for democracy in Africa, it does not affect the system of many African countries for example, in Kenya for many years we have been trying especially about the procedure of our elections since the time of administration of our party especially every after the general elections.
Some of the availability of various seats that were tested for party tickets for caring about the party's opponents and there then denying citizens their democratic rights to elect the leader, they want them and even after the establishment of democracy of many parties here in the country, things have not been taught.
Rumors about the theft of votes are not good again, because even in the year 2007, Kenya was on fire and leaving many with sores which will not be lost in their records.
And a fact that we did not learn anything in the year 2007, the election of last year, was caused by rumors of the crimes of the commission of elections and the borders of the IEBC indicated that until today they have found a difficult decisions for Kenyans.
50 years is unacceptable, to see that fifty years after freedom in Kenya, some of the leaders is still dominated by faith in some of the areas of some parties, something that was faced with political conflicts and even the fights broke down.
When I am the patriotism of this nation, I believe that it is the best to be the president, only best to be elected according to the constitution and to my work, instead of giving them difficult decisions to bring back, some of our politicians, they continuing to mix together.
In the recent days, we have witnessed the cases of killings in Lamu Island, but even if the investigation is not complete, already one finger has never been affected.
When we agree on the occurrence of the eye of tribalism and gave birth to hatred against other leaders and giving the concept of a certain person who is not supposed to be the president of Kenya because of his tribe, without doubt we're supporting our nation in the era of administration and strong winds.
If we want to development it is a must to shoot the war of tribalism and downloading democracy.
If you know how many Kenyans know whether every Kenyan has a right to live in any place in the country and to be satisfied by the government without a debate, and during the election, we have the right to elect leaders that we go without pressure or threats.
