
Dependence on donations are times.
Julius Mtatiro, the Citizen on behalf of Plasmodium falciparum.
Despite announcing that it is in the race to be free, the fifth term government will be expecting a donation by 200 percent in order to implement development projects.
In its first budget, the government has set aside 1 trillion shillings that will be used in development projects, while 36 trillion shillings being the expectations of contributions for development partners.
In the last budget of the government of President Jakaya Kikwete, 188 trillion shillings were expected to be collected from development friends.
The last budget of the Retired President, Jakaya Kikwete added that the national debt from 18376 billion (2 trillion shillings) up to 198 billion shillings (more than 384 trillion shillings).
In the first budget of President John Magufuli, the government has planned to pay 20,000 million dollars which is that he will pay a big part of the debt he had explained after 8 trillion shillings were sold for that purpose.
In his speech of the budget plan, the Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on budget, Hawa Ndilowe has urged the government to use loans and donations from outside to implement various projects in the country.
"There is a challenge of getting getting money for the projects and the government is asked to see how to improve this, so as to take advantage of the development," he said.
Professor Samwel Wangwe thanked 40 percent of projects and revealed that it is a good step that gives the hopes of citizens on the aim of the government to change the economy and remove poverty. "The local government are supposed to do something so as to support the efforts of the main government," said Professor Muhongo.
Despite the donations including loans with favorable terms, the government of Magufuli will set aside 1 trillion shillings from local investors especially financial institutions.
That amount of money is explained by some of the stakeholders that will increase the cost and reduce loans worth going to the private sector, thus, affecting its contribution in growing industries in the country.
Julian Baamar, the expert on financial issues and business, says that every business is affected due to market state, if the loans funds will go down, "interest will be available as a result of the number of customers who will be used for that service."
The governor of the Central Bank, Professor Benno Ndullu said that it did not allow the effects because it is a great procedure in the world.
"All the countries inspected, so as to pay debts that are avoided, it is normal," he said.
"The bank has a lot of money that will not be given all of the government is among the customers that can't end the money available in all banks in the country."
About the interest, he said it has been allocated time to how they go and for a period as this year, he said, the interest was 18 percent but now it has reduced up to 14 percent.
The argument of Julian was supported by Ahmed Masinga, the head of Investment and Marketing Unit of the CRDB Bank, who explained that it is the responsibility of the government to put an environment of reducing the cost of loans.
When it seems to be a great interest, he said, "last year the government's bond had 10 percent but now it is 17. If there will be no efforts to rise, interest, interest, and it may be more than 20 percent as it is now."
While presenting the views of the committee about the guidance of the budget for the 2016 / 2017 financial year, he advised the government to control and reduce tax waiver, so as to make sure the plan for building industries and free economy, he advised the government to stop the shortage of electricity and water sector, high infrastructure, poor infrastructure and the availability of markets.
While the legal action of dealing with the shortage of experts and technology being taken, that member of parliament had requested to check well the law.
"It is good to land the problem of the law relating to investment and to reduce huge debts from the government," he said.
The committee has requested the government to ensure all laws related to investment together with partnership in the country for example is the law of investment of the year 1997, law of minerals in the year 2010 to the law of Tanzania 2011.
The financial year that takes place this month, the government was built 25 percent of its budget for development projects but the committee said, although the financial sources which were canceled, the money did not be available on time or not getting completely against the investment. "
Stakeholders are waiting to see how President Magufuli and his government will make their parents and this challenge to put hope of many who are tired with poverty that concern them and the resources of the nation.
