
Floods have fallen from the priorities of the attorney general on 1st, 2012.

We have gone down and seems to be followed by the ones who have been seen and they were affected by our leaders, they have not been able to prepare themselves and now they have decided to start doing so they have changed so that we have shaken them.
Two weeks ago in this newspaper this newspaper, I wrote on the construction of 296 billion shillings and its deputy minister, palaces, caused more than 40 billion shillings per month, not less than 40 million shillings (for now).
When I was thinking, I remember other things that our leaders have been using the name "an agreement" and "there are things that in the past, we have failed to pass through sometimes without caring about its meaning.
A good example is one of the ones mentioned to be mentioned in the report of the controller and auditor general of the year 2008 / 2009 about the compensation that was done by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism which was signed by the executive director of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism through the year 2007 / 2008 was a value of 750,000 American dollars.
Later the Tanzania National Reserve (TANAPA) has signed a new contract of 5800,000 American dollars for the financial year 2008 / 2009 to announce the amount of 1,067,888 trillion shillings being a fee to provide advertisements for six months from January 2008 to June 2008.
The advertisements that took place at the Heavy Fuel Oil Company in London has cost 500 million American Dollars which cost 500 million American dollars.
The contracts of those advertisements were not able to be available for inspection.
However, in the period of 18 / 12 / 2007, concerning the payments that were done by TANAPA together with that, there was no evidence that showed that the advertisements took place.
That is a little examples to explain how our leaders stand for our money and what happens they have given priority, there are other examples even so that these floods have forgotten that, I said.
The news I think about it is that approximately twenty thousand people have been affected by the NCCR Revolutionary Party has been given more than three hundred thousand dollars and the Federation of political parties in Switzerland, and now these institutions and various people have started contributing.
Now I asked himself, recently we are determined to sell those two houses for the governor and its deputy chairman (which is paid 26 billion shillings) so we can help many heads of floods what would we have used to help many people?
What was what has changed is that when President Jakaya Kikwete is talking to ambassadors during the celebration to welcome the new year, he explained that due to these floods and destruction that were affected by the floods, that President Kikwete wants to look for reasons for paying for some certain things so as to get money to make the affected areas.
I am an intention that he started using these two houses, you came out to find out, so we should ask the governor and his assistant who will stay, where we are affected by the floods we live where they were affected by the floods.
