
Scholars is a good direction for six months of JPM.
Nuzulack Dausen, Citizen today, annamatinde @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam, President John Magufuli has attained six months in power when he started implementing the part of its policies of improving the public service and to grow the economy while some of the scholars and the activists have explained that they have a good direction and I advise the shortage that is affecting them.
In that period of 180 days, Doctor Magufuli has announced the use of government accounts to increase efficiency in public service by removing servants that are accused of embezzlement as carelessness and negligence and negligence in tax evasion.
A big part of the strategies that are run by "Here, We Only Work," have been received with two hands with the citizens while some of the issues that are required to be touched or ended so as to prevent effects on the coming days.
The secretary general of the Federation of free political parties in Tanzania (Tucta) Nicholas Kay, said that the performance of President Magufuli for the first six months is encouraging "to a certain amount," in efforts to bring development to development.
However, Mgaya said there are areas that have not been touched as required as the education sector, health and local governments, where there are few leaders that use their positions to oppress the citizens and servants and making embezzlement of public property.
"There is where there is a big offence and we know many of us live in the district councils, towns and cities.
In his previous months in the State House, the president has been in a great campaign to cut off the use that it has come in hand with monitoring of trips outside the public servants until a special permit saying that it is a load to the nation. "
The discovery of misuse of public institutions to use public institutions to use meetings and instead of using government buildings, an issue that has been suspended by some of the economists.
Office of Ngowi has urged the economy of Mzumbe University, he said that they do not affect the expenditure that are not a good thing but the aim is happening to continue to promote development, "the government is big consumer of anywhere in the world.
However, he said Doctor Magufuli has done well in controlling the collection of taxes in different areas especially the port where the situation was bad.
In ensuring that the house is clean, Doctor Magufuli started his administration by doing away with boils that has witnessed leaders of big organizations in the country as the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) have suspended for investigation on allegations of corruption.
However, there will be written by many, but some of them have tried to agree with many people, but some of them have suffered from suffering from anything that he did, while he was announcing the former director of Dar es Salaam City, Wilson Massawe, two weeks ago.
Most of them suffering from the law and win the case, the government will pay a lot of money that was done by the boils that are good in bringing discipline in government but it is good to consider the law, "said Mgaya.
President Magufuli has been saying that his government is aiming to take the country to have high income by growing the industry and agriculture in order to increase employment and production.
Director of non-governmental organization of Feng Gmwaijonga has said that until now the administration of President Magufuli has a good direction in economic management but he has changed the main policies of the economy.
"Explained that the country of industries is the same but the direction of the economy is required because the factories are not being left by the government, but investors," said Kwelukilwa.
About the performance of the government in general, Kraehenbuehl said President Magufuli did the country in a good direction because he has provided to great levels until now, whereby the success has started in the public service.
He said there are effects of a short period of economic due to the discovery of misuse of taxes but it is better than having a company that will help the growth of the economy by attracting many people in illegal ways.
But the administration of President Magufuli was to be put in six months in the previous months, the scandal to prevent one of the sessions of parliament has begun showing that maybe his government did not have badly on issues of good administration.
The Ministry of Political Science of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Sospeter Muhongo said the strategies of the president to restore the country on the line is good but the best administration will be stopped if the citizens are forced to enter the freedom of writing and getting information.
"You can make improvements in every kind in the country by providing better services but not to control the freedom of us," he said.
Also, they are worried that you're doing away, those servants do the discipline of fear because many workers are doing work for fear from being sacked without being forced to serve the citizens.
