Welcome to you.
There is one directly like providing.
What is the funds it has been?
But if one fund of the disabled people are this.
At night, it is the same way it is going on for the disease, as a person to get an affordable cost maybe and I cannot finish to read this article.
You shouldn't know your water because it happens that many funds are related to disasters, because there is no documents.
Thank you forever.
Here I request to explain that there are disasters, but also.
The late God rest his greatest history in the city's history, and the whole area of the community.
It started last year.
In the European continent, I was there.
Making it be that there are people who are forced to be expelled from work when they are still continuing.
And in the community system and that is the reason that they will meet at a plot to deal with him, I wanted its presence to stand and believe in themselves that there is a problem instead of death is disasters or also.
It is not possible even old.
She is a child.
Or then sack him.
It's not possible to know that, I said that something that she has denied the disasters and that was the source of work, I thank you and that it's not the income that doesn't disappear from yesterday and that's the truth.
But from the changes of climate change.
Even when these hours we finish with this?
Himself will also be heard that a few hours took place under sixty years of three, I have changed and even nine year we will participate in the women tomorrow.
A stern way to do things and worship care of this offer is a many day what does it try to start training that is not a problem.
Security.
United are there.
By true he is posting on the picture.
He said!
We will hear us looking for what I was born.
I would like to see from the province.
In Kilindi, if you get married due to the payment of payments?
But to answer your question why I have written them?
Look at behavior in eternal peace, we should go after it.
I visited that yesterday that is why every night of officer.
The talks of being late and it was to learn from your area because it is a must, when you go to the park, we have left out, but we are also in education on issues because if you have conflicts in their community.
It has reduced that a place can make many people so that it can help a parent and maybe to educate them.
The Almighty God bless you for these we were on the forefront to prevent it, these days have been given.
It has also been said.
Right now n Power Poll does not start in a short time.
At the time you want to save the body.
After that, they can produce them to stop your end.
We're very happy and not each other.
There for example they had already joined and grow after fifty years.
Did God create a bridge and it has also been found?
He can give a donation of P-Square.
For there, there is a saying that a long time is to continue to continue with one hour where in which he dies, the late God gets a song that is also for the purpose of himself to protect themselves.
Therefore, I have not yet heard that I don't know the same person.
Truly, he is a problem but his wife was not involved in the whole issue of paying or holding your studies.
But this fund has been started legal and it's because all the concerned parties and joining the person they were supposed to participate in the country since there are law or not.
This is an issue of people to understand you not to get punctures, but also to get rid of this time to get the loan.
The government of Syria explained their way and that I will be able to end in general that the issue of the community reserve is a question that will be very little between Tanzanians to save the community reserve as it said that when they go to Dar es Salaam to be the manager of the lake region.
The grave of the community reserve is to unite a citizen of disasters as an old man, being sacked from work, but currently the community of the United Republic of Tanzania has been legal like our constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, one hundred and five hundred thousand.
Article twenty and two.
Likewise, the community reserve is very important because the government is required to talk about the system of ensuring that a Swahili reserve and the community of the youth have also been able to inform us if you read the international articles for human rights and a union of the community to make sure that you read twenty two articles.
There is a report of the continent with one and then the declaration of human rights in the fish, in the repeat match which is twenty years and as it is not enough to the world.
It is organizing a community park on any way, then look for a way that can be able to make sure that his people get the Parliament of the Parliament.
I come back to that, the existence of when I come to the payments for the benefits of the benefits, we have heard the government that the situation is currently in the social security fund and the society at large and so when you want to reduce by a very high level, because a person had paid its benefits such as usual.
But in a draw, they have done a great job like collaborating with bags up to the funds to improve the system of social funds I want to come to the system of pension funds of the community and maybe.
Do you know what is the difference between the savings and bags do not know God of different from the way it is to get bags.
Because of all bags, Ras Kiduku was previously known as normal bags, but later it will be a capacity to continue to be paid maybe every time after a few months, but when you got it at the time of looking for you, then you will be able to protect themselves in your weight.
This is as a result of those things, that manager explains that she gets a lot of honor, when I was just three months every month, but they also would like to assure you that this children can be taught.
I talk about that because all the truth is that there is a problem of Antoine Griezmann with the implementation of these questions, I am happy that there is a place of Chacha, a video that we did in Shinyanga province, are supposed to have every member if he joins you.
The ban on it will say the system that he wants to join and but they are still going to be taken to the league as payments.
You know, but you are not words from the whole areas to end, if the councilors are very disturbing when they see it there is an increase in the world.
Remember to say productive?
For the only reason for the city, the city has decided to continue to address this issue he thinks.
Muhimbili National Park will be careful, I will take a little compared to four years.
Why is what he says.
The action of starting a program to control and managing that will when I have been involved in the past, every people of their cadres had a fund.
Click here.
The love is for us, the teachers who were seen?
In the estates of the local government.
But also, the public organizations and take the public was new, the employees of the government was therefore, but after being launched by the authority of control it is that currently the fund will be competed for by customers, it shows that the law was competed for by customers, it shows that the employer is needed.
That, let me say that you will also discover that you will also be used for the payments for a woman in promoting himself, in the past, it was a prayer because if you are, the teachers had also know you and you need me.
The statement by suicide, for now, we request the government is prepared to make sure his bed sheets will be aired in Dar es Salaam, a citizen will have freedom to join the fund that it is not enough to do everything by getting to the infection, but now the government continues to see Miss Tanzania.
If you look at the sector then we're starting from Dar es Salaam to see the employees' employees in the five percent sector you should not recognize the government so that we can be patient when you check up for all the bags, would like to support the manager so as to give him a manager so as to give him a manager so as to give him a manager.
It is a day for all the community under this time and something's called the broadcasting of the church because the new players have discovered that these workers are only small-scale farmers, but even so, there are athletes.
And by many people, this website, and I want to take a community service to the government of God and now the society will also look for the way to ensure the farmer is also contributing for the purpose of getting money.
Having and and tomorrow is better.
I was not shocked.
Later, I will go to Dar es Salaam to give a stern warning but I have a lot of speaking before I am not supposed to know the director.
The stakeholder has spoken to a lot, but it has not mentioned that there was no law, but the late does not read the law and every member who will be read and they are supposed to protect yourself from you, when you get you.
I was called Anna Mshana.
There are there a lot of time.
All of them?
It was surprised.
