
A fox is stable.

It has been written by Prisca Tembo.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The officer in charge of the center for controlling the diseases of livestock, Doctor Oberlin Kisanga has said that the government will put more strength to control the bomb attack in the northern regions.

He said that during the launch of the 10 World Habitat Day, that took place in the city the day before yesterday, Doctor Nyasaka said the problem of people going into the attack was great and insisted that the rabies vaccine will be in the councils of that northern region is important.
He said a fox is dangerous and fail to fight the body of Simba's wild dog, a hyena, to be careful.
He said that it is dangerous disease but you are committed to poor countries despite having challenges of not receiving its information fully as a result of being a small disease in the community.
According to Doctor Nyasinde, the big victims of that disease are children, because many times it involves itself with a fox which lacked care.
He said the research shows that a bomb attack has killed 1,500 people in every year and that in order to control it, it is a must to 85 percent of all his dog.
He explained that the plan that is needed is to increase the strength of spreading the vaccination to all fake phones are estimated to be estimated in those provinces in the year 2015 in the region of that region as well as continuing to provide education to the community.
"We will improve the campaign of that vaccine so as to save the life of our children especially children," he said.
He said 99 percent of people are proud to have a fox of their cases of riddles caused by a dog by the disease of the disease.
According to Doctor Nyasinde, the provinces of the northern region are estimated to be 164,547 in the year 2015 with the cost of stealing the patient with a fox which has a fox which is between 600 to 500,000.
He said in the year 2015, the region called 36000 shillings which is equivalent to 2039 percent of all his dog in that region.
However, he said that Zanzibar succeeded to control the disease by 100 percent of the campaign yesterday were run in the Sokoni Ward, Eliona and Sakina, where the livestock experts from Arusha City in collaboration with experts from the region of Livestock and Livestock in the region.
