Doctor Slaa, we need us to be a list of the country "another!
Brightiles 21, 2014.

Last week I sat at the exercise which I came to inform them later that it is not true and to lose their time I read the Bible to look for how many times a word "do not be afraid" has been mentioned in the country.
Until when he went to the exercise after seeing that they saw a foolish thing, the number I have read it is 42, I put up the exercise after knowing that the internet could not get married "(you should not be afraid) should not be understood) in the Bible.
Nakalega said that Google did not give me the right time because there is a place which is mentioned include 100 but there is a place which is mentioned to be 100 but also there is a place a number that is mentioned is 62 and elsewhere.
Such as a situation even if the right number would have been 42, the truth is that you do not be afraid, "what I told me" do not be afraid, "what I told me" do not be afraid, "said she told me" that the child has been born with Jesus.
Shortly, if he got to say the former ambassador of England in the country, Philip Parwan, a word "do not be careful" is very important for us including Christians, Muslims, Muslims and Hindu religion.
Examples are many so as to prove that the evil deeds in the community were reduced when they came out to question and claimed to do the rights of these examples start from the ones that are also Martin Saanya, Nkwankwo Kanu and other colleagues who were fighting for each other.
Without them and many others, maybe the world could not be a good place and peace to live as it is now because, it is my motion that the world will continue to be a good place to live if it will continue to provide good people to fight the truth and fair to their last respects.
Here at home, Tanzania, same as the same, because corruption are a human being that is being complained to the nation, and because the party and the government which is in power we do not want to reduce the millions of poor citizens who are in one way or another, the big victims of the corruption.
But if you see you, we can come out only if they will give us problems "fear," and there is when a word "do not be afraid" which is mentioned in the Bible to more than 42 times when they become the meaning that he was talking to Ambassador Parade of the year 2008.

In Tanzania, we have several colleagues who received us fear and identifying big evil deeds that they love the citizens even so, because I'm talking on corruption, I agree to give an example of two years of one of those times, the Secretary General of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilfredy Slaa.
On the 15th of September, 2008, at the Mwembe Yanga Temeke Grounds in Dar es Salaam city, Doctor Slaa was giving us fear and gave him a courage to announce public names of the national leaders in that list so as to be popular by the name a list of shame (List of shillings).
By touching the list in public, Doctor Slaa got a lot of time those who had responsibility for that list, those who kidnapped the life and those who passed it will take him to court. However, Doctor Slaa said he was not fear, "and the end of all the truth (though not all).

All of us remember that despite the mockery that got to Doctor Slaa after serving in public the list, there are some suspects who were brought to the court including those who kidnapped them in the beginning to ask him to release his leadership positions.
But we also remember that we remember that it's after Doctor Slaa wants to market publicly "a list of shame" of the corruption, Pope, and warned those leaders, that's when the country found a little bit during that list.
But it's not only that, who doesn't know that the courage to Doctor Slaa's courage to advertise himself in public "a list of shame" by the corruption, Pope, helped to convince the government to deal with corruption?
