
The changes of chief secretaries to bring up much on May 31, 2012.

Changes of directors in the government that were done by President Jakaya Kikwete, has been explained that he will remain in the debate due to some people who were appointed to have a relationship with doubt, our citizens have been told.
Some of the directors inside the government including those who have been working and who were chosen to be selected or to be given their positions, have said those changes are lack of great efforts in the government later.
Among those who talked to our citizens, concerning those changes, include the servants of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its institutions, servants and officials from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and some of the directors in government from a good department.
A large section of those servants have shown getting displeased with the changes made by President Kikwete, though their reasons have been removed and others see that they were removed and others to see that they have been forced to rest.
Being transferred to the former Secretary General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Patrick Rutabaleta was forced to go to the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements Development, has been taken as a result of President Kikwete's appointment, due to getting into that ministry from the Ministry of Water.
One senior officer in one of the institutions that are under the ministry of internal affairs, he told BBC Afrique reports that the decision to destroy the swim, can be due to the relationship with his minister Laurence Masha, that were seen to affect the performance.
However, that officer was seen to be keen to talk about the relationship, but he touched on project of national identity cards that the ministry has been required to give a report that has raised the debate and conflicts in the community.
"You know the project of 'identity cards has caused many ministries and it's true that our ministry does not have luck, the secretary general said he was not prepared and he has come out and he has been removed, but this project of identity cards have been removed," he said.
In addition to the identity cards, Rutabaleta was mentioned to be mentioned in heavy issues including being one of the directors of Merseyside with Gold Limited, which is accused of putting more than 155 billion shillings of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
In addition to being fed an abaleta was explained to be one of the most importantly they have refused the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), that came in a special agreement with the government to produce electricity, still there are servants in government who are saying that he is involved in a great extent and problems encountered in that contract.
Another appointment was made by some of the workers in the government, Prosper Alute.
Mbena has also been said that he had an intention to vie for a member of parliament of Mateo region, Morogoro through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Morogoro villages, an intention that without doubt that it will be presented by that appointment.
The appointment of Juffali, to go to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals have been told to have special goals due to the close relationship of the officer and the State House considering that the ministry has been caught in many days including lack of enough electricity and controversy in the purchase of the machines.
In addition to being accused, a person with a stand and one with the ethics, Jairo has been explained by executives in the government that he can have been taken to implement the special instructions of President Kikwete in solving the problems facing that ministry and its organizations.
"We prepare to have a landslide victory from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals concerning the good issues including the share of electricity, issues of minerals and oil," says another senior officer in the government.
Jairo has been reported to have worked with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals in work with President Kikwete when he was in that ministry, an issue that will increase weight on the argument of going to do "special work," Jairo who is taking the position against Athletico Bilbao that was holding back to his retirement age, an agreement that had a special contract of international electricity project.
Some of the executives are saying this year when I went to face his sudden death, the former secretary general of the Ministry of Finance, Gray Mgonja, who found himself followed before his retirement.
The appointment of the lawyer Saro Wula from the ministry of law and foreign affairs, going to be the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, has been explained to aim to improve the parliamentary debates, but its history in the office of the attorney general has been questioned.
Officials from the Ministry of Law and Constitution have explained that Salula was mentioned to be one of the people that were able to take place by the attorney general of the government after retiring from Johnson Mbwambo, but there are some of the ones that have been unsatisfied with the position before being appointed to foreign affairs.
Others who were selected are Mbarak Abdulwakil to be the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Internal Affairs from the Office of the Vice President, where he was the deputy secretary general and Christopher Sussex at the Deputy Secretary General, Ministry of Water and Irrigation, the appointment was not interviewed because they were appointed.
It has been explained that the appointment of Sezibera, to be the permanent secretary in the ministry of information, culture, and sports is supposed to strengthen the management of the media sector due to the executive secretary to have ever added the Daily News newspaper, before that appointment, considering the deputy secretary general, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
Kamuhanda has taken place Doctor Florence Mwanri who is being transferred to the Ministry of Communication, Science and Technology as the secretary general taking the position of Doctor.
Naomi Katoma, who represented his contract of government service in the next month, November, 2009.
