

By Marusu.
By Theresia Mushi it is among the youths with a broad view about the issue of education here in the country since the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and now at work, where the teachers are part of the availability of better and enough services to all primary and secondary schools.
He said Airtel will bring desks in school to deal with the great wave of students, houses and the desks are needed, but it is important because of involving teachers as stakeholders and the organizers of the nation through the education sector. "
He added, "we are a must for work equipment, buildings, claims of teachers on the work is because of involving the teachers in this work.
The teachers have a lot of allegations that were piled up, it reaches a lot, but it will not be sold quickly as it is the speed of availability of desks in the country, "
"We thank stakeholders to contribute towards desks, but the government is not supposed to be fast to solve the claims of the teachers," he said.
Together with other things, that teachers still believes that there is a chance to the government and the stakeholders of education to ensure that things are changed and they are not every time and wait for a promise that does not have any meaning.
The government can be able to come out and facing debts that they have benefited and making a capacity to solve the challenges of its workers in the education sector.
So, it is true that the speed of the availability of desks cannot be same as a result of claims by teachers but it is true that the government has not been able to solve the claims of teachers as well as improving the education sector?
Those are part of the questions to ask for Maxwell, but quick results are not seen, they are not seen as the plan to look for desks and the company is to reduce the gap in large numbers of classrooms which have been built in the ward secondary school program.
Secondly, the plan to look for enough desks is due to the wave of students who graduated in secondary schools and primary schools for a period of five years ago.
The third issue is a plan to provide free education from the primary school level has caused a large number of students with the school having the ability to deal with that issue.
The results of those issues are causing the challenges of the shortage of desks which are being implemented even so, at that time it is supposed to do a question so that when the teacher Mushi said that the desks are available is the must in line with the shortage of teachers.
For instance, we are collecting enough desks and to take them to school but we are going to school there are enough houses to set aside those desks but we do not make sure that they go to school but we are very few, teachers are few and they did not meet the needs of students.
We are meeting with the environment that contribute to the students not to find education while some of the provinces like the Lake Region have been announced to stop their studies and go back to get married or to be beaten.
The government can build it in order to deal with the challenges in the education sector is to ensure that students are learning in a good place or get good buildings and quality of high quality.
But all that did not be used to complete the quality of education if the teachers are not part of the availability of that quality.
The teachers are required to be given their primary rights because the government is required to know that there are teachers who are teaching the whole school due to the shortage of teachers.
How many times we had heard that one of the teachers used seven classrooms in primary schools but how many times we have made one teachers to teach different studies and what we need to cause to the secondary schools?
When you took over the desks, but what does it complete the quality of education if the teachers will be left or ignored, their claim is a catalyst to the quality of education.
