The music party has reported with a new issue.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

Tanzania Football Association (GEL) has organized a day of communication and relationship between the culture, art and business to the music lovers in the country, that is expected to take place on October first this year.

The national secretary general, Asmara, Miss Mtaki said that in his report that those methods will be aired starting from 390,536 billion at night in the IT building which is expected to be the Ambassador of Cuba in the country, Ambassador Filiberto Ceriani Sebregondi.
He said the aim of that day is to include them and involving themselves with the music lovers of various sectors in the country from ambassadors, national and international organizations, various development institutions, government institutions and other stakeholders in the country.
"The intention is to help bring development talks and build good relationship between the local artists and outside the country, to strengthen the responsibility of developing culture and economy through the art of music and do research in various aspects of art," he said.
He said in collaboration with various organizations in the country and outside the country, for the benefit of Tanzanian artists, to protect various sources of caring for the economy, tourism, business, health, environment, and exchange of various aspects of work.
"You will improve and maintain relationship with other nations in the culture and business and to protect the culture and ethics of here in the country through the art of music by maintaining the culture, traditional and entertainment of any kind that are here in the country," he said.
He said that for the first time it will involve the opportunities of talks by starting a relationship between the culture, economy, tourism and the friendship between Tanzania and Cuba by being supervised by playing South American songs like biothionol, Charts, Msepwa.
