
The rains are caused by disaster.

It has been written by Pickup,.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

21 houses have been closed down by the rains that were accompanied by strong winds that poured in Mtesa village, Sumbawanga Town, Sumbawanga Municipality, Rukwa Province leaving several families, lack of houses and killing four computers and more than 100 chicken.

Speaking with this newspaper in that village yesterday, the Chairperson of the Government of Mtimbira village has mentioned, Wilfredy has claimed that the rains that poured for a half hours starting from 11 o'clock in the evening resulted to a huge fear in that village.
"We have written different areas so as to witness the effects that was caused by that rains and identify 21 houses have been sent away, others have been put up and given treatment and their condition is good for more than 100 chicken, what are not affected by the rains," he explained.
Two brothers who are the disability of skin disability, Maria Zigamba has explained to be at the same time when the rains were taken inside their house which has been put aside.
Agenda Luena, one of the children had survived, he said that the same day of the incident, her child Charles Lemba (6) went to protect various livestock in that village.
"After the heavy rains, the villagers went to him to look for my child and after a search that took place at three o'clock and they were able to release it up with her body being filled with coldness.
The District Commissioner of Sumbawanga Region, Doctor Fred HalHaule speaking with this newspaper while on the way to the village explained that the provincial commissioner of Rukwa, Zelothe Steven, accompanied by delegates of the defense and security committee of the province who arrived in that village.
"A loss that was caused by that rain is not yet known until when the team of the experts will take an evaluation," he explained.
Some of the victims of that rains have urged the government and other stakeholders to come out to help them in state and property, because some of them have been forced to live in the neighbors and their close relatives, George Kyando has said until now, there is no any death that was reported.
