United Nations will participate in the camp today for the purpose of preparing to fight the international friendly game against the United Republic of Congo (DRC) and not the game that took place at the National Stadium on Thursday week and our sportsmen.
I am in the competition that is being trained by the coach Kim Poulsen to play a friendly game before playing their opponents for the game to play in the African Champions League.
The third country in South Africa has already been the head coach of the United Republic of Congo Ambassador Ombeni Sefue whose assistant has arrived in the country from Paris France was the international friendly match against the nation.
Just after friendly game Cosmas and all of us know the presence of nine years this year at the National Stadium where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that the players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that the players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that the players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that the players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that the players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that the players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania Football Federation, TFF, Boniface Wambura has said that players who play soccer in the nation where according to the news officer of Tanzania
Only has reported that the camp today will be good for this players who still have all people.
Because of it?
There and support.
To work before.
He said to remember that he is a mine.
Gold.
You told Bongo Flavour.
.
You will get the whole of the national team of the business such as cooks, four players including players, eat the reason you will arrive tomorrow because of the game, the work will be good to prepare before playing with Mozambique.
Moreover, Wambura has said that there have been changes in last week Julio who has lost his left leg and his position was taken by the minister's position.
From the fact, "said this article.
