
President Kikwete is enough!
FDL against 1st, 2013.

President Jakaya Kikwete for several days this week, has been on a work tour in Kagera province, where he has launched and inspected different activities including development projects, it is a good thing for President to visit his voters anywhere in the country, and especially if the relevant tour is based on development activities.

However, on our part, we had been asked by President Kikwete to continue with his conduct of being a leader of warned more than taking action against President Kikwete has been saying since he arrived in power until now he was going to leave.

Basically, the time you get out of the statements by Kikwete, he has decided to fulfill you, he has been giving reports of warned more that even very disturbing in the government, or bribery, drug abuse and even corruption, including EPA.

While in Kagera Province, President spoke about illegal immigrants saying it's not attackers but are invited and given illegal permits for living with government officers without caring about those officers under the government of district and province, where he is the one who had appointed the district heads and provinces.

Kikwete in Karagwe district of Nyamiyaga village, Nyaishozi, said that it is good for illegal immigrants to come out and return to them early.

He said that for this, it will be a good thing because we (Tanzania) we do not want illegal immigrants in our country. "
We have refused to hear President Kikwete leaving with each other and then he advised on the direction of giving up or asking for assistance to criminals to be self-employed.

The magazine has written to you so much by the young people who don't like to hear the president asking for himself to criminals so that the things do not do well.

It is clear that this trend of President should not be enough when we expected to go back, Nyaishozi and elsewhere in Kagera province, as he proud of how his instructions which was done in dealing with illegal immigrants and not to complain about it or to give instructions if the concerned problem is the new, which happened one day or two weeks ago.

It is surprising to hear the president wants the illegal immigrants to leave themselves through voluntary, without caring about it when talking to the law of the country and even the constitution of the country, he has shown many immigrants.
