
The water projects and Songwe Airport give the President Kikwete more than 25.

The step by President Jakaya Kikwete to land at the Songwe International Airport this week, was enough to give a message to be completed in the construction of the stadium this year, but a big one gave him more about his promise to the citizens of Mbeya province.
The construction of Songwe Airport started in the period of President Benjamin Mkapa, but it has reached a step of completion this year with an airplane has been completed in the quality that is pleasing the two that had brought here to President Kikwete that day.
After landing, and the plane that brought President Kikwete, the type of 28 will not be a very good thing, it does not have a very fast rate, it is in a good area and it is very difficult, "according to the pilot, it does not have problems in use of passengers.
In addition to President Kikwete, there was more importance when he arrived at Swaya town to launch the Dar es Salaam Water Utilities Regulatory Authority in Mbeya City, being one of the big projects that are implemented in the phase of its leadership.
Success in the implementation of those two projects was reported to the political issues of that province that the main reason of President Kikwete wants the citizens of Mbeya Region to go back to that province more than five months for the year 2012.
Apart from the promise he made in this evening after receiving the report of the Provincial Commissioner, President Kikwete mentioned some of the politicians who even so he didn't mention them by parties or names, saying they shouldn't want them to participate in development activities.
Speaking before the launch of that big water project with his center at Swaya Ward in Mbeya town, President Kikwete said Mrs Salma, we are building one house to quarrel over poles and even so, his public left keenly and asked citizens to participate in development activities, even so, his public left roofless from the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), especially when he said.
"Others are looking for conflict every day instead of encouraging development, we see the year 2015, they will help them to see the citizens, our party wants them to serve the citizens while others are unable to participate in order to sensitize the citizens not to get services when they did not benefit many years.
"The water resources is continuing to reduce by that using water because of cyber-crimes is a must," explained President Kikwete.
In addition to giving that warning, President Kikwete told me the citizens about the decision by the breeders which cause the Ihefu Valley reserve once he entered into power, and put it openly that he will not agree with anyone who made the law to manage water catchment areas.
According to the law for now, they have been able to run human activities within twenty-meter area from water sources, but however, people have been able to implement that law while some of the executives in the authority have been given the responsibility of managing those laws participating in the fight.
In dealing with that problem, President Kikwete urged women to be supported by them that they should be many in the water committees and believe by doing so, projects will be safe.
"Men do not have a problem, they are looking for money, all the days they run away from money, those that have no money affect the mother, water committees should be safe," said President Kikwete.
Dar es Salaam Water and Environment project in Mbeya has been implemented together between the government of Tanzania and its development partners in the European Union, cost 500 billion shillings and 5 billion shillings.
His creation of the contribution in that project shows that the Tanzanian government has contributed to 1 billion shillings from 1 billion, the European Union has 369 billion and the government of Germany 2 billion shillings.
Germany ambassador in the country, Kloof Peter Bribes said that since the year 1973, Germany has been collaboration with the government of Tanzania in various development projects and promised them to continue with that partnership.
The development commissioner of European Community explaining his joy due to the completion of that project saying it gives an opportunity to the citizens of that town to get clean and safe water.
Kikwete thanking him.
In his meeting with the leaders of Mbeya Province in the evening, President Kikwete urged leaders in the country to supervise the interests of the citizens, saying.
"Simwanza says that the farmers, the side that benefited from the farmers, by using the side involved, the farmer does not know the rights, a farmer that uses its own systems, therefore we will follow up on the systems that we shall save the farmers," said Kikwete answering a point about the conflict of coffee at Mbozi district.
In that conflict the presence of a long-term tension between the farmers of that village, the district and district level officials are on one side and one company of the purchase of the second side.
At the time some of the farmers and leaders in the province opposing the sale and cold drinks (Iloha), that company has been depending on directions that the law is supposed to do that.
The theft says there is not being done by the farmers, that both buyers and fuel have bought it out of 500 to 600 million shillings per liter, five hundred thousand shillings, a step that gives the company profit because they sell it according to the bridges.
President Kikwete agreed with the stand of the leadership of the province to oppose that business after being satisfied that it wants the farmer and he does not understand poverty.
However, he urged the government officials and political parties saying it is part of the theft due to some of them being involved in those international businesses through the tenders.
These, the board have bad people, but when arriving at the moment they are unable to help him, "he said," she is supposed to help him, "he said," she is supposed to help him, "he said that she is supposed to end the needs of the residents of that city and the use of industries until the year 2017.
