Makamba of the same same, but actions.
Jon 09 / 2014.

Finally, the race towards the State House in the next year has officially started after a young politician, the deputy minister of science and technology and the member of parliament of Bumbuli (CCM), January Makamba, announced that he will vie for presidency.
That news has shaken the social network and put aside the world's World Cup competition that is going on in Brazil, the announcement of that politician who was seen to know many.
And if congratulations are a sign of the victory, then for sure that his decision to vie for that big position in the country seems to be supported through the computer network.
I congratulate January with the courage to announce his presidential intention in public, he did not remember the importance of politicians who want presidency to come out in public early so that we find an opportunity to stop well and maybe give them the judgment.
The procedure of announcing the intention to vie for easily early is as normal in politics of the western countries, especially in America.
However, as a result of its benefits to the citizens, and maybe by the running mate and even get more support, one of its effects are by telling them to give his enemies to the weapon, "he finished early.

Likewise, by announcing the intention earlier, her husband can't make sure he depends on early, even before the election, especially if he has a great reputation.
It should be known that by making them to vie for the presidency early, that politician has given opportunities to citizens to investigate and get married and what did not have been given great importance, then they can make sure the environment to fail early.

Now we look at the position of January to succeed as the former president of Tanzania. One of the great reputation of that politician, is expected to be very close to the social media so we can agree with that issue but "the internet" is not a must that it get the life of a person who can be productive (Real own life).
Another can be able to help that politician who is his same type, though I don't have sure that you get the number of voters in home is the youth but therefore as the same time of January they can be interpreted as well as their fellow youths then he can have a good position.
And a few days after announcing his intention to vie for the presidency in the year, the retired prime minister, Judge Joseph Warioba, was quoted by the press, he advised that it is good for the elderly to let the youth work in the "commission of Warioba," that politician is still respected among them.
However, one of the big restrictions on January to succeed as the successor to the current president, Jakaya Kikwete, is the procedure of getting a presidential candidate in the CCM party, I will not be very much in the way to get a candidate (even the position of presidential candidate on the CCM ticket.

It is known that the ruling party had an official procedure of "the leadership of the receiver on the way after the Tanzanian mainland started his term, after retiring from President Ali Hassan Mwinyi (the first round), who was expected to be the fourth President Benjamin Mkapa (m-Mainland), who was expected to be the fourth President Benjamin Mkapa (m-Mainland).
With an understanding of politics of our country who claim that what is swelled by that procedure (at least time) is the strength of the network that left President Kikwete, power, it is claimed that the network that brought down the requirements of the CCM members of Zanzibar that the fourth phase was going back. "
So, January has enough resources to enable them to convince the people to vie for him and therefore denying them another presidential opportunity after 20 years of Mkapa and Kikwete?

There is another problem that although it is not big but it can destroy the politician, a young procedure that is not official for the presidency is for good leadership, but it is good for you to know if we are looking for religion but the feelings are there and they do not affect the ones they are facing them.

Another solution to January, at least make sure that they do not have CCM party, it's a must that his CCM party is supposed to conclude that there is enough number of contraception you have seen that ruling party as the main cause of the problems facing our country.
