
RC was surprised by Ngorongoro to be poor.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo has explained to be surprised by the way Ngorongoro District was poor development despite having big development stakeholders.

Speaking with government institutions, non-governmental institutions that run their activities in the district, said that he wants to know how those stakeholders are contributing to the development of that district with the wealth of resources.
"Sihana Nkinga, for all the years this district in Ngorongoro does not even one kilometer of tarmac roads, the modern stand or markets which have enough ability to improve these services for the interests of the residents of this district and visitors who come to visit," he said.
He said the citizens in Ngorongoro have had poor lives and problems that do not affect for a long time.
For sure now has come at a time of knowing the work that was done by every member and we know why their presence are not supposed to bring positive changes in this district, maybe their work is very different from our goals, therefore, we should know how your institutions do not work, "he said.
Ngorongoro District has a big government institutions like the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority, the Council of pastoralists together with the councils that are getting a lot of money for development.
He said that despite getting a lot of money, but the speed of development in that district is not seen after all institutions presented their information and it is discovered that there is a long period of land that has now been for a long time out of 949 villages, who had gone down and investor from Thomas V.
"It is now time to sit on one table and all groups to see how we can solve this conflict so that the citizens can continue with their activities and the investor to do his work in peace in the area," he said.
This second tour since he was appointed as the provincial commissioner of Arusha earlier on August, this year.
