
The defense of the ones who are suffering from BADEA.
By OMR.
The chairmanship of EK party, Afghanistan who savers yesterday continued to look for the audience of the tragedy of landslides in one village in Afghanistan, caused the deaths of 350 people while hundreds of others have not known as they are known.
A warning was issued that maybe he may fall into the village of Aaron Nanyaro, that is in the mountains area.
Residents continued to find out the bodies of the deceased's bodies that is in the village that is in Baden Race where also hundreds of houses were destroyed.
The United Nations (UN) has confirmed that 350 people were killed, while the provincial officers said more than 2000 people have not registered 24 hours after the occurrence of the tragedy.
Mud was a huge mountain for mud which is difficult for people to give their own bodies, "Sdoris Kekeletse Phoofolo, the director of the transportation sector in that province she told the AFP in the area of that incident.
"There is fear that may fall down, they received the group of our officers who have discovered that they are able to get out of close mountains in the country, have managed to get the bodies of one man and a woman.
We have begun to spread yourself, but we do not depend on how more than 700 families which were bought outside, approximately 23 people, children and those who were left have been released without the headquarters.
Deuogratius Mushi warned that maybe the number of the number is not known, after the governor of Late Baden Rwena, Mujahideen, said he sees himself as 2,500 people were killed.
The place of that event is expected to be sold at the grave of the funeral of the funeral was held yesterday.
The tragedy took place on Friday when the believers who were in the field of Friday found himself covered by a bomb that was caused by a bomb attacks from BADEA.
"All UN organizations, including the cross-governmental organization of Afghanistan and other non-governmental organizations have succeeded in the tragedy," the UN officer said.
"Those organizations will give a lot of donations to 700 families which have been left without the port because of that tragedy and give priority to the residents of other villages which are in the danger of passing the disaster.
"We need water, health services, advice, food and the future of the time."
