

And the anthill is a question.
It is more than four years Simba has had a difficult time in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, this is as a result of that club doing badly against their opponents, Yanga SC and Azam FC.
Yanga SC club and Azam FC, have been doing well as a result of their economic condition as it is not very much but it cannot get compared to the Simba club of now.
The economy of the economy is making Simba to be into the issue of making registration to players with productivity in the club which they will be able to make great success in the current soccer competition, although there were sponsorship from Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL), but they still had a difficult time.
The funds of those sponsors are open that they were not enough to deal with the amount of the club itself being the year due to their infrastructure.
As a result of that situation, a rich member of that club Mohamed Dewji (Mo Blog has been touched by the act of Simba doing badly in many years, therefore he has put an intention of wanting to invest his money for the purpose of bringing honor to the club in the coming years.
It is a good thing and a productivity to the club that is facing with poverty of money, if the rich is given that team then it is clear that we are expecting to see Simba more than a short time.
MO wants to bring in the shares of the shares in that club which will be new to the soccer club in Tanzania, but it is the system that use big clubs which are participating in the English Premier League like Manchester United.
United for now is the only club that is leading in the wealth of those who are participating in the premier league due to many companies to buy shares.
Therefore, on the plans of Mo Blog, Simba can be able to reach a step that many of us did not have a lot of one day, that club will not reach a big day, that the club's leadership has helped to see the competitive soccer club like Yanga SC, Simba SC and Azam FC.
In plans that he has given Mo Blog in his report with the journalists at the end of last week, it is clear that the club will have a dream of putting the crown of the African Champions League that is seen to be hard to score for a recent years against their opponents.
