The report of CAG has been banned, wisely, CCM Mwanza.
Jide 19, 2012

The situation is not well in the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza province where members are seeing each other for the inspection of inspection of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) like the loopholes to deal with politics.

The tension that emerged after the political committee of CCM in Misungwi district, wants the chairman of the council, Bernard Luanda, when he resigned from being mentioned in the report of CAG, he has changed into a political situation in this province.

The session of the political committee of CCM of Misungwi District, held in the beginning of this month and received information on inspection of the council, expected to discuss those reports and be satisfied that the accusations that were accused by the chairperson of 4 points, and reports of embezzlement of money makes the qualifications to be a leader.

That sitting got three days since he has resigned from the position of chairperson of the council as a step of building discipline and accountability to the party leaders who are in position of public service.

However, together with being given that time that ended in July 11, that chairman who is also the councilor for Ihenga town, has refused to resign from the explanation that the decision to take that issue in the political committee was the issue of being dealt with by state agencies to support political leaders of some of the party leaders.

He said that in order to build a great party, it is important to the party to stop that issue should be dealt with by concerned agencies instead of bringing a care of politics, a situation that is proud to get out of a great interest in not knowing.

"The council of councilors started a lot of days and discuss this issue and it was decided to be shaken the TAKUKURU institution (the institution for preventing and fighting corruption), other political parties is a dirty game of some people to achieve their political goals," explained his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo.
That chairman who has been in a political tension for a long time with the member of parliament of that constituency who is also the deputy minister of the country, Office of the Vice President, Charles Kitwanga, due to having a different camp in the last general elections, is accusing his member of parliament that he did not want to be the chairperson that is why he has continued to do when he met even at the end of elections.

"When I know these things have a surprise from the member of parliament, did not want to be the chairman who had his person, but he was unable to protect yourself if the political committee does not get here, if it is the theft," he said.

When required to confirm if this chairman has made the directive by the party or the secretary of CCM, Misungwi District, Markhiya, uda, he said that he has not resigned from their party as the district have fulfilled their responsibilities and because he had not left that issue to the party level that will decide.

Speaking about the complaints by that member of parliament that the party is making those decisions on parole.

"The party's stand is not there and can be able to find solutions, it's our work to supervise the public servants, to start looking for people's work and to get married, he does not tell him, he does not know her, he did not have a lawyer," said Mabina.

Honorable Kitwanga said when he was asked about those accusations through the phone from Dodoma where they attended the parliamentary sessions he was going to say anything and I told the writer, talk to the leaders of the party or province because he is not involved in those decisions of the party meetings.

I am an ability to hear 'no' I request for you to talk about something, those should ask the party leaders, "explained when required to clarify about his disappointment in the party's sessions to marry off their leader.

While the current situation is going between the chairman of the Council of CCM and the district, information from Misungwi district, states that there have been reports of more than 20 members of 4 o'clock in the district, who have been supported by their chairman claiming to break the chairmanship.

That situation prompted the chairperson of the party to do a tour to meet with those councilors so as to talk with them but the situation was not good in the internal meeting because instead of talks to discuss the situation that were affected by that situation.
