The secret of violence?
Autoworks and 28, 2015.

"Contracts, people who destroy the contracts, that if he is elected, the councilor or member of parliament, will give them things like motorcycles or leadership positions in the government like the head of districts that are asked, people have been asked, people have been asked for people to fight for, so they won't have a contract!"
The films that were cut into their parties moving to other parties continued in Mbeya Province last week, have shown the more that the one of the Member of Parliament, Mbarali county, Modestus Kiliberali has been reported.
On August 14, this year, at the Rumanyika Secondary School Grounds, Salome Urassa, the member of parliament was officially introduced to parliament to parliament and the chairman of the party, Freeman Mbowe, at their historic meeting in this province, being eight days later moving to ACT-Wazalendo after being arrested.
If it was for the other leaders of CCM who were rushing to parliament after being charged by Kiliberali, his former party and as compared to each type of pain, such as corruption, theft, hypocrisy and illegal immigrants of democracy, but eight days later, he had gone to and he was arrested.
The member of parliament who succeeded to enter the parliament through integrity and land conflicts in Mbarali District, was expected to go back to parliament through CHADEMA, and his faith got more strength when he was accepted by the party's leadership at the province of Mbeya and the nation.
"The district answered me, you will enable the nation and province to inform them well, but their districts me refused," says Kilale, in his phone interview with this newspaper, claiming it was quoted by his member of parliament, Mbarali District.
However, after being arrested in parliament, that politician had gone to ACT-Wazalendo on Friday where he took the form to vie for the parliamentary position in that region of Mbarali and return that day, being just a few hours since the parliamentary candidate, and confirmed that his decision said that they will be able to return the form. "
The reports from that province explains that, the political parties and CUF, all of them being part of Ukawa, have put the parliamentary candidates in that region contrary to the agreement of that union.
According to the agreement of that union, Mbarali county that was left for Citizens Party (CUF), but by seeing many people, you will have stopped the candidate.
The parliamentary chairperson of Mbeya Region, Joseph China has confirmed that the existence of that song claims that it has resulted from CUF to set up a candidate that they are proud of, his ability to win in the next general elections.
Through the agreement of Ukawa, Mbarali county that was going on CUF, but his candidate has no strength and he has a relationship with the CCM candidate, therefore, he said China in a special interview with this newspaper through phone.
However, on the other side, the explanation of the chairperson about Kilufi added one with that candidate, where that candidate has confirmed that the candidate was caused by leaders that in foreign activities, therefore lack of parliament to discuss and discuss the issue of their party to suspend him from the parliamentary position.
"Some of the people are the leaders that joined the forms, but it's a letter to break the appointment of the candidate that led in the referendum process when it came up, already he had already been able to return forms," says China.
It is believed that she didn't come out of Kilongawima area and he will make sure that the member of parliament from that province, after that politician leaving with his lovers that he got in with approximately eight days before going to ACT-Wazalendo.
The chairperson of Human Settlements Development, Mbeya Region, Godfrey Mwandwani, is looking at the special situation inside the parties that make up Ukawa through an additional eye, saying it is a union that was caused by the big decision to share experiences and that they did not care about the participation of their members.
"If there is a partnership, he is where Doctor Slaa (the former secretary general of parliament), is where Professor Lipumba (former CUF Chairman), there is a big secret that they did not want to put it publicly that they have a great secret of those," said Elias Mwandu who were interviewed by this newspaper.
The issue of leaving is explained by the stakeholders of Mbeya politics not to have health in politics of the province and the country in general, get a step to confirm the way those politicians have been pumped by their private interests and not the community as they claimed to be surrounded by politics.
"A person appears from today's party has joined another party that day and given an opportunity to vie for him, he doesn't know the constitution of the party, this one is pumped by the personal interests," says that chairperson of APPT Development, "says that chairperson of APPT Development.
