
The son of the brother who continues to vote for CCM, May 23, 2012.

While the results of the opinion polls, about the appointment of candidates for the council membership position through the Revolutionary Party in Shinyanga province, a situation is not safe, while some of the candidates who failed to be buried and to help the opposition parties in the next general elections.
In the province of Shinyanga town, the two candidates who failed, Doctor Charles Kimei, who is the member of parliament for his term, Professor Joyce Masimba, nominated member of parliament, Philemoni Ndesamburo, has refused to sign up the results up to that appeal to oppose that results.
The winner in those votes were the chairman of the Youth Union of Shinyanga province, Stephen Masele, while Mlingwa has held the second position and Maseru.
In their appeal, those candidates claim that voting was dominated by corruption, cheating in the votes for allowing voters who had not qualified.
In Maswa West region, the Member of Parliament of the Maswa constituency, Maswa constituency, Philemoni Ndesamburo, has refused to sign the results because such as those candidates in Shinyanga town region, but different from his colleagues, shibuda has decided to appeal claiming that it is free for a party and said that CCM without bribery it's impossible or not.
In Mlalo county, all the five candidates who succeeded in the country have condemned the results who complained to the winner of those votes, a member of the national executive council of CCM and the famous businessman in this province, Suleiman Nchemaba, on the claims of playing pool, bribery and cheating during the campaign and during the casting of votes.
Those four candidates are the former member of parliament of that constituency, Paul Ng'amilo or Makanya, Lakonko District, Charles S. Chiki, Robert Kachumu and Baamar.
In their appeal to the director of the elections of that province, those candidates are forced to speak, together with other things, to be distributed to fake fake cards for CCM by voting them to support that candidate, while the voters' vote will be constructed.
Some of the fake cards are together with sim cards and 4249,143 students, which is claimed to be released in Bugesa, November 6th, 2008 together with 34834 cards that were donated to the campaign has been issued during the campaign.
Those candidates are supposed to speak about the action of Nchemaba campaigning for the campaigns that they are claiming is open by some of the delegates of the political committee of districts, together with him being unable to attend and participate in the sessions of the party's committee to discuss the candidates.
Other complaints are together with the full number of voters not to be noticed earlier before voting for discrimination in handing over a few minutes to the stronghold of those candidates, thus denying them the members that register their rights to vote.
They are giving an example of four branches where compensation that were taken by the real needs in brackets as Amast was 970,074, a total of 970,046, were 970,046, a total of 970,046.
In the 949 years, a total of 93949 in the 57th and 158, were 970,089, at 970,089, at 1160 shillings and other things.
Those candidates have also complained about the act of Nchemaba, for electing leaders of branches of the district of Shipafu and analyzes the whole day before casting their votes, a step that is accused of controlling the strategies to plan the results of votes.
They are saying that despite the list of voters not being buried on the seats of the polling stations, claims that in some of the stations that were found before the stations were set well before the stations were set well, all of those votes were illegal for the aim of giving illegal immigrants.
Those candidates who failed to claim that not being involved, they are their agents in the regional level exercise so as to get results, and that this exercise was done by people admitted to Shinyanga town to the candidate.
In another step that is not expected by the party, more than 300 members of Ukara ward, Maswa district, have protested in the results of those opinion polls starting from the Party of Democracy and Development, through CCM party (9705) if CCM will leave the results.
The county council was being held by CCM member of parliament, Fred Ngapa ', who earlier this year to join that party and joined the community that had been registered by the Community of Social Development (91), before moving to CHADEMA recently.
Nchemaba campaigning in the race for the parliamentary candidate of Kishapu district, started following reports from the district residents since December last year, when he announced the intention of vying for a period of time, according to the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Nkone, where he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of" Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro, "he announced the intention to vie for a period of time due to the slogan of" Ng'ombeni, Upendo Nkone, where he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time since the slogan of "Ng'ombeni, Upendo Kilahiro," he announced the intention to vie for a period of time
