Magufuli laying the sale of houses.
Sei 23, 2015 with Raia Mwema, entertainment and games.

The presidential candidate on the ticket of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Doctor John Magufuli has quoted some of the questions including selling of government houses, the work that he got on the minister of construction, in the third phase government.
Magufuli refuses to answer those questions that were directed to him during a special interview that took place in Tabora Town, September 15, this year for the interview that was released on Wednesday last week in the newspaper of Mke Mwema.
Apart from a question about the selling of government houses, other questions that he postponed for them is about the high cost of road construction in the country compared to some of the countries, line with the quality of those roads.
That question is a house, which is part of the 11 questions, the elderly and the sale of houses in the government has been implemented while the construction of construction has not been implemented while the minister of construction has still talk about this?
As a result of those questions that were been asked by Magufuli approximately one week before the official interview, the concerned questions didn't be presented to the instructions that they were given by Magufuli in an interview that we have been planned for another time.
The selling of government houses was implemented in the leadership of President Benjamin Mkapa and more than 8 houses were sold at a high level.
It is alleged that in the selling of houses, Magufuli wrote on the process of selling that is mentioned to be supervised by one of the executive director of the Government Agencies (TBA).
In the fact, Magufuli is alleged to have used the selling of one of the houses of those houses, Musa Magufuli who is her younger wife and she was alleged to be a fellow mother and asked the directors of TBA and follow his requirements for giving them their brothers.
Under the Public Service Agency Limited Company Limited Dash-30th of the year 1997, TBA was given all the authority to sell the government houses, building a new house, to improve infrastructure together with distributing houses of bridges, B and C with government workers and not the minister of construction in that region.
According to that law, minister is allowed to appoint members of the board of advice who will advise the secretary general of the ministry on a good way of TBA and managing his authority.
In that sales of houses, the government is expected to have a total of 1,067,888 trillion shillings, but the reports were showing that it has got 22,107,43,000,00 shillings.
Among the houses that were done by the government at the moment is 1,098 shillings that are supervised by TBA and between those, 692 houses have been built as Rest House of government, while 40 houses are used as Fest government offices, 24 houses are being used as factory and 29 houses.
In the year 2010 / 2011, the government through the ministry of construction presented its budget to parliament in Dodoma town and explained that it is expected to use approximately 57 billion shillings to build a new house so as to save millions to pay for servants who protect themselves to sit in a hotel for lack of houses.
However, that amount of money that was set aside for that time was less compared to what was set aside, in the previous budget of 2009 / 2010, 11,04 billion shillings for the construction of the house.
