Siyan Lowassa's friendly - Kikwete.
Jide 17, 2013.

President Jakaya Kikwete has said he didn't appoint Edward Lowassa as the prime minister because of their friendship but because of its success.

Kikwete has said this through his book of JK, political impasse that was explained about her life that is now found here in the country.

Kikwete has been explained to give this information one year after an event to bid farewell to Lowassa following the scandal of Richmond Development that was forced to inspect the whole council of his ministers.

"I listen to it is true that Lowassa is my friend and I've ever heard for a long time, but also I need more people for a long time, politicians and politicians have no politicians.

"I was looking for someone who will work hard and in implementing my policies Honorable Lowassa came out well as a person who is able to have his experience," the book wrote him Kikwete.

This is the first time when Kikwete explains openly that his relationship together with the evaluation of performance of Lowassa, since the beginning of the Richmond Development Program.

Very few sentences when in the explanation of Kikwete, it shows his view to the prime minister, who was alleged to have resigned, "Lowassa was one of the senior ministers with great success in the country."

Part of this explanation of Kikwete shows that one year after the scandal of Richard Mwaikenda, the president still had faith with Lowassa.

While Kikwete was appointed as the president in 2005, many names were mentioned to take the position of a prime minister although Lowassa was mentioned more due to the close relationship with those leaders.

Lowassa also did not take a form to vie for presidency in the general elections of the year 2005, something that was mentioned to show his intention to support that candidate of the Revolutionary Party (CCM).

Some of the political issues analysis, claimed that President Kikwete's decision to appoint Lowassa could have a great effects because his friend could be able to get into work.

Just after that appointment, that's when the concept of "local government in the country, due to some people who were mentioned to be the president of Kikwete, including Lowassa, getting a chance in his first cabinet of ministers.

Kikwete and Lowassa met for the first time in the year 1974 in the University of Dar es Salaam, all of them being members of the Youth Union of Tanu, although Jakaya Kikwete was in his last year's last year.

All of together they did a decision to join employment in the Tanu party (CCM) at that time just after finishing their studies, all of them raised the form to vie for the presidency through CCM in 1995 when they were under 50 years of age.
