The Democratic Republic of Sumbawanga.
October 12th, 2012

The decision by the referral hospital in Tanzania expects to inform him from the appeal of the former member of parliament of Sumbawanga Town Constituency on CCM ticket, Aaron Nanyaro, that was awarded a parliamentary seat by the High Court of Sumbawanga Region, April 30th, this year, it is a decision at the funeral of a parliamentary election in Sumbawanga town region.

Currently, according to the law, the small elections can be done within three months starting on the day of that decision at the High Court of Tanzania.

Basically, we are requesting all the two sides in that case, because those sides have fulfilled their responsibilities.

It is the right for a person who is oppressed to go to court to claim his rights, but also it is the right to look at a certain level of the court, has made a judgment of blocking us, to appeal at the high level of court to oppose that judgment.

Therefore, on our part, we insisted to thank all the sides by obeying the law which is the guide of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.

It is in that primary school, we believe that those sides through their political parties will continue to respect the basis of legal laws of the country, in running their political activities.

That, their discipline in obeying the law will not sell him in the court's income as it appears during the time of listening to the case to oppose the results that was opened by the former parliamentary candidate on CHADEMA ticket, Sumbawanga Town, Nevelle Meena.

We expect political parties that will participate in the small town of Sumbawanga town they will not run a campaign of peace and peace and peace and all parties to deal with me that, until now there are no major events.
Including the killing of political foundations that have happened in Sumbawanga town.

The state of peace and harmony in the Sumbawanga town region is not doubt, and therefore, we are expecting that the campaign meeting will not tolerate peace and stability among the Sumbawanga Region.

At the time of the campaign we should not expect to hear the life of our political parties, we should recognize honor, love and calmness of the locals of the Sumbawanga Region and prevent many from general.

The action of any political party to cater for the groups of expanding the Sumbawanga town during the campaign, is not an act.
The patriotic and we should never remember that situation, peace and stability.
