
Tanzania participates in the gap of the rich and poor.

It has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

Tanzania has been mentioned by the World Bank to be among the few nations in the world that had a large extent to reduce the gap between the rich and poor.

The report of the bank about entrepreneurship in the world that was released recently, has listed the Tanzania and the countries of Brazil, Cambodia, Peru and Mali as five countries that are very big steps.
On the side of Tanzania, the report shows that the success was found in a period when the nation got a good growth of the economy of an average of 65 percent per year between the year 2004-2014.
"The level of poverty nationally has reduced from 345 percent in the year 2007 up to 282 to 2 in 2012," says part of the report.
In the gap form between the poor and the rich, Tanzania improved from 39 points in the year 2007 until under 36 points in 2012, the average of the average of the Sub-Saharan countries in 2015 had 451 billion shillings.
"The steps that were taken by Tanzania in reducing the gap between the poor and the rich in this short period is short," says the report.
The evidence shows this success resulted from the increase of use among the low-level people, "among 40 percent, the use by 394 percent compared to 60 percent of people with great income which have been only 1 percent.
"It is clear that the things have done well more than the poor people than the rich of this period," the report says.
Starting from the year 2007, there was an increase in transactions and industries, especially food, drinks and so on the issues that the bank says which they had enabled people who do not have a lot of skills to participate in the economy.
That report has added that, sponsorship to the government in developing policies that are targeting to target the revenue collection has also contributed in Tanzania to make steps of those policies is a strategy of the government to strengthen the availability of primary services like health, primary, water and sanitation among the poor people.
The others are the Community Development Fund (TASAF), that bank says it has helped the poor community to put savings and invest especially in livestock.
However, the bank has said that Tanzania is supposed to do more effort to reduce the gap of income between the provinces as well as strengthening the availability of these services needed in the availability of electricity and sanitation services.
