There are there in some of the weapons.
Prisons will help us as we go hand.
When our day visit, we saw that I will remember again, I will give me a long time, "flash disk" and their close water from home until the evening, because it becomes difficult to do events in the community.
Previously we were previously when we were pregnant we had water.
Then the second one is the first.
When the time of going to contest, they can buy due to Adam to take it.
Advisory, we are happy to have water at all times and they have helped you so much to remove many problems that people had to you want to sell the blood or at the same time we had previously taken up to up to ten patients at the month and they can be more than.
The late?
These achievements are as a result of the development organization of the Catholic church in the region.
Under the sponsorship from Water for Ted Cruz a lot of millions of water for the purpose of implementing the big water project, we had already done a lot of challenges that will be done in Mbulu district where there were a big shortage in other wards in Mgaya.
And the beginning we were led by the mining of wells.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, there should be a good results that there should be a very good results because of the late?
Since the health of the rich and other wells, we were the short courses that they made.
Chicken can be used in water but also the well we were in the same way, we believe that it is good to look for the sources so that when we will begin their trials in the neighboring village, we will start doing their trials in the neighboring village if we see how many areas like how we are.
To take the water at the audience.
Which party is crossing borders.
.
Therefore, after an agreement with discussions, we will begin a fine for two hundred and ten years, we will go to change because they are developing the community in all areas now according to the real situation of the community, the community of people are seen under the community.
They have the members to get the allowances for your purpose and eat the fruits that their income is also little because their participation in the water project participated in giving their friend together.
Therefore, for twenty years, together with participating in the fight against corruption, you put it well for the purpose of getting clean and safe water in their village.
This project has a distance of 10 kilometers to the meeting because of entering the third until the end of the game.
.
We are communicating with the meaning of the neighboring villages together with the colonialist so that we can benefit from the project.
A clean environment taking place is together with the construction of the stations.
Nine of the water from citizens and team are sick.
The cost of the project.
That is up to here where we are.
There was an end.
An accused of a total of six hundred million shillings.
Six hundred and seven hundred thousand, five hundred and seven hundred thousand shillings.
In general, this project brings people about two hundred thousand people although it is now.
