
Zanzibar members of parliament.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The members of parliament of the United Republic of Zanzibar have been commended for their big contributions that has helped in giving solutions to various challenges of institutions of that ministry during the parliament and asking questions.

That was said by the minister of internal affairs, Mwigulu Nchemba, while speaking to members of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania in Zanzibar when greeting the citizens of his tour of Zanzibar.
He said that in the donations that are given by members of parliament from Zanzibar to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are leading in a question and wanted to be given explanations on various issues concerning institutions that are available in that ministry.
"I have been seen by many contributions from the Zanzibar members of Zanzibar where they come from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to meet the performance and problems that are there in the ministry institutions including the police force," he said.
He said due to the good work of the members of parliament, many times he has been preparing well to answer those issues whose aim is to bring success to the police force, which is part of the United Republic of Tanzania.
He told the members of parliament that, various challenges facing the police force at the moment have been working together with work equipment and their allowances for some members of parliament who loved Minister Mwigulu to see the performance of the police force and their environment.
Member of parliament of Mpendae County, Salim Turky, said that many contributions were taken to parliament aims at improving the police force and to bring success to work.
The general commissioner of Zanzibar Police Force, Omar Mjenga, said they have done well in protecting the peace of the country as well as its people while urging the community to obey laws without stopping.
"That is my call, obey the law without being satisfied with we the police, we will make our responsibilities by considering the laws that are leading the army without informing someone," he said.
