The government building a sports center.

It has been written by our correspondent, Kibaha.

It has been published by 19th September 2016.

The government has planned to build a national sports center in the country in order to implement the five-year plan for sports development in an effort to improve sports in the country.

The Deputy Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Anastazia Wambura said the station (National Sports Complex) will cause a catalyst to the development of sports in the country.
Wambura made the remarks the day before yesterday during the closing of a two-day conference for sports that took place at a sports center of Filbert Mponzi, Kibaha province, Coast Province.
He said that the government recognizes the importance of developing sports in the country, in producing employment and contribute to the national income, where the five-year-year plan for the year 2016-2021, you know that Tanzania is behind in sports, therefore, there is need to improve the level of sports in the country.
He said in the implementation of the implementation, the government has planned to build a center together with continuing to strengthen the sports college of Mallya, so as to get enough experts to provide sports training in the country.
He said that the ministry is continuing with the process of controlling the policy of development of the year 1995, in order to ensure it goes hand in hand with the current needs.
"The ministry has organized a procedure to enable stakeholders to explain success, challenges and recommendations that will be able to be considered as preparations for the new policies.
"Said Wambura.
And the Secretary General of Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Filbert Mponzi said, together with other things, the participants in that conference have discussed different topics and gave several resolutions that will help in the growth of sports in the country.
That two-day conference that involved former leaders and the current sports leaders, leaders and retired sportsmen, were sponsored by the department of donations of the International Olympic Committee (EAGI) and TOC).
Stakeholders who participated in the conference have requested the government to make sure that the resolutions were reached in that conference on the performance so as to be the catalyst to the development of sports in the country.
Some of the musicians of the sports who attended the conference include the first sports director in the country in an event Abdallah, the first manager of the National Stadium (now Uhuru), Jomo, Dyna and former director of sports, Leonard Kazoba.
