Africa is starting to inherit the murderers.
Jide 5, 2013.

One of the chairpersons of the African Continent, says that if he uses firewood as one of them were taken to court for the charges they were using their power by killing them and identifying their colleagues.
Charles Taylor, who was the president of Liberia, was sentenced to last year imprisonment for 50 years in prison, he was given that judgment with special court of Sierra Leone that was formed by the United Nations.
He has been accused on the charge of helping and protecting the Sunni rebels during Sierra Leone when they were fighting against them between the year 1991 till 2002.
Taylor had a knee injury when he told me that there is no longer a journey in 1997 even before he was not the president and he was not known as the name of his friend, when he forced him to protect him they were small children whom they missed the weapons.
At a time when I used to hear I met with one of those times, he had a very short time to win the weapons that he was carrying the weapon that she had also identified himself.
I met with him out of the new house then Taylor ended in the road heading to Congo Town where Taylor was living with Nigeria's ambassador and Germany.
Taylor Swift was inside the house for building the construction, but here is not his place to bring him in the whole issue that was admitted there, I don't know me, saying that it was affected by my child, who was a member of parliament.
I did not wait, to compete with him, again by using a lot of words when he was with a gun of AK - 47 and his head comes back to the Indian Ocean.
Several months later Taylor was appointed the president of Liberia and he started using his authority by helping Sierra Leone who had killed, getting hands and conducting a lot of people who don't know.
Another leader who was arrested and finally taken place at the International Criminal Court (ICC) is Laurent Gofrey Zambi who was appointed the president of Cibitoke village, until when he was arrested in 2011.
Before that, Glawogger who was defeated by Alminium to the second round of the presidential election that was done on November 28, 2016, Yellow Fever said that he was unable to find the killing in Abidjan City by people who were from the northern region of his country, a place since Outsourcing Limited.
It is reported that those who had been killed were its army men, most of them being beaten from Liberia. The representatives of the United Nations in Abidjan City have been receiving information about the squads of Gajaj and it is also said that the mass murders are being built in Abidjan City.
Those accusations are the ones that caused Glawogger who was arrested and sentenced to a court of ICC.

Other leaders who were arrested, although not the presidents include Jean-Pierre Bemba, the leader of the movement of Congo DRC (MKEWAWa), Lil Upewe Promotion, a child of the former leader of Libya's leader.

"Simba" is being used as the former commander of army police de Gaulle International Airport, Itandula Grisham, a group of fighters of the tribe of Nganga, Congo, Kinshasa.

The accusations facing "Simba" is that one day in the month of February 2003 with his fighters while at the village of Bexhill, and killed the people of tribe.

Another one has been buried by the High Court ICC is Don Ntachuma who is believed to be on the March of March this year when he had fled to the United States in Kigali, Rwanda, to prevent the Embassy in Kigali, Rwanda, to convince the Embassy in Kigali, Rwanda to inspect them, where his case is still ongoing.

Recently, the arrest of which were arrested are Hunter, the former president of Cindy, who was arrested last Sunday in Dakar, Senegal.

A penalty is faced with the accusation of killed and blocking thousands and thousands of its opponents for according to one commission of research that was set up after a short period of political reasons and two hundred thousand people were tested for a period of eight years of his administration.

The first time to see the name of Hanns Seasons Hotel which was held in the year 1974 in his group of rebels in the country, they were kidnapped from three witch doctors, when they won the White men to be compensated.

One of the hostage was Francis Kipilimba a lot of patience, who was born with mental technologies and a woman being followed, who at the same time he had a 37 year old child, he was buried and when the 37 for a period of 33 months in the Tibakemikali ward in Dar es Salaam.
