Bisau has said that this year is being bullied.
May 6, 2015.

OThatcher famous in Bisau was a politician who has ever played on July 30th, 1898, equivalent to 83 years of history, it seems to be the one who plays in Germany.
The historians have written many, and they are continuing to write a lot, arising from Bisau, there are those who thank me, but there is no doubt that he was a gospel singer and maybe he was even more than a political singer.
In a way he used in Karimjee in his political parties, it was difficult to decide if it was Bisau who performed well in politics or politics that went to him.
When you put aside his political competence and how he used to be an expert in politics, his habit in Bisau had an error in the history because he had a habit that went against him.
For example, even if he felt it was not a person every time he hopes in doubt, his health is surprised to believe that maybe he was a patient.
Another milestone is that he had not want to forgive me someone else other than revenge and he didn't know the feelings of others, if his actions or any statements are marrying.
On the other side, Bisau doesn't know that the man had a great joy and she had a lot of joy, a spirit what doesn't know her.
He had another surprising habit, for example, even though he was married he is alleged that there was a time when being shot himself by deception.
Another milestone in the past was his stand about the colonialist as he was participating in Germany not to be the colonialist when asking that the colonialist will be a big cargo in Germany.
But suddenly between 1883 and 18384, Bisau did not changed and leave the colonialist in the Southern Highlands region and African continent (Tanganyika) one of his colonialists in that continent.
However, he said she had a great opponent in charge and any policy to be stable, however, he is also a first plan in the modern world of the government to provide free social services without payments.
Without doubt, he started that plan so that the workers to support him instead of his foreign rivals.
Bisau has been a good writer but his sentence has not been removed from the reason why his clothes were behind it, he started telling her mother of false words since early marriage and he continued with that behavior up to his home.
The plain truth is that the habit of Bisau doesn't have a habit that is against them is one of the things that make the journalists today to give me her.
There is another problem with the people that give us her to him, it is his speech that is seen to have a lot of wisdom or not that you missed.
However, he said he himself had a reputation or rather than saying anything, one journey has ever said that there is no time when people believe very happy, "after a prey in the time of war or before the election."
Truly, those are the words of a person who was a person, but if we do not have the ability, but they give them a bit during this time because the general elections are already from Bisau, this time the election before the election is very humiliating.
We are expecting to meet the lot of cheating and false accusations from our politicians, in all the camp, although there is very disturbing but also politicians are politicians and one of their behavior have been reported more and those with fear of failing to fail in elections.
These days in some of the African countries, Tanzania being one of the people going to get into politics on the political side where we can rule with one of the biggest aim of enabling them to use politics like the level of desks heading to the efficiency of every kind.
Therefore, but if it's not the same way all the countries in various African countries and those outside the borders of Africa, there are many politicians who use politics because of human beings they want to contribute to the development of their countries, they want to contribute to the development of their countries, to fulfill those countries, they are doing a good place where there is a life and development.
The big activity of politicians in the country with the system of democracy is to win their policies if it's not able to implement their policies if they will not be discriminated, and when they are chosen to continue with their work to bring development in the country.
Then politicians have been vying for seats in parliament and other councils of the law.
Likewise, those political parties have a chance to participate in many seats in those councils so that they can form the government and rule.
