
Agriculture.

The captain by the attempt failed to be demolished.

Their cargo of cassava is very important for the economy of Tanzania more to small-scale farmers and low-income farmers, most of the farmers do not produce their farms, cassava leaves and other crops like the same, a human being and live in each other.
A cassava leaves that is in a 0-0 speed up to 50,400 shillings, also in areas that got the average of 739 meters up to 119,689, Mwanza, Ruvuma, Mbeya, Mbeya, Mbeya and Shinyanga.
The best tax of cassava.
Due to experts there are two types of flowers that have been confirmed by the farmers such as usual.
(I) I'm looking for these days is the solution to the farmer using 19 tons of one hectares and can be harvested for the nine months (9) since it is paid.
(Second), while handing over a bale of 25 tons to 30% for one hour and it is also harvested for nine months (9) from it.
These diseases are available in the areas to be followed.
Kanye West Institute Noma - Mtwara.
Kanye West Institute of Arusha.
I'm in the University of Unguja.
The location is at Uyole, Mbeya.
Kanye West Institute Markhiya, Kagera.
Pictures by Bashir Nkoromo, Mwanza.
The seedlings are supposed to have any diseases, also choose exercises which have been doing well.
The tree planting seeds of cassava in light.
There are three ways that have been normal and in planting seeds of cassava on the farm.
(It is the urinary tract.
(Second) to stop the audience.
(III) and a way to save the church (it is known).
If a woman is advised, it has been advised that the length of the stem cells to be 11,150 CCM members and also depends on the number of eyes available on a piece is better to be done by 4 percent up to 6.
The first step is required to take place early in the first month after planting, so as to prevent the effects that are needed immediately after the heavy rains and also within four months of poverty as it will not affect the competitiveness of a special needs between cassava and weeds.
Sexually transmitted diseases to kill a cassava bone.
There are two diseases that are causing to reduce the production of water from cassava leaves.
(A) this disease of cassava leaves by cassava leaves.
This is a disease which is being obtained in different parts of the world with a length of 300 hundred thousand shillings, which is being built in a small area in the 508 hours, this disease is spread by a fox which is white or a hole.
The symptoms of the disease in cassava bone.
Here we will look at three parts of the cassava bone.
(I) in mind.
The first signs are happening in color, on the periphery, small and small tribes to make the very small way and can be a lot of yellow fever.
The second symptoms of color which does not depend on well and eat with each other in the final stages of disease, a big part in the country can get into the end of a period of several weeks.
(Second).
The disease is seen in the heart of the stem cells, but the injury on the sun or boiling it falls it could be seen outside and getting inside and entering into the field after falling for him from outside.
(III)!
The death of the groom usually comes from five months since planting, its symptoms may be able to change the outside of tomorrow or to reduce the size of the farm or without a reduction, the issue that is spread through a reduction, but it is not allowed to make sure this disease are spread through illegal ways.
(B), the domains, are estimated to be leprosy.
This disease spread in Tanzania out of 1894 years and it is reported in other African countries, this disease has been caused by a bomb that is caused by a situation that is being caused by a situation that is being caused by the sun which is caused by the HIV virus for the ones that have been infected by the virus.
The symptoms of the herbal medicines are located in Cassin Mosley (CMSA).
- Mmambe ', those laborers have been successful and that you had already been stolen, it may be a yellow card or a yellow fever, a white that is very little or grafted as it is normal.
The symptoms occur on only behind only with misuse of corruption which affects the parts of the state of climate change and usually be known in the previous steps of the economic growth.
Also, the leaves that have been affected are reduced, the size of a shape, and they get married and will start well in part of the yellow fever that are normal.
This disease usually have been infected on the stem cells that are normal is used to appreciate themselves.
Leprosy.
The way to control these diseases on the internet has gone down.
.
The poor service is needed so that it is needed for continuing to choose and allows them to shine after being infected.
- it is also needed to understand the symptoms of diseases to take precaution to eradicate this disease.
Pests and bake.
.
Cassius Mdami (CMB).
These pests have come up in the sharp edges.

- White FGM?
These are very disturbing and they face the stem and suction of water from a tree of cassava bone, so as to prevent these effects are not important.

- Cassof Green Themi Dar es Salaam (CPA), these pests have risen up with new crimes in the lower areas.

What does it mean?
These are sick and doesn't have a mosquito of cassava especially during solar eclipse.
Also there are harmful bacteria who fail to go down from cassava while on the farm, put aside, such as summoning demons.
Present, you can prevent these diseases by using drugs and pest like terrorism in Tanzania.
There is no problem of industries.
If it appears to be demolished without using that disease, it's only good and even in soil you do not have enough medicine, Mtaki Mutahaba said that I will be infected in a clean flour, maybe if you want to sell and not from cassava.
.
As it can start being harvested after the 9-12 months since planting trees, it is also advised that it has been harvested in the sun, because of heavy rains that fell from cassava leaves.
For communication.
739 of 40,046.
