
The games of the teacher was on 01 / 08, 2012.

Go down here in the whole world, you cannot get a general leader as an expert in law, agriculture, administration, accounting, security, engineering, engineering, business relations, teaching and so on.
He can have a love or a lot of expertise or few diseases, but they did well in a lot or all by making a team to be better leaders in those different parts of life.

The national father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, who since he came out of 1200, has now reached 10 years, he made a lot of success in games and not because of love sports but by making good national leadership for the success of the nation.
Basically he was seen to be a lover of big games but his leadership made big issues of that games.

In his leadership, there was a lot of boxers with strength such as Titus Simba, Habibu Makungi Mmbaga, Hussein Suwedi, Saidi Tambwe, Emmanuel Mlenda, Ahmed Kipozi and many others.
It is the period the netball game was very high while there is a lot of great teams of the army and public organizations of that game.
The national team of that game of that game was competed among East Africa and the middle and the middle and among other things even if the Uganda team had a sister known as Itofali Emmanuel, who was a normal length.

Sports is the one that says, "we had a great athletes that did a lot of international soccer if you are now, Kenya and Ethiopia.
We were with a Bayoyo 'campaign, Suleiman Nyambui who loves Kyunga, Mwemezi Nganga, Gahura, Gajir, Juma Hungary, and Clatchy Maranga, I was surprised very few.
Shahali Ngwali, got a medal in the social media competition, Montreal Impact in the year 1978, while Tunda Man was still ongoing in accordance with the sports union of secondary schools in Tanzania, since he made those changes while in the second form at Kinambeu Secondary School, Dodoma.

In soccer, the best leadership of Mwalimu Nyerere enabled our soccer to be very high to the system starting from school if it will be explained.
For those who did not get a chance to get in secondary, the leadership of the teacher had making provinces to get teams of the National Cup competition by looking for players from the village level competition in the village, later ward for wards among those selected from the villages.
That procedure continued at the location of the district to get great teams in provinces that collect all their talents in the whole region of being fruits in the secondary schools of Tanzania.

Under its leadership, January the year 1974, Simba defeated the East African championship being the first competition that took place in Tanzania. The month of May, the national team of the youth Lucas Nkondola, Jellah Mgumia and the others caught the East African Cup in Uganda.
October, the national team of the big team that was set up by the those who was set up by those players Charles Nkondola, Mtenda, Nganga, Ngapa, Ngapa, Nganga, Ngwala.

Therefore, in the year 1974, we arrested all the soccer clubs of this region.

The coach that took the success of Simba last year was the national team, Tanzanian, Paul West Gola (the late) and who won the Kili Challenge Cup was another Tanzanian shillings, Marimo Shaaban, (the late).
The previous year, two representatives of the East African Champions League champions, Yanga and Simba, played a final match of Zanzibar and Yanga played a cup by scoring Simba 2-0.

It is in the leadership of the teacher where we are going to the only time until now they are participating in the finals of African countries for all the players in Nigeria in the year 1980, that was called the free international competition of Africa.
These achievements resulted from preparations of our players at school because some of those who participated in those competitions were fruits of UMISSETA.
Most of the soccer teachers received from outside the time of Teacher's leadership like Ruud Van Gusmao and the German striker, Vladimir Putin to play the England Premier League semi-finals), Jeff Story.'
The journey of the training for the national soccer team, "they were not news" like it was now because they were many and agreed to succeed in the government itself of Mwalimu Nyerere.

In his leadership that had its vision and other development statements, Mwalimu Nyerere revealed our country on games through the slogan that says' Airtel - so as to continue we need to increase human rights, land, clean politics and good leadership. "
On the side of games, according to the slogan, people are involving athletes themselves with the experts of that internal games as it is in Abidjan town, Ray Kigosi, Mohammed Msemo and from outside as it has a high level.
Land includes the sports grounds for all primary and secondary schools together with all colleges and all the provinces of the army without forgetting the open areas of playing for children.

Clean politics is one of the politics of socialism and self-reliance because his main foundation was normal and unity without any other different types of people.
Despite that time our country has been under one party system, there was no sports field of Tanaka or ASP Masoko under a teacher who was no CCM stadium after Tanu of Tanzania Mainland and ASP Masoko in Zanzibar islands to join the birth of CCM.
Those property, mother and Eve obey all without caring if it is members of the party or no one, in politics there was the slogan of sports' health, sports is joy and friends.

On the side of good leadership, that is the one that made sports policies in school, in the army and in public organizations, it's good leadership that could make sure that the players of different games have been built since they be small and live in sports wherever they will be there after their studies.
They performed well in soccer clubs or in the army or teams in the army or in the public organizations, it's at that time, where under the best leadership, every game had a platform with talents to run them and improve their talents.
Among them is like the clubs competition of clubs, the regional soccer competitions, all the games of the army and the public organizations and the universities in East Africa.

With talents in those competitions were not involved in the competition since they already participated in the big competitions since they were students from primary schools through the competition of completion of war and later, for those who participated in the UEFA competitions.
Players known as Toyama Tenga, (Kibaha secondary), Ahmed AID (Tabora Boys), in Muhimbi National Hospital (Kibaha), Jamhuri Kihwelo (resident of UMISSETA regional Dar es Salaam Provincial Commissioner) were big players in Singapore for different different years.

Alma Ally and Omari Hussein Sultan, who led the FGM group to carry the championship of the clubs in Tanzania in the year 1975 while students of secondary schools in Morogoro are only 17 years old.
Under that, a vibrant players of soccer in that years as the dangerous striker of Pan African Lyon, Ali Katani, from Kigoma and Salim Omar, from Tanga were big players ready to be the students of primary schools in their provinces.
Salim Omar, a vibrant mid-fielder of Coastal Union of 1970 in the middle until the year 1980, he was playing for that team for success with Geofrey Ngapa, Boniface (now he is in Mozambique since year 1976), defender Salim Amir, and others.

If the best player, Mwalimu was a great fan of the game and was a very big fan of the game and he was a lot of exercises where in his speech, he urged the citizens and his skill of doing exercises which he called "said undu."
It is a time that primary schools were very fast in the morning, Flaviana Matata has a good position with a motorcycle riders because they are built with mental disabilities.

In his leadership, the teacher once went to the field two times to look at his national team, but for all the times he met with bad luck.
The first time in the year 1972, attended the competition of the Saba Saba celebrations in the year between Tanzania and Sudan in the National Stadium while that is now at Uhuru Stadium.
Tanzania played with Sudan and Nigeria at the ceremony to participate in our match against Sudan that was attended by the former President of Sudan that was attended by the former President of Sudan at that time, Jaula el-I have met him, our national team entered into the field so as to remove the goalkeeper, Omar Mahadhi Juma Shamenda (the late)!

Captain, Abdulrahman Juma (the late) with the chest, told the president I have made him for our players that are not open!
Despite the jerseys to be taken later, and the match to be played for our players together with the jersey, that event named as a teacher and asked him not to go back again.
However, our victory of 3-0 goals in that match did not reduce his punishment for a shame when he got the other day in a match with Nigeria we will draw.
After being asked so much to change his stand, the teacher wanted to attend the competition of our national team against Ethiopia in the year 1975 at the National Stadium at that time.
Inside the first half of the game, the goalkeeper from Ethiopia had started a lot of violence and was entered into the field while the teacher left the station and agreed to play again to check the soccer game and even a win of 3-1 goals we got that day.

In addition to the problems he got, the teacher did not visit soccer since the year 1976 and later, a private person and not for his leadership positions, gave the cup for fat and not for the sake of preparing the competition to look for money to remove its debts (fat Joe).

That cup was called 'Follow suit'.
The competition took place in a region where four teams played in the premier league matches as Nyota Ndogo has landed in Morogoro Province that had all the players of the first squad of Yanga that were sent away from that club though the goalkeeper Patrick Kluivert has joined that club from the goalkeeper Patrick Kluivert has joined the group of C University of Morogoro.
Coastal Union carried the cup while fat Joe, closed down all their debts and getting benefits.

The leadership of Mwalimu planned for every activities including sports, directed by people who their special activities was only that and that the general manager Zekij and later CCM (different from different party members), they were unable or get married and to manage sports in the position of a minister.
They implemented the work with great success without bringing in political issues inside him where political activities were left with Pius Msekwa, Moses Nnauye (the late) and other officials of Tanu and ASP Masoko in that time while the liberation of Africa will be supervised by Hashim Mboma.

We stop hypocrisy, the leader of the games cannot do that work well as a lot of time it involves itself with fights with political opponents who should bring back them in making development of sports.
In order to find the true development of sports we want to be the teacher what he did is that the minister entered with games to have a huge number or a senior leader of the political party.

There is no objection that Mwalimu Nyerere enabled us on our country to continue in games because he had good plans to achieve that goal.
Even today, we wanted to get reliable development and permanent progress in sports, we are supposed to make sure they are doing well the people to play the games through people with their expertise in different games.
We have been so in sports, we will be true that we should be of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere passes away.
