

By Marusu.
Close to the readers of this column, we continue to study at the book so as to get entertainment, education and professional entertainment as a whole of today, let us read our book, "Logan" that was written by Arnautovic and the previous years ago.
Let me start by giving an example, many times we have been seeing the demonstrations and strikes of different types in different countries, especially among them, there has its reasons, and a country like Togo and Kenya we witnessed among women against men.
The strike of Kenya and Togo had a great intention of expanding the house of Kenya, they decided to send their homes with lovers on claims of failing to solve problems happening in their countries.
Today, let us read the founder of the strike and how the book had broken the world. Ariel Msuya made the book with the intention of removing problems in the community.
Lack of books and various companies of books were issued with that donation, so up to today, we are annoyed here, what has been published in the year 2005, but its bill of 2003) is to improve the game itself.
Lollipop, the acting game that was supported with the aim of communicating with the community and show a solution to the problems facing the Greek citizens and the intention was supported by Kigola.
Ariel Msuya made this book in the 411 season to explain the problems of war that caused the Greek, especially the war to Pambale, this war caused a huge disaster for women and children.
Politicians and different leaders were involved more with the conflicts that have caused him to sign him in war.
Ariel Msuya wrote this game through the comedy group (artists) and to give it the name of Lilenga, putting it in the same game, the author's born in Amahoro Stadium (Greek).
The woman is LPG together with a woman looking for a woman trying as a woman unable to destroy the community.
In we need to look for a solution to the problems, the author of Lugo FEST has given the solution that there will be a solution that there will be a time when the women they will start trying and denying them men's problems in that game, "Masau boasted.
"Your news, Guaraegypti?
