
Kikwete has a difficult time to assume the resolutions of the parliament.

Resolutions of parliament wanted the president to prove all those who were mentioned to be involved in the Escrow scandal, a decision that is in the hands of President Kikwete.

Finally, November 29th, 2014, our parliament reported the very important session maybe than all sessions since started in the year 2010.

In this article, I have proposed that what happened at the 16 and 17 sessions of our parliament by considering the training that came out in this parliament in three areas, which is the authority of parliament, growth of democracy and the position of the new generation.

The Parliamentary Committee.

After members of parliament to give their views in the report that was presented by the Executive Committee of the Government (PAC) and the government's answers as presented by the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, was open that the government had narrated it on the PAC issue.

This happens on the issue of government to come out to be open after the PAC committee decided to answer keenly the issue of the government and members of parliament who were depending on the government's side.

After the debate involving three things that it was clear that many members of parliament are first of the first part in the Tegeta Escrow account, it was the public.

Secondly, there are some leaders of the government and other people with authorities in the community who have given Escrow money in the environment that make sure of their ethics as leaders.

Three, the government did not implement its duties well in the implementation of the public service in the operations of Tegeta Escrow account and the energy contracts in general.

As a result of this crime, it was a must for the parliament to take several steps in improving the government and here is when the argument of the authority of parliament is going to come.

Due to the debate of the parliament on Friday 28 November 2014, it was clear that our parliament has given major boundaries for creating that government.

In addition to that many members of parliament did not desire to be able to easily get married immediately the ones that were involved in this matter, but they had no constitutional ability to implement their lives.
