
How to be self-employed in using financial institutions.
Every year, students have completed their studies in different levels, primary, secondary and colleges and those who do not go more in the steps they have found themselves in the process of looking for employment that is estimated more than 800,000 American Dollars which are coming out to look for employment every year.
It's a very few, maybe even if they do not have a half time to get employment in the official sector, most of them lose their dreams and to be self-employed.
For students that complete, the easy way to get employment is self-employed themselves in the informal sector.
Many can get into this sector and be keen to succeed and get good income more than those employed.
Because the informal sector is the one that requires many people, on this column, I will give you a means that will help to make your plans to be self-employed when you follow more on the availability of capital.
Most of the neighborhoods if you ask for what they don't know what they are complaining, they are complaining that they don't have capital, through this column, I want I will follow up with them that the issue of capital is not an issue in a prestigious tournament.
Start with a small capital, you help in groups, you will make sure that you have a chance to be able to cater for financial institutions that will help grow capital, financial institutions, such as Saccos, Vicoba, and private individuals who are self-employed.
According to the financial regulations here in the country (2015) the small institutions of financial institutions are giving services to people with low-income services that are unable to get new financial services like the bank because of the criteria and conditions as difficult.
History, financial services in small institutions have been facing more than 30 years ago, they have started to be found in a fast rate of 1970, Professor Muhammad Irfan us in loam soil when he started a Monsigation system and the system of doughnuts.
For Tanzania, they have started being known in the years of 1980, when the government started a president's fund and later the institutions are being started in large numbers of people who use these services, the best way to run it is to the owners, leaders and employees to follow the regulations of operations.
The operations of these institutions through Saccos is aiming to reduce poverty, therefore the system of leadership gets more quality, the quality of operations to get benefits and have a sustainable development.
For approximately 20 years, the sector of the small financial institutions in the country and the world has changed to be very fast, from the era of giving loans for loans just and now there has been an increase in services and products like medicine, insurance and transportation of funds to various networks including phones.
Also in that period, there have been changes in these institutions that were the former assistant in government programs, now its services have reduced and brought together with different stakeholders including private companies, banks and mobile companies and mobile phone companies.
