
Masaburi from Karimjee.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

The body of the former mayor of Dar es Salaam City, Doctor Didas Masaburi, today will be bid farewell by the national leaders together with the citizens of Dar es Salaam at Karimjee stadium before going to be buried in Karimjee grounds and the purchase of Talent station that is in Chanika in Ilala district.

The family spokesperson, Edson Mwasabwite, told this newspaper yesterday that Doctor Masaburi was a politician and she has done various positions through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the government, family has felt it is good to give an explanation from his fellow politicians together with the residents of Dar es Salaam city.
Doctor Masaburi before being the mayor of Dar es Salaam city, once he was a member of parliament of East African Legislative Assembly, when he was the mayor of East African Community (ART).
Until his death, Doctor Masaburi was the chairperson of the governors of the governors of the University of Huria Tanzania that is in Chanika in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam.
It is in the area of that university where the deceased will be held today. The schedule given by the family's spokesman, shows that, 33,700 Tanzanian shillings is the one that will arrive at the Karimjee hall and the service will start at 4 o'clock in the morning.
You will be read about the biography of the late and later there will be a word from the Revolutionary Party and the government leaders.
The activity of bidding farewell to the body of the deceased will start at 57,00 Tanzanian shillings and 5 o'clock in the afternoon, the convoy will arrive at the burial of the burial and also the citizens of those areas and citizens of Mwenge will start farewell.
Yesterday the construction of the grave where Doctor Didas Masaburi was going on at that area of the college and some of the government leaders and CCM arrived for the funeral of the funeral.
Some of the leaders who were present yesterday are the chairman of the parents community of CCM Abdallah Khatau while the Deputy Minister in the Office of the Vice President (coalition and environment), Luhaga Mpina.
Doctor Didas Masaburi against the night before Thursday last week at Muhimbili National Hospital where he was admitted being suffering from yellow fever, (HK).
The family news explains that Doctor Masaburi was being attacked by Dengue fever which has gotten her for several months until his death is found.
The disease did God go to India when he died from February up to August this year, despite going back to the country, he had an appointment of going back to India on November this year and have an appointment of going back to India on November this year.
But his condition accepted, suddenly he was taken to private hospital for Hyatt Regency for treatment and was transferred to Muhimbili at the beginning of this month.
Doctor Didas who at the last general election was vying for Ubungo Constituency on a CCM ticket and who failed, he has left three children, 20 children and that he dies.
Among its customers and children are also politicians.
