The late?
All of them?
The late is the last prime minister making a challenge to start the use of human drugs in the country to produce.
If you go to Grind.
Four people were present or a life following the battle of the ferry.
I want to be?
And in the different games, Mbuyu Twite of the health has thrown out the game of tomorrow, the old rivals Simba Yahya.
When you go to press here to watch the late?
Close to you, you're welcome him again wherever you are saying this is a report for your readers this night, click here and Said Ndonge who, later he will go out with sports news and entertainment on the side of business, business and economy and the economy will be called Mwanjala and later we start with news reports.
More than eight people have lost their lives and several others being injured after a lorry accident in which the accident occurred at eight o'clock in the afternoon, the head of special seats in Mbeya province, Abbas Kandoro, said the investigation is ongoing at around eight o'clock in the afternoon where the police force was admitted to three vehicles including the number of five five vehicles.
In an accident not to be in a situation that doesn't be normal, one person died after failing to help the injured and the people who lost their lives in the accident, some of the vehicles were forced to give a donation to those who had lost their lives, but some of the vehicles were affected by those news, there is no one who died.
Approximately seven trillion shillings have been lost every year in the country from five and ten thousand per year due to several reasons including within and tax waiver, together with illegal tax exemptions.
This happens at a time the citizens found themselves quickly and Rukwa together with tax collection has been prepared by involving different stakeholders including the institution to deal with corruption, police force, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
One of the biggest nuisances in the world has said that the big source of the smell to use taxes is a erosion of ethics including people of love and solidarity together with putting it a place in Twitter if it is discovered the new revenue collection can have fuel together with the same client, then for a lot of money after a permit.
I was at the money.
I was found.
The program for women's program was I hope when it does not have a hole, it will not be the solution.
Likewise,.
I have not seen.
He has touched me.
It starts.
The average have died.
How many boys are stolen, it is dangerous to you.
This is the sun.
The chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission, Kajala Masanja has urged the new constitution that its strategy is going on to follow on the reputation of the country's authority between its a capital city and a person who is responsible for that which you can reach the Rukwa region and the collection of tax on the same time.
He is saying.
Dilesh Solank when I think it will be careful, I will also be very disturbing in Dar es Salaam.
I hope.
The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has paid industries that make human drugs in the country to produce better drugs that are in the country and the expectations of citizens, we find information.
In addition, the prime minister has said that the government is striving to put a good environment for the growth of drugs in the country in the country being one of the coming out of fifty years since the introduction of a private sector that will help human resource and Marine Services Limited in Dar es Salaam city today, they have explained that the government will lead a good environment for human resources that will continue to provide services again to see the country.
It has paid them.
Here is it?
Therefore, it is not good.
To the father of the nation like.
I've heard that some of them have been self-employed.
For themselves.
And for the purpose of use.
How does it mean?
On his part, the executive director of that factory Mister good governance in the 84th minute has said that his level has a long-term plan to produce drugs to fight for malaria I think that he wanted to reduce the cost of AIDS.
Villages.
In the east of western regions?
.
I love you, I will meet if you are.
Together.
.
Every year.
That will it the side of the drugs you have?
A factory for making human resources in a good and bad condition was launched in one hundred and nine hundred thousand in a short time after independence from school.
EXIM Bank educates and EXIM Bank got an agreement with a value of one hundred million American dollars together with starting a water project in Dar es Salaam city with the implementation of the promise by the prime minister of India, Man United Kingdom.
The donation of the loan that amount of cash towards this time is in the city of Dar es Salaam and the general manager of the EXIM Bank of India has explained their hope that the implementation of the project will start early soon after the completion of the project will commence early soon after the completion of the project will commence early immediately after the completion of the project, they will contribute to clean and six million dollars.
The residents of Ukerewe Town in Mwanza province have requested the government to take quick action to buy a high speed in order to save the lives of small patients who are supposed to appeal at the District Referral Hospital in Mwanza town from Mwanza, Henry Massao.
The website being informed that after a special speed by the high speed that was presented by the hospital, a boy getting the leadership of the hospital has been causing many patients at least four hours after those vehicles failed, while you have attained at ten o'clock in the evening as an emergency.
It is true that is it true that is a punishment.
And who will arrive at who?
Close to someone we cannot receive.
And very few months what are we need?
The fire which I was forced to visit the patients' ward has gone into Europe and so as to see for himself the real situation of service delivery and I was in my trip, I will get a chance to talk to women stakeholders so that he can look for women, you find the person who wants to do but you are not a must.
If there is still helping that rapper had a lot of blood he gets even though the search for pregnant women and give a lot of blood that the money you wouldn't like to be happy for it.
A question that makes a good service to you?
Ramadhani Shauri.
I love you.
After your soul?
Yes,.
Do I ask questions.
And many times the nurses know you?
While I can be taken to the station if you can be taken.
Little being that they go down.
I will sign a United Kingdom.
