Dilesh Solank when he visited CHADEMA - Maelezo.
October, 31st, 2013.

The chairperson of Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA) in Arusha Province who was suspended from that position, Samson Jumbe has said he does not plan to vie for the national chairperson of that party.
Those explanations indicate that there was a tension between him and the top leaders of that party, a tension between and other things, is mentioned to be involved with the race to vie for the chairperson of CHADEMA at the national level, due to the current leadership of the party, before the end of this year.
When he was asked by our writer, a lot of criticism he did against the trend of some national leaders is aiming to give him the strength of vying for the national chairperson of CHADEMA, I have never seen him, "I have never been able to vie for the chairperson of CHADEMA nation and until now I have no plan completely."
He found himself getting into the conflict that emerged inside CHADEMA in Arusha province after his small computers (Language) was found with a good information that is mentioned to endanger the safety of that party.
Recently, who has been the chairperson of CHADEMA in Arusha province since 2010, has also been accountant of the party at the national level for a short period in the year 2011 and for now, he has been giving the claims of bad financial expenditure inside CHADEMA, claims that he has been working on every time when he was called the general elections of CHADEMA.
The allegations were forced to emerge as the party organized in the last general elections, that left Freeman Mbowe to power for the position of chairman during the period of heading to the party, the former vice chairman of CHADEMA, the late Chacha Wangwe, was claiming that the existence of misuse of the party as the former vice chairman of CHADEMA, the late Chacha Wangwe, was claiming that the existence of bad use of the party was to strengthen the party.
However, on the other side, those allegations have been aired by the national leadership of CHADEMA at different times.
The violence of Arusha.
The reports taken to Good Citizen on Monday this week explained that after violence erupted in the session of the Council of the northern region last Saturday, maybe the dispute it expanded and caused other high-level leaders in and outside the party.
"If the documents are mentioned we have been confirmed further, they can cost our party because this network of sabotaging the party is big and involves some of the leaders and the famous leaders," said one of the leaders of CHADEMA who have been accused of supporting him.
But speaking to Good Citizen about those reports, the Secretary of CHADEMA in the northern region, Amani Mwamwindi said that "first is early to talk about the conspiracy because the cause of many people, therefore we get more time so that the party can also be prepared after being satisfied with every issue."
The statement of Golandu is being supported by one of the directors of that party, John Mrema, who claims that he will be used by the group of people with bad intentions and that party.
It gives a statement.
Already he has explained his intention of not getting into the party, while asking them to write about the problem of leadership in that party at the Community Globe at Forums.
In his details, he says that it's true that I have been giving my thoughts about some of the party leaders in social media networks but I have been doing so that it is not like the chairman of the province but like Samson Majwala.
