18 December 2012

He struggles for electricity and caused fear.

By Suleiman Abeid, Shinyanga.

The resident of Burkina Faso, Shinyanga town region, Mister Mayingu, Machage (30), yesterday caused a lot of fear after planting in the pillars which is taking electricity at the Liganga and Bulyanhulu mine in Kahama district.
That incident caused some people to stop their activities in the area of the city and to see that the youth had to fear the safety of his life.

Speaking to this newspaper, the biological mother to that youth, Mrs. Tunu Pinda, the situation led by his child started talking about malaria disease.

"We give her drug abuse and his condition was going on well but yesterday, from two in the morning, the situation changed suddenly and started making noise, he went to home and run away.
Therefore, some people started to follow up on.

"Today morning (yesterday) when I'm on the farm, suddenly I met with him running, I met him and asked him to stop, therefore, I requested people to help him, but he requested them to stop the race and rise in the electricity pillar," he said.

He said after seeing that, they decided to give information to leaders of the government of neighborhood and village which they took the step of serving the employees of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), who came to the area, to communicate with the police together with traffic squad.

The youth had been revealed at the top of those poles, apart from refusing to shivered and he has killed his clothes but people who succeeded to arrest him.

On his part, the Engineer of the Central Bank of electricity in that province, Mister Job Bambucha has said that the action of the youth to rise in the pillar that is 220 electricity, will be able to endanger their lives.

"After getting information and getting to the scene, we were forced to buy electricity quickly, the efforts of setting up electricity by partnering with the Fire and Rescue squad in Shinyanga municipality, the police force and the citizens," he said.

The police force in that province has confirmed the occurrence of the incident where that youth had closed for the purpose of investigation so as to identify him or he did that action against him.
