
In this period of u-SRHR, January Makamba, she has been enough for 5 o'clock.

One of the results that do not look for the coming of political changes in the nineties, is the truth that at large, it has not helped a normal citizen in the market.

The Revolution - especially in the field of politics and economy, have continued to be seen as it is for a small group in the community while increasing the gap between those who don't have.
In politics, the coming of many parties has not succeeded in enough level to set up the interests of the citizens and instead it has become a chance for some of the politicians to benefit.
The influx of opposition parties has been happy and necessary for the ruling party not to be shaken or not enough, especially because the opposition is easy and even if the opposition is stable and also a stable party and the experience in the political processes.
We have witnessed some of the parties benefited from the coming elections, and instead of giving opposition to CCM, those parties have been getting votes for their opponents and therefore as the ruling party.
There is an issue that CCM, by recognizing that the cooperation and / or a union of opponents is a threat to the development and its survival, it has been able to help the parties so that they are able to teach their opponents.
Maybe that argument was given to you and how some of the parties that run its campaigns will instead of removing the attacks to the ruling party and stop doing their opponents.

But even if those accusations against CCM do not have any truth, that is open is that many opposition parties in the country have no interests to the Tanzanian.
Some of the parties have turned into a family company where the leader is the party, though there is no any efforts of the opening of new branches or increasing the number of members of parliament or / and councilors.
If you want to conclude that the biggest thing of the opposition parties is the ones among some of the leaders of the party, especially those who have changed the parties that their private property.
If you check for more than a few minutes, the opposition problem so that there is part of the cooperation between their opponents as a result of the fact that in the environment of our country, currently politics has changed to be employment.
If the various denominations have already been affected by those who use religion as the cause of their private income, politics have noted that not only that profession is a good source of revenue but it also gives the body against any crime that are involved with them.
And that is why every time we take place, we are witnessing some of the leadership who is competing for millions of money so they can be elected as possible by recognizing the weaknesses of the state agencies to control bribes in elections, some of the people of hunger "and they are ready to promote their votes for the age of rice and a knee injury.

If you look at the economic changes, the benefits to the ordinary Tanzanian in the streets have continued to support some of the leaders to implement their faith in Zanzibar, our country has also witnessed several acts of evil deeds that we don't have away the year 1961.
All the days I thank the "mystery" by the colonialist that at least they were able to prevent our fellows just because they don't know what we have been affected because they do not know our country economically and we have never happened to our country.
These do not have a problem, especially because many of them were born in Tanzania, and even the positions they have been contributed by the burden that were carried out by the burden of their colleagues in tax.

The worst is that, most of every Tanzanian is related to another Tanzanian (with an understanding of history they know the origin of our disease especially in Kibacha), it is supposed to know some of the drugs they should remain in the country claiming that it is supposed to know some of the users of those drugs.
However, if they do not depend on, the work that is affected by the use of those drugs can be allowed to do even if you receive the corruption, because all of us know that the country cannot be built and "the army of 'lice' (to them drug abuse).
Social media, though the changes were not only one, but the effects that came out can be seen more in the fields of culture, compatible with the elderly and our senses.
One area I will be able to use it as an example is in the use of our language of Swahili and private, in approximately one acre of Swahili living in England I have never seen or lead the British running a discussion and their talks in foreign languages.
And that is not for the British only because many countries in the world have been doing so much in their language since it is an important introduction in America.

Now, I don't know that despite having a language of Swahili language, we have a list of our natural language, we are continuing to take language of English as a foundation of education or the quality of someone.
Probably, I issued a challenge to our colleagues who use social network of Twitter that it is important for us to honor our nation's language instead of developing our discussions with English.
Although I'm saying that during this time, I have been using English in twitter (at least on the pretext that some of my close people here do not understand Swahili because I have been able to respect my language of Swahili.

And if I am not, we have different from home, there are a time we need to be like our Chinese or the Indians I will continue with using their language.
They are getting in the internet, with the desire to communicate with my colleagues in Swahili, but they sell it in another language (while others were cast off so that they use the foreign language.
But the problem is not in the only language, but even in our culture and our culture.
If you check some of the jobs that are called art, you can feel that "the end of the world" is near.
I had never seen in one article in the past about some of the entertainment groups that are not only using names like bad.
"Something Tigo"), but that entertainment is a curse from them.

And a fetus are supposed to get followers, entertainment of those types, have happened to get great popularity.
If you look at the area that maybe I would be able to be our savior in a life, that is the Tanzanian film, you'll be used if there are some of the ones that are in that field there are private business "more than an artist.
Recently, there is difficulty of imitating stars of Nigeria who are in the Nollywood film industry, is owned within and out of Africa, especially because their film has risen up more on the reality of the age of age, and many of the artists do not have a lot of news headlines.
But for many of "our film stars, their popularity is in hand in hand with the information that was sent by using half-naked clothes and the other addresses.
In heading to conclude this article, I would like to give a unique congratulations to the youth, January Makamba, who in one way he is doing a private efforts to bring positive results on changes I will talk about this article.
This veteran politician, is one of the few who use well the social media concerning the public.
This week has written a very good article about the age of internal and basically he has talked about it depends on closely and mission of this article.
In that article with the news reporter, you cannot change the concept of the name (Changalhaji WWW), on January it is telling how more than 30 years of the concept of self-shirts that has failed to give them fruits because of the developing countries and even the developed countries.

He explains that the failure of the concept is to come out in the wave of market economy, to continue using a support, wealth, to continue being in the hands of a few people, a democratic system, violence, failing to deal with diseases, etc.
Despite being impressed by his private efforts to involve the public, especially through social media, that politician gets a good picture of the changes that he gets outside, while giving instructions without listening to the thoughts of ordinary citizens (that is a leader seems to be keen while giving explanations about the thoughts of ordinary citizens' and who mingled with citizens without caring about their differences.
Certainly not the reputation are not associated with him, try to ask him, when you put aside "brotherhood" during the campaign to ask for votes, "when they won the opportunity to speak to though the councilor like January and other different problems that are facing the area where they are leading?
Most of the leaders depend on the dangers that are close to the ordinary citizens, is because of this kind, it is why the action of many leaders of our leaders are like they live in other parts or not knowing the real situation in the market.
The others are built a wall of communication between them and the ones who will lead in order to evade the questions about their debts that they gave as the request for votes.
I conclude by explaining that the true changes can be brought by the citizens themselves because they are those who know what they need for their purpose and the community / their country.
