
"The citizens are not political and they are not allowed.
Johannesburg, South Africa.
South Africa has said it has prepared itself to destroy its bad results against Nigeria while increasing a shame that is affecting the Super Eagles and the final match of the African Cup (AFCON) today.
Today's match is one of the major ones that would have been cut off in Africa.
Cameroon and Ivory Coast are celebrating the throat in the city that was done in Egypt and thanks on Cairo with these famous teams known as Bana BN - 1-0 goals against Sudan, Nigeria emerged with a win of 3-0 goals against South Sudan.
Those results were good to coach Ephraim Kwesingabo in South Africa that followed the goals through 'Fulfill Your Goals in Nigeria, that was the first time in 46 matches to be unable to go home in this tournament. The squad was not supposed to attract such that had defeated Burkina Faso 1-0 in the AFCON tournament.
Masaudi, has said he has a stable squad to get good results after going on it on the point of their opponents, Nigeria, for a period of 22 years.
"Maybe last Wednesday, I was very happy because I am sure my youth will break this long-term record against Nigeria," insisted that coach who is 64 years old who was sent to power last month as the head coach of the national team.
"Bey wa Mitego has been a team for a long time, but this time we have responsibility of amusing the citizens the victory in Sudan was the new awareness in this competition" the best player of the year South Africa, Castrol lubricants, where all players showed themselves and being stable since Mashada stadium who was sacked.
"You are ready to fight and give our fans the bad record against Nigeria and we must change" according to history, Nigeria has ever won in South Africa five times and from a draw once in six matches.
Apart from being defeated in South Africa popularly known as Bey wa Mitego has never scored a goal at the Super Eagles goal.
The coach of Nigeria, Stephen Kraehenbuehl has told his players for controlling the Congo people and lack of joy.
"I was angered and how we are playing or not the results of the match.
When we were silent and we've been unable to get a easy victory, "said the coach who is 52 years old as" the Big Results Now "
"Even after being beaten 2-1, we were losing a lot of money and even if you had lost in South Africa to win." There was worried about the current situation but these things have been opposed to the leadership of Nigeria Federation (NFA) in order to prevent the ban from the FIFA federation.
CAF was warned Nigeria ready to play today's match if he would have continued to return.
Perhaps you will start with striker Emmanuel Makaidi who came in and brought great changes to the squad in the second period.
In another time the citizens are not found, the new Cameroon squad without striker Samuel Eto'o made a ban on the mid-0 victory against DRC and Ivory Coast, when they drew 2-0 away from Congo and Ivory Coast, when they drew 2-1 away from Sethi.
