
The celebrations of the course of Timbuk Music Label.

A lover of Yamoto Band and a resident of Sinza Mori John (right) being happy about together with the manager of planning and events of SEMA, Lulu Kikuli (left) after being given a gift of a sweater with a red card at TP Mazembe stadium, Sinza in Dar es Salaam city to celebrate the victory of more than six bars which were scored by Shreen Saiwa.

A resident of Mikocheni and Beki of Tusker beer company, Makongoro Nyerere (38) receiving a gift of a red card from Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani (SACA), 'iela Otieno.

A resident of Mwanza and her opponent Hillary Clinton (center), who was also there at Kinambeu Secondary School during an event that he was handed by the presenter of Yamoto Band, Sinza Kijiweni in Dar es Salaam city.

A resident of Sinza, Mohammed Hamisi (27) receiving a gift of a red card from the Tanzania's ambassador, Joseph Mbilinyi (left) and the master of over six bar which is Amalhaji Rage (right) when she won the promotion of more than six bullets during the bar and Jichunge.'

Resident of Sinza, Mrs. Rehema Joseph (right) being happy about her gift of a sweater and the fund that was handed over to Nyarugusu refugee competition, Lulu Kikuli, (on the left) is the presenter of Yamoto Band, Lulu Mengele and (right) is the presenter of Yamoto Band, Kulwa Deteba, Nkya (right).

A resident of Sinza, Prosper Minja receiving a gift of a red card from the manager of planning and events of SBL, Lulu Kikuli, during a week when she arrived at the end of the week at Old Trafford Stadium, Sinza in Dar es Salaam city where 7 bars were found at the end of the week at Old Trafford Stadium, Sinza in Dar es Salaam city where 7 bars were played at the end of the week at Old Trafford stadium, Celine Itatiro.

07 / 09 / 2016.
Tusker beer campaign that is run by the Serengeti beer company, through the sponsorship of a best beer company of Angola this week has come with a attraction of its kind after serving them and inspecting various bars that are in the course and one area.

The incident that was seen to be able to use Tusker beer lovers will take place last Saturday in former Lyon estate, Sinza in Dar es Salaam city where more than 6 schools from Sinza were joined to participate in those celebrations.

Speaking during the launch of those celebrations, the Marketing Manager of Tusker beer company Ms. NHO, "Gofrey Zambi has said up to now his campaigns of Tusker FEST has been received well by the customers of the company in Dar es Salaam city and even in the provinces where the campaign also continues.

"The promotion is a continuation of Tusker beer campaigns as seen in posters with the radio advertisements and it is also a campaign aimed at bringing a lot of discipline for Tanzanians to be able to implement their planned goals."

He said that in a life, some of the goals that are expected include building houses, getting married, buying a car to start business and so on the success is a step, and every step is supposed to deal with the implementation of those achievements, which the Tanzanian is going on, therefore, through this step he will vote.

We believe that through this campaign, this message will be able to reach all Tanzanians easily, as we learn from Tusker beer company is needed and said that we do not know what they are complaining for every development step that was played.

Miss Zouk Rumba added that Tusker beer celebrations have been required to build faith to the customers and return to them, while celebrating together with beer when they attended the course, having a lot of success and therefore it is more entertainment as well as a lot of gifts to customers.

The presidential campaign on stage will continue until the end of the ten month while the commemoration of the bar is expected to reach out by the fans of beer regions, which are in Arusha and Mwanza before the campaigns will end.
