
Mayor of Dar es Salaam. the mayor of Dar es Salaam. the manager of the bus station Ubungo.
The council of councilors Kinondoni has sacked two leaders of the municipality.
Kalala Jamal, The Citizen's superstar, @ mkito.
Mayor of Kinondoni Municipality, Boniface Jacob, announcing the renovation of two directors of Kinondoni Municipality in Dar es Salaam yesterday on allegations of embezzlement as on the right is the director of that municipality, Alon Kaguta June.
Dar es Salaam City, the mayor of Dar es Salaam City, Isaya Mwita bidding farewell to the manager of the bus bus station of Ubungo (UBT), Juma Iddi, the council of councilors of Kinondoni Municipality, on allegations of causing loss of billions of shillings.
Mayor Mwita took that decision yesterday morning when he visited the station to face dirty and destruction of infrastructure, problems of contracts and complaints by business people who were abducted by 3 billion shillings per day.
As a result of those weaknesses, Mwita who also visited the Pugu auction and two other projects of the city, he instructed the Deputy Director of the city, Sarah Cooke for another person to be the position of Iddi.
The officers that were sacked by the council of councilors is a lawyer of the municipal, Bro Mahenge and the head of Investment of Investment, Emalahleni municipality for allegations of failing to supervise seven projects of the municipality.
Among those projects there are located in Mbuguni Ward, Magomeni branch, which was suspended from that municipality to identify the loss of income of more than 6 billion shillings.
The decision has the blessings of the council that happened the day before yesterday at nine o'clock and discuss the recommendations of the financial committee about those projects.
What happened in Ubungo Mayor, Mwita arrived in Ubungo at 4 o'clock in the morning and go directly to the offices of the center being accompanied by several councilors, he would not want to speak anything and decided to move back to different areas of the station where it does not want to speak anything and decide to move to the other areas of the provinces, "said Mwita.
Also, visited the Pugu auction, which its budget for a year is approximately 1 billion shillings for the council of councilors to prepare a procedure of having more than other areas in Kigamboni, Kinondoni and Mkuranga so as to save money.
The convoy of that mayor visited the area of that city with six million that is in Tabata Mpunga Relini, that has been suspended by the Mwananchi Communications Manager, Tuesday, Boniface Jacob, said all the councilors without caring for them, the mayor of Kinondoni, Boniface Jacob said all the councilors without considering that the agreement started on August, last year.
Another one is an open field that is at the periphery of the American Embassy in Masaki, where the investor entered the contract with the municipality for construction of affordable houses.
