The Prime Minister is one of the blame.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2015.

President-elected President of the fifth term, Doctor John Magufuli is expected to be sworn in, and then set up his cabinet of the big ministers discussed in the streets since it is the name of the prime minister because she didn't want him in front.
Prime Minister who is what he is doing well with the citizens, who are being received well by the citizens, should not be the Prime Minister who is taking them in front of requesting him to be the prime minister and then he should be a person who doesn't win.
Mwalimu Nyerere told him to explain his friend Rashid Kawawa said that he was very happy, "the prime minister did not recognize him," said the prime minister did not recognize him, "said the prime minister did not recognize him," said the prime minister did not recognize him, "said the prime minister did not recognize him," the prime minister is supposed to dodge him, "the Prime Minister is supposed to dodge him," said the Prime Minister is supposed to dodge him, "said the Prime Minister is supposed to dodge him," said the Prime Minister is supposed to accompany him.
Before being appointed the British Prime Minister, Won Chisholm, he got a minister of water issues (GSM Foundation). It was a during the world's first round of the world by Who Lives Forever, he left his office and leading the British minister of the world.
In addition to the fact, that Won Chech compared to England and even able to achieve victory in the second round of the World Cup, the British did not vie for a victory in the last general election in 1945.
Probably, our human beings are long, but our life is very short and that is our time of living here in the world, but our country we have been born even before our country living without knowing more than tomorrow and the day after, we're looking for us again.
A big part of the problems of these countries comes from that fish, due to bad luck, some of the leaders we gave birth to our nation, we are not a must to save our economy and therefore we need our nation and the courage to make sure they believe is for the interests of the public.
