
The registrar warns the public organizations.

It has been written by Halima Kimanumanu, Dodoma.

I was heard (22 October, 2016

Treasury registrar, Lawrence Mafuru has said that starting this financial year, all public organizations in the country will be able to printing their inspection reports in the newspapers of the government.

He said that in Dodoma yesterday when he spoke before the standing committee of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), when that committee received the report of the inspection of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) for the financial year 2014 / 15.
I commend the BoT by getting clean certificates, I would like all public organizations to know this action of having clean accounts, that is why we decided to start this year's money to make sure that you have a dirty documents so that the citizens can get information, "insisted Mafuru.
He said that the step aims at making sure that every public organization makes well able to improve and therefore the action of inspection of its accounts to be public, it will give the solution to the concerned organization to work in success.
Mafuru said that the inspection of the accounts of those organizations will be announced even organizations that work hard because of getting losses will be seen, a step that will solve the challenges of improving more in those organizations.
The controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) is expected to present its annual report for inspection of the funds that took place in the year 2015 / 16 between February or March this year, therefore, every public institutions will start providing its information immediately after that report.
Previously, the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu, presented that report for inspection of the bank's accounts in which together with being used to get clean certificates, still had a lot of weaknesses including the problem of not being presented well for asylum.
In addition, the governor explained the action taken by the bank in strengthening the financial sector in the country including the step of collecting funds that were displayed because up to now a total of modern machines were bought for that work and be distributed in different provinces.
