
Magufuli: The police are stable, there is no need for representing us.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo, Bagamoyo.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

President John Magufuli said he believes he is safe because the security and security agencies in the country is stable, they are respected inside and outside the country and no one can be able to play for the country.

Moreover, he has ordered the 40 officers of the National Housing Corporation (JKT) and the 30 officers who participated in the exercise of "Aaron Nanyaro, who participated in the exercise of" AGAPE, as he also gave the directive of not taking the prisoners in the prisons that were destroyed by the earthquake in Kagera province and instead of those prisoners, they can be used to renovate the reserve.
That was revealed in town yesterday by President Magufuli, when he was opening a exercise to land at the ground from water, to save the area that was abducted by AGAPE, as part of the commemoration of 52 years of TDPF.
Speaking after the army's exercise, President Magufuli said he is happy with the work done by the army and that there is no one who is able to play for the country.
"We have a stable army that is common, I don't know, I am safe, this instrument is an important pillar for peace in the country, that is why I want it to be used because it has a lot of discipline," insisted President Magufuli who is the commander in the army.
He said the ability to be given by those police especially for all debt which were participating in the training exercise for the purpose of strengthening the cooperation and performance of all army forces, is in a high level and lack of integrity and patriotism in their country.
Speaking about the strength of the army, President Magufuli said it has resulted from a stable foundation that was done by presidents who passed away, while thanking the retired President Jakaya Kikwete for making sure he has enabled the army to have stable equipment, which yesterday used to show the strength of the agency.
"I thank all the presidents who passed away but I thank President Kikwete that he has enabled the army to have a stable equipment like this, I am not supposed to make sure, we become a stable army and possible to continue all the army in the world," he said.
Speaking about the employment of JKT Ruvu yesterday, the president said that "Chief Executive Secretary (the chief secretary) starting tomorrow (today), these noises have not registered themselves in this exercise to introduce himself in the force, their strength do not loose hope, even if they do not go back to the army.
In another step, he said that he was not satisfied by the prisons forces to know the government for renovating them in Bukoba town which has been used by an earthquake which has been banned by the earthquake because of its renovation.
"It is banned for funds to be given to the prisons because of the prisoners at Shabiby bus have been used by an earthquake, those who use the punishment to build the areas that were given," he said.
In that event that was one of its kind, seven fights were closed down in the sky while suffering from bombs, where a three war had already organized in the ocean as well as soldiers while going into the sea and then go back to the sea and then go to the sun and then go to the country.
