
Mangula has defeated him, he will buy bribery?
Brightiles 22, 2012

One thing that the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have been successful in their general meeting that ended recently in Dodoma, it is to build a picture that the leaders who were chosen are new, therefore CCM was born afresh.
Philip Mangula being appointed and finally be elected as the vice chairperson of the communist party that had given a victory of 100 percent.

There is no need to enable the readers that Philip Mangula was the secretary general of CCM for ten consecutive years in the whole presidential term, Benjamin Mkapa, during this short time inside CCM was known by Philip Mangula, he was one of the challenges of bribery in this bribery.
I wish you that the very big bribery have ever happened in our country, that theft of billions in a high level.
Chief suspects in some of the senior leaders of CCM and his government, popularly known as TCAA, happened in the period when Mangula being the secretary general of CCM and the selling of public servants, which essentially was a period of the secretary general of Mangula.
Therefore, it is a key to believe that bribery did not be there while Philip Mangula, and that this one who lost the bribery in a period of ten years he will be able for a period of two years of the presidency of Raqqa, Kikwete.

There is no weeds, integrity of Philip Mangula as a person, but the truth is that, together with integrity, he does not know the history of the fight and especially the history of corruption, a history that I had seen.

Maybe we can't see Mangula, that what is going into the day after being unable to vie for the chairperson of Iringa province.
In the year 2007 and failed to get a NEC message, again in the new district in Njombe town, it is his host, integrity and we have condemned the chairperson's chairperson and those of them gave him the chairperson's chairperson and those are those who came into the sessions when they take their reports on bribery.

In an ordinary way among a crowd that live with bribery, but you have not allowed to do, let me speak about Mangula being given his new hope, especially.
His fellow CCM members but at the Koran or to do the analysis without fear, that she has talked to Mangula being the strings of his fellow members, Nape about the concept of writing the thoughts that have been directed before it has been used before it is paid for him.

The problem of bribery in CCM, unfortunately, by bad luck, has managed to get pregnant women, a culture, system and it will start of fighting and this problem is needed to build a system.
The new culture of respect the rule of law without discrimination and develop a democratic culture, is needed to convince the whole community to change life and to prove to the citizens that bribery are many people in this country who are getting them, to give them to them, educating their children, their wedding outcome.

The problem of bribery did not be avoided, there are other things that were taken by people who have changed their lives, because the leaders of CCM are not important to our leaders and to abandon their promises, but all of us are saying to have ever been released and what we are continuing to be released.
