
Parthiban Chandeka, our communities of the era of May 31, 2012

I advise you to make this big part of this rainy season so I am able to go back to few issues, I have already explained enough about the importance to separate the office of chief leaders.
That is a case between the executive leader and the leader of protocol, among the one that I told him as Katoma, who is only an example of the name that can be used, and the one that gave him the name Mkulabi and another name of an example that can be changed by another name.
Because my readers have requested more information about these names and two other things or three, and I have time to discuss, I will like to give a clarification of my thoughts in this context.
If I said in article two weeks when we pass, we have no reason that involves itself in surfing and gefarnate that wanted to continue using institutions and names only because these things have been there for a long time, except that you have not qualified for us.
And even those who have already benefited from it is not less than a half because it does not get enough money, because we would like to believe that they have not registered themselves because we are concerned with the institutions together with its names, like it was done before the arrival of visitors from Europe and Europe.

For other words, you have already benefited from those reports brought by visitors who at them have built their institutions in achieving several institutions and give names which have been affected in the basis and some of them were affected so as to resolve it.
By bad luck, we have been using the user of a person standing on more than the people of drawing it to our colleagues that we will continue with us in our environment so that our environment is understood well.
When we go back back in history of some of our races, we do not know that we had administrative institutions, leadership and lawyer, which made good work and be able to remove our community before the presence of visitors.
In addition, the institutions had its official names which they were known as everyone who was involved.
There is no doubt that some of our community in this region of Africa have been able to build a stable ruling that had a system that will arise even to the visitors that it was a very high state of these visitors that have been allowed.
Some of the fights were not good people who love Africa.
For sure, some of them were those who were injured in those suspects who tried to prevent Africa and stop the country and their property in every way possible.
I'm talking to poachers in Belgium, the agent of King Mohammed old of Belgium, but even Stanley Nkingwa, 'Sura Sirambi' for her birthday and he accepted that the administration of Kabaka of Parliament had reached a high level which could be separated by some of Europe communities at that time.
Probably, our society is not all over the standards, the ones used to play the standards, therefore the ones used to have reached the high level of administration systems while others do not concern them.
However, your areas that were made steps which are not wise to return because I don't have a need to get in details in the relevant area of the whole Great Lakes region and elsewhere.
For example, we would have been able to give our thinking person, "if you like to inform us, our hearts are directed to our community, we could have reduced because there are political issues and to be given the direction for the future of the future.
For the same, you missed the thoughts "we have closed down what we were left by the colonialist that is our responsibility, even if we see it open that it does not make sure that it does not work, and we have no origin.
I am not true, and I cannot see the things that come up, but if the man who told his colleague that she will fall down, and it does not reach our journey and it is not true where we're going to go.
That is why I have made it (and I will continue to do that until the end of my efforts, that we have been lost, in this and in many other things.
We have been lost, we are not aware we are not good, basically we are not aware, and we do not want to know what happens.
Here, I went to say that while in the park, it has been lost, drugs is not only to increase the speed but it's to sit down and try to know where it has lost a way and it's a new direction that you need to take him in the park.
All of us that we believe that we are already lost and that this way we want to go to you where we want to go and make sure that we are not going anywhere but we are doing different results, but we are expecting different results, most signs are not seen.
We have taken a message of the system of the colonialists without considering, without caring about it well themselves with their systems they are running and we are making us to get pregnant with poor eyesight.
Even the concept of the United Republic will go through first, I don't have sure that the Arab Emirates, "the republic" has a meaning that the word of Kiliberali has not been there apart from us in the administration of many African countries and even us, if that issue is possible.
But if the United Nations "we do not talk about it is the same," there is a song that is known by the Actors Association of Cibitoke village, then I am not ready and we will not agree.

There is no problem, "if it allows the purchase and selling of votes or faults that are measurable.
Or the ones that agreed that their resources should be given to visitors as a gift when citizens continue to wane.
But I know you should be returned from where our community should not get the examples of the ruling that brought together with the concept of a panel, not by the chairmanship of Mister Mkubwa na Testify which we also explained that the real meaning of the word is not the name of Mister Mkubwa na Testify which we also explained that the administrator to use his position is not known as' Mkubwa na Testify which we also witnessed are the administrator of who used his position to steal his position.
Examples are many, and not in this country alone, but in the countries of this area and others in Africa.
When we are required to do is to build a will to learn due to the experience of our community and encourage us all that are made by visitors, which are very true and we do not understand.
