The 67 days that caused the boundaries.
May 08, 2014 by ZANU PF in the new constitution.

Our country is in the process of creating a new constitution after the establishment of this process that was announced by President Jakaya Kikwete two weeks after being sworn in to lead this country for a second term of five years.

Since the announcement of the intention of starting the process of creating a new constitution, there have been great opposition against some politicians in the ruling party, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) together with the opposition, the process started by making the commission of constitutional changes that enables the president to form the first draft of the constitution.

That draft was presented after getting the views of the constitutional councils and the end of the second draft of the constitution that finally it was faced with the presidents of Tanzania and Zanzibar and then taken to the constitutional parliament for the purpose of being discussed by the law.

The constitutional parliament has gone for a period of 67 days given, many citizens because there is no big issue that took place within those days. Many people think the reasons for the parliament or to fail, I know the main reason for failing to happen there is politics and politicians.

Since the making of the law on constitutional changes, some of us know that it will be difficult to get a new constitution due to the structure of the Parliament of the United Republic of Zanzibar and why these politicians have been trying and why these politicians have been blocking the process of creating a new constitution?

First, together with these politicians, the representatives of our representatives (citizens) for being elected, we did not support him in the constitutional parliament but to the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania and the council of representatives.

These politicians, in any way, did not have our thoughts related to new constitution are not in the constitutional parliament, ideas and opinions which they gave there is their private sector and for their interests it because it is difficult to prevent these politicians and their politics.

Secondly, the constitutional parliament is a special constitutional parliament, that is not supposed to do any way from the ordinary parliament of the Special Constitutional Assembly to supposed to have free thoughts, from the organizing committee of the constitutional parliament to be proud to be a speaker, government, the ruling party, the opposition party and the opposition party leaders.

Politicians have joined the law of constitutional parliament that we are unable to follow closely and regulations of the Parliament of the United Republic and which they have been unable to follow and managing the regulations of the constitution and that will liberate them, integrity and worry about the extent of making them fail to give their views on transparency.

Three, because all the politicians have been selected to be appointed by their political parties before being elected by the citizens to represent, it is clear that they are taking one directly to the interests of their parties and to manage their parties that were sent to the constitutional parliament.

I don't see how these people will also go against their party's stand and to protect the interests of the citizens though they have positions (SMS) they were given by parties or receive through that party, this situation has caused a debate inside the parliamentary meetings and even inside the parliamentary sessions (all of all parties).

The parliamentary sessions of the parties has been seen and basically we have not supposed to be involved in the special assembly of the constitution present in relation to the thoughts of one of the citizens themselves because the issue of the establishment of the constitution of the country is not political or not to represent, views and requirements of the citizens.

Four, a big percentage of the politicians who are in the constitutional parliament are forced to protect their political interests in the next general elections and therefore they are determined to make their positions to improve the lives of citizens in any way before ensuring that the leadership of the constitution and leadership than all other things.
