
Who is swelled by the killings of the researchers.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The Member of Parliament of Mtera, Dodoma Province, Livingstone Lusinde who is accompanied by police on claims that he has had a habit of removing its citizens on how the issues do not agree with, an issue that had caused the killing of three effects of Agriculture Research Center, Selina Arusha (MARI) inside his constituency.

It has also been noted that those researchers have been killed by the citizens in being planned and brought together with an axe in the Iringa District Council and had a letter of inspecting the Chamwino District Council to the executive council of the village.
The reliable news that was found from the police in Dodoma province, have confirmed that the member of parliament was called yesterday, he was questioned because of being alleged that he is supposed to resolve its citizens, to take their laws on issues that they did not agree with.
"It is true that the member of parliament we should call him in the morning and questioned him about those reports, we are happy to have given the cooperation, we believe we need from him is this information and we believe that we need from him," said the source of sure that he was asked by police yesterday he refused.
"I wish you the foundation stone in which he asked that member of parliament.
However, he was blamed that he was seen to do a police station in the morning and asked him to do what he went to the police station, but I went to see leaders being taken by the police, but I went to see him, but we are going to be interviewed by the police, "said JB.
About the accusations of him to participate in order to expand its citizens, to take action against the law on issues that do not accept, which is claimed that since the general elections of last year to end, he has never done any meeting in that village or going to participate in the service.
"Since the elections to end, I have never happened to the village that incitement what I have enabled us to see my people and other projects are coming back to the village and cooperate with media houses so that they can be able to mention them in those killings.
"The killings took place in the afternoon, it means that those who did the killings are known, the citizens should return them without considering these things," explaining the incident, he said that the investigation is needed by the bishop of the Catholic Church diocese of Central Bank (SADC), Doctor Dojo Janja so as to do a service in that area, "said that parliamentarian.
He said that he has never met the existence of blood in the villages of his constituency, the researchers gave the procedures while speaking with this newspaper yesterday, the acting director of research and development of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Hussein Mansoor said the researchers came through all the procedures of introducing himself from the province, district and to the executives of the villages and wards.
"It is good even in the vehicle there was a letter of their letter to oppose the launch that had been sent by the council to the executives of the villages, they were required to go to work and even when they were shot in the village leadership had a report," said Doctor Mansoor.
The source of police in Dodoma also thought that the area of the incident that got a letter from the Chamwino District Council to the executive director of the village, regarding the presence of those researchers and given the host to lead them to do their work, that we did not make, "he explained.
While clarifying about those researchers, Doctor Mansoor said that the researchers were working under the project known as Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (Irish Aid) which is run by the Ministry of Agriculture with an aim of getting the map of soil a whole country so as to advise the farmers by giving correct advice from using soil reports.
While explaining the procedures used by that ministry, when the researchers can go to the provinces, Doctor Mansoor said that they have written the letter to the province and district concerned, to discuss the researchers and the work that they will do as a result of the days that they will do.
In Chamwino district, the ministry will take a letter to the district and district commissioners and also reports that were taken to the district to the directors of the county and villages where they were planned to go and perform a letter to the executive director of that village where they were planned to go and have lost a letter to go to the executive director of that village where they were killed in the vehicle and shivered to the vehicle.
He said that the research that makes those researchers are important to the farmer because it is a research that gives an opportunity to advise the farmers of the type that are required to use the amount of drugs due to soil.
The permanent secretary said that the permanent secretary has said that, the Executive Secretary of Maksimir Stadium, Hanansif, Dietric Mkingie has said that when the event is happening, he has no information.
However, when he was asked if he has managed to follow up if the village offices had a report of the coming reports of the researchers, he answered that there was no letter of inspecting those researchers.
I am just try to follow up, they did not have a letter, even if they had a letter, then they had not arrived to introduce himself to the village offices and sign the visitors' book, "said Hanansif.
