Close to the discussions today and I don't know whether you are here and I think it is good because my son can't know if you love me, then I don't know if you're doing so, I can't know if you're doing so, I can't know if you're doing so, then you will see him and love them.
And was taught the good time.
Bye, and he performed well.
When he was heard and he is divided until then I will make sure that because even to that, it does not understand what he gets.
By the name is called Ikhwan, I will be able to know if your partner is good and to look at the first time I met with the Almighty God and for his actions that you made up if a good friend and also seems to be that stand.
It's plan that if he has planned to intervene or know that you did not give you even drinking alcohol and to do that inside them and its direction.
If you are only you that we must take this about true that you don't give you, if you read it, you will know if you love the school, that is what he does not want jokes.
.
I will stop using his habit, as he did not get tired, you know that she does not have a good thing because I will do a lot of things that you do not like, I do not have a lot of things, you know what I don't have a good thing.
Your fans here have a lot of talking to all such attitude, they don't know her for your good boss, but in our community now their daughters do not like each other.
You know that you love you in your love you will not lie!
How is it?
In the same day, there is that thing is that your name is like I have discovered that everything you believe in everything, the reason that made him love her, a small person has forgotten your friend.
What you know, you find the Bana, you can be speaking with the girl child, you do not have faith.
You have said that they were looking at each other and the sun can't give me the right to listen to my son and raging water if you have not been the girl and his boss.
This has its own rights and if you can do so, we don't know all of us because I have not been paid because of attacking and doing well and not the other things have not been paid because they do not be infected.
In a way to the mother.
If someone to be accountable is used?
There he started paying, that one is speaking with?
If recently a member of the campaign has talked to his men that you can give you fear of love.
You will know that you are going to ask ourselves what did you know anything related to the man.
She's still being like that, they don't have faith in his fiancée?
And he has explained to stay with.
This is not for my.
When I will leave the field and the man to vote is Mister what did you know if they echoed them, they don't know what I don't know if I don't know if I don't want to have been removed.
The person has ended very happy and for example.
He resorted to another second in our age and it's not for a long time while you can't know that this is true that he does not love me, but there is no boundaries.
When he comes out of you will see another girl, the part of not being a girl in the city as a result of his age, you have not yet been the ability to make it.
At the moment they are using their own kind, it's impossible so that this is the right to me until when it is not for now he has to stop doing what's right.
He knows that if there is a student in line with his exams from me and the man is now that she was facing him but he had no longer.
So that the girl whom they should do so that his relationship that she has started with her boyfriend.
He should give her boyfriend who is good and he does not have good.
Everyone should have faith in each other.
You can't have the boundaries.
They also love them true and that they look for life in front of them feel it only and that it is not that.
Because of these hours there are many diseases.
How if they be faithful, you can baptize, but it is also possible for others to get dangerous diseases like AIDS.
Therefore, it is not good.
I advise that more of us?
Ras Makunja has no longer be the current chairperson because you can be the last one if you love her, then he says she would like that he does not know her.
When we come up something that he is not only is not only that the debt will be used to you, you can't know if you can't leave, they are not a reason that you love her.
The late does not know what he loves and they are not supposed to show if you love her.
He came to an end if you love her because President Kikwete loves you, he wants you to know what he wants.
It is just like another "she does not remain.
It is not that I have never been like?
Because, it has been very difficult, that is what you get a lot, but when I read it is that when I read it is the time when I read it is a long time when I read it.
What I know is not good again?
When you are with her husband, what is a big thing.
Then you know that we are not girls.
We will see our soul because of us?
It's not there that all their daughters have participated in today's debate by a girl, which you have made good actions, which is your opinion, we need us to forgive all these things that I understood.
For allowing us again.
Again and?
