After the surprising fact, they attacked them.
Dec 23, 2015.

There is a time so as to create a patient in a critical condition and who seems to start losing the heart of the heart, then the surprising fact that the heart rate is used to make sure the fact in which the heart can be connected to the chest and usually have a surprising fact in which the heart can be connected to the chest and not to rise up.
In doing so, they can bring down the life of a person and the use of the agency (Monbusho Scholarship) is a very important thing in many hospitals and even in vehicles for transporting patients (Niche) and who use the opportunity to give them different services that he knows especially after making sure that his heart broke down in a normal state.
Our nation has been as a patient for a long time again, a patient whose death of the heart has been badly affected by those who we believe that they can help us know where we have found themselves even when we have seen all those drugs while his primary problem (heart) has not been dealt with.
Our nation has had a lot of problems and it is difficult to say that one problem in this many problems is seen, "there are many people with skills of every way but you can have a lot of work hard but lack of discipline he was welcomed a permanent disaster in the nation.
The discipline is more than ever at work which is discipline in respect the law, discipline, discipline, discipline, discipline, discipline, discipline and bad luck, you can see that for a long time we have been like a nation it should not be done by people with discipline.
However, the football team can have good coaches, good players and even a big name but if there will be no discipline in players, coaches, and other stakeholders then it will be very difficult, to change the star players from any part in the world but if they do not have discipline it is difficult to bring back home.
This is true that in the performance of our nation, for a long time people have been like not knowing the importance of discipline and this is not for many things like the leaders and that is why we see some issues that are asked if you are looking for things that are going to be surprised.
Magufuli has come with a big issue that maybe it has written for a long time, maybe I've heard the day before yesterday, I saw the Prime Minister Majaliwa when he visited the port and stop several people and some others are complaining.
My brothers, for a long time, the nation needs to be keen with discipline so that we can advise the nation that has no discipline and therefore they are supposed to have discipline and discipline, it is not a speech, it's not a speech, it's not a speech.
The nation did not start using discipline, then the nation will be ready and start a true job to build up to the modern nation.
