Yes, we need to discuss the problems of our nation.
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

Last article I met on how to abandon the debate on people and their political parties, the attraction to prevent people and thinking that there is one person who has the ability to bring change in our nation. I insisted, to start discussing the problems of our nation.

When you discuss and take care of well together, we can think about solutions, there are some of my readers who follow up on the issue of visiting people and their parties, it's important because there are people born in Tanzania and to be patients, to be the elderly.
In Tanzania they think that as Kibana, Kenya came in the State House with how many years some of the presidential candidates are not to carry yourself!

President Jakaya Kikwete made it open during the general meeting of CCM that unnecessary disruption and groups inside their CCM party are needed because they want the presidency and they are not ready to carry concrete even so that the presidential candidate is more than carrying timber.

Others believe it is a must for the debates to continue, because there are parties that include the political parties which are normal, "parties that are still using the procedure to liberate Iringa province, the opposition party members of opposition parties are not wrong!

They want to believe that political parties including Nkomola the ones that fell because they did not have political parties or the wealth of the person or the party.

Last article I wrote a bad luck and I wrote after falling with some people who think that Tanzania we have the type of people who have strength such as usual, an extent that they can inform me without reading her clothes and bad luck in their hearts.

To put off the objection that you cannot have the end, because my brothers do not understand the amount of not there because I decided to change the topic and write about the problems.
Taifa, instead of going to praising one person.

However, I believe that it is important when we discuss the problems of our nation, that's when you're forced to discuss people and their political parties.

Last article I talked about some of the problems that we have, although one editor who came into you and said that the problem of Tanzania, everything is wrong, there are no great security in their countries here in our country, and feelings are not aware even when those feelings are very close to the fact that is white.

Elephant teeth were arrested, which is known as a company was to transport. With the companies that are known as we are still there and this is just an issue! You will be told, there is no evidence.
There is an extent of removing all words, but we are still told to be feelings!

Doctor Mwinyimvua was surprised by his soul to be released, but we are still told it is an issue of drugs that are left open because we are witnessing every day how our children are arrested, but there are no evidence that I can give a long list of feelings of stem cells, but these are enough to give pictures by what I want.

There are a lot of open things that we are unable to take action, they believe it is just an issue and I can give an example of DRC war and we can say that there is far from us we will not involve us here, and all of us know what is it's meaning.

We have witnessed 23 provinces where they won the city of Goma, they had a heavy weapons and modern weapons when they get out of these weapons and they will continue being transported through our country including Kenya, Tanzania, it is clear that these weapons were passing by our country and go to DRC.

It is easy to see Rwanda by helping the rebels of DRC because Rwanda is the neighboring country of DRC but Rwanda, not it's impossible because Rwanda had gone to Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya.
