Who knows the violence in Zanzibar?
APR of 03 / 2014.

To take the wall below in Zanzibar and the heads of government together with politicians that you will make sure we can see the appeal of the use of the energy, according to the opponents and violence in general.
Furthermore, all the success made since October 2010, especially the stability of political state, they can be demolished.
Last week the second Vice President of Zanzibar, Ambassador Seif Ali Idi in Dodoma, said that he has announced war to anyone plotting to disrupt the second phase of the constitution. "
At the same time, represented the first vice president of Zanzibar, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, who is also the Secretary General of the Civic United Front party (CUF).
A few days before Ambassador deals with those statements, "announced the war" Hamad where he didn't give him again the party's stand about the structure of the union while addressing a rally in Kibondemaji, Unguja, March 26, he said that his party will not support the government's structure of two governments and nor the speech he made President Jakaya Kikwete at the opening of the constitutional parliament.
Ambassador Kamala was quoted saying that the situation is going on thus, that is Hamad Masauni, he will continue to claim that he is controlling the union of three governments - then the Revolutionary Government wants to deal with all the people of that type.
"Deal with them" meaning it is to take action that can't be patient like to give birth inside, enjoy yourself or doing other things to prevent it.
It is easy to hear that someone with the status like Ambassador is using such language of threats during the debate about the new constitution and this is a very big three-year experience in the world, but those with the ability of the union of three governments have no right to do so.
Those statements make sure that she knows how to identify other people and many legal authorities usually tell ourselves that the type of acts of stealing the law and those with threats of the type they can be postponed before the court and sentenced to criminal offenses.
The heads of ensuring that they are making threats of those types, they believe that they must use threats from the use of strength and give fear to the citizens so that those citizens do not meet the effects of the government which wanted them.
The use of energy and threats are among the ways used to be affected by people, especially the opposition to follow the stand or government policies because these types are used so much by the government in the country with the system of democracy that doesn't have the good example is here.
Threats of the type can finally be given reason to fight against the killing of Kimbari, the arrest of people who are not guilty of political reasons, they were kidnapped by their opponents and later on claims not known they are to the killing of the opponents.
If you look at the recent history of several countries with the system of democracy that do not hesitate to see that the leaders of the government have high-long-term leaders and that their ruling can also make sure that their ruling can also leave a party that depends on elections.
Failing to enable the government to put on us the requirements of its citizens, most of them cause political system in the whole country to kill them that is why the leaders shouldn't affect the strength against the opponents so as to save their administration.
In fact, our country like our country that doesn't be demolished because their government will not be able to protect their opponents because they make their opponents them to be supported by many citizens of citizens but who are going against the policies of the party that goes against them.
A good example is this one that we see now in Zanzibar where according to the constitution commission, many citizens do not know the union of two governments.
