Which is the eyes of the CCM or ignorance of contraception?
APR of 23rd, 2014.

Last week Professor Palamagamba Kabudi, a member of the former commission of the constitution, gave a statement in Zanzibar when it comes.
It is a statement that touches the issue, which has been looking for a long time to get the answer as every time when I think where I went to asking him a question, which is the meaning of the ruling party, CCM or the ignorance of contraception?
Speaking at the conference to discuss 50 years of the union, Professor Kabudi, touched on what is happening at the constitutional parliament in Dodoma town.
Professor Kabudi, among other big things that caused them to TBC 1 in charge, he said this about the blood issue that is continuing to be accepted in the two-government system contrary to the requirements of the citizens of the three government system.
"The ignorance of this generation, I hope that you will be the ignorance of tomorrow and the future generations to Tanzania will have its ignorance, it is good to give foundations, but they can't give birth because you are not pregnant but others are not entrepreneurs."
These words of Professor Kabudi, about the ignorance of our website that led me the other statement made by the president of the third term, Benjamin Mkapa, that protects the boundaries for thinking.
Most of the time (if you are not all) 'by the name is usually the appearance of thinking.
In the past, when I was happy about the future of our nation, I met on a question that is the father of the ruling party, CCM or truly the ignorance of contraception?
Any way, now I believe that without any doubt that, we should not get the ignorance of thinking, and because the things that would have gone to our country as seen, and still things have continued to remain just like that.
Take a example of the constitutional parliament that is going on with his meeting in Dodoma town, many people only are scholars and those who do not have talked and again again, it is also a constitution of the country resulting from the views of CCM's stand and not for the citizens.
They have written and talked to again and again that you can't make sure the opinion of the citizens in the draft constitution that was organized by the former commission of the constitution that was organized by the constitution that we shall remain, "he said.
That is claimed to have refused because the constitution of the citizens cannot be made by one political party because it has managed to allow CCM party members and so far the delegates have decided to resolve the views of citizens as they were presented in the draft.
But because of the ignorance of us, we the ordinary citizens do not see that it has managed to kill President Kikwete to stop the constitutional parliament and they want to sell billions of money for the constitution that give them free.
On my view, it is billions of money for the money that provide free education because, the end of all, the constitution that was made in Dodoma in the environment, will never be a constitution of the citizens and that's why it can't end up.
For sure, I would like to go further and say that he would have been in other countries with democracy when it is used by citizens who don't have faith, because of failing to defend the constitution of the United Republic of the United Republic.
But as a reason why you love our thinking of thinking, we don't understand or we don't know that President Kikwete has called the government of the United Republic of Tanzania for being silent and to allow Zanzibar to change his constitution in the year 2010 to ensure that it has stolen the authority of the president of the United Republic (authority) in the process of having any strength in Zanzibar.
If it would be no boundaries for thinking (if you shouldn't be sold at the instructions from President Kikwete about that.
