Escrow account.
Instead, the account will need to be given money so as to be able to reduce by sitting or put it again.
He knows the words of wanting the presidency.
Thank you, Ras Kiduku was happy to talk about one thing.
That's a question that we finished, we can't know what we got in the team, we are led by led by the and the same way I don't see you.
Why and I love you so much, this will be a lot of chickens in witchcraft in a very much time in Joet, she was talking on her a few days when he wanted to do in Zanzibar.
The phone of getting a plain truth about the health is also an expert to vie for presidency from acknowledging to find out a distance of each time when December will produce many questions to that president.
We have been witnessed, there are other cases, do not be far from this work when you get it because it should be careful, we should talk about where I will talk about Bill, I will talk about what we are doing, we should talk about here with a normal Tanzanian shillings.
Whom she has already paid the previous groups in all groups, it has already been known, Okwi, and our family we believe that we are required to make sure that we are able to help our nation because the interests of the nation despite the interests of the nation despite the interests of the nation despite the interests of the nation despite the interests of the nation despite the interests of the nation despite the interests of the nation.
Cheating were a result of the occurrence of the earthquake which explains the reason this research has never seen that, we have heard that here there are no terrorist sponsors, an event that is, therefore we become a second one.
The late does not make sure that you will make sure you have reached an attack so that he can come up to get the truth now when you see you, we have said from the neighboring country, we have said that all over the national interests we have said, two hundred billion and how many.
You are good, I arrived, we will say.
One of the bacteria is using abusive language, we are disappointed to move ahead of what we will go to make this being because it has light weight and we are believed to be possible.
You miss.
Your instructions is really terrifying.
Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete.
Jakaya Kikwete.
In a way.
Now Kinondoni.
You don't understand and you have talked and here is this word that you don't like to use those languages for what?
When a person sees himself.
Why is the introduction session.
The investigation of he died.
For opinion that were given out.
Because of is one who is accused?
There is no reason for those money or because of every day.
Even if he did not complete that he doesn't return.
Something that is okay, you should not recognize that it is not because it is being used because of the word itself having a lot of work, what's a fiancé.
Yes, we took us to raise us.
