
The project of switching on land has not allowed the citizens economically.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been published in September 2016.

Every Tanzanian desires to be a piece of land for land so that he can have his ownership of ownership, without caring about it is the traditional disposal.

But in Tanzania, the situation is very different, it's only 20 percent of the land has been buried and other 80 percent have not been tested, an issue that causes the existence of unplanned settlements due to people's farms and building without a procedure.
Giving thanks is that the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, has come with the strategy of testing all land in Tanzania and put a plan for better land use in every district and the plan will help to make the land in urban and rural areas to have a great value.
For the start of that ministry through the program for enabling land, land ownership (ISP), has started a example of an example in three districts of A, Ulanga and Kilombero District of Morogoro Province, where the ministry has planned every piece of land in those districts in the district.
Also in that plan, the citizens who live in rural areas, have already got into their pieces, they will be handed over traditional foods in the whole period of life of the project, which is three years.
Despite the project paying for a large extent, the development partners from the United Kingdom, Denmark and Sweden, but also our government, has shown an intention of giving priority to the project by contributing to approximately 30 billion shillings.
A citizen can use its land as a result of borrowing from financial institutions and works of development activities, the citizen is required to pay more than 300,000 shillings, which are different fees during the provision of traditional products and during the provision of traditional weapons.
But also under that project, the villages that have never done its boundaries, were tested and given a certificate of registration in those villages, will also be forced to have a plan to use land use after the land commission completed the work of organizing a land use in every district.
Basically it is that, all the three districts have got bad luck and have been given this project to the challenges that are in this project, it is that the districts of those districts have a lot of conflicts between villages and villages, between the village and investors of the village and neighboring countries like forests, animals, and other cities.
One of the conditions of that project to make your land land to be availed with any kind of land, I believe that, villages in conjunction with those districts, they will use the opportunity of the project to ensure all the conflicts that are in their areas are resolved by peace and quickly.
A good thing is that the project is like to give birth to our government, because according to the acting commissioner of land, Mary Makondo, within 10 years, the ministry has a plan to test all land in Tanzania together with putting up a better use of land use.
Therefore, I urge citizens, the executives of the villages and wards, leaders of villages and councilors from the three districts to ensure that this program is run in their areas as a free project, to get great success so that other districts can learn from them.
If you see that district has gone into that project with ministries, then competed among them this week, it will be a shame for the districts together with the province in general so that to combat that project so that the citizens can benefit from that project for example.
