The third step is that when they get after joining Nape.
It is to take action.
There is no benefits that will be used in Dar es Salaam to be called Mister Blue.
The father of Kim visits the nation, I don't know the skills of this action.
The success of the success is going on.
And we have said that at the end of the step we do not get to foolish things.
After creating a non-knowledge system, the new system of new information is the first one since it's heading to take it only.
How do you get into your new place?
That plan will be done to this step.
Every day every week and I believe in taking action, we are required to make sure that it would have been said.
That can baptize I decided to stay inside after three days what should I do when you are doing once again.
Take a good step and why is more that the service can have been planned for now, it takes a step if it is a must.
Business is open a business if it is a profit that I don't know your amount because there is a team there's a team.
Then, on actions that you witnessed, that is a place of new things, what we learned is to make my new wife of the previous results, after that, it will start to see new events including the biggest income, which is God to make it.
If a level is because of making a plan and there is a lot of time to time, it is something that can make sure that it can be done, where there is a must that you will be changed and this is why you will be changed and this is required to show it.
Evaluation was to make every day every week every week.
You're going to meet my steps and take him for Simba.
You know where there is a place where and wanting them to take their preparations, it should be resolved because they take place three consecutive steps and when they take place, there will be a difference in every day, they will start to see if they get in different times, which they will start to see they get in different times, which they will start to see it.
Last week has made an evaluation of my plan that I have talked and that we want to take them, there should be a must.
In the month has ended an evaluation, what is doing an evaluation by doing.
If there is a place where you will go to Ukawa to lime, if there is a place, I think you have not given the right time to go back to the first stage and to get advice from doing these things, do you have made new things that will involve the new results.
It brings change and new events in income.
For example, it is a nation we like to now after giving me a word.
The late?
When I wake up, we are witnessing?
Two people were in state which many people are looking at the moment.
It is not enough to know the issue of doing so as to increase their income but the first step.
They were looking for knowledge.
What will you do I mentioned in one way to look for.
It is to attend a seminar for example if you want to increase your income that are present at their different parts of the people they mentioned.
I get knowledge or information.
While the source of new reports.
.
After that, they went to you an important thing, because they have a new report that it means another people will begin the two people and they started a farming farming and other things that they have been found.
They will take action against these results see the difference of that, that is your grandfather's grandfather.
Many things here, I would like to add itself on these things and also important things.
In the first half, flash disk "because this process is the process of change the changes that it has been received easily and there is a very big opposition because it does not have a permanent process because they do not have a permanent process therefore, they should make sure that you are doing this matter.
That issue is not one but the second must have the desire to change these things to increase their income but also the foundation of the team.
It is easy to end on the way because they are my brothers together but changes can be able to make any support and someone who do not want to do in this changes that we are making changes in a group.
I thank you very much for information.
