What is the meaning of the concept of a leader of the ACT party?
APR of September, 2015.

One of the political events in the media, normal talks and social media in March this year is the official launch of ACT-Wazalendo party, the launch of this party was held at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam on March 29, 2015.
Two important things have cautioned the debate about the launch of this party and the first issue is about the ideology of the party, which is socialism is impossible because some of the political issues have condemned the legality of this party in order to implement political politics that have reduced.
The second issue is a structure of leadership that is being used by this party, different from the procedure used in the infrastructure of political parties in the country, ACT-Wazalendo has been able to come with the structure with the party leader as well as the chairman of the party.
In today's article I discuss and explanation about the concept of structure of ACT Wazalendo's leadership, when I get an opportunity in front I will endeavor to clarify the concept of the foundation of democracy of socialism is used by ACT-Wazalendo especially in the environment of Tanzania's environment.
One good thing in the ongoing debate about ACT-Wazalendo is that at least we've started discussing about ideology and systems of running political parties, instead of every day to discuss political events that arise.
The system of ACT-Wazalendo's leadership includes the party leader as well as the chairman of the party, basically this is the system of leadership that is being used by political parties in many countries that are available in the African Community.
For example, in England the system of leadership of the Conchesta Ngaiza, a leader of the party and the chairpersons of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi party, the leader of the Libyan party, David Cameron, Babu Tale and has said the party's chairperson, David Cameron, Twaha Mtengera and the party's chairperson (Ukawa), is Sal Brenny.
Examples are also many in the African Continent for example, Raila Odinga, is a political leader in Kenya, while the party's chairperson, Henry Massao in South Africa, the leader of the ruling party, Jacob Zuma, who is also the speaker of parliament of South Africa.
The main reason for having a system of leadership of different party and the chairperson is to avoid making any political party one of the problems facing democracy in Africa is the truth that the system of leadership of political parties is very disturbing.
Here, for example, CCM is a party that is because they are in use in government due to its structure, where its chairperson is why this party becomes the leader of the cabinet, because this party does not have the authority to meet the performance of his government.
The results of that structure is that made him now the secretary general of CCM to work on the opposition parties to complain and have condemned the opposition party because he knows that he cannot have that opportunity in the sessions of the party because there is the government that runs the party.
The system of political party in CCM has no difference with other parties and he is saying that these parties will be forced to have political parties immediately when they get in power, the system of the party is dangerous to democracy because of serving the government in accordance with their profession.
Therefore, the foundation of having a system of leadership of the party as well as the chairperson is to eliminate the party's performance in South Africa, this system has decided to support him and eventually elect Jacob Zuma of the party and later the president of South Africa, this issue would not have been possible in the party's system.
Therefore, the foundation of ACT-Wazalendo will have a system of leader of the party together with the chairperson, it would be able to inspect the responsibilities of running the party system in spreading ideologies and policies of the party outside the government in spreading ideologies, philosophy, and policies of the party to the public.
