
We themselves as we are following or refusing to be used in spreading birth between us.
Congratulations to our leaders for representing us, even to protect themselves and argument that want to succeed in parliament.
Every time when you talk about our leaders, they can be able to do what they are proud of, and lack of encouraging the life and the requirements of the ordinary citizen.
This is the disaster which enable you to succeed and forget that a suspect said they had been highly commended for elephants.
The issue of politicians to deal with their colleagues in parliament and talked about words of hatred in citizens against their colleagues is not wisdom and lack of wisdom and bad leadership.
Incitement has continued to say that most of us have following their interest, we want to know that politicians have advanced the institutions to enable them to reach their political goals.
Most of us have where we are participating in various political meetings which are the end of the whole issue and therefore, generosity.
As Kenyans, we know we know the importance of the nation's song because peace is wise.
Still being born in Nairobi, they will be able to take place at Saba Saba for ODM Party, which is of the United Republic of Congo to be unable to supervise his elections at the Mnazi Mmoja stadium which brought down and became a lesson.
The question is so that they failed to do elections because if they can be able to do a Saba Saba meeting because CCM party members are inspiring.
David K. Nyerere, the University of Mashada stadium, President performed well for the president he did well to fund the team of Harambee Stars to view the World Cup match in Brazil.
That sponsorship was personal and there is a must that there is a problem in sports units, we must change those departments.
For this, I did not affect the poor politics and the private person knows how to use his money for the sponsorship of the president is a decision to my heart.
All those who find the president don't recognize the president they don't know the legal action is suitable for building the road how you will see the road, "Landscrona" is openly that they are not responsible in the leadership.
I don't think that the member of parliament has any reputation of making him be a leader after the step he took to get to parliament following it.
This is why we live, bad and tribalism.
Dennis K. Nyerere, New Flame, in United States, has been conducted in the cleaning state in Nairobi city has continued to affect the crime and it will leave every place.
It is clear that the residents of this city and also visitors are being faced with the danger of being infected with diseases such as cholera.
Many parts of this city have destroyed water water, the remains of food and even papers.
Lack of people's equipment were bought at the central city.
A police officer of the main city council have a responsibility to ensure that the city is faced and also set equipment for people to buy.
Ramsey Nouah has been sponsored by Pan African College, Thika and North Korea who should calm down in South Korea's place in attacking South Korea and America is not only a threat to the concerned nations in the whole country.
If that country will make sure that there is a possibility of nations that are depending on the western side, Central Africa and Asia, to join together with attacking that nation, this being the only goal of making peace in the world.
It is important to understand that the United Nations has provided opportunities to all nations to obey the contract of Khajida Kopa, the nation in any country using nuclear energy to another nation.
Welcoming Dixon Busagaga of Somanga Fungu, Naronyo Kicheere.
