
The contestants Raila Odinga is looking for popularity before.
By Bashir Yakub.
The political party leaders on the government of Diamond at the end of the week that had been condemned, the leader of Geology, Raila Odinga with what she mentioned is to continue the campaign of "save Kenya" with an aim of getting him for the next general elections of the year 2017.
Led by the national chairman of the Party of Tchao, Mister Johnson Somba, those leaders joined his great campaign in the country to encourage the citizens to vote for the decision.
They said the United Nations will never help the ordinary citizen but it's building for building a name so that it can be easy for its members to win the next general elections.
While speaking to the nation today in Lamu Island, those leaders joined the opposition to refrain from playing politics and the lives of Kenyans and instead of praying for the development of the country.
Mister Somba said the requirements of the attempt to be prepared for the voting process is a high court for tax because the exercise will need more money despite being sold at the general elections in our country.
He wanted the party members to look for change through the parliamentary committee instead of the opinion polls that are very expensive.
"The opposition can look into a trap through the parliament which is free than to be prepared for votes which will cost costs, for more than 10 billion shillings, while playing with a lot of poor lives," said Mister Sakali.
That chairman also revealed that Diamond already has done talks with all the representatives of Muembe Makundi Ward, he made them to convince him to oppose that vote.
"Our goal as Diamond is to make sure that Olsson did not be supported through it," we have talked to the representatives of Chumbuni and Central Bank of Tati, he said different from them and agree to oppose the opposition's intention, "added Mister Sakali.
Mkuranga member of parliament, Mister Francis Dande, has urged the opposition to give a chance to the constitution be used before its problems being recognized.
He said it is wrong for the opposition leaders to put in Kenya in terms of time for the election time instead of encouraging the thoughts in the development of the country.
"You cannot change a thing that you have not seen it's impossible because I am not early to change the constitution.
There we can prepare two elections, the votes for the decision together with the general elections are now during development, "said Mister Pengo,.
The chairperson of Tena branch, Mister Omar Famor even so, he said that the problem that is not the constitution but is war between the two of the two, "said Mister Odinga with conflicts in order to continue giving their reputation that will enable the President Uhuru in the year 2017.
