
The members of parliament of CCM when they get in the opposition members of parliament on behalf of the government.

It has been now a very common thing to the members of parliament of CCM to answer the issue.
The opposition members of parliament especially CHADEMA, instead of the government to answer.

We witnessed the day before yesterday in the speech of the ministry of Mali natural resources and tourism.
That was presented by the deputy minister of that ministry, Peter Msigwa.
The speech that was given is the secretary general of CCM, Abdelhamid Radwan.
Kinana is in the process of poaching of elephants, there is no one member of parliament.
CCM who contributed to ask or asking for the government to investigate.
That was said by Mighty One, Peter Msigwa as' Ukweli Wangu '.
The step of the CCM secretary!

They called Mwengi, the members of parliament of CCM ended up to sit down while Msigwa.
He praised Kinana and the government. "We saw Emmanuel Nchimbi.
Inside the first one is the first to defend Kinana, instead he was as a minister.
Is the Unit Trust and Foreign Affairs Officer, Honorable Peter Msigwa.
The evidence of Kinana is being involved with the crimes of elephants.
The opinion polls have been condemned and it's not only one of the members of CCM.
What they did is to answer the issue of government and he advised Kinana.

The parliamentary work is to advise the government the government in issues.
All concerning the issues of state and the citizens in general.
Now it has been different since they do members of parliament.
He blamed the government and took the position of the government to answer him because of parliament.
Especially from CHADEMA.

That is why the government has not be accountable for the citizens as required.
This group of members of CCM to help him to answer the issues of their opponents.
The need for the coming constitution is to have a member of parliament so that this problem is.
The party that makes up the government should not vie for ministers immediately.
They emerge from their political party!
