
CAG has completed the work, concerned institutions are needed.
The controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), Professor Mussa Juma Assad has presented the report of the inspection of the government accounts and its institutions, at the parliament meeting that is going on.
In that report, CAG has shared a lot of challenges, the government, in public organizations and in some of the councils in the country.
For sure that all the sectors have been touched by the CAG, because its experts have noted the huge destruction of government procedures, theft, embezzlement, misuse of power and executives not fulfill their responsibilities.
Approximately one week now, the media stations in the country have been telling the report of CAG, together with members of parliament, there are areas that have been mentioned in reports and shows that there were great carelessness in many government departments.
Although we have already begun to inform the directors of some institutions that have defended him about the allegations in their areas, but in general you will continue to say the CAG, Professor Mussa Juma Assad has finished his work and now the work is supposed to continue with other institutions.
In my view today, I don't want to leave a series of accusations of embezzlement, theft, abuse of power and a violation of the procedures that has been done by the government officials, its institutions and organizations.
Today I will speak to other media like an institution of preventing and fighting corruption (UDART), the police force, the commission of ethics, parliamentary and senior secretaries to take their positions to stop those acts.
Most of the majority from the past, have been forced to hear of their money being born by people every time, but the action will not be touched by the relevant agencies.
Also, prevent many from many, they do not expect to listen to President John Magufuli, he announced to take action against President John Magufuli when he was announced to take action against the CAG, while there is a special media that has been unable to take action so as to take action.
There is no great thing that has not been explained in the report of CAG, embezzlement of funds in various ministries, embezzlement of public funds, embezzlement of public institutions and councils, now, and for them to talk for them.
We do not want to continue with words without actions in order to take action that is mentioned directly to the implementation of the government procedures.
Also, it is good for the other organs to stop paying the responsibilities of CAG to start doing that they were discovered by the CAG since doing that is continuing to lose public funds.
For example, the scandal of Lugome has given a special tender to mark the machines to take advantage of the machines at the police stations where it was mentioned to take place a good place with CAG, but on the step of parliament to form a small committee so as to investigate and take part of the work done by the CAG.
The countries that are following the basis of good administration, all those who have been mentioned directly to the involvement of embezzlement, they were supposed to be stopped so as to pave way for the investigation of other organs.
Surprising thing in our nation, the report of CAG has been read two weeks ago, there are officers mentioned in the mistakes of theft and embezzlement but still they are in the estates they are making a lot of money for the public.
I don't see all those who are waiting for the decision by President John Magufuli or the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa of the heads that are in charge of these institutions, to start early removing these answers since it's impossible to be President Magufuli selling them.
There are those who are at the level of district heads, heads of provinces and others are there at the level of permanent secretaries in ministries and others would be resolved by the ministers.
Even so, seems to be no leader, who wants to fulfill the responsibility of this environment on three chapters.
First chapter, these are the ones that were mentioned by CAG, they are not involved in their problems in embezzlement, others said that they are not afraid of their leaders or those of them are not aware of their responsibilities.
Because it's not possible, CAG has given the information that the drugs are stranded, I believe it doesn't be taken against them because they were mentioned by the CAG whose evidence seems to be clear in the senior directors of the concerned ministry and various public institutions.
Muhimbili from MSD for two years, while the ones that were involved in that scandal, are still being questioned by the relevant agencies.
Likewise, if this issue of removing boils that were left to President Magufuli, then there is no primary reason and continued to cause several executives who have no support to the public.
Mussa Juma is the Citizen writer in Arusha region of 711,070,00 Tanzanian shillings.
