.
The government has been able to fulfill the agents of technology in the country.
He explained more that in doing research and identify the existence of geothermal energy and the nation cannot benefit from the resources that will remove the shortage of electricity in TANESCO according to the incident.
The whole city has been made in Dodoma by the minister of energy and minerals, William Ngeleja or when he was launching the council of working for natural gas and they were not public, you can be given a chance by people who want to do research on those areas where they see if I am born tomorrow for the purpose.
I should start using the energy that are derived from that.
But the reliable information that will help in details or not.
I believe that only from the city now, let me look at each other that you came through and give those responsibilities, the minister of energy and minerals, to advice the ability to complete the testing of all the areas including the mining resources so that the nation can be able to have correct statistics.
Together with other things, Mister Ngeleja explained that or from the fear of Tanzanians about to be welcomed to the players in the selling of minerals in the country and he insisted that the level that scored only ten percent of all minerals.
In that love, a person has come up to give three million artists, which have conflicts of minerals.
But many of them even so much in eternal peace.
What does the body of a license?
Close to him.
I am doing five opportunities for Tanzanians, you can't know here in the step of looking for small-scale farmers, when you stop paying them.
Previously when he was welcoming the minister to launch the council since the head of the council and the executive director of the foundation stone, Professor Lipumba has said that together with the availability of various achievements since the end of his year, it has been able to implement the contract to prevent them by collaborating with the ministry so that it has been banned according to the standards they were given in the form.
And agents that deals with more than five hundred thousand shillings.
There is love that you are in five percent among them say.
I wish you in Dodoma I have identified himself.
