Like what he said inside, only one of the victims of "Masau boasted.
December 11, 2014.

In the first I said that Diplomacy, all of the country must be an illustration of political politics, the way people from the concerned country have changed and concerning the way those who defected to their homes in the future, and how they would like to live in the past areas and how they would like to live in their homes and people of other nations in general.

In that meaning, Diplomacy is needed is political politics which is small and local politics, when it comes from, local politics will also be creative and later we have been able to go and later, we will have any political politics, especially for all human rights, equity and the rights for all.
There are many people who do not want to know, but it is the foundation that has enabled us to encourage people, to unite with African countries who were still under the colonial administration.
The philosophy of us have made great strength to make us cooperate with our colleagues (not to help them if you say that you are not seen in this continent, but because of her human beings they were their colleagues, even if they were very little.

And here I would like to see these days that I would like them "we want them to say" we are complaining and we believe that all of us, but we agree with our colleagues in getting the colonial era, then we agree with us that we are participating in those processes, but we agree with the efforts of Mwalimu Nyerere's efforts to lose their time.
Up to today, there are people who have the fact that our poverty has resulted from the resources that we were affected "in the liberation movement of most of our colleagues among our leaders who are like my age or little or not knowing what was going on in South Africa, do not identify them, but the truth is that they were very far from the liberation of people who listen to today.
It is the same logic, that among those who bought political politics that is wrong, equity and the right is those who had banned the liberation of Africa and the whole world, and those are the ones who are standing to defend Vietnam on the whole world.
There is saying that when I started to leave the basis of justice in local politics and we agreed to get in a person or who were in the race or when we see our brothers from Kenya, our foreign politics and we agree with our old people, it is for us to be the defending champions of what is called "globalization."
As we believe in history, we agreed to take precautions with our expectations of our interests and our heads to be canceled, they were promoted to the plane, they will be taken as well as there and then went up to our country, and that is said of Diplomacy, as it is in the world of globalization. "
The "globalization," for all that is a little history, we have been with them since the colonial era, it was a section of globalization websites for slavery.
I said that at the same time, that even in the different mid-fielder of globalization, such as Kaunga was surprised and taken to live, for the mistake of killing her brother, and Mister Mkubwa has put a sign in the forehead so that he will go to people from there to recognize them.
Or Mister Jesus, when he was taken to his parents to look for safe in Egypt.
