Ras Kiduku was found.
Hayatou, is called for an offense that you use in Dodoma municipality you want a reader that has done my cry for a whole week in general.
Her service is there.
The station is to become a shortage of drugs every time.
There is a bad thing.
Its hope for his citizens have succeeded.
The foundation stone but recently.
At the Kaitaba Stadium, giving me a lot of Ras Kiduku as a whole.
That the place is going back down, there is a cry for the service delivery.
All of the medical services in the health centers and when you're welcome to give you a lot, while in the hospital and pastors, told the street and in the district to hear a lot of drugs have continued and you want to loose.
Others are those drugs, this preparations should come out and your meaning?
He said that it is true that the same thing is among the districts that we are following you so much in the health sector and you want to know what we have reduced the drugs for the only celebrations in Shinyanga province so she gets enough.
The great secret of our success is to encourage many citizens who have been built to the health insurance fund in our country.
And Iramba has a total of 59 households to three hundred thousand shillings.
We are in Europe and wait, in my class I have needs, but they have given ninety minutes and nine of two hundred thousand.
Therefore, it is doing that.
Each seven of the students are not that they are in his health insurance and we will see in all the households that they have contributed to ten thousand shillings.
Therefore, and the government will increase the ten thousand shillings until all of them I will be millions of shillings.
The lot of business is so much in that logic, then it will be given a great opportunity.
To be able to buy drugs and importation of drug abuse, but also for other drugs that are Miss Tanzania they don't have any reason why the council has no longer.
You have talked about that you are living through the reserve fund.
Member of parliament.
But it is not a new thing, we will remember all of us here in the country, this issue has been planned to ensure that they were not able to go up to drinking alcohol that is not correct or not a big one again.
Truly, in my end of the whole week, there are great problems of drug abuse, said that if they are asking for new people it is normal, but there are many hundred thousand shillings in another phase which we shall begin from two consecutive years, but we shall begin from two consecutive years, already he went to hospital.
For the purpose of getting drugs to those drugs, he urged them to ensure that it is using the insurance fund that he was given, but also the correct use of drugs by a situation can buy drugs but the drugs being other citizens.
The Pepsi system has a good system of controlling the drugs and where it comes from a citizen and here at the moment there are a lot of people that are taking place and we are ensuring that the example they have built more than 100 million shillings in which they agreed to pay for drugs.
And a shivered.
