
Minister Masha J.
Frode Dyrdal of 1st, 2012.

There is an important issue that concerns the security of citizens of the country that until when this article is organized and it has not been given the necessary weight and there is dangerous to the effects that are not successful.
Last week, there was a report of rhaging into some of the media houses that concern the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the office of Mwanza to prevent them for a period of a cargo of Barkley scored at the airport in that town.
The authority was forced to prevent a cargo that had a weight of 1200 tons by which was discovered that it was a cargo that was revealed to be a bomb that was revealed to be charged with bombs, injuries and bomb attacks.
The customs manager of TRA in Mwanza Province, Hold Kihinga, has been quoted by one newspaper of every Swahili day saying they have collaborated with the police force, the Tanzania People's Defense Force, National Security and their TRA.
He added that the cargo used all procedures for creating a permit and that is why after being satisfied with the inspection, it is allowed to continue with the journey.
From here, these instructions are starting with this manager, he says that, after being satisfied with the inspection, that cargo has been allowed to continue with the journey, "is supposed to continue with the journey.
As a result of his own words, here we will highlight many cargo in the country that has been found with bombs from attacking him, bombs from fire.
So, we need to understand that with a cargo being allowed to continue with his trip, Baragina has a permit to bring in a bomb of tears, shot and bombs in the fight which are used for war?
So, for that cargo being allowed to continue with the journey now, we believe that country laws allow companies of investors to bring weapons in the country?
We believe that Barsheba I have a permit that will enable them to bring in weapons like those and that is why, the inspection of being satisfied with their cargo "Boznia was allowed to take care!
At the time the manager has confirmed the existence of bombs and shot dead in Baragigi ship, the acting police commander of Mwanza Province, Khamis Bowman, has been charged with that news saying that the donation was given by the investigation officer of the province, Augustine Mwaruka.
Those words have been supported by the manager of the company Teya Teenage, who was quoted by the newspaper that gave the report saying that Baray doesn't have any reason to transporting a cargo like that company because it does not have use in the company's activities to build gold.
It is my advice that these statements should be distributed from those involved in this issue should not be not supposed to be left roofless.
It is surprising that to the officers of the government's department, one of them says they were cooperating with the investigation that to have many cases due to one saying that it is a gun and shot dead while another says they are sick.
We would like to be informed that when the regional police officer found the report to the acting commander of police that there is a bomb attacks which was blocked at the airport, dynamite, drugs, while the customs manager of TRA is saying that that cargo has bombs from being supported, a bomb attacks and shot.
It means that after the investigation of that cargo that we are told that the killing of the police force, the defense force of TDPF and the national safety are written in two different reports, TRA who stopped the investigation saying that cargo had bomb attacks since the office of investigation is saying that the cargo were tested for rocks.
Recently, the company of Barsheba I was in news headlines because of people suffering from 400 people to get into the company's mine in North Mara, that is in addition to making great destruction of companies of the company where up to the end of last week, 10 citizens were arrested by police concerning the incident.
We have been explained that in the incident the guards of that mine were forced to come out and leaving those citizens while continuing with the destruction up to the police force when they arrived at the religion when they came to the religion that came up to the religion.

It has already announced a little that when the reports of being attacked by the aerial balls, these are the company being unable to bring in war crimes in the country, to be true or not true, it did not know, but it did not think it.

When you get reports that give birth to the company to bring in a cargo that is controlling the bombs in war and those of words used to evade violence together and shot yourself about the safety of the public.
If the words from the Manager of Directors of TRA in Mwanza province, Hold Kikula has said that the cargo is bomb of war and fire equipment is true then we are supposed to ask ourselves as they are supposed to use the bombs, while those equipment are not involved in any way and the mining of minerals?
I think the minister of internal affairs, Lawrence Masha is supposed to cut off the officers of its departments in Mwanza province and know, then beat us all, the truth of that issue and that one who is found is giving misleading reports to the public that should be dealt with.
Here I have a meaning of the one who said that the cargo has a bomb to be shot and shot and yet there is no thing that is like that, and the person who said that the cargo was shot dead and therefore managed to fight our security.
This bill is still underway more when the customs manager when he was quoted saying that, after the inspection they proposed to a cargo, they should have been directed to the government agents who are involved with weapons and not an investor. "
These words are removing blood cells about the existence of those equipment in that cargo. That manager would not be able to give a conclusion if it could have been involved with those weapons.
We think that Minister Masha is supposed to give Baray of seven days to explain information about this issue so that they should not make sure that everyone had been able to protect him and its property.
All the time that was done, it is also good that we look at details about the aim of our citizens to break the law by invading the law that are not involved, it is clear that there are many things that are not involved with our citizens who live near the mines.
When we take this, the experience of the experience "from our brothers from Nigeria where their areas that offer oil are not peace and many times have been in the fight against ractory sides of oil companies that increase oil in the area.

This is as a result of the citizens of those areas, especially those of tribe of England, to see that they are not recognized by their government and those companies that get great benefits while getting them in poverty and the environment that were kidnapped by that mining.
