And today's game we are continuing with our news report near the East African news, where we are told that it is easy to pray to the citizens who participated in that service including the former president of Ghana, Jerry Silaa, who participated in that service together with the former president, Raila Odinga, while speaking in that service, the former president of Ghana, Jerry Silaa speaking in that service together with the former president, Raila Odinga, while speaking in that service, the former president of Ghana, Jerry Silaa speaking in that service together with the former president of Ghana, Jerry Silaa.
How many times you have.
Ras Kiduku was arrested.
Listen to stand football.
Wilson Massawe.
It is not possible.
You can't understand that one person should be blamed and we cannot be third from the university.
On his part, Mister Kimwana has said that the deceased, a person who was a friend of all people without caring about his position in politics.
You will get the Serena Hotel of the incident, when he made a mother to be called Al-Faisal, who came to even a week, a fee in which they are from me, Mobolaji Dawodu.
From luck, I'll tell you to open the open sin?
Kenya's appeal court has commanded the government of Kenya to pay a former member of parliament to kill Otieno.
Fine is disgracing the end, the problem does not come out and go back and leave depressed.
Where?
.
The Eucharist celebrated by the head when he won three seven minutes.
I love this here.
And the electricity company entered into a contract with the breast cancer which is in India for the purpose of distribution of electricity in the villages at a cost of four hundred million shillings in that project together with other things will stimulate the development of the economy and help the citizens to come out of poverty.
Holy Rosary the country.
I will give a member of parliament to vote for him and in the field of unity.
And when you receive that report, it will complete the East African news immediately after the next short time we will continue with international news.
