
72 institutions are joining the communication network in the government.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published in 21st October, 2016.

Government has united 72 institutions in government communication network through the national communication cable including all the ministries, Independent Departments, Government Authorities.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the manager of information, education and communication of the government, Suzan Mshakangoto said those institutions from 20 provinces that are in the office of the president, regional administration and local government (Tamisemi) will be joined on that network to December this year.
These institutions have been suspended from the Ministry of Internal Affairs (T) together with mobile phone system with the internet has said that the system of communication technology that use them from India.
However, they are still continuing with talks with Rwanda in order to improve efficiency and to reach a sustainable development.
"The country which is currently well in using information (information and communication technology) and the Government Network is Korea, but Tanzania has decided to use the structure of India because it has a number of people that goes with Tanzania and even its level of poverty is going with us," he said.
He said the completion of that infrastructure will increase costs for the cost of communication that were being provided, will help the institution to have better electronic communication technology, there will increase the speed of range of ICT and improving performance and increase the quality of service provision to the public.
"These phones are using the internet so that you feel it will help reduce the cost of the government which was before the start of this system," he said.
He added that the institutions that are joined in that phone system with the internet which does work hard will be able to communicate between institutions easily.
"A servant for one institution in an institution connected to the table one inside one office, also using this financial system will be able to perform meetings through phone from one municipality to another," he said.
He said that in order to make that activity, the office of the president, public service management and good administration have been given training to the institutions connected to the operations and supervision of the government network and use of phones that are using data to the ministry, Independent Departments, and Local Governments Loans.
