.
Due to the distance of these planes when the researchers are complaining about big groups of those animals, as well as to see the presence of human activities near the park, a situation that is mentioned to continue to us the residents who failed to be in this area but in general.
We will be able to see maybe the market for animals, but we have decided to see inside the park, there are several human activities.
And this will help now not to communicate with the authorities that are concerned, we will support the policies and make decisions to show that in Serengeti in the reserve not only, the activities of protecting the animals is still continuing on.
National Park will also help to make decisions in order to reduce or to eliminate all human activities now.
The villages that were inspected but protect the wildlife.
It is not the law.
Or not permission to the citizen.
The late bless you without a permit or not to bring in livestock or control inside them to take all the sun to go to a animal, by cutting trees so that the challenges are there for some people to break the law but also.
As well as a good work, what we continue and we cannot get also those breeders not to deal with them and eventually the law can be safe for all the ones that we do so as to make us continue to intervene in areas and systems.
At the moment we are removing the areas that we have said, on the passage or paths of animals, so that they can be able to get the brain from other areas that he is going to see the citizens together with their properties.
Allan Kijazi is one of the five organization here in the country, he has its view about this situation but he also made it to the community in using the wildlife park.
I would like to realize that we are being faced with another challenge which is here on the side of the villages.
We have sun is determined.
There are some of the areas of the villages, you know that the citizens came closer.
From the borders of the park.
But it is not only that there is no boundaries that has caused the borders of the park.
But the source of this problem is very high.
What does it benefit from the truth.
Many areas of the villages.
Do not have plans for better use of land.
But it is going with the truth like that.
In some of the areas to eat conflicts between our rights and the citizens you find the area due to the law of conservation, it shows that it is inside.
Go to the areas that have been built in the areas that have been built in the villages that are registered, the ones that show that they are in areas of the villages, due to the current situation for a week.
Between us to listen to the villages.
And politicians together with leaders of the government.
That responsibility soccer has already been taken to the idea.
He started using football.
It has written all areas that has revealed that they have conflicts and seems that citizens have gone inside.
And look at the laws that are there and we do not get long?
And also he does not want to be able to take it so that they can be able to avoid those problems, we have faith that the decision by the government will come out a recent days, then conflicts which continues to bring conflicts between us and the citizens.
There are conflicts for example of animals from neighboring villages.
And conflicts of animals will go to those areas while others injured or even having.
There are problems such as diseases.
And maybe the rights of some of the animals that are looking to the wildlife here, we see that at a big way you came from Dar, he had the wildlife because it is a lot of challenges that we have faith.
Or the situation will be given to each other day.
Then we will be able to perform well as a organization to cooperate with the government to cooperate with the citizens so as to end the conflict and challenges that are continuing to increase in some of our areas as a result of human resources and the wildlife.
