What's the council of representatives?
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

To raise us from the answers of the minister of state, the office of the president, finance, economy and development of Zanzibar, Omar Yussuf Mzee, while responding to some of some members of the council of representatives of Zanzibar, about the taxes of 1000 shillings that was decided to be fined the phone lines by the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, in its budget meeting, this year.
The phone sim card is a decision that was prepared by the parliament, after considering the advice of the parliamentary committee headed by the member of parliament Andrew Chenge, but for now, the issue will be resolved to parliament for the purpose of being discussed in the community.
In his report to the delegates of the council of representatives, that minister said that Zanzibar has not been involved in the mobile debate although the phone is a union between the delegates asked if they are involved with the representative of Wawi Constituency, Hamza Hassan Juma (CCM) and the representative of Wawi Constituency, Saleh Nassor Juma (CUF).
For example, Salehe, was quoted by the government's newspaper on August 21, August 6, 2013, saying that I advise that this end to be in Chumbe Area before getting to Unguja because it does not have interests to the citizens of Zanzibar, I'm ready to oppose that tax and the citizens of my region. "
Although it is true that the issue of phone is a union as he talked with the Minister Mzee, but we have been announced by our representatives, together with their minister for the way they are able to build the content of that debate and even the answers of the concerned debate.
Their content is faced in a foundation of doubt, we think that this country has been made in the third government system, "we believe that inside parliament, there are members of parliament who live in another language, that council is the parliamentary seat in the general elections.
However, apart from the kind of members of parliament, there are members of parliament from Zanzibar and this means that the union issues should be discussed at the parliament, Zanzibar becomes the relevant issue but how to build an issue to oppose that taxes, it does not understand the issue of parliamentary issues in the parliament.
Apart from that, it's surprising that a member of the council said that the end of the mobile phone lines are Chumbe Area, Zanzibar and Tanzania mainland, because it is like he didn't see their colleagues from the council of representatives and other members from Zanzibar and we think it is wrong for leaders who will serve the citizens who will serve the citizens.
