For instance, it is no longer.
Because all the news I have gone down in the Indian Ocean.
You missed the late?
Look for nearly a step, it is not supposed to do when the news and it is very important so that it comes here, they get the ambassador.
It is nothing to hear but not me.
It doesn't like the name of the late God and it is not true and I don't know well and I am not supposed to do well and do not depend on well.
Third time.
So it doesn't jump, there is a big secret that came up very bad and life, the late I don't know if I told me, "I told me when I told me," I told me, "I told me, he did not want me," I told me, he did not want me, "he told me.
You miss.
The late?
Look for a network that let me remember to you for a house or or to go down here, I did not depend on well and let him do well.
No and you know, I am pleased with you.
If you're very happy about my opinion, I was not very close to me, you're very close to me when you feel it is not your opportunity and I do not know your place and I am not good even I have heard that you also need me.
I heard, but it is a bit before what I wanted to go through the late God, but he entered with me, I believe that I don't know what I told me, "you say you shouldn't know what is one number no problem will we use it.
Two number is who did not get the number two, I request it is not know that these days we tell you like work, we know you like at work if you are still a terrorist.
Why should I told me! I am not involved in getting married until now it is like a long time he is called Diamond and therefore you know what can I do.
Similarly, it's impossible for you to hear and accept to accept to accept to be left to him.
We will get a mother and the father was unable to sell or leave me or let me go down in Nairobi, we will happen it.
These we woke up this morning I will go back with my child in the morning at one hour when I went to children, I don't know your problem if I am not happy, I don't know your problem if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know inside and then I don't want you to talk for each sim card, can I get inside and the child is two weeks.
Your problems are found.
If you say it is a must you make it better so that the sun will try to look for chicken chicken to talk.
The opinion polls are going on.
You don't know the father's vote and that it is not like that, the Women's Women Interfaith Network.
I am very happy, I am saying that late I don't know if he does not know if he does not know if he does not see what I don't know if he does not know if he does not see him, that is why I don't know what the late does not know her.
Before you used to create a state of the president here about the high level.
In the continent.
It doesn't be the late God, even if you will give you a teaser?
.
Our website too.
The late God is continuing to know with it now.
Swahili in stakeholders.
