The killings of their wedding took place in South Africa.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

In his information the police, Zigamba has noted that this evening the day before yesterday, it made them the couple to come out in the hotel that they came to meet at Cape Town County up to the area he had planned to meet their friends in that area they agreed.
Tena continued to run a car until at the Sakali area that is in Somaga area in MbeWest, where he claimed that the success of the regulations of her mobile phone that the killings will be on Wednesday night.
After those couples end their differences in that restaurant of Sakali, Tongo brought up to a area where he had decided to meet him.
When they were on the way to the area where they were kidnapped, Tongo used the rules of information on his mobile phone to remind me about the payments for the killing of the killings and the rules to confirm that there are at an envelop that he did in the pouch is in the front of the passengers.
When they arrived at the area they agreed to meet and they were kidnapped, there and the Qadhi Court they had qualified in the scene of an incident and they agreed to implement those killings by killing him is Deuogratius Mushi.
Talluded that it was paid to an amount of 459 million pounds to the rules and regulations, but he had up a total of 92 million pounds.
However, Tina had been sentenced to 18 years in prison, December 7, year 2010 and he will serve the imprisonment in Malampaka Ward, but also Zinga, was expected to release another case in the ongoing case, that is in the year 2011.
For another time again, the family's spokesperson, Debwa, speaking about the claims of 'Tufani', on the claims of 'Thanks to 100 percent and it's his efforts to appeal and register it.
XI, who did not hesitate to take him, in order to be stopped by the charges of murder, their case was mentioned for the first time in the Resident Magistrate's Court of Wopler who is found.
A lawyer that he was announcing the court in order to recognize the court that it will not do a good right to his client.
"I have been information that, one police officer identified himself by my client, by using something that is like to marry off when he was surprised by saying that it was not true," said Mgatu insisted that he was not aware because his lawyer was announcing the first to be on.
And the lawyer of Chakwama, VASHARI has claimed that his client had been treated with a sigh of plastic bags, before being forced to correct the information that was organized by the police officers, that shows that they participated in those killings.
That lawyer claimed that the police officers used different ways of affliction so as to enable his client to be involved in those killings due to a result of many people inside and outside the country, especially the media stations.
That case was late to start being heard until when it got to June 13, in 2011, it was getting tired of the case resulting from one of the physically challenged, XI, who did not be responsible so as to remove the disease.
However, the case of taking place in order to fulfill the name of 28 in that time continued to be heard on August 8, year 2012 was sentenced to 25 years in prison.
Four months later, the white case was made, the 24 years had been made to be heard by December 5, last year 2012 was sentenced to prison's life for the mistake of Antwerpen.
The South African government sent a request to England to contribute to the rules of returning to the country in that country to deal with the charges of murder.
It was on December 8, year 2010, after failing to surrender to the police station of Bribian, the rules that had been arrested at 4 o'clock at night and to be held at Mwibara police station and the officers of the unit to restore those suspects.
They were holding a result of the request that was given by the British Government to receive another agreement through the South African embassy in that country claiming that there is a situation to sign the rules and other people killing him is Debwa, on November 13, in 2010.
The morning of December 9th, the lawyer of the England's rules of England who is called Clatchy Markhiya, showing those allegations, he said that peace will not be involved in the killing of his wife.
