
Why do we want to visit our country?
Kristen 31, 2012.

I have written many times that we need to reduce the ignorance of our life and our activities like the community and as a nation, this means that we are going to look, but if we stop those development we are forced to look for and those who are not seen.

Abiding to a certain amount is a good thing and every person has the right to do a little control if your body or human beings will be paid billions of dollars so that they can be paid billions of dollars so that many people of this kind are of us.
The Bollywood films are in Bollywood films.

Even us here in the country, we have people of that kind, even if their art has not reached an amount of preventing Hollywood and Bollywood films and it is true that they are happy and attractive to their level as we are reminded to not a long time ago when he dies.

Even so, we should never tell all that you're close to the actor, others do not have any job so that the nation can't jump, we need to inform you, we need me to be dealt with, but we should not expect it is the main activity of the whole community.

If we want to look at the community that did not recognize Ukawa is the main activity in his life, he will not have a need to go a lot so as to protect the Democratic Republic of Congo, who he performed well and if they had not been taken to Belgium, it was also a terrorist attack.

After independence the politicians love each other, when one of each other, they should not accept it, until when he emerged as the first winner of Zaire and that is why it was known as wrong, Mobolaji Dawodu.

According to the ordinary citizens, this was the state of life, and they take it so that it was a good mid-fielder in order to achieve the big theft (large-scale enterprises) including Mobutu called on his heart.

Listen to you, in eternal peace and kill someone who got the time, being the old farm, diabetes, and this is the biggest of the police who haven't been seen, apart from the existence of the police who don't want to get their income, music, music and entertainment as sex.

This picture of Congo has not been seen so much in the year 1997, I was at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere convoy who had gone in Kinshasa for talks with President Laurent Kabila of the past one week in Kinshasa today, a big one that had been seen in power, after losing to the father and his father who was killed in a environment of denying them the property.

In addition to all, Kehlani Page of Zaire got great success in the swim. It's impossible to speak to music in Africa without explicitly mentioning Congo and Zaire now if they were also artists in other things also, as a result of clothes and shoes that have been destroyed.
Also it is good who are involved in Europe where they are playing in a big league.

Mobutu called in addition to that he had a great job to save his girlfriend of Congo who in 1970, I went to several times in Kinshasa city and I was able to carry out several album of old musicians of Congo, women, Kabinda, Wendo and Bissau, all because Mobutu had a job of collecting the old songs and place them in evil deeds.

Awareness of the music groups and high-related groups, to the extent that the leaders of another country, like Gofrey Zambi has opened up on the fact that what they got in the country we want to see what they did in the country so as to encourage us to become the song.
"Our party's our party will build the country" took the name of the song to sign him Mobutu, "there is also known as BISON.

Mobutu called on a very high level, and if they are making his country to be close to the country's resources, while citizens sing the rich country more than many countries in the world (good land with natural medicine, water, water, and peace for every time, but they are playing.

They have gotten a lot of living in their country for leaving, they are forced to unite in other countries in Africa and industries, they would be forced to respect their country in agriculture and industries, we would be forced to respect their country in agriculture and industries, we would be forced to respect their country in agriculture and industries, we would be forced to respect their country in agriculture and industries, we would be forced to honor them for all, and I wouldn't want them to inform them because they were able to send their dreams at a high level.

The danger that makes us know is this one that is wrong to inform you that we are heading to make our country be of Zaire, we want them to do not to get married, this will not be easy, but this will not be easy, therefore, we will be able to get married, therefore, we will be able to get married.

This is because our country has a national foundation that is owned by the founders of this nation because the foundations of our country is to be sold to a person or a few people, because we have been given a solution to us, because we have not been given a solution to us because we are not born.

We have children ready to make sure that we protect the economy of Zaire together with their future, and of their children, they ask questions, we don't want to visit their daughters, we don't understand.

I would be happy to listen to them what they said, we had never heard about the voice of children who will not be born in 2099, follow up to why you go to our country of Zaire?
I would like to listen to those cases we put in the end of this act (ZTC) of our country, can be keen with small standards (because of human rights).
