Everything is good President Obama.
May 30th, 2012

The world has also witnessed citizens of America when he wrote history after the first President of the African descent, Barack Obama, will rule the rule of leadership of that nation with great strength in the world.
Many have been said about the 44 American president, since he defeated the national election in the world, November last year, and every corner of the world has expectations and hope from the president.
As a result of his African origin, there are great expectations from President Obama, from the economic, political and even social sectors as we think Africa is supposed to view the challenges facing that President at a broader field.
In our view, President Barack Obama is faced with a lot of challenges in his administration, so as to make sure that the world is safe, more so as to deal with that challenge, President Obama said his administration are supposed to leave war, starting with Ne-Yo and Afghanistan.
To leave this war, there will help America itself to strengthen its economy and other countries in the world and also to make the world be safe.
Let it be remembered that President Obama has promised to close Thika road located in Oyster Bay, and with hope such as we think he will be able to deal with the challenges of leaving war in the world, including the implementation of efforts to bring peace between people who will benefit and learn.
But also making the world a safe place is that the administration of President Obama addresses at the United States's stand on issues of climate change in the world. It should be remembered that America refused to sign an agreement between the United Nations, Japan that made the existence of control of environment, especially among the countries with a big and big industries like America.

Africa is supposed to know more if the world will be safe more than anything because it is important for Africa to continue increasing its efforts by dealing with its problems, as it was in the past days before Obama emerged.
It should be known that if the world will be safe, it will be easy for different countries to make development steps, including Africa itself, because the resources will be directed to development instead of conflicts and war, things have a great cost.
We are taking this opportunity to wish President Barack Obama of getting into the United States with 44 shillings and the challenges ahead of him are many, but we think the end of the journey will have a good win.
