One police have died and others injured after people with weapons is said that there is a reason that there is a big group that took place in Somalia to oppose the police who had arrived at home ground in Kenya.
Reports are saying that those people are weapons that were killed in a gun and shot dead with the police are continuing to do.
There are not good citizens for anyone who is found, where these people were found where these people were hiding they with the police weapons while they are reported after the incident.
They followed him and the vehicle is said to be fire.
However, police together with those people have joined the Al-Shabaab's opponents.
People that are Swahili.
Uganda's government has shown a sentence of eight years in the Mbozi region that he sees that school.
We should be my interview after being found guilty of encouraging us below.
Similarly, it involves itself with the industries sector claiming that in today's newspaper, this case was not known me.
The people of the Hungary, and it is not all that was killed in those killings, therefore the sector claims that it has a solution to the murder of those killings.
However, we also had a human rights in Rwanda and asked the politicians.
We are encouraged to be careful.
The preparation of the elderly women went to parliament in that country to do health and peace that he has already started in parliament while members of parliament are preparing to elect the new council of ministers.
Themselves, they are saying that they have been angered because they have got information that the cabinet of ministers that will be chosen by the members of parliament will have some people who have been giving bail and Colonel Issa Machibya to leave power after being arrested.
And the people who lost their homes in Nigeria after that country did not loose the schedule.
And the national team of Cameroon has been given consent to own the ones that have requested the government.
To help them.
People are saying that in all their lives, they have been trying to give it a week due to various activities in the streets but now good for now is given Cameroon to make those activities.
An opportunity and fox has been attacked by shot when try to cross the water it gets into that draft.
This international court has to open that decision on the Cameroon side and end the conflict between those two countries.
When the time you see you will be able to appeal against that case.
Which is ten years, it has called so that the area is going on to be Cameroon's property.
