The guest of honor does not care about such attitude.
Sei 29, 2016.

India.

The Minister of Tourism of India, Engineer Mahongo, last month, gave a directive to the visitors that they visited India urging them to play certificates in that country, insisting that it is because of their security. "

The Prime Minister, gave that statement during the launch of a special device of encouraging tourism with special instructions to tourists arriving in India.

"There will be an example of a card, this will have instructions about how the tourist can be able to do and how things are not permission to do.

That situation has come as a result of several events of sexual violence, while the authorities in that country have taken several actions, including strengthening several laws so that they can provide a lot of information about the act of buying and shivered.

It is said that despite the existence of events in the time of rape, India has still been faced with a shortage of laboratory equipment for raising the evidence of those acts of rape.

However, that statement by the tourism minister has prompted lot of criticism against him and the government in general, capable of spoiling the blame from women and making the government to evade its main responsibility of strengthening the security and conservation of human rights.

After a lot of criticism, the prime minister came out and talked about the issue saying that, I am the father of the two daughters, I will never see for instance the type of fashion to wear.

He continued, "the ban that had been placed is normal and as well as issuing a warning he is not a crime and it's just a precaution in various countries in the world that have been suspended from time to the visitors."

It is said that this is not the first time for the minister to give a statement or a statement to an extent of looking for discussion with a lot of criticism about the safety of the woman.

"All girls who want to go to entertainment tonight in different areas can be correct about their decision, but know that action is not a culture of people of India," he said.

I will end.
