Bible.
And we are happy to know my brothers about the space she hurts and entrepreneurs in Manyara province to increase the value of their products so that it can be able to sell their products inside and outside the country, and I don't have after launching a factory for milk products that is owned and instead go to Chelsea as a one that is in Mrara ward, Babati district in Manyara province.
The scientists have mentioned since Njombe Hinda is first in the year not to invest a message by corruption they are forced to participate in the permanent voters' book 'to participate in the fight against corruption, but the vehicles.
Speaking, you will receive a tree after winning of St Amos Makalla before that attack.
You love is wrong, Salum we can be stars and?
But every time to choose leaders with the reputation, I urge you to pick the 'wasanii wa bongofleva' team to tell you, we should know that I am no one.
I would like to create the second video.
It is still underway.
It is still opening me.
But the truth is.
Having the qualifications, it has been working together when we came to hand, we want to choose a leader.
If you are a question that we know where we get to Babati province in Manyara province is a factory for production of milk products.
If you will be able to be capital, you can have value of ten million shillings and in the project, the production of dairy products and I don't have one of the factory and also we are saying that we are giving them a lot and then they are saying in general they will also give our children to school for the purpose of getting good market and music.
You'll find that people have faith?
For questions to arrive at Mikumi, it is able to produce those products that do not meet two and international standards, you can give two major instructions to the international daughters because there are no great instructions I think it is not like the government will also help them have said that the national and international events can be able to go to.
The race are found.
Close Thika road owned by one if you think your dreams in the year not to know while carrying a message to encourage the citizens to register themselves in the forthcoming general election against corruption, but the vehicles speaking in a different time after the hosts of St Amos Makalla.
Let us continue with this morning.
Every time you have to choose to FIFA elections, it is better for now to know that my words have tried to know that I have tried to know what I saw.
And the money to give your blog.
And if you are found?
Video is a video.
But God is God?
The love is also that and not for the first time has been from one time we have been from one and they believe that we have to be used for those big equipment.
