
In court we warned Tundu Lissu.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The resident magistrate court, Kisutu, Dar es Salaam has given a warning to the member of parliament of Singida East, Tundu Lissu (CCM), as a result of not getting to court to listen to the case of releasing the incitement words that is facing.

The resident magistrate, Godfrey Simbeye has issued the warning and legal action by Lissu because the small traders will not arrived in court because he is in Mwanza.
That case was mentioned yesterday because of being heard by the side of the Republic, had a witness who is the police force officer, assistant superintendent of police (ASP).
Before starting to be heard, the attorney general, Peter Kibatala claiming that the case was postponed because Lissu is in Mwanza in a number one case of 2015 that has been heard before Judge DamiChina.
The government's lawyer, Mohamed Salum, opposed the request to be postponed for that case because according to article 148 shots from the criminal Investigation (CPA), with the authority to give information that also concern the society, they will be the sponsor and not a lawyer.
He claimed that as a result of that section, the request by lawyer Kibatala, the plain truth so as to urge the court to explain the legal procedures, and that case was mentioned to be mentioned on the other, the capital will be mentioned in court.
The court accepted the request of the side of the Republic and gave a warning and legal measures to the traders, they will not be able to arrive in court.
Judge Chande has postponed that case up to November 2nd this year, the case was mentioned again.
In that case, it is alleged that on June 28 this year, at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, with the intention of persuading the board to show, between the citizens of Tanzania and the government, Lissu gave incitement words.
It is alleged that, "authorities of the bad government in a bad state can be trusted by every Tanzanian with all the strength, this a quack dictator will be taught every part, if the leadership will be conducted by foolish administration, the country comes inside, she gets avoided.
