
Mzee Yusuph I have heard that he is being involved with his fans.

You know if Mzee Yusuph is happy to have many followers, while making sure he knows all of their needs and called me more knowledge about the issue of marriage with the old music star, especially with sharp teeth.

What does a question are in your life?

Mzee Yusuph, I have written five times, I got the first lady who will be competed for, second right now I've left for four and five times I'm with.

A question is a big reason that you believe in a woman do, you can't understand more to leave?

Mzee Yusuph, I don't have a special offense, when a woman becomes married, I have already gotten her I will leave her, but he told me that this is a special offense and I do not have no longer.

A question is the first lady who sent it with which age?

Elder Yusuf do I see me, I don't know until I met my wedding certificate but I got in Zanzibar.

When a question is said that you love her as a small wife, Chiku Gallawa, that is it true?

Mzee Yusuph, does not have any truth that is why I am pleased with all, I am not supposed to go to all, but I will answer if we are before we were before and we are going to do all.

The actor who doesn't like to care for the same way does not hesitate to make sure there is no longer.

The reason for people to say I am very popular after the small mother is because they are doing a lot of time because we are doing work together with our work that makes us meet with many people that do not affect the second side.

When I speak from Saleh, I will know why they are not together with us because there are another journey outside the work, I am no one who don't know where they don't know where they are not close to work.

What does a question are there in having one wife or many?

Mzee Yusuph, different from according to the goals of the person, there are those who love the love, to get many children and also those who contribute to the growth of the economy.

All that have been seen even in our religious religion, you can send a person because of looking for him, maybe he was using her husband because it can bring them by growing income because he can be a spirit of things those are similar to home.

But to me, I am no love there, I have written my friends because I love those who love each other, and other things are born and they are born after losing the first.

Those who were forced to get many wives is because of the private activities, it's not true that there are many things related.

Whoever doesn't tell you that many of her fans have faith, it means that you have forgotten that they are going round, while you listen to each other from them and each one being unable to serve them is very happy, if I am in her.

When a question is a habit of fellow musicians not to be found, it will continue with that problem?

Mzee Yusuph, is not a problem is happy about the marriage of two wives, because if you say the problem because my fans know how I know how to find him and let me understand.

Most of your best when I'm with and there is no one who has shown his disappointment with all the colleague, he told anything that they are proud to be happy, if there are different types, they did not depend on me until I would say that I will have no problem if they have already won.
