Sitta gets a fundraising for Lowassa.
Jide 24, 2013.

The Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta, has interviewed they are the names of those who are called "Marsa of Lowassa" who have contributed to millions of money to help in various fundraising in the country.
While speaking to Good Citizen this week, Sitta said it is no wonder that "friends have been mentioned not to be mentioned without considering that, they have their worry and they have to get that concern.
The Prime Minister who was reported, Edward Lowassa, has been young people of funds in various fundraising in the country while saying that the money that he is young is not private but it's also contributions for his friend.
And speaking through his assistant, yesterday Tuesday, Lowassa said the argument that his friends who have contributed to you are not true because he has been told them publicly with names that they have contributed to them.
But Minister Sitta asked, he said that the government did not expect the people to contribute to the politician without having the primary reasons for doing so.
"A lot of journalists to the nation in this country when a person gets to millions of money and he says it's not his friend but it's my friend but we did not know if my friend they are contribute to taxes to the government.
"But there is a big question to ask you more here, this is when you get donations from religious institutions to see Lowassa and not what does it get to the church or not he is given to him?
"I am happy to know that I am in heaven is no / o'clock (through the right) because by these things know that so as to go to heaven is a must for you to go to heaven because it is a must for you to be done by that Mister (Lowassa)?" Said Sitta.
In that interview, Sitta who was the deputy speaker of the ninth parliament during the scandal of Richard Kasesela (Lowassa, said the current generation project has a great problem in getting leaders with integrity.
He said the management has now been an opportunity to get property instead of serving the public, and that even in events to increase the honor to the nation, people they are using a shame to the nation.
Sitta made those remarks on corruption that took place during the Smart City meeting that took place in the country earlier this month where reports of corruption have started emerging.
"The meeting was to raise us to our honor, but the professions are on and now the nation has come in a heavy scandal, but if we expect it will not be anywhere," said that politician.
The statement by Sitta came, while Lowassa continued to run the fundraising in the forest and mosques and times for the fundraising which he is running and made it more than 200 million shillings.
For example, recently in Mwanza town, Lowassa made a fundraiser of 590 million shillings, including his contributions by people that he is doing "my friend," he also has done fundraising in Ruvuma Province, where they had been forced to produce 300 million shillings.
Lowassa also has done fundraising for the purpose of construction of Catholic church in Mwanza town where he was awarded 200 million shillings to the Party of controlling and borrowing (Saccos) for the teachers of Moshi rural, he has also run a fundraising and to collect 94 million shillings in Babati district, Manyara Region.
Although Lowassa's private has been quoted saying it's not rich of money but he is a rich of people, has been reported to own several big business together with many property, cinemas in different areas in the country.
When they were looking for when they were given to Lowassa, in addition to other things, he would like to give a clarification on some of the issues that were cast by Sitta against him, that politician told our writer to speak with his secretary, who introduced himself as Boniface Chami.
Responding to the meaning, Lowassa did not mention them in public friends who are claiming that they have contributed to millions of shillings she has given to the fundraising, she said, he said that issue does not have any truth because Lowassa has been, you will now mention you by names of his friends who have contributed to them.
He gave the examples of the fundraising that were run by Lowassa for the purpose of contributing towards the construction of churches in the provinces of Morogoro and Shinyanga, and this recently, he has contributed to the construction of Radio Ikhwan, that is owned by the Muslims Tanzania Council (BAKWATA), and the fundraising held in Mwanza town.
"Among his friends that tried to contribute to the fundraising for contributing to the church in Morogoro town is Philemon Ndesaburo, when he stopped him, there will enable you to contribute to a lot of money," said Chami, and added.
"In Shinyanga, during the fundraising for the church of KKKT, he mentioned his friend Mathias Manga, who is also a big businessman of minerals in Arusha, called Gold and Art, and even in the fundraising event in Mwanza town, called Gold and Art and even in the fundraising which he was used to run for the fundraising, he contributed a total of 10 million shillings.
"That is a few examples, but you are many, and I believe that I have never heard all of here, tomorrow they will fulfill our friends that he did by Sitta (John) to be his friend and he had contributed to five million shillings, but tomorrow's late.
