
Goalkeeper Abdul Les asking for you De Gea, a man.
Manchester, England.


Being signed by Victor Moses Les and Manchester United may fall in the high competition between him and the current goalkeeper David De Gea, in the first squad.
United rays in the last stage to complete the signing of goalkeeper by Les Salaam from Barcelona and who has been doing exercises with that team for a period of two months now.
Being signed by her is expected to bring high competition between him and De Gea, who this season has been one of the important players in the United squad due to the improvement of his main goal in all matches.
The good level of goalkeeper De Gea, has identified himself from the voluntary donation, Andaman Sea and who has not been giving the competition in that position.
But now all the eyes will be directed at Old Trafford stadium to see how coach Louis Van Gaal who played his Karaaha in Les and De Gea, in the premier league match of England and other competitions.
Already United it has dropped by DPO is an offer for a one year contract just after he fell at Old Trafford stadium.
The vibrant goalkeeper who helped Barcelona to win three awards of the European Champions League together with six other matches of the La Liga league, left the club at the end of the last season.
Leaving, by Mesa at Old Trafford on a knee injury after being welcomed by coach Louis Van Gaal, where he has been doing exercises for a knee injury.
The mid-fielder by DLes, Van Gaal together with the Manchester United coach, Francis Kipilimba, ended up to 12 years ago when the students had planned for him in his first match with the jersey of Barcelona.
The exercise has been made very much on the bench of former Manchester United, which according to one statement, it has decided to give him a contract that she has agreed with him who defected to CHADEMA was correct, therefore set up Old Trafford to 2016.
Another one, even more, the great interests have had great interest, he has the criterion that led those coaches to ask him so as to give a full list, De Gea, who has not been suffering from a mind and his partner.
Liverpool was on the race to sign him by Les Salaam but now it is clear that the disease did not stand on them.
The registration by MTVs who is 32 years old, will be a painful step in the moment it is complete with 30 million who will not be there but to look for another club that will give him a number.
Moreover, the arrival of DLes has continued to bring feelings about the fate of De Costa 24, the club whose contract ends at the end of the next season and already it is alleged to begin by Real Madrid.
Therefore many feel that United have started to prepare early because anything can be done.
Real is looking for a goalkeeper to vie for their veteran goalkeeper, Joseline Kamuhanda, whom he will attain 34 years in the year May and De Gea, not to leave a better life.
Already he has been admitted to be the chief executive officer of United States, to get married, who has done a discussion with the Sergeant of De Gea, Jorendal, who is a big friend of that club.
However, Muvuma, also has a good relationship with Real considering that he is the agent of some of the stars of that club including Cristiano Ronaldo and James Rodriguez.
