
When she visited and Salma Kikwete when they go without being arrested, they're being treated!
Sep 14, 2012

The previous release that I wrote on this article that carried the head that is to be easily read, let me see CCM while in this article I decided to explain how the ruling party, CCM did not lose hope to the citizens because it's the reason to refuse to change and to inspect them.
I explained that the current CCM is a shadow of the natural CCM of the era of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, and that now it has lost its direction and change to become the rich party that brought together farmers and workers.
I was trying to give examples of the few things that take place currently in that party, which during Mwalimu Nyerere's day you will not even think that they can arise from things like leaders not to forgive him in public, etc.
Today, I can continue to look for him to look for me for example the current example of something that comes inside that party and accepted that the era of the teacher was not seen in the movements of that party.
I'm talking to behavior of current leaders inside that party to be stable or one of the party's elections, this situation has also started being seen inside his government, in important employment opportunities for companies, and even in business opportunities to be done, it's become a big song.
It was trying, for another time, talking about this issue, it is a report of the media houses last week that the child of the CCM chairperson, President Jakaya Kikwete, who is called Ridhiwan Kikwete has been called without being supported by lack of a member of CCM in Bagamoyo, and same as the wife of President Kikwete, Salma Kikwete, Lindi Town District.
Anyone who does not concern his skill of not knowing those news without doubt if you ask questions that have no answers.
So, those two - Mama Salma, and her child, Ridhiwan Wema did not want to pass through that election without being arrested, why are the feelings of members of CCM of Lindi town and Bagamoyo, and for sure they are CCM all over the country about those two people, by lack of opponents.
But more than all of it is difficult to try to try to ask this question, but the two missed the opponents because it is a wife and the son of the national chairperson of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete?
So, President Kikwete said that he was involved in praying through NEC-NEC and to make sure that they get pregnant, or they are only leaders of the party in those districts that showed plans to make sure that they get the opponents so that he feels it, and that's why he did not depend on.
So, President Kikwete himself did not see the news that his wife and her child have known as NEC without being opposition, she is happy because they did not hesitate to get the NEC message like others or he sees them being appropriate according to their ability of leadership (political).
Any other, the issue of Ridhiwan Kikwete and Salma Kikwete, to get without the opposition being forced, and again it's difficult to do children and big brothers in its elections, and that when we shall be difficult for the child to the farmer and the poor leadership to get the national leadership!
And in this, I don't have a need to give examples of several names of the youth who have reached positions on leadership because of being carried out by their father or their brothers who have already been big inside the party and in the government, because all of us know.
However, in this issue, I would like to agree again that it is not bad or a surprise of the child or the wife of the national leader to be a national leader.
Certainly, our world has many examples of children or big leaders who came to be national leaders in life.
There are people like George Wines, who was sent to be the president of America if he used to be his father, there are people like Hillary Clinton who has been forced to vie for appointed to vie for the presidency of America followed the one that he used by her husband, Bill Clinton.
However, the neighboring country in Kenya is Uhuru Kenyatta, who is now a big name in politics if he used to be his father, that is the first president of that country, Jomo Kenyatta. Is also Raila Odinga, who is following in the footsteps of his late father, Jomo Kenyatta.
However, all those that I got now, confirmed him their quality of leadership and how are the leadership they are facing leadership by fighting and not by the leadership in the gold mine.
I urge you to explain that here is that, congratulations to children or supporters of the leaders to have only one leaders, but the concerned leaders don't have the ability or reputation of good leadership in the country but the British have a word that talked about this situation - the British Council.
That is why those involved are very true and those with talent and opinions of leadership, there is no one who is able to see that a big child has been called without being independent in a certain elections.
But the concerned parties have forgotten the 120 minutes of the leadership and they have not received about the symptoms of having any leadership positions, but in a short time they got to political levels very fast, it is a must for people to ask you questions - it must be careful.
And on my view, this environment is that the ones that are in those last week, Mrs Salma Kikwete and Ridhiwan Kikwete have passed without being involved in the same week, that Mrs Salma Kikwete and Ridhiwan Kikwete have passed without being involved in the same-term work that is facing them, "I urge them to be taught.
I know there are some who will follow the issue of this issue by giving examples of other candidates who will go without opposition, but I advise you to tell them earlier that, there are a big difference of passing by the president or the president! I don't understand that, I don't know what I don't understand.
It is by knowing all that, if I would like I am the President Kikwete, I would not hesitate to be my wife and my child to pass without being creative and to show their ability so that the world can face, and not because of the leadership they are facing, and not because of "from being left.
This is how our colleagues in the ones who are mature is supposed to be for example, the year 2000, George Wopler, found a true true and he does not know her.
"Compassion 'Fulfill Loans Board" has said the slogan of "A New Year" at the presidential campaign, and therefore forced to be true the truth of Al Goshashy.
On that meaning, there is no American who is able to say, today, be George W.
Bush got the American presidential candidate for the year 2000, "from being carried in by her father, the former president, George Bush.
Even in Kenya, all of us know that Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga have reached high levels of political leadership by getting their opponents themselves, and not by being carried out by their father, Jomo Kenyatta, and not by being carried out by their father, Jomo Kenyatta, and not since they have died before their political journey.
Therefore, when it comes here in our place, Tanzania a child or a wife can rise up to political levels because the father or the husband has changed "the seat for the era," it is a must we ask questions and when a question is.
Certainly, because CCM is the ruling party that will continue to lose attraction to citizens if it will not tolerate this new system of the tourism that was not seen in the party that was under the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere.
Because CCM is a ruling party, when you leave this new trend, we believe that currently in that party, then in front of this journey it will give the president the president if he did President Museveni as Janet, or who she had appointed his wife as the president if he did the late president.
I am worried that where we are where we are going.
It depends on.
