
Sitta, is putting off the body of the body and a resident of Sep 14, 2012.

Recently, Samuel Sitta has been reported by media to oppose the thoughts, with words or acts of operations done by the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) to promote the philosophy of ideology and policies.
Some of them are saying that they have received the notice of CHADEMA's constitution and to hear them, and finally they discovered it is a great documents that was made by OMR, this is no great evidence that was given by OMR, this is a big evidence that was given by Awadh Sitta, this is a large extent that can resolve the bad procedure.
But I don't know Tanzania to chase them in the list of the democratic nations that is facing a democratic elections, therefore, I have decided to investigate the legality of their statements, so that finally they have made regular statements about public gatherings.
The first issue that is within the constitution or the manifesto of CHADEMA and that, Sitta are saying that it is "problem" because our nation is what they did, "according to the leadership of CHADEMA, according to the responsibilities of running the country," this is allegations of running the country. "
Because the work of the ruling party is standing by the government of power, and because the public servants is not a must to change in the ruling party, then it is not seen, the president meets the ability of CHADEMA and the government when it will face the government.
For those allegations were weight as they would send to him that there is a probability of starting the "structure of leadership" (the picture) of CHADEMA in accordance with his constitution, but he did not give anything about this issue.
However, they would say something about this issue, I would have warned them according to my research that involved all political parties, "the structure of leadership" of CHADEMA is better than the leadership of the leadership "of any political party in Tanzania.
But instead of talking about the basis of the primary problems if the weaknesses of "structure of leadership," Sitta, have used great strength to talk about the long distance of one person like Doctor Slaa and Freeman Mbowe.
In my opinion, even here you have not succeeded if we think about who is filling up that position, in one level, and in accordance with the reputation, it is good than CCM and I give my challenges with Sitta to change using data on this.
The second issue that is within the constitution or the manifesto of CHADEMA, and that, Sitta said that it is "problem" to our nation, "said the constituencies where there are different meanings in development between the North, East, South, South and western countries is possible for the countries that are rich and also without a huge difference of life between various regions of the country like America."
The problem of Sitta, here is to be unable to find out of ideology from one side and policies on the other side, this issue comes out with their words that, "the province policies" is an example of "foreign affairs" inside CHADEMA which did not agree.
There's a relationship with the aim of ideology and policies that result from the ideology. It's my opinion that, someone does not understand the philosophy of the leadership where he went through CHADEMA can refuse the party policies "if they refused and Sitta.
Therefore, I've heard this issue by saying that I'm Sitta in CHADEMA's constitution (2006) but they were not able to understand the philosophy of the leadership which are already in school.
And the third issue that is within the constitution or the manifesto of CHADEMA, and what we are saying that, this is a lot of income "education and free education," we believe that these efforts are provided in the manifesto of the elections and therefore they have shown that, "the implementation of the elections and the winner will be followed by the implementation of the elections and the winner will be followed by the implementation of the election and the winner.
Therefore, I have a problem to understand the keenness of Sitta, when you say that after getting the manifesto of CHADEMA, it has not been given an opportunity to be careful, good governance of CHADEMA have not been given an opportunity to be careful, good governance of CHADEMA have not been given an opportunity to be satisfied with the importance of CHADEMA in the election manifesto like "the rapper told the allegations.
In my opinion, the decision by CHADEMA "said that the resources of the country like the natural gas, minerals, coal and minerals, are enough to remove poverty, something that can cause the wealth," if it is not "for the benefit of many," just after CHADEMA will delay in dollars.
But also, about the claims of Sitta, that, the policy for free education and free education has been successful in the country, there is an important thing that has come and insisted on the open difference between CHADEMA and the view of Sitta, about these two policies so that we can get to understand who is.
On one side, Sitta said that they are talking about the process of the government to coordinate the education and health services like the benefit of many "(Pure) need to speak about the provision of education services and health as the benefits of all"
"Finally," CHADEMA is opposing and said that the treatment services and education must be given as services which are the benefit of all, "so as to get human resources that can grow production.
About these differences between CHADEMA and Raymond Sitta, their opinion has been put aside when they say that they did not believe that "the work of any government in the world is to raise the citizens that they don't know," said Doctor Slaa's opinion, therefore you cannot help him.
"
In general, this tension between CHADEMA, where CHADEMA are insisting "the benefit of all" and Sitta are insisting that many benefits, "from their differences in ideology.
Therefore, if Sitta did not work hard to read and understand the ideology and philosophy of CHADEMA, the leadership of CHADEMA should be done "the benefit of the country's benefits and which what should be done is the benefit of the country where finally the ideology of CHADEMA will win!
Therefore, now it is the right time for "the army to use it is present.
"
