Therefore, there are others who vie for the right is not to go to join form five when they have already been taken to a large extent, how many times they have already been taken and we believe that some of the people who want to go to the teachers to be.
At the time you are doing this changes and that to speak, the things have come as disaster or there were preparations.
Preparations are there when we talk about preparations and I think that I'm with the Komba grounds there should be high.
To welcome him.
Because apart from these which are a video, we have been impressed by many news from the newspapers and on the website that they would have asked through the network through the internet they have been able to ask for more than seven years by using a letter and urged Edu of stopping.
We were using a lot of joy and also the other pictures is from the honorable members of parliament, he passed directly in public.
This is a procedure that you do not vie for a letter to be a letter and then I went for a letter but you can go through the internet and he had a letter to ask for them through a letter and we can't fulfill the system for verification of certificates and after that.
Therefore, the responsibility of therefore we were with maybe the two.
In the languages they think that we were with each other.
All were going together with a solution.
Why is the meaning of a total number of students.
The late God rest.
Choose the truth when you read this topic at the time you came.
It was bad this year, changes that have happened at the registration of teachers and?
Now.
We have brought in a new system.
If the ability are?
Our rights and then for a time.
And even to bring in that system even so.
If you see that the request that goes through way?
And we launched its own system.
It is not many.
To get into a person's system.
.
Therefore, until it reaches the date of that is the first.
Students were many but students were very few.
And if you know that the qualifications have increased from those that were being used previously, who are very close to the ones that get close to the ones that go for you will give you a solution.
Now because of a new system, there are some people who are in where the candidates did not have.
Because they are a big group that has been found to say that earlier it explained that there were big people and technical training that there are big people who are involved in teaching colleges and those who are able to get that opportunity and this will now be careful.
It is good that people who depend on him from that term and asked the executive secretary that they started in the ten month is to him the first time Evans Aveva is going up to the end of ten and two now the second one is the first.
Therefore, the end of you thank you very much because now happens it will be going on things that if there are people who at the same period, maybe he had asked to get out and think about it, even if they find him, then they see if they see the problem of the second commandment.
I have a problem with my colleague in the language, but there is another thing that increase the normal amount for all the years there have been money.
Jakaya Kikwete with Chris Brown is a procedure even in teaching of teaching to secondary schools there is a normal thing.
But from the changes we have in the system.
The training of teaching was found.
By a long time when it got to the time of students going to the Selection, there are people who had already started in four or five weeks of oil.
According to these new procedures, even students were thrown out to feel.
Therefore, a student who comes from the Selection, will be close to Chilufya Sata before your advice they have received by her name to him, instead of getting him in the second time when they get to him, there should be a knee injury when I got to him.
And because the Selection election is unacceptable, instead of filling the few positions that were left is to bring the late or not the new in colleges there were people who have finished their teaching training every time after sports and entertainment, but first going to the Almighty God, we request for the discomfort that happened.
The late?
There is a problem.
Two.
A reporter.
We have received.
More than those days be before a result of writing words, sorry 'I was surprised and?
That we have a few positions coming from one year for now, there are two times for a year and instead try to apologize until I think it is an issue that we are supposed to apologize for another way, the old people do not tire us with me.
