Raila Odinga has now finished.
Dec 13, 2012

The decision by the minister of construction of Tanzania, Doctor John Magufuli to join the Prime Minister of Zimbabwe, when they got to vote for him for the presidential candidate of Kenya, Raila Odinga, in the presidential race in that country, it has been told that the presidential candidate of the party and on some senior officials of the government, Almighty God, has been told.

According to the news written by some of the media in Kenya and here in the country, December 31st.
This year, in Nairobi city, Minister Magufuli said that Raila Odinga was vying for the presidency through Orange Democratic Party (ODM) party, deserves to be the president of that country according to Magufuli, Raila Odinga with the reputation of leadership in that presidential meeting.

It is as a result of that decision by Magufuli to vote for him Raila Odinga despite being that he is a minister of government of Tanzania that has not announced his stand about the candidate that they will support Kenya, parliamentary debates against Magufuli has begun to hold fire inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and senior officials in the government.

According to that debate, for a long time now it has never happened the minister of government of Tanzania to put it open the stand of supporting the presidential candidate of another country against other candidates.

However, when he was asked by the international journalists at the State House in Dar es Salaam city, during the tour of former President of the United States, George Bush, February the year 2008, that he would like to be the President of the United States of the candidates competing in Barack Obama of Democrat, President Jakaya Kikwete, he knew what he is ready to work with him. "

In those answers, President Kikwete told him that the stand of Tanzania different from the thirst for a question that wanted to involved the answer with the origin of President Obama in Africa, and especially East Africa.

But the situation is different from Magufuli who even so, he went to Kenya at an invitation like Raila Odinga and not the leader of the government of Tanzania.

While in Kenya, he said that "I want to tell you the Kenyans that Raila Odinga, wants God to know that if I was a Kenyan I would like a man.
I don't vote to lead the country but now because it is not allowed even to vote, then I advise you to leave that he will leave you in good. "

Some of the offenders of Magufuli are saying that the prime minister could talk to the meeting in the diplomatic language more than one language as he did.

"There are diplomatic mistakes, you know that the campaign issues is using every way to ensure that is believed more than his colleagues even with the government of the neighboring country, there is a possibility that Raila Odinga met Tanzania that it is supporting him against other candidates while it is not true that Tanzania has announced his stand.

"It is a mistake that he has done Magufuli, it's true that he has got an invitation but it did not have the need to put that position open about what is evident.
He is a minister from Tanzania, "explained one of the senior officials in the government.

But one of the leaders of CCM has told our writer that, Magufuli is a minister that is caused by the government of CCM and that it is possible for some Kenyans who thought that they are also the CCM's stand.

I think even CCM needs to talk about this statement by the minister Magufuli to vote for Raila Odinga, our leaders must know how to speak by considering the needs of our leaders, the effects of their statements, "said the leader from CCM.

But the secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye was asked the stand of their party about the issue of honor, "because Magufuli is a leader for parliamentary and minister, I think the right people to speak.
That before the party is parliament and the government in the meaning of the prime minister or he himself. "

The efforts of looking for him Magufuli to speak about that issue and especially to know if he went on and know her effects on his government's side, it did not have fruits, he could not be found even in his phone.

While in that meeting, Minister Mgalula, where he was quoted saying out of all the candidates who came out to vie for the presidential seat in that country, there is no one that will reach Raila Odinga and that they were able to help them without discrimination.

He said and even Raila Odinga, who is the prime minister of Kenya, decided to contest for a parliamentary seat in his constituency of Chato (CCM), he cannot sign him.
