
TFF, is the time improvements on 1st, 2012.

Finally, the general elections of the Football Federation (TFF) has ended with leaders with responsibility of planning, managing and implementing strategies of improving soccer they have been known.
We have President Leodegar Tenga, President Leodegar Tenga, Deputy President, Athumani Nyamlani, vice president, Ramadhan Nassib and who was chosen to represent the clubs in the executive committee of the executive committee, to make sure they are leaders of high positions for the leadership of the new TFF.
On the side of the executive committee, we have Amir Manufacturing Company (Shinyanga and Kagera), Samuel Nyala (Mwanza and Mara), Hussein Mwamba (Iringa and Tabora), Salim Mohammed (Kilimanjaro and Tanga) and Muhsin Masoud (Kilimanjaro and Tanga) and Doctor Muhsin Masoud (Kilimanjaro and Tanga).
I thank all those who were chosen to participate in various positions for TFF leadership as we mentioned also, I also thank all those who did not be elected in the election for their differences, I congratulate all the delegates that they used their democratic rights and to stop the leaders, I believe it will be stable.
After those congratulations, I wish you a few talk about our future plans of soccer under this new TFF.
First, as a result of the open picture that emerged in the last election, a person who has ideas of going to TFF for the purpose of selling or Uncle Yanga or Simba has been denied the opportunity.
Look at all, all known as or enjoying so much with Yanga or Simba, for those that they made up there for the benefit of those clubs as leadership, sponsorship and so that they have been unable to take this election.
This means that the delegates of the TFF general meeting did not want to build in the TFF nation, a person who would have been used to see Yanga or his colleagues are seen and even if not he didn't like Simba or Yanga of her colleagues was not hurt without legal justification.
It is clear that if this leader did not get to the youth soccer, the strategy to start soccer schools, to promote women's soccer and other good plans to fulfill our nation's participation in the biggest soccer competitions in Africa and world after programs that will be planned to fulfill those goals.
That leader told me that his opponent had gone for Yanga and Simba only with a lot of joy and there was a great opportunity to see the team that supports their team between them, while he contributing to the success "in his position inside TFF.
So, that is where the aim of preventing all from our soccer development is why this person is supposed to lead in the time his soul wants you in the part of those who will lead you but I believe that is the reason for the candidates like all of them being beaten.
For leaders who were chosen, together with the fact that all are Yanga fans or Simba, it is good to be in the leadership for our football interests according to Yanga and Simba soccer club, therefore they should not destroy the faith that they have been infected by Simba and Simba, for that they should not destroy the faith that they would have stolen, "they saw them."
For example, if you see the 10 foreign players are the best number of Tanzanian clubs to be with them, and if they believe that the number will not be able to change the quality of 15 players because Yanga or Simba needs to increase the number of foreign players from 10 percent.
The existence of Yanga and Simba could be able to have a contribution to our soccer development and have been used well but it will be used and it will affect our soccer by contributing to the presence of bad and big regulations as well as we have changed the platform for selling their talents.
In addition, there is a bad regulations for registration where Yanga and Simba club have the ability to collect a lot of good players, without some use of their standards they were allocated with these explanations and those like the coming of their performance, sabotaging the team and so on.
The new TFF will talk about the regulations of protecting the employment of players since soccer is there, more because the players are there and they are the basis of the presence of this game. TFF continues to eliminate all the loopholes of doing they are warned and bullied.
Similarly, TFF itself should be an example that it started with how to help a player Victor Costa who won the nation and now he is not in work (his work is soccer), he has no way to find a lot of income like her colleagues who are in the field and so as to follow up with his wife in the same way.
It is good to follow the regulations that, apart from all the players to have insurance, a player who uses anything that they got to the team including the gifts to play soccer. I request that the idea of playing soccer.
This election has also given an open picture that those who led fat and boiling, they don't have a chance again inside the TFF. Here, if there is a person that was Yanga or Simba by Papa Wemba the two were beaten more than one among those who were beaten.
The reason here is clear that our intention is to go ahead, therefore the delegates they felt it was wisdom to leaving those who would send their ideas.

Therefore, it is good that the good thing was implemented through actions by using the decision of the delegates, we are supposed to do everything to move forward and stop completely against the effects of the conflict between themselves and any decisions that are open and can be decided by voting.
This happened when the chairman when he wanted to help a team without justice and he decided to help open a team to stop knowing before the results of "victory," the votes were supporting "and his people!
Another important thing of it was watched by this new TFF is to appreciate the thoughts of stakeholders who are outside the leadership including those who did not be elected in this election during the last election during the last elections, I would like to be elected for some of the candidates who had been not a sign of my candidates.
For example, I did not want to be involved with people who interviewed TFF President Tenga, it has made progress to development despite the fact that the whole world called on the success of the TFF's presidential candidate, Jamal Malinzi, his victory in the election.
Against him, "someone to Malinzi" who's said that when he was very happy and "people of Tenga," by being proud to have a strong desire to be able to see the great team, those leadership wanted to win in that election and not Malinzi.
Entertaining people, even if they heard that Tenga, and his colleagues did a lot and he wanted to come up and work with what they had not done, his opponents said that if he has seen President Tenga has done well for what he gets to him, "said President Tenga will take it well because he does not recognize him!
In addition, I did not want, in that period, to join with people who consider the good policies of candidates who were forced even if the policies were good and it's good for example, the players who are studying into the field can get a good quality of income or passport.
TFF will do this time and it needs a great improvement in its activities?
Winton Mwassa, asked him very much and they don't get the money to develop that building instead of depending on the quality of the program and thinking and how to serve them.

At the same time, those people were forced to do that because they did not want to win, the elections would have been among the one that I have decided to be at that time, they could have taken a quality of every policies for running mate.
Now, because the elections has been completed and because in the campaign period, we heard many good plans as the construction of our country's soccer team, the interests of the referees, the interests of the players and other countries, I advise all the policies of all the candidates to be used to be taken against them.
It's not good even those who had explained that they were asked to give an explanation on how to make those things in the implementation if he said Tenga, no one who lost the TFF elections and because many stakeholders who were chosen and should not be elected as required to prepare well for our soccer plans.
Everyone is happy the new leadership of TFF and with Christmas and new year 2009 to all athletes in the country.
