
Councils will be given 2 weeks to collect 700 million shillings.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

Monduli District Commissioner, Idd Kimwana has requested the council of councilors to cooperate with their performance whereby he has given 14 million shillings to the director of the council, Stephen Europe, to make sure that they get 700 million shillings for payments for the fields in that district.

He gave that order at the end of the week while speaking at the session of the councilors Council of Monduli, and requested the director that those funds were taken within 14 days and will not be able to pay the contest.
In another step he wanted the director of the council to write advertisements in various areas of the district and urged citizens who own plots, to pay that council the money that are claimed within 14 days, otherwise, the step to arrest the police will be followed.
"Directed the director that they collect 700 million shillings for plots that are in CIDA, which have been sold and they have not registered the council up to now and others have not registered their money, and we requested them to pay them within 14 days or else they should be read," insisted Maasais.
In line with that, he urged all government workers to fulfill their responsibilities of serving the citizens as required from the village level up to district and said that it comes from the citizens he arrived at home while the leaders in the country have no information, the club will benefit the concerned leaders.
He urged all servants to arrive at their areas of work and a half hours in the morning and there is no mistake to follow up to different offices of public service so as to identify the truth of reports that there are public servants especially in areas of villages and ward in the district.
He said the district government is in the race to kill lazy workers which already the list has not been presented with strategies to deal with them.
At the same time, Kimwana noted that the availability of ghost students in primary and secondary schools in Monduli district where in primary schools are 319, secondary schools and 155 secondary schools.
Therefore, the government is determined to strengthen four secondary teachers and six teachers of primary schools, he said that problem has caused the government to pay more than 43 million shillings.
In making sure that the issue of education is reduced, Mauji, said that he will ensure that female children are learning without being dealt with, while announcing the war against sexual marriages, together with female circumcision that are similar to the community and result in huge effects to female children.
I urge the councilors because you are politicians, this issue should leave, I know that I will continue with your votes, therefore, I will fight with you with the issue, I have not mentioned that Monduli or I don't want you to serve you, "he said.
