
What do Albinos are using them, the government does not have information.

Today we have written in the first page about how to prevent our colleagues with skin disability (albino), they continue losing life due to the part of our community being involved in our community since the year 2000, while our country for the first time started to witness the brutal killings against our brothers.

The world was surprised by a big issue concerning that situation and that if they were in the world as a peace island, the important way to respect human rights and they failed to believe that those acts were written inside our boundaries.

All groups in the community are determined, the government intends to show that brutal act and to withdraw that act but by bad luck the government did not show the intention to eradicate that conflict, but the parliament were unable to fulfill the intention of dealing with people who were doing so as to make quick laws against them and encourage the witch doctors that involve those acts.

Surprising thing is that the government continued to resolve the existing laws of the year 1928 when many people have been affecting many areas in the country until now, while the government did not see the importance of those cases to be heard on the fact that many suspects are still just on.

We have said that all those states to show the effects of the government in managing and to coordinate the fight against the albino killings and the activist for albino issues here in the country, Miss Ntwa Mitego, who for a long time has been moving to the whole country to report that situation, he has given a report that prove that those people have not been successful for the purpose of their organs.

In his research in some of the provinces, including Tabora and Rukwa, he has reported that the victims of that scandal, have been cut off from the left. This situation has decided to remove many questions.

The research has signed that this month, three people have been cut off and they had been killed by one point, he says that since the year 2000, the 15 people lost their lives, while 15 people lost their lives, while 15 votes were quoted by the bodies of the people who failed.

The government is supposed to blame by continuing the existence of that situation and how come more than half of the witch doctors in the country have not yet been done by the government and how come that they are left to evade the activities by relying on witchcraft in witchcraft.
