They are inspiring.
FDL against 1st, 2013.

After losing to Tanzania, the fee for a price of abaleta was paid ten years ago, the British company of England has now been given a contract of distributing electricity equipment here in the country, has been known.

That company is the one that brought to Tanzania a fee in the year 2002, worth 40 million pounds (approximately 40 billion shillings) at the same time, an issue that brought up a big debate in the country and international community.

However, last week, the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA) announced that it has given the company the tender to supply equipment for their fees that is in Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam city.

According to the announcement of TCAA, the tender that won the goal was to TCAA-1 / 1 / 2012 / 2013, and that the new contract is worth 22 million pounds they are 48 million shillings (5 million shillings).

The fee which has been a problem of getting married just after time, seems to have problems again and the cost of the tender is for a result of its renovation.

One of the members of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania in the year 2002 and those associated with the purchase of that purchase, Doctor Wilison A. Slaa, said he cannot get married to the new business between Tanzania and England because it has not noticed, especially what is what has been bought for what value to you.

"You know that company (TE) is still there and is doing its work under the law and I failed to give me in my heart because I don't know what especially in the army and it is possible for the purpose of equipment that can be able to sell us here," said the secretary general of CHADEMA.

Efforts to inform our citizens to get more information about that issue from TCAA tried to destroy the instructions that the chief spokesperson of that institution is the general director.

However, this newspaper is worried that the executive director of TCAA, Fadhili Manongi said he is on a case in Malaysia and until they're going to move forward, he had not yet answered the questions that were used by email news (email).

The E company has been accused of all over the world by doing business that are not modern, with controversy and can't care for the real situation of the concerned country.

The organization has ever bought airplanes and destruction of Indonesia so as to help them in the fight against people of East or East and Zimbabwe in the time the United Kingdom has also set aside their budgets for the economic aid in that nation of Africa.

The purchase of that fees was received by conflicting to the United Kingdom where the former Minister for African Development, Claire Shprygin is claiming that the price was high than normal and that it was not required to be given priority.

Big organizations for providing loans like the World Bank (WB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), refused to help Tanzania to buy the fees and it is the efforts of BoT to look for a loan with great interest from the Barclays Bank of England by using a loan relief for a loan that is affecting the availability of the loan.

The investigation that was done by the Institute of Political Parties in England (SCA) just after emerging with the scandal that caused some of the top leaders of the government, it is possible they were given a chance in order to make the purchase.

Some of the ones that were mentioned in the scandal is the former attorney general, Andrew Chenge, and former Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Doctor Fadhil Rashid.

The deal of being involved in the fees used to be taken by the international agent, Who Lives Forever, who now is wanted by the police together with his business person, Tanoraine Marriot.

Chenge, it was important to make the purchase of fees because he is the former prime minister in the issues of contracts and Doctor Rashid is the former chief adviser of the government's financial issues without their advice, which the fees may be bought for.

The investigation of the deceased revealed about an amount of 15 million American dollars through his Kendwa Rocks Hotel which is was scored by the name Dudumizi.
