Up to the end of the good debate of the origin of Kenya.
The late?
He found a class we planned.
And we have seen.
The late God rest that it has ever been said to be said by the user to be implanted with the leader of the group.
Ras Kiduku was fed an explanation of attaining Al-Shabaab that attack in Kenya.
Saying it's not supposed to be aired by Al-Shabaab saying them to welcome them in Uganda Kampala, the death of our sister is coming here in Nairobi.
In order to why the media has reported is the incident.
About the house.
The one being faced with the writing of news.
Give me your wife about the event.
Absolom went to the church by saying that.
By more than ninety percent.
This is being dealt with.
These days because what will be found and I don't get to the home stations how the body gets to the government.
Ras Kiduku was something similar to Kenya has all the reputation of something, when we look at my close issue and if we look at least if we look at least.
When we look at this unique issue, it has all qualifications, but in the media stations.
To give a very big opportunity, I have given you a great opportunity, I don't know that it is an understanding to the journalists, I don't know what happens in human beings and the news agencies we know if you want to read news reports if you want to read this newspaper about one thing.
The international standards, without knowing that it is supposed to be the first news because our wealth is very disturbing and everything is crossing the Tanzanians and about the East African case if you look at this issue through it.
Every person has gone down and I have come to sit from Kenya but not if you are, we have been unable to continue using Kenya is very happy and here it was in the continent of also care and find a look for what this situation comes from.
What should I take when I was coming from where I was born, I'm looking for you, you find you like yesterday there are some media stations.
For those who follow it only.
I don't know what they have been taught us, I don't know that if the leaders do not look because it is something which is going on in Kenya, but we are still being given a child who has all the problems, you know what I got.
Even when he gets a little goalkeeper, it is also in history to meet, I have been forced to do not like 'Imebaki Story.'
Again for these hours, this issue that has shaken, people want to know what is going on.
Maybe it is not to know that the word Coastal Union has been a great problem to the journalists who live on bail.
Continue to check and look at a special purpose or time it will also be done because I remember everything in the east is something that is now in town, you have used you to look at the case of the case against this, this is where for example.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, it is true that some of the areas causing the problem to use.
I want to surf the day of yesterday, he was the news.
There is a incident.
While many Kenyans are not news.
It is seen to have done a meeting with the fight against western countries.
There's a video of the problem there and then bless you to prevent it, you will go to God, everyone of you have been done, then you find you, the color that was written by what you missed.
It has been put, the time it is possible for the news to the neighboring country and the ones that are more than Kenya.
If you know, that is done by the media, you give his home to speak about it and the same way compared to that we have happened in Kenya.
There is something called.
The issue of Kenya is very close keenly, the issue of Kenya is giving a great way to the community compared to poison that has done with African west in the neighboring countries, which have five people with votes.
All of them were sessions with the investigation and the night before yesterday easy to play while in a long time meeting with the minister of foreign affairs of America, we have never seen all the reasons that he did not continue to mark the issue of approximately one hundred people, according to reports.
But he is also the second news that I have not been able to come up with mental disabilities it's only.
Let our weakness?
I don't see me he gave a statement that they have made the leader of Al-Shabaab who have not involved the African region of Africa.
They are required to do media stations in the country, you do the plans to play in Morogoro on the end of this year when Tanzanians will be able to look for me when I went to Kenya but I think it will be a word where I came from Kenya but I think I will look for him and ask for what we come from, but if I think I have.
