
Artists now register their work, TRA Dec 13, 2012.

The Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has taken action to ensure that art contributes up to the national income by preparing a plan to register all films and music in the country before the work reaches the users.

Under the program, by August in the year, there is no any job of film or music that will be allowed to be generated from any business company like phone companies or entertainment groups without their work to be signed by that authority, by being able to give him a special operation of taxes that are given to them by the authority.

The report that was given by TRA to some of the media in the country by partnering with the National Arts Council (BASATA), Tanzania Film Board (BASATA), Association of Information, Youth, Culture and Sports, has said that all artists of the film industry and music are required to register TRA, because of being given a taxpayer identification number (TIN) if they have no number.

It has been explained that another group that is required to join the system to be given a taxpayer identification number, is together with the foundation of art, producers, benefit, distributors and all the public in general.

According to that report, the new procedure for the laying of a special card at the film and music products is expected to start on January 2013 in order to end on August 2013 so that by August, all work should not be announced officially.

"Starting from January 2013, there is no any job of film and music that will be allowed to be generated, but there is no any job that will be put from outside business or to be distributed by any person or any group without getting registration.

The report has said that the plan will enable them to eliminate the cry for artists whose work has been caused by the fund for work of artists.

On the side of all film artists and music which have already been put in the market, it has been explained that it is a responsibility of the artist or successor to their wives to ensure that those work is saved, so that they can be able to vote on July first, 2013.

According to TRA, after that period there is no job of film or music that will be allowed to be generated from communication in the media without being signed and that they have given special tax relief.
