Who is great help in Tanzania?
December 11, 2014.

On November 10, 2011 when the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda answering questions of there and then from the members of parliament, he said that CHADEMA are not great.
He was answering a question by the member of parliament of Ubungo, John Mnyika and who wanted to know the actions taken by the government to end the conflict of Arusha.
He answered that, "you do not know the CHADEMA that you do in Arusha doesn't give birth to a political desire to end that conflict, this is the journalists of" Democratic Power "or no benefit."
Prime Minister continued to insisted that the political conflict in Arusha and elsewhere, needs great shape on both sides, because the government should have great shape, CCM should have great efforts, will not be good.
Unfortunately, he was unable to show in great shape, will follow another side more than blaming the party of CHADEMA that it does not have faith.
I would like to hear about the great shape of the government and the CCM party, this is important because it is possible for using a controversy, which is seen to have a good intention on one side, can be seen as a bad intention on the other side.
Therefore, we read a good intention to the nation, it is a must that we be able to take advantage of controversy and agreed or not to agree or not a word, primary schools here is to set up the basis of good intentions to the nation.

I have decided to take this great success will be due to those that are going on at the special Parliament of the constitution, a tension between two governments and three governments, to open up again for what CCM members do not like so much.
We thank you now that those who need three governments system will not have great thoughts, but those with different ideas with CCM are hooligans.
Therefore the sin of this party not to have great shape is continuing with CCM, it is continuing to intervene in great shape and that until now, there is no one who is able to listen well on how the two-government system do we work with two countries and two governments.
Together with an explanation of the meaning of dollars and the government, the explanation that we want to respect, it is still a fact that the day for a day is two governments and two countries.
CCM, they want to believe that they have great shape, so all these who were witnessed in the whole period of CCM that power shows that problem will be led by members of CCM and those who follow the money outside the country are members of CCM.
The government led by CCM, has condemned ghost investors, the government led by CCM being unable to control fake products, being unable to protect our animals, an extent that elephants are unable to protect our minerals, to an extent that everyone is done with good intentions?
Good time will follow Swahili as a good intention. I asked himself the lot of questions without answers, it is a must for a person to be careful, to sit down and accept everything even if it means your life, your family, your nation and the lives of the future generations?
The good intention is to stop thinking and cheering everything done by the ruling party because the ruling party does not make mistakes since the ruling party is led by angels or that the ruling party is the one with the United Republic of Tanzania?
To oppose the victimization of the Dowans Company, it's not a problem, wanting democracy to be true, without using money to buy votes and diploma is not a great shape and claimed that the country's resources benefit from the benefit is not a great shape.
Wanting us to participate in the debate of writing a new constitution is not having great importance to oppose the misuse of public funds and distribution of land that is going on in place or make noise that now we start to build a great shape in a democratic country.
The child's member of parliament, the father of the province, the head teacher of the district, former district commissioner, his good wife and he said the system of one family to unite with all the leadership positions in the country is a mistake or wanted to have a good intention that will destroy the matter like this person who does not have a good intention.
Someone who is great, will you do a discussion and look for a solution to someone who is great, I must have to know that Tanzania is all of us and all political parties is equal to someone who has to understand and respect the thoughts of others.
