
Earlier, September 5, 2012

I write to me - shivered.

This disease goes up in all livestock and also human beings, for human beings, this disease is usually caused by doughing, popularly known as a modem.

Symptoms are there.
1-this disease with a cow can be dangerous, they do not lie or even a chronic problem and bring great effects including the death.
The 2-infectious disease brings up to 31 degrees Celsius.
3-Mnyama have tried to see while giving a lot of joy as a man.
4-production of milk is reduced by a large extent.
5-Mnyama are inspiring.
6-Mnyama have shown to come out with mind, he can walk with a circle here, making you a head in stalls or anything and the animal can't loose.
7-some of the pregnant women can get pregnant, this is one of the big disease who fail to rise.
8-others swell.
9th, bird feathers and spiritual formation, during the morning they have bought a certain type of land, but it needs to be approved by the experts.

A teaser sin.

How is the investigation.
The security officers in livestock will take samples of blood from the bottom or a warthog without suffering from having a high price before blood pressure, also ways to increase the HIV virus.
For more investigation, the researchers and pests who are treated in urine, transporting it and cameraman and later on Pickup, and later on PR, Elisa says will be used to check the veins.

.
For livestock like cows, goats, sheep, a sacrificial lamb, a fools should cause medicine as a mosquito, is used to treat this disease, on a human side I don't know what drugs is used.

Reduce.
1 - a company is an expert in an entrepreneur known as a shop, where different types of cement is destroyed by the radiation from Malaria, this helps to produce themselves because of their lives, while making these things continue to rise in different areas.
2- drugs that affect the disease can destroy the animals that will be beaten every three months and 4 times a year.
3L - a blue copper have been known as FGM) which is determined to South Africa, this type of contraception is not causing a lot to the disease.
