
Sponsors are the government to inspect them, 900 billion or IPTL.
October 11, 2014.

Donor countries have urged the government to choose out of getting money to help in the budget of this year or to protect the suspects of paying the funds of Tegeta Escrow account that was in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), South Korea has been told.
A total of 200 million American dollars (200 billion shillings) are believed to be collected from that account to be paid by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP) in a parliamentary environment together with diplomats that have the poor.
This newspaper has been told that the government has been forced to be given an official statement in the writing from various countries and explained that they will not give out money for support, an amount of 559 billion shillings (600 billion shillings) until the results of the investigation on that issue from the office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) and the institution for preventing and fighting corruption.

One of the ambassadors who make a group of those partners, who met with Raia Mwema, on conditions of not being mentioned the name the other day on Monday night, left the newspaper that they have already taken their information about those decisions.
"It is true that we have given the government the official report about our decision and this one was in a step of talks but now we have decided to put him in a short time.
When required by the writer of these news explaining what they are written inside that report, the ambassador said he will not be able to say anything about that is inside.
"I am a highly commended. I have my rights that allows him to run itself.
Efforts of this newspaper to get the Minister of Finance, Saada Mkuya, and his assistant, Adam Malima, tried to destroy the night before yesterday and until they're going to be found.
In the meeting between the partners and the government that took place in November last year at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Conference Hall in Dar es Salaam, various countries were promised to contribute to that amount of money for this financial year.
Those funds were expected to contribute towards various areas like the reduction of poverty, in promoting employment and also in helping the fight against corruption.
The donors who help the budget of Tanzania is led by countries and 12 institutions which are the African Development Bank (ADB), Canada, Denmark, European Union, Finland, Germany, Norway, Sweden, England and World Bank (WB).

This newspaper is worried that the various countries have not been happy with the issue of the availability of those funds in BoT due to the conflict between the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited and Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
Last week, this newspaper reported on the PAP owner, Harbinder Singh Sethi, who is a businessman with history of controversy, he bought billions of shillings in a huge environment.
For example, Mchaga answered that one of the employees of IPTL, James Bryne when he won the payment of his shares that he got into a few days after the government seems to be paid by BoT.
