It is a must for you to have now in the terrorism case, it said that they've paid what's laws that shows this year that explains terrorism is everything in Uganda.
They will fall down.
Something because our laws here in Uganda.
Only Sharif Hamad.
Even so many years the money can be done there?
We know what?
This law is good.
The surprising thing on the stomach, is why he wants to listen to them.
And or?
Other things here we are to grow and the law of lives of life has come while there is still a case with a case, under the end of the day when they go to Dar es Salaam.
If you want.
There is a rumor.
I am saying we are not supposed to be done by the law to do with his things and outside the world.
If there are people getting married and also Guinea-Miss people have died, I understood the phone.
Together.
If you go to Grind.
If you are doing again is a total of people.
But the?
Here in this world there is an act.
He is with his law if they are doing again that are making sure that it is called!
If someone will have an illusion.
Forum.
That is dangerous to you for ACT Patriots, then the law will be done well by the law of people who are here, Ras Makunja has every person not well.
They were ready to be a case for every security guards.
He said.
Well, some of the others but if you were seen to have a presentation in the fight to fight here in the court.
There are those who have also been found guilty, I was found guilty, I was surprised if you followed up this issue especially to see what some of the Russian militants did not face the charges against terrorism was removed.
I am very happy that, there are you living in my noise so that tomorrow morning I request for a question.
First, the judge said when he was putting up talking about the defendant, he said that in the neighborhood, otherwise he said there is no normal reason for a time when the incident happened by the law.
He fell on Mister terrorism at the right time so that a person standing in Uganda was pleased with those who did not get tired with the judge said that the evidence came in court and those who were involved in court and those who were killed together with those who were killed and those who were killed in that attack have received these events that they have received such events.
Inside the court it was not allowed many people to get when it's a few who had been given an second invitation from the court to ask police officers of the police force to protect its officers who like to be able to protect themselves with those who like them, what they said.
Or white due to what?
Therefore, it is a mixture of thoughts considering that it is a time now, you have reached, I started seeing what I started doing or even if one of the two people should be found guilty, therefore, where we finish this phone.
