
The East African Court to open doors in every corner of Geneva, 11, 2012.

The East African Court (ERCI) has intended to expand the scope of its activities by starting a small training program in five countries which are Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, and Burundi.
That court is also in the race to start a new procedure, that will enable lawyers and people with an intention of opening a case to do so through the internet (internet), instead of going to do so in court.
Speaking about the step of the court to open small businesses in every country, the registrar of that court Professor John Eudes Ruhangisa, explained that the action is important for the development of the party members.
"We have decided to do a revolution in this industry of law, therefore, we have seen it is good to build small industries for every country so that citizens with special needs to be easily available," said Professor Rogassian Mahunnah.
He said that by starting the court it will open its first tour in Kigali, Rwanda at the end of this month of August, a step that will go hand in hand and called for the general meeting of the East African Community (TIN).
"We believe that this plan will benefit many citizens with their complaints that would like to be done by the judges of this court and it will also give them the cost of following up the high court services in Arusha," he added.
He added that the court is thinking about the possibility of going to listen to a case and it was opened so as to reduce the cost of the complainants and those involved.
"If a woman started a case or all those who are involved in one place then the court will be forced to look for themselves and listen to a case at the scene area, if the position will not concern it," he said.
The registrar said in the next financial year, they are also expected to start a procedure to register a case through the internet (online radio) so as to ease the lawyers and those with complaints or cases.
"The plan goes hand in hand with the plan of judges who listen to the case by using a computer system (Petroleum Bulk Procurement System - MNCH) and for now, we are doing to prepare infrastructure to achieve this issue," he added.
He said the biggest challenge facing the court for now is the shortage of judges who are present at the High Court for a special time because the judges are still employees in various government positions in their country.
He said that issue of court not having its permanent judges who have presented the sessions of the council of ministers of East Africa with the expectations that those leaders will be given solutions.
"At the moment we have no permanent judges and when a case you need to get fast through the amendment of the party members and the procedure of getting you more than two weeks," he said.
East African Court is among the high level institutions that were made up by considering the requirements of the launching of the East African Community and other organizations include the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA).
