
RC is committing which loss of land.

It has been written by John Ndeki.

It has been published in 15th of September.

Morogoro Provincial Commissioner, Doctor Stephen Kebwe has urged the residents of SB Primary School which have approximately 1,000 acres of land at the Don Bosco Center, located in Mvomero District, to get their houses immediately before the government has not completed their houses immediately after the government hasn't reached an action against them.

Doctor Kebwe gave an order to those residents together with the leadership of the council of that district recently when he visited the station where he saw him a dangerous environment that they are facing those elders.
The Miwani Health Center has a size of approximately 140 acres where among them 1,000 acres have been attacked by citizens who built residential houses, apart from that order, the provincial commissioner has also urged the council to solve different problems of those elders including lack of toilets, water and electricity.
"Director of the council listening to the problem of water services within two weeks so as to avoid diseases that can come out due to lack of water such as cholera disease," insisted Doctor Kebwe.
"The greatest job here is just a renovation, water was there in the previous days again, water is the Almighty God to give us us and where it comes to the neighborhood, I have given two water weeks that have been made in the station," he said.
Doctor Kebwe has ordered the leadership of the council to restore electricity that was there in the previous days.
On their part, the elders said that their center is being faced with challenges of lack of water, toilets and food shortage, a situation that is making to get one food per day and therefore causing many elders to decide to live outside the camp so as to get food.
Therefore, they requested the government to stop the elderly camp by giving them important services especially food and treatment because they don't have the ability of looking for food or treatment funds, that center has a total of 22 elders while four women and 14 men.
