
Uganda have started, most of us have not seen.
I'm looking at the Uganda national team, Ambassador Crala when he was preparing to play with Botswana in a match to contest for the finals of the African Continent, AFCON next year.
Its results, Uganda wants only victory in the home match against Comoros to qualify for the finals after 36 years of Tanzania themselves are proud of those years to play for the African finals.
The last time was the team that he played for former TFF president, Leodegar Tenga, of the year 1980 and its finals happened in Lagos.
The most importantly, what I look at how many players from Uganda are forced to know the amount of getting a team outside the country and now I am taking up a small coach, Melisa, 'Michungangira who comes to Germany while he did not come up, but he was.
That coach who his team is in group D, that is happy now, the Ugandan players who are our neighbors, will take them the Nigerian style to be a very few players in the home league that are being known.
Look at their first squad and their team the former captain, Dennis Kadiliana (St George, South Africa), Robert Schuller who had been caught up with St George, South Africa, Joseph Kiwanuka (Al Shabab), Joseph Kiwanuka (Al Shabab), Joseph Simbakalia of Uganda.
The body of Mike Azama (Colombo and Colombo, Kenya), Moses Sethole (Bissau, Kenya), Tonny Maasais' (TLB), William Kizito Luizio, (Tune, Portugal) and Godfrey Kizito from Kenya.
The attackers, Farouk Jivani (Standard Bank, Belgium), David Kasele (resident magistrate of Sports, Rwanda), Ekaney (Riders in South Africa), Geofrey Massao (RTO), Denmark, Germany.
If you check it is only three players who play home, Joseph Oreo ', Eibar Luena.
By Dominique Nothomb of that attack, what I want to say here, it is that our players are supposed to know now and that if our players are supposed to know Simba or Yanga, but its results are going to play for Simba or Yanga, one year he does not stay here.
It is a must to open, my thoughts will play outside and let it reach a step that is called Taifa Stars, today we are looking at Mbwana Samatta and Thomas Ulimwengu, this is still ongoing.
It's a woman to be found in a lot of things, be outside mind, not we see me! Today we are playing with Cindy, we are struggling to make them close to another one with 'afro! "We must have a difference.
I think it is now time for making social networks including Uganda, players who come from Sudan and Ethiopia, still the league in there is a new thing, it is not something to open the brain, and soccer is not Simba or Yanga.
