The 16 members of parliament.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

The list of names of 16 members who are being wanted to enable the special constitutional parliament (SCA) to be able to fulfill the voters that will be able to pass the constitution that was found.
Those members of parliament are part of the 67 members from Zanzibar who are among the parliamentarians who were chosen by President Jakaya Kikwete to join BMK coming from different institutions.
Our citizens has been told by its sources from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and BMK reported that those 16 members are those who will be followed and if they are going to vote in legal sittings, the draft constitution that was organized by the commission of Judge Warioba will be approved and finally be taken to the citizens so that they can be taken to the citizens so as to be taken to the citizens.

"The work we have completed now that Ukawa should come or not to get married and finish his work in accordance with the names of members of parliament who can get there are ready, our citizens should be told by one of its reliable sources the day before yesterday.
The names of the newspaper that has been given is approximately four consecutive years, Yusuf Omar Chisholm, Mama Asha Othman Othman, candidate Abaaha in addition, Sheikh Nassor Mohamed Ibrahim, Louis Majaliwa and Abdallah Abbas.
Other names of those delegates from Zanzibar who are from BMK expected to collaborate with parliament is Bihagaze, Yahya Othman, Fatma Mohamed Hassan, Sheikh Thabit Junction, Minister Rajab Mwilima, Minister Rajab.

Those delegates, this newspaper has been explained, they are followed due to the criteria we were mentioned as CCM members, people from family members who participated in the revolutionary party in the year 2012 and the others are saying to be careful.
The work of talking to members of parliament is supervised by one of the famous members of parliament from Zanzibar Islands, who is allowed to use other people to increase their problems.
In order to pass a new constitution, BMK used to vote for more than two-thirds of its members of parliament of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, but when CCM is sure of getting two-thirds members in the mainland, it needs two members of parliament to get two-thirds of the members of parliament of Zanzibar.
Some of the members of BMK such as Professor Abdallah Safari, got the issue of looking for that number of members of parliament without the presence of an agreement between UKAWA and CCM.
However, this newspaper has been explained that there is a possibility of getting more than 16 members from Zanzibar, just after the ongoing session of the Marquez, planned to take place at the end of this week in Dodoma town and attended by Kikwete together with retired presidents of Tanzania.
The chairman of the Tanzania Constitutional Forum (JUKATA), Deus Kibamba, has explained his fear that if the parliament will be forced to continue, maybe the parliament of UKAWA will go to parliament because of getting the allowances only and not for the purpose of getting the constitution.
"Before it has been postponed, BMK used seven billion shillings, it means that it can use again an amount like that of paying the people that they do not have the intention to look for a constitution but to get a loss without reasons," said Kibamba in his talks with this newspaper.
