
JKT are preventing the desks of two constituencies.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published in September 2016.

The Ministry of Security and National Housing Corporation (JKT) has barred two constituencies in Nkasi district and Nkasi district in Rukwa province to be handed over 1,074 desks because of being unable to take place for a long time.

According to the report of the secretary general of the ministry, Job Ndugai, 18 states that have not been given seven days were given seven days to do that, but those two didn't implement the order released by the Minister of Security and Defense, Doctor Hussen.
"The time of taking the desks has ended the day before yesterday, I would like to increase 16 constituencies that will call and take a total of 892 desks and also the ministry has benefited from two constituencies that failed to follow their desks," he said.
Those desks are among the agreements that were made by JKT together with the prisons in the country after being given the contract with the Tanzania Parliament due to six billion shillings which the instrument they want to get out of desks to the streets instead they should put on them on the way they are avoided, and the only thing is the implementation.
The secretary general said the government intends to move the headquarters of Dodoma province, thus that ministry is implementing those instructions and has completed the procedures of leaving.
"The issue of moving to Dodoma doesn't have an interview again for now, therefore, the aim is to prepare well in the province since we will leave for two different times and the first phase will be on November 30th and the second phase will be in June 2017," said Colaso.
He added that the ministry will move to Dodoma by some of the command, but the others will remain due to the importance of his responsibilities as the cause of the army's headquarters, said that the government relocates to Dodoma with its ministry, therefore it is clear that the headquarters will be in that region.
