
The area of Yanga's area.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The stadium area where Yanga's chairperson, Yusuf Manji has given that club has a conflict.

Manji the day before yesterday contributed to 715 hectares that are under the Indian Ocean, Geology, Kigamboni for the purpose of building the stadium.
When news came out in Dar es Salaam yesterday they said the area is in land conflicts with the Lake Oil Company, the area is not the whole issue of Manji but there is another place owned by Lake Victoria.
Speaking to the journalists yesterday, one of the lake's directors, Khalid Hassan famous as Peter Bulugu "said he was surprised to see Yanga have been handed over the whole area while there is their place.
"You say that when the late Manji has been accepted by forgetting that area is not the whole issue, there are our place, we have seen today (yesterday) in the media has been approved," said Hassan.
"We are communicating with our lawyers, all the illustrations we have said that the area we have done to them, what we will do police look for our boundaries before other legal action is taken," he said.
"We are business people, I believe that Manji knows the part of the field is not his wife and I don't think if we are unable, I hope we will complete by peace," he said.
The day before yesterday, the board of directors of that club under Fatma Karume was handed the area that will be built at the Yanga stadium in Geology, Kigamboni.
The area that Manji is alleged to be sold by the National Food and Food Organization (NAFTA), on the lake's side claimed that it is not sold by another person who even so they did not support him and also put clearly the size of the area that claims they had at their disposal.
However, it is alleged that Manji after being swept away from the area, left for a long time without ensuring that other people were forced to kill them and even sell some of the areas.
The efforts of getting Manji did not have fruit after his mobile phone continued without the answers and even the Yanga's secretary, Baraka FM found talking about that after the not received that phone.
But this newspaper was speaking with a member of the Council of Yanga Doctor NoKatundu who is among the attended the handing over the day before yesterday who said they don't know anything about that.
"We have been handed over the area we are not aware if there is conflict but Manji will not go back from the journey and we will take this issue to know how to know yourself," he said.
