
We are determined to promote sports.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published today September 2016.

Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has said the fifth term government has decided to invest in sports so as to be official economic activities.

Nape said this while speaking about the implementation of the plans and strategies of his ministry in the period of "we expect that is aired by the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC1).
He said Mrs Asha "for a long time sports in our country has been the consent of the consent to be sports which you can't depend on if the activities of your life is.
We must to invest our youth in small and not getting married. "
He said that it is a must to change the law and policies so that sports can be official economic activities including investing in children since they are small because their sports cannot succeed.
"At the moment we are running the sports sector and that is why we are doing the review of policies, challenges is that everything we have been trying to get opinions from stakeholders in sports is very difficult because we get good people and not good people to look for the answers of the poor problems." He said.
He said, "we have reached the views of stakeholders about our policies in order to do our games to be official economic activities, if we want to have players who know that my activities are sports, because if we think it is a must that a player should do other activities that we cannot have better players."
He said that there will be a good investment for small youths even the financial agencies that they believe in and put their capital as well as faith that they will come out, therefore many investors will come out to put their capital and change the sports sector.
Speaking about the artists who are oppressed on their rights, Nape said there is a strategy of making film policies to be availed to the way to follow and improve the lives of artists because they have great names but in the pockets of the ways that are not allowed.
"For a long time now the art industry especially music is the industry that are not official so much and therefore do so cunning, they get married, the law that has its weaknesses, but also it protects the rights of artists," he said.
He said one of the reasons that made him to do an inspection operation is together with checking the culture and environment of film, because many of all pictures do not affect the film board so that they can be used to groups and stop depending on the age of the age.
In addition, he said more education is required to be given to artists especially in the provinces and give them training on their work profession to be modern and to inform the way to work without considering the foreign culture because they have many followers and therefore it must be a mirror of providing a culture of Tanzanian culture.
He said Mrs Salma, for many years the culture has become an average of one nation but for now, we shall look like the foundation of building a nation, but our culture is reduced and we have begun to follow our culture including food and food and this is a challenge. "
He said they do not have through some of the issues in culture so that the advisers do not continue to be used and what should not be used in order to protect and do not lie on the cervix.
