DC Longido has promised to solve the problems of the deceased.

It has been written by Bashir Nkoromo, Longido.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

Longido District Commissioner, Daniel Chongolo has promised the owners and tour of the Noah type, that provide entrepreneurship services from Arusha to Karatu town to be patient and that the government will solve their problems in a period of six days.

Those owners claim that through the Noah business, pay various taxes in the council, but are surprised at the challenges facing the loopholes of the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), including being unable to maintain the transportation of transportation by claims that those vehicles have no standards of transporting passengers.
While speaking yesterday with the Executive Director of Longido district, Chongolo said that the government recognizes the importance of those vehicles that give services to citizens of Namanga, Arusha to Karatu and different areas.
He said that Noah Sapuk is the transport that is relied upon by many citizens, therefore, it is a must to know the importance of those vehicles.
"I have met with a lot in order to know the various challenges that you meet will meet, but I request this we want to discuss here to discuss various challenges and how to resolve the problems that you face," said Chongolo.
The acting chairman of the new logo of the Noah type of Arusha (NASA), Don Mushi said more than 300 vehicles that give its services between Arusha, Namanga and Arusha - Karatu, the areas of the Kitavi Pilgrimage, help citizens to do various activities.
He said it's surprising to see that the big vehicles have been forced to see for different reasons, but he said that if TTCL is providing services of transportation if others are giving hand in hand with considering the safety of road safety.
He said earlier on the government through the former Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, gave permission to the Noah type to carry the passengers after being given a license and which he has been given, but there are some of the business people with huge buses.
He said the owners of big buses are supposed to recognize that business are competition and therefore instead of polluting the transportation of the Noah vehicles, they should improve their vehicles to attract passengers.
He emphasized that their vehicles have been using all government taxes and has not been put into the Indian Ocean, therefore they have the right to work because they have a license to have been completed.
