
When a man did not get after a short message, the former Wote Scheme.

That is a statement from some women.

What's the statement has a plain truth?

There is bad luck, where some of the women do not know this, it is very important to see that, a man did not start a relationship with a woman or a person, and the level of each other will be.

But the truth that they did not know is that, a human being has feelings of these feelings can get a lot of people when they live in a long time, it reaches a place where the level of love is reduced because they have already gotten lost.

Let me know the brothers or your relatives, who has been in peace to visit from different times for you, those, quills, mix up and without a problem or any problem?

It is a feelings have gotten tired, even when you buy clothes or given a very good job, after a short time, that a woman does not know this matter, a woman does not know this issue, and that's when a woman does not know it, and that is when a statement made.

.
If the men did not get after a short time, all the previous love have already been made.
.

These are complaints by women in order to try to show evidence of this situation and they are unable to know that, before starting a relationship or marriage, the feelings were still high, because these people have not started being together for a long time.

It is a person who is able to say that, in his relationship or his marriage that he has never thought the feelings of love with his colleague and at least make sure that there are some of the coming standards, but every human being is feelings of love.

There are many reasons that are doing a lot of love and love, but the biggest reason why each one is the ability to do and give good statements to her lover, but also threatens to each one to eliminate the behavior of his colleague, he believes that every one to remove those behaviors.

The drop of love of love is no reason of leaving with love and love, when you leave, but the feelings of love is to go back and the situation should come back as in the past we were lost or if it got lost.

But there are some of the women the feelings of love to their loved ones, they got lost, there are tired of issues and destruction.
