
Areas with collection of internet.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan, has launched the implementation of the project to set free internet services through Wi-Fi at areas with the collection of people in Dar es Salaam city so as to increase opportunities to prevent communication for the benefit of the nation in bringing development.

Samia launched the Wi-Fi service at Gymkhana grounds during the launch of a campaign of planting trees that took place in Dar es Salaam city.
While speaking to the residents who came out at the field there, the Vice President emphasized the residents of Dar es Salaam to rise up of trees so as to save the environment especially in dealing with the effects of climate change in the country.
He also congratulated the efforts of laying the internet service in the city of Dar es Salaam city, he mentioned the areas that were put in that service to be in big bus stations, universities, colleges, big buildings with many residents, the suburbs of the last week, communication is an important challenge in improving life, causing news and important events.
On his part, the head of Dar es Salaam Province, Paul Makonda said the Wi-Fi service that will be put in that gathering areas is part of the efforts of the fifth phase government to ensure the city is growing and sustainable internet services.
The Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (TTCL), Minister Kindamba said that due to the ability and experience in the communication sector, the company is on the forefront to contribute to the government's efforts to improve meteorological services through Wi-Fi which will be available at the whole time in the city.
Kindamba said those efforts in conjunction with various stakeholders will continue to ensure that many places with gatherings of people get the Wi-Fi services, "said the program will be sustainable with the aim of building towns and cities to the level of" Smart City "in order to also strengthen the security and security of towns, people and their properties.
