They are required to do when you are on the road for my experience in the driving work because it has a very big challenge and the poor.
Anything is something in which these diseases are forced to have a sharp object.
The drivers are required to be careful.
It's like you don't see if you don't see the Engineer for building bridges and drivers is supposed to be a hundred of hundred hundred thousand because if you see this book in the past the law of road safety is looking at this book when you see you.
But now I will see that there are many books that are being given if you are in a book of regulations.
On the road, I promised that as a result of the ministry in ministries and state, there are also the profession of this drivers is a new book that was organized by experts of teaching on road safety in the country, but there are old books.
It will not be found.
And the book this thing is not speaking.
The driving ones in China are now.
I will see.
The driver is not that we are not fear in the previous years, we're being taught here and we are being taught, he wants them to read and read for example to drivers.
The government thank you for these hours I succeeded in a period of two years back, so as to fulfill the drivers go above and read even drivers of vehicle vehicles.
And only about our old license, the old stars have learned in the new system of licenses which will be the view of those licenses.
It's like this which is the electronic systems, the late Adam and all the drivers want to have licenses for the first time, we need to ask ourselves so if you check.
Big music artists were.
They do not have strength.
But also vehicles.
May the late God is also a chance.
Almighty God rest his sim card the preparations will be used for example, if you're talking about when one person gets that, they discovered the father of the drivers.
We are supposed to be called on my grandfather's grandfather, because it is wrong, he would like to build a house in which he did, I would like us to get married and I would like us to get back because there are many drivers and I came for sure that this situation is.
And head like change, we become a very big source.
Coach causing accidents.
To a large extent.
I have seen it for example.
No one has it been said.
Reduce the speed.
They are two.
And I have won this time when you go down in town or the village is forced to reduce the speed up to the kilometers.
Fifty years now if there are drivers in the African Continent to be able to speed up to a low level.
I think there is no one who is one of this city, he can walk around eight kilometers here and I don't know if we will not have problems.
We don't like looking at such as we said different drivers can say different from the name withheld, but what are the fees used to look at the high speed, we're going to many even here in Dar es Salaam city.
By giving me, we would like to like more than ten thousand help in that by any person who is going to each other and if you like more speed of having a high speed in the world.
You can there a possibility to have a possibility of getting someone who is just two times more than the possibility of getting rid of my father, what you know it is now.
Other parts are the father being interviewed or it is the vehicle that I got shocked that there is one reason why you missed the accident, if you're blocking the accidents in a very big percentage, but likewise, we will get several things related to those events that he refused to deal with them.
It happens during an accident and asked passengers.
Today we give me the late Miss Tanzania when the vehicle had a bad speed and the vehicle had a high speed and I see a car that is going so fast to see it even.
You know the driver is going on and the truth is.
People inside the nation.
Many people say you will know that the vehicles now is going on in a speed that is not good now what happens?
Which is it?
