Ukawa has announced President Kikwete.
May 22, 2014.

The Union of the Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) through the secretary general of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilfredy Slaa, has shown the intention to be President Jakaya Kikwete, "through the previous door" he joined their efforts.
The leaders of UKAWA which is holding recommendations of the draft of the commission on constitutional reforms that was made to be presented to the constitutional parliament and Judge Joseph Warioba, for now they are continuing with their meetings to encourage citizens to oppose the efforts of distorting the commission of constitutional changes and especially the establishment of the union of unity in three governments.
Ukawa claim that they have started to succeed in their activities of educating, to an amount of some citizens to contribute to money in public meetings, so as to continue with their duties in improving.
Speaking to Good Citizen after conducting a rally in some of the regions of Kilimanjaro, Arusha, and Mara, Doctor Slaa explained that he is in which way President Kikwete wants to support him in the past. "
"President Kikwete has signed the draft of Judge Warioba on the first page, he has written his name on the last page, something that is normal in the funeral of a constitution that doesn't know.
"The president should not hesitate to sign anything, different from the normal laws that until President Nkurunzinza, because the constitution is not for the president but it's the citizens.
"If you want jokes, look at the constitution of the year 1977, it is in the real use, you find the list of the names of members who benefited from the constitution.
"It has been not open (Kikwete), our advice Mister has signed a draft of Judge Warioba and that what he did not want to give him to citizens what he did not agree with the parliament and to stop public funds are used to run the constitutional parliament," said Doctor Slaa.
He added that Doctor Slaa's "is the same as a mother to look for him and when it's at nine months, he gives the pregnancy as the president would have made them have been able to announce that time.
"Unfortunately, by his statement inside the Parliament hall has started a political war and we thank the political war can't win because he is going into the stone.
"The stone is the citizens who gave opinions on the first draft and the second draft that was presented to the constitutional parliament and Judge Joseph Warioba."
In another step, Doctor Slaa has emphasized that as it is for his fellow leaders of UKAWA including the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba from the Revolutionary Party (CUF) and James Mbatia (NCCR-Revolution) that they will not come back to the constitutional parliament if CCM will continue to oppose the proposals for three governments with the draft of Judge Warioba in general.
But when the leaders of UKAWA which were in that position, the member of the executive committee of the Revolutionary Party (CC), Stephen Wassira who is also the minister of state, office of the president, coordination and relations, Stephen Wassira said several weeks ago he had a special statement about UKAWA.
In his statement mentioned by some of the media in the country that it is a question, Wassira said that in UKAWA they go back to continue with the debate of the draft constitution in the constitutional parliament then there will be no other way to change the regulations so that the work of writing the new constitution continues to be completed.
Minister Wassira gave those explanations in the current general meeting of the budget that is going on in Dodoma town when responding to some of the members of parliament, among them, Halima Mdee who is the member of parliament for Kawe, Dar es Salaam through CHADEMA.
In his arguments inside the parliament, Mdee who is also in the sessions of the Constitutional Assembly as the other leaders of UKAWA, said a discussion inside the Constitutional Assembly was violating the law of constitutional changes and that UKAWA is not ready to return to the special constitutional assembly on August this year if those discussions will not depend on the second draft of the constitution.
In order to answer that beating and even the current rate of the women, Doctor Slaa, Wassira said Mrs Salma, "we don't know the regulations as a result of the constitutional parliament there's a legal action, but the law was stolen, but the law was sent away," said Wassira.
Wassira also said he was quoted claiming that UKAWA was not in the constitutional parliament without a reason and they can return to the constitutional parliament without a reason.
