
JPM intervene in two musicians.

September 28, 2016.

President Doctor John Magufuli has appointed the appointment of administrative secretary of Kagera Province, Amantius Msole says that the director of the Municipal Council of Bukoba, Steven Makonda.
Doctor Magufuli has taken that decision after realizing that, the selected ones have opened another bank's account by using the name that is like the same account of contributing to the disaster called "the provincial commissioner of Kagera" to be able to get money.
The report that was given by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa for a short time after receiving a check of donation of money from the Prime Minister of India, said apart from breaking the appointment, Doctor Magufuli has ordered media stations to be able to take action against all who involved in the plot to open that account.
Also, Majaliwa has suspended the accountant of that province, Simbawaki together to being involved with the conspiracy and urged the citizens, different institutions to continue providing donations for those that were affected with the earthquake in that province in an official account of "the disaster Committee of Kagera."
In another step, Doctor Magufuli has received a donation of 545 million shillings from the prime minister of India Honorable Narendra Modi, in order to help the residents of Kagera that had been affected by that earthquake in September 10 this year.
A check of those funds were given out at State House in Dar es Salaam by the ambassador of India in the country Nasib Abdul, Arnautovic and later Doctor Magufuli will hand over to Majaliwa.
In his letter to Doctor Magufuli that was read by Ambassador Arafa, the Prime Minister of India (Modi), has said that the government and citizens of India have received with great disappointment in the disaster which caused the deaths of people and destruction of property.
"We are directed to pray for peace and you used to be patient, we would like to confirm to them, we are together with our friends the government of Tanzania in this difficult time," said Modi.
On his part, Doctor Magufuli thanked Minister Modi and his government for giving that contribution, to send condolences to the government has been touched by a heart of love he bought.
"Honorable Ambassador Arnautovic, I request you to end my condolences to the Prime Minister Modi, when I tell me on behalf of the government we thank you so much for its support for the sake of our colleagues that have been affected by disaster.
"Mwambega has shown the heart of love and our cooperation, we have been encouraged by our friends, I have been touched in the only way with the problem that he got in our country," said Doctor Magufuli.
