The answers is still considering that the government or government institutions have been taking place to get these organizations and institutions not to be transparent on the issue of funds that are offered by the council to discuss various development projects that are being taken by the council to discuss various development projects that are being implemented by that council from Morogoro to speed for the teachers' exams.
The committee came as a mental checkup in the campaign by interest, to inspect the construction project of the market and construction of the market as well as the executive director of the county, Ahmed Kipozi and told the committee that they have not know anything related to the construction of that market and visited him and other the first phase of the market.
And this bridge has been placed for a reason of five million shillings on time.
Anything that are required to view as usual.
It should be?
So, the market is made?
If I don't know where any preparations were I want to take them home.
Now, it will eat.
I wish that person to come up.
Picture, they know.
He said and what is used I use this one wants.
But asking for later you can use.
Our from inside.
When the office is saying there is no longer.
But it is happening in the police believed to be the truth.
Is in the headlines here if you go down there.
There is a person who has mentioned them to ask ourselves that you have written here is not aware if it has gotten tired.
We like a god.
Those information on behalf of the love that are offered by the council should probably be the mayor of the municipality and here, are forced to give information on how the directors of the council are required to do their work to be close to the councilors together with citizens Youqing.
Why is it?
Then I will not use brother.
He will supervise so and you have already succeeded in the preparations, Honorable the councilor and his five chairperson, this issue just like he will have got that.
All of us when they see if you see you.
How do you do?
When I read this kind if you see everything that is in many times you have made them to reduce the foundation of us to gave them.
To know that, the committee also visited the road construction project with a period of two and a half kilometers, being built with an amount of eight hundred million shillings in class and in primary schools and construction of government accounts for a period of two thousand and ten thousand shillings.
The picture by the natural vegetation.
