
Bbillion 26 / 6 / = to cater for the project.

It has been written by Abijan, Manyoni.

It has been published on 28th October, 2016.

A non-governmental organization of World Vision Tanzania in collaboration with World Vision Tanzania is expected to use more than 26 billion shillings to cater for the new health and child health center (Enrich) for a period of four years from now.

The Project Coordinator of that project, Mwarabu has said in the city that the project will be implemented in the provinces of Shinyanga and Singida from this year 2016 to 2020 and is funded by the Department of International Relations in Canada.
During the launch of the project in a session of the Council of councilors of Manyoni Council, Mystica Mapunda said in Singida province, the project will be done in Manyoni and Ikungi districts.
He said that the project aims at reaching a total of 74,162 people, including 390,689 men and another group that will benefit including 164,689 girls and 15,00728 girls.
He mentioned some of the activities that will be held in reducing mother and child deaths as a result of lack, defense, and the management of the improvement of health policy, food and entrepreneurship, a shortage of agriculture, gender, and development.
Mwageni has said that all the activities will take place from the primary level up to the national level while insisting that the project will help them to build their ability, to claim their rights through systems and system of activities.
He said that the aim is to ensure that the citizens abstain from the actual problem of continuing to claim that the government without their responsibility is to fulfill their responsibilities.
"By doing so, we are able to recognize that they are part of the government and service providers in looking for a solution to various challenges that are facing them," said Mhapa.
Moreover, he urged the councilors to protect themselves from serving the project in collaboration with World Vision Tanzania in improving the development of mother and child in their areas because they are managers of the projects of the projects.
