
Why should I read the budget of Robin van Persie,!
Petit 22, 2012

Thursday's last week, the government of CCM of President Kikwete presented his budget in Dodoma town for the financial year of 2012 / 13.
As it was in the previous budget, this budget has already brought a huge debate inside and outside the parliament about its quality.
Politicians, Chidi Benz, and champions of the economic issues have discussed and they are continuing to discuss that budget and even us continue with us to discuss and we continue to discuss.

Up to now, there is no appropriate time after every one selling the budget that she is doing to our Tanzania - the budget that consider the current environment of human rights including many.
Similarly, there is no objection that the budget of 15 trillion shillings had been made by Minister Mgimwa, last Thursday that it involves more leaders and government workers than the poor citizens of Tanzania.
It will give out 10 trillion shillings out of which 15 trillion shillings for the purpose of government expenditure (salaries) and they get out of 45 trillion shillings only because the budget is targeting poor citizens in Tanzania?
To me, the budget that I have written in my country in Tanzania, and that I will not be able to check up, it is one that inside him, there are philosophy of Robin van Persie, to take over the rich and distributing them.
I know that most of the current youths here in the country do not have news with a story that deals with Robin van Persie, so it is not bad to remind the news about this old man who has been banned even though the famous artists in the world like Erena.
The story show that Robin van Persie, was born in 1100 kilos and it is believed that Mister who was living in the Tim Sherwood who had lived in England.
While in the forest, Robin van Persie, did a lot of things to go down and he went up to be a vibrant player in using his opponent, Upanga and also run away.
The era of Robin van Persie, citizens of England had a lot of knowing where we are warned by those who were discovered a lot of taxes and do not get strength to the small income.
It's not only that for every first time to pass for instance, a lot of taxes made, a lot of taxes, there was a lot of weapons that are not cowards, and therefore doing a long time so as to resolve it.
This situation made him so much, Robin van Persie, and is the reason that made him go to learn through it has come in order to start the fight against those with those with them.
Reports are saying that, Robin van Persie, when he answered me, he started married, he started falling on Wednesday night, with those with stealing many things of value.
Every time she gets stranded, he went to sharp edges in the forest with black groups that voted for him so as to kill a draw in fighting due to its good deeds.
The things that he got into the pregnancy as from the money, clothes, food, and home centers, drugs, toolics, up to domestic chemicals, he urged all citizens to poor citizens.
In that way, Robin van Persie, came out to be a famous person of all the poor people of England because of his philosophy of stealing the rich and giving them poor.
That's yes, in short, the old type of Robin van Persie, I have an assurance inside her head of Robin van Persie, during those days he did not see what he did in theft.
I am sure that the philosophy of the other side lead in her head on its actions, is the one to return to them little in the poor. The rich is married without using the poor.
If it is with me, our current man, black are those of Robin van Persie, had a lot of clothes more that they need to have, though the poor is a source of.

In addition, they had a lot of food more that they had a lot of food though the poor were waiting for a long time so as to continue to save time.
In short time, the era of Robin van Persie, as it is with me, most of us now continued to inform our colleagues that are not so much, but it's just because they are supposed to be careful.
Likewise, and the view of Robin van Persie, is a right and it is wisdom to warned the rich of the samples and poor eyesight.
In a certain way, if you receive that view, Robin van Persie, and that is why I am saying that I will continue to defend our country's budget with philosophy of skin disability, Robin van Persie, that was presented to Dodoma last week.
I have been said, the actual budget and the view of Robin van Persie, is one that allows the rich and big taxes and to direct the money in programs to reduce the poor quality and not the poor.
Therefore, to me, it's until when we shall see our leaders because I am able to congratulate our leaders for emerging with the modern budget which will reduce the gap between the rich and the poor, and not this is 70 percent and more than 30 percent.
At the moment, here in Tanzania, there are very disturbing, with many citizens looking at poverty but for now, here in Tanzania, the gap between the rich and poor eyesight.
It is my faith that one of the ways that can fall in that gap is to prevent the rich and big taxes, and use money to provide grants for important products that do not need to reduce their poverty.
For example, in the budget of the year 2012 / 13 that was read this Thursday, we have been told that the government has increased the level of interest charged by the Central Bank by an amount of money from 767 percent per year, it is an increase of 5 percent only.
My brothers, that is a very high level for the interest of the financial institutions that are banks like NBC, NMB, Standard Chartered, Barclays Bank, Dar es Salaam, Dar es Salaam, Dar and 20 percent.
We should not understand that close to all big companies and rich here in the country is a foreign companies, the way they are doing (in the meaning of many shares) are visitors.
The rich of these rich every year is taking their country billions of money for the benefits that they make here in our country (capital) where those companies will have a great interest or tax, and then the money will be used to put grants in prices like cement and iron sheets.
Maybe I want to stop this article, I walk on our villages of our country (something that I performed well this day), you will meet a lot of poverty of poverty, but there is no need to see them living in loam soil.
That is the painful truth and even after 50 years of freedom, we must use many villages to live in the major mistakes of cement because of failing to withstand the price of cement and iron sheets.
One Fund of cement is currently 20,000 shillings in Dar es Salaam and up to 20,000 shillings in the provinces while eight iron sheets and in Dar es Salaam is 20,000 shillings and the provinces is expected to continue living in the heavy rains and their deaths?
I have been said, one of the ways of helping these poor.
However, the truth is that, in our current environment, the price can only be so if we will pay a lot of taxes and these big companies in the country and use that money to set aside money in cement and iron sheets.
I have given an example of cement and iron sheets, but I have given an example of banks only, but the truth is a lot of things that we can help the poor because these companies do not know such as Mohamed Enterprises, Batakanwa and other companies of the rich and other companies.
I am told the Kimbira (not an economist) this argument of the budget of Robin van Persie, without stopping more taxes in the rich so as to avoid poor households, but I believe the economists have increased systems and its kind in our current environment.
Maybe I conclude by saying that this issue of destroying the rich and big taxes in order to avoid poor households, is not a very new thing, even in the African countries like America, you join me.
Among them is the biggest billionaire in the world and the founder of Zantel Company, Bill Nas, in an interview with ABC news, October 31.
In 2011, Bill Nas said he was quoted saying that the rich must be taught more taxes more than poor.
It's not only that since Bill Nas, he also said that the rich is the ones that are supposed to buy the national debt and not the poor citizens of America!
This issue of destroying more tax of the rich and also was called upon by President Barack Obama of the United States, and for sure that is its guidelines in the budget of his government when it comes to the issue of tax.
President Obama wants his stand by saying that, if the Lord Jesus Christ was to be there in the world, we will support him in his policy to drive out many taxes and a big number.
To me, as a Christian, this policy to drive out a lot of taxes more than the poor is compatible with the teachings of Jesus Christ, a lot for those who have been given many more, also many should not depend on them, "said President Obama.
The statement by President Obama's statement in the Bible Church in the 48 line where it is written, "I was given a lot of money to the rich and poor vision, cement, iron sheets, so the gap between the rich and the poor.
4 will open because we don't build a lot of tax companies and very big companies, will continue to register more and more easily, while our poor citizens have decided to forgive him on their fox.
It depends on.
