
To get the golden shoe.
Paris, France, the finals of European nations, Euro 2016 were beginning today they involve 552 stars from 24 countries.
Those star, all of them are participants of various awards for the competition after four years.
Among those awards are the one of the golden shoe that is usually given by the best scorer.
The winner of the form four years ago Mauricio Macri from Spain, who however his victory was the table after according to several colleagues.
Those are together with Mario Gomez, Mario Gomez and Christiano Ronaldo, Cristiano Ronaldo and Alan Pardew, both scored three goals each one.
But Fernando Torres was given that award as a result of the time he scored, together with the number of goals that he will help in him.
As it starts those finals today, there are 10 players who are given an opportunity to end the season with best people, including Ronaldo, Harry Kane and others.
Those who had been given a big position in 2016, Christiano Ronaldo, from Portugal on four years ago was the running mate of Fernando Torres (VPL) 2015 / 16 goals scored 32 goals in 48 matches played for Real Madrid and took the award from 49 matches with Bayern Munich this season.
While with 26 years, Mulago has been of Bundesliga league where it enabled Bayern Munich to play against Pep Guardiola and Antoine Griezmann with France being given a great opportunity to emerge the winner of this year 2016 Euro 2016 season where Griezmann also can give that position his country.
He had a good season with Atletico Madrid where he lacked the crown by getting a penalty in the 90 minute of the game, also their squad was scored by Real Madrid through a penalty after 120 minutes.
- Robert Lewandowski, police and the number of 42 goals in 51 matches played it gives the great opportunity of emerging with the golden shoe.
The police star and joined his 13 goals in the journey to qualify for the European Champions League, has also entrusted 30 goals of 30 goals of the European Champions League, Dietric Mkwera, who want to do so in the year 1976 and thereafter, he has a dream of moving those success in Europe.
- Olivier Prentout, France Nyota Ndogo has played 15 matches without a goal, but he finished next season scoring three, a hat trick against Aston Villa and two against Scotland in the friendly game.
He completed the season with 24 goals, which owns the 29-year striker who came into the list of competing for gold.
- Harry Kane, England after Alan Shearer has emerged with five goals remaining in the English Premier League with the national team, three teams from Spain.
The Tottenham club finished last season while the goal of goals and gave him the coach Roy Hodgson who died in the Euro 2016 finals, scored 28 goals in the whole season.
- Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Sweden's veteran striker when he was called for land in Manchester United as a free player, has scored 50 goals in the 51 matches he played last season with his club Paris Saint Germain.
Sweden is in one group in Belgium, Italy and the Democratic Republic of Ireland, which is called 'a death group, but Ibrahimovic can be the top scorer.
In Gareth Bale, Wales soccer club has been built in Group B together with England, where Gareth Bale is in a chance to shine and added on the number of 20 goals.
With 26 years, the winner of the European Champions League with Ronaldo and their club, Real Madrid, Bale has hope to shine by goals, Euro 2016.
- Dimakatso cunning, France like France will be happy about it, then Dimakatso she can score a goal or more, performing its best record as West Ham, where he scored 12 goals.
-Are Dumu has said that the striker of Zenit, St-Petersburg who can be beaten by England or Wales, Group B.
Draw will complete the season with 23 goals, but it has not been put to end Euro while the leading goal.
