
Warioba, this is the truth about Mwananchi Gold on 30th June.

Last week we saw the reports of Judge Joseph Warioba explaining his stand about the allegations of embezzlement inside the Mwananchi Gold company, the news resulted from his interview with some of the journalists following the following are an interview for a long time as we had promised to sworn in.
Almighty God bless you a lot of words in the streets related to Mwananchi Gold. You have never happened?
Judge Warioba also for a period of two months, I have seen on the media and there is a lot of things to write about it, and some of the things have been said, I think even in your newspapers, you have written.
Mke Mwema don't know the news that I mentioned to thank me, I believe you have written, and we are not involved, I think this was last week.
Therefore, there is a lot of time three months but for now that you pass is that I'm using his skill on the excuse of Mwananchi Gold Company, I got five million shillings from the Central Bank, I use it for my benefit.
Let me read it about what happened so that if you're getting married and the public should know Mwananchi Gold Company which is what has been in schools if it is a low thing.
The Gold Company Limited led by the decision by the government through the government's efforts, with a good purpose for the purpose of the nation.
Those talks were made by the government and technology with technology, the government made the Central Bank and NDC) to see that issue.
Therefore, the government has appointed two media houses so as to form that company.
If they are doing so by Memoria, which was between the Central Bank, NDC and a company called Guinea-Cub of Italy which will give technology.
After signing that sign of Jesus, that is the one that mentioned here (the company to remove the lawyer of Muhanga, Warioba and Maasais' (Law Associates) to ask for them to help the company.
He said that they are self-Chillah, Warioba and Maasais' (Law Associates) in creating that company and to make all the preparations for the first time we did because they were very fast, they want to use our people here.
Gold Mine (Trust) and by making sure that it will enable them to buy and get a plot, that plot was found in Vingunguti when it is a big margin and its size is more than 30 percent.
Therefore, we tell ourselves that we wrote by Arnautovic and the resident of Association of Association for the company and do other legal issues if they get permits for mining business, we will make sure that we become their lawyers, the Central Bank gave money to non-communicable diseases in our country.
Therefore, all the project was of government, now because the government was giving that project to be the first in the past, all of them was policies for the government to help small miners, and one way that was used while some of the gold bank from small miners.
In doing so, he was about the problems, the project was not continuing to try other ways, they went on various ways, they came in a lot of things and they were in a lot of problems, now they were making a different procedure.
Instead of strengthening it as a public organization, to be Private Sector Foundation, the government has interests, and they decided to also be an foreign investor to get a lot of shares not to get a lot of shares.
Now in that, if the government did not give him a lot of shares, and he didn't give him a lot of money to have a lot of people because they were able to be availed to others to get in that company and they decided those others to be here inside.
That should be a small business company here in the country, they should not turn up, that is the meaning that has brought the creation of the second company called Mwananchi Trust, this was the sponsorship of a small company in the country after saying that the government's system can take 20 percent and they managed to take 20% for that total it has 55 percent.
45 that were injured in The Citizen Trust.
It was made that company so much to help small-scale miners, to give them the procedure to sell their gold at a legal price, second through that they can help them through technology because they get in a very difficult environment, they don't have equipment.
Through this project, the government would be able to help the equipment that are not known as from Water and what the project was huge, and the main aim was the gold of this country which was sunk here and let them sell crude oil to enable them sell the gold.
When it goes up here and the Central Bank gets a chance to buy and put it, because the gold is a money and if it was taken outside, if the government could make sure there is no one who could buy crude oil, we would like to know if we are doing gold.
This was a good project, that in the policy that we can be bringing to crude oil only, we'll get the headlines and because the gold is important products, I would have contributed many development.
Therefore, all plans were made, this they said that the allegations goes by us here we are given to 1 million American dollars, 475 million American dollars as an organization for those activities.
Between those, 1 million dollars were to buy a plot, the price that was to be 15, 300,000 dollars was to pay for him in the same time when they were using our payments for all the jobs which we have made them.
In the documents you were done, we were on the first half million dollars for the letter from BoT when they received a check if we were shocked and then they were given a check if we were shocked and then later on a check if we were shocked and then they are on a check of 15 million shillings.
And 60,000, they have said that the camp has reduced and urged Citizen to enable them to pay for him in the field so that we can go to 30,000 shillings to 30,000 dollars we were criticized the Citizen.
Therefore, all the money that we were given are there and there is no thing we agreed.
There are other those who were attacked and in those documents, if the Central Bank has signed an agreement with WHO that has given those funds and NDC that has brought here to do that work. "I said it was for the government at all times.
But there are also money that were used to purchase the machines, what does not agree themselves because it was Tanzania because of the Central Bank and NDC) to be able to stay, but later we are able to come up because it was to reach 200 kilograms of gold for a day of 300 tons, which are the ones in Tanzania is growing.
That is what they have decided during that time, but later we are able to come up to new evaluation, people have said the gold project is more than 60 tons, therefore, it would have paid 300 kilograms of gold for more than 300 tons.
Now one of the machines were paid one in one of the Central Bank for the same time, therefore the aim of starting to evade this disease is a project of certain people in the country.
It is the government's project and I believe it is still a good project. It is a very good program like Tanzania would have severe pain here and all the gold and other minerals that were sunk here they would have been done here.
Because of our policies, now the project are being implemented, we did all work to December 2005, the project will start working and we started working with a station of buying gold in Geita, it is believed to have reduced by a little level.
Evaluation that was done in the past, showed small miners that they sell their gold at the 85 percent.
However, 3 percent would have been able to work, but the government in the year 2006 in accordance with EPickup, we can't pay a car, but we see the gold mine but the government has said that it is not true.
Therefore, if we are using 97 percent then you pay for 3% it is that you will get a loss of the reasons that they had given, EPickup, but if we are self-reliance because we are believed to pay.
In addition to all our issues that there is a law that causes us to make sure that this be able to pay taxes, the second part of those who buy there (BAVICHA) don't like it in any way they are getting to pay for the government, we do not see him, the country gets a loss.
Therefore, because this is a government project that you will be able to follow the EPickup, but because we should be forced to pay taxes, we will start getting into business problems but it did not make up up, the government through UN has a project to build gold, located in Matinje Gold Company, Igunga, Tabora.
If we do an agreement with Matinje mines that the gold they got instead of there as crude oil brought a factory and they think it is a way to try to make sure the gold mine here in the country then he cleaned it.
We have refused the act of people, we have taken three young people from Zimbabwe and Zimbabwe who are self-wise and they are taught.
Now I don't know because of the political noise, the government has tried to maintain this project and it is its project and its purpose is very good and they are starting to look for energy, this is the project of their government that is claimed to involve others.
And as a Tanzanian I think it is good to start this project and it would have been wisdom to do everything to strengthen this project and now the government has prepared for a lot of money used, to put security system and even the others we were in, but the Central Bank now are saying that five million dollars.
Because they have given money, we put the money, we put it on the same time when we got out of this field is the Central Bank and on the short time that was done last year, the worth of 518 million dollars, the machines which are more than 700 million dollars.
Other money are the bank that is currently in the moment is between 6 and 7 million dollars, there is no reason that has been lost because of property being listed, there is no loss.
Therefore, the documents are in the Central Bank, but there is a problem here that had been approved by those who were directors of the whole period since they started working up until now they felt it was an important project, everyone they felt it was an important project, every is when they used to strengthen this project.
I don't want to explain more dangers that if I want to talk about these allegations of theft of money.
Plot is in a very big way, now if there is a person who wants to sell a plot cutting the small and selling is a lot of money, the machines that are in high technology, there is a machine that can help in all the gold anywhere in this country.
The machine is very little for now, but it will expand it because you can hear the machine because I think it is something, no, this is an issue of using chemicals.
You're with a jerrycan, it gives the gold, it gives the gold mine, if there are other minerals that are recognized as a bronze and money that is supposed to recognize them.
I am surprised that we have people in this city but because it doesn't end after we were scored war, we have said it is a must to take this step to make our produce, then it will put up a foundation of doing so that he knows it.
I support the first step of the government to have a factory, Zimbabwe are the ones that apart from South Africa I think it will be three to have a machine here and if we could be able to clean the gold from Congo (Democratic Republic of DRC).
But now all the gold mine is safely and where it is going to here, even when you get married, you can know all the gold anywhere, if you know it is gold, money and it has been infected.
For now, the ones who go to clean up in the country, those minerals are not seen to come here in Tanzania, we want all the minerals that we are supposed to try this project for political issues then they are starting to look for the witches.
Mke Mwema should not be good because the government is looking for a good thing for the country and citizens?
Judge Warioba, what I see in this time they are following some certain things and especially the Central Bank, members of parliament have ever talked about this and it will give me the Citizen that I think Doctor (Wilison) Slaa or Hamad Rashid they talk to the parliament.
Minister of Wama, Zakia Meghji, (the former Minister of Finance) I think it was in 2006 or 2007, we are expected to have reduced, but now because of it is said that, that is you say of corruption.
That because it has been said, even if it is a good thing because it has been said, then after it is said, due to the problem of the Central Bank, the government has said that the Central Bank is why I think it was a solution to you.
Instead of caring about this one, it is a project which they have started with a good intention and for the benefit of the country, they are supposed to manslaughter.
The project that will start their children themselves, later they mentioned us to ask for us to help them now they are getting married.
Mke Mwema should be said that the Central Bank is not supposed to leave or do business, this has a chance there?
Judge Warioba is one! Watch the Central Bank in the whole world in the whole world, usually do under the Central Bank, Inter Milan, Zimbabwe is not very far, spongers of Zimbabwe are the central bank because the gold is money.
Even when I see in the world, there are people who are rushing to gold, the Central Bank is, it is allowed to get into the gold business even here in the country.
Mke Mwema should know if the situation will be right now, preventing the Central Bank to continue to continue to this project when I think do?
Judge Warioba also condemned the Central Bank has given that report to the Citizen board that they are required to give him, their board has decided to give them, therefore I think it is still a good project for the government.
Therefore, we have said that the Central Bank has provided it very well that it will remove its money and take his money to kill a project, we have said that the government to get the project, we will look for another investor to give the money for the Central Bank that was given.
We know it is a project that needs a lot of money and if you look at now he can come to take a foreign person, and taking a person outside the benefit.
Zimbabwe have been able to prevent what to prevent us?
The Activity), the Governor of BoT has been asked to the parliamentary committee of public organizations, he explained about what they are facing business reasons because they are no benefits.
That if we are producing gold at a reduction of 97 percent, there will be no benefit, we have already confirmed that when we start talking to them but we've also been there and we've also been found but he would also have a house of house furniture.
The great benefits in gold is in gemstone, holding a knee injury.
Zimbabwe are doing that so, we are our gold anywhere in the country and other countries are making severe pains, we would be able to do so and to expand more employment.
But it is the project that begins in the first year, why do I get benefits and why they are coming to forgive me five years tax because they are getting losses to what this project is to be productive to the nation when it is in war?
Almighty God bless the process of looking for partner has reached where?
Judge Warioba also for now, we are looking for a partner of outside or within and when we give them the loan it will be good, but even from outside, we will give them the loan we will give the money to the bank and therefore our leaders will also give money, we have enough money.
We cannot borrow themselves without having documents, the Central Bank have committed and they are continuing to hold documents.
Almighty God, have said that you go through when we were given a special time before the cross?
Nasibu Abdul no.
Mke Mwema should host Italy, he has no ability to add money to increase the shares of BoT.
Judge Warioba also there would be able to take a small company without money but with good technology so that we are looking for an investor.
Almighty God, who on the fight is the government or one person in the government?
Judge Warioba, I don't know if you are written in the newspaper and asked the news that they are saying that they are trusted people when I met the government, I wanted the government that would speak this project with good intentions.
Mke Mwema should kill him from BOT there is no problem what can they be taken against them?
Warioba, no one is a partner who can stay, but I know they have committed the pressure to the government, but the disappointing issue is that the government is the ones that they made from BoT to start this project.
