
This is not love, when she gets.
The National Stadium followed the fans within three hours and scored six o'clock in the afternoon.
Our reporter, The Citizen, popularly known as BISON.
Yanga fans entering the field yesterday.
Dar es Salaam, you can't believe that what happened yesterday when the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) was forced to wed for the national stadium at six o'clock in the afternoon after fans had gathered to witness Yanga match against TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
That situation has never happened in Tanzania for more than 10 years ago to fans to start getting into the field at three o'clock in the morning and waiting for matches to start playing at the stadium for eight hours.
Despite TFF explaining the doors of that stadium, it could be opened up to five in the morning, but it was forced to end at three o'clock in the morning by fans to start getting into the field.
The TFF information officer, Alfred Lucas, said they were forced to open doors earlier different from how they announced previously due to fans who had arrived at the field early in the morning and caused the police to prevent more fans from early in the morning. "The fans started to go back to the field early in the morning." The fans started to go back to the field early in the morning. "The fans started to go back to the field early in the morning." The fans started to go back to the field early in the morning.
The fans that broke the national police force is forced to increase more strength following the large numbers of fans who some of them decided to break the certificates that is behind by Simba fans and entered into the pitch without being held due to the field being filled with them.
The Permanent Committee that was found in Karimjee stadium, the bombs is impossible so that police were forced to use alternative means to arrest and beating them in Karume Stadium on some of the fans who were studying in the field despite being prevented from getting into conflicts.
That work was done in hand with the bombs of patriotism and the cries of the forest that lasted for several hours before the match started having the fans who were outside the stadium though also the fans who were outside the field though also the fans who were outside the field though also the fans who were outside the field though also the fans who were outside the field though also the fans that were affected by the smoke.
At seven o'clock in the afternoon, TFF gave the announcement of explaining that the stadium was faced with any fan of getting inside, despite the objection against the fans who were outside the border, after some time came back to the police who arrested two killed in Karume Memorial Stadium.
Every time after several hours they pass through television stations while insisting the state of peace and stability, TFF requested fans who were inside the stadium to give a report to others with a plan to go and calmness since they promised, Simba fans arrived at the field early and to fulfill their goal of attacking TP Mazembe.
Those fans went to one of the parts of the left of that stadium that has been the norm for them because Yanga wanted to own three consecutive matches, but Yanga wanted to own a three quarter finals in line with them being destroyed, therefore, they get to a half a half time.
The grace of the nation to provide transport services in various parts of the city of Dar es Salaam, is like that there was a lot of money yesterday, it's not a bus, a bus station and even other vehicles of private schools, do not see the ones for private individuals.
Yanga, Simba will begin the fight early to 5 o'clock in the morning, Simba and Yanga fans started getting into the field after Yanga received a fan of Simba and if they were defeated and broke up on the side of Yanga fans.
Simba too passed the beating against Yanga's fan who turned up for the side of their fans.
Yanga won by Simba for Simba, it is like they failed because it did not accept to be the poor of Yanga that started with 'pacemaker' by scoring a poster that was born by his fans who confirmed that the side of TP Mazembe.
That act did a lot of congratulations to the fans of Simba, who started being attacked with a poster that Yanga and Yanga do not like him and get him before things have not read it more.
FFU 50 are getting in the past few minutes after the Simba and Yanga fans started spreading up by the traffic police force, Hashim Abdallah who is also a member of the executive committee of Yanga.
Getting into that police using Amuwo previewing the fans of Yanga who graduated before the police being given instructions then is divided into every corner of the stadium being looking for fans.
The defender of TP Mazembe got in the whole issue of 7 o'clock in the afternoon, the real fans of TP Mazembe from Congo came into the pitch and caused the fans of Simba who joined with them cheering.
Those fans that want to reach 100 desks made a special area to sit at the field.
Sirro, Nchemba arrived at the field to prove that he did not want to be careful about the security situation inside the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam special zone police commander, Simon Sirro was not behind, he went to the field and go directly to inspect the neighborhood and the area of playing for the field.
Before joining other fans on the main platform.
Apart from commander Sirro, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country Mwigulu Nchemba, also joined other fans to witness the game.
The police as it prepared as commander Sirro said that the police of various troops were not behind making sure that peace prevails, the police vehicle, the water vehicles of switching off the floods which had only one job to confirm to their security fans.
It has been organized by Oliver Wema, Fredrick Sumaye and faith too.
