
The coast region will benefit?
By Mathias Chikawe.
Some of the hotel in the village of Kilimba and Mombasa have increased as a result of a high school meeting that broke for a high school teachers.
The Manager of Kunzugu Ward, Mister Humphrey Shao, said that the three houses have started to be filled from Sunday due to thousands of chief teachers who are present at the meeting at the Wild Frontiers Center in Mombasa.
Mister Okumu said that the Serena Hotel's hotel is in Shangani area in the Makondo area, though the Kloof Mela Mboto located in Kisuma area which is giving them because they have reduced the head teachers.
Before that meeting started yesterday, he said that the hotel had 30 percent of the visitors especially from inside here in the country.
"Business for now is good so as to have a big meeting of the head teachers who will be at the headquarters of our offices," he said.
"There were previously our hotel had a few visitors especially from here in the country," he explained.
The executive director of the Holiday Inn hotel that Mister Julius Kamete said that the hotel that was previously had 30 percent of the visitors and now has benefited from the head teachers.
Apart from that hotel it came out as a result of the same, Mister Kamoga or informing them that the special entertainment club has requested the head teachers who comes to enjoy drinks and even entertainment.
That hotel and the club said, it started to be filled on Sunday when head teachers started arriving from every corner of the country.
Mister Boers also pointed out that the hotel for now depend on tourists from here in the country due to the shortage of international tourists.
The Manager of Rock City Mall, Mister Robert Boaz said that the number of visitors in the hotel has increased from 50 percent last month to 98 percent.
Mister Byakanwa was informing them to be a meeting of senior teachers.
Apart from the head teachers, Mister Meng said that the hotel also has taken action as a result of the meetings that is prepared by the local government from non-governmental organizations.
Visitors "last month, our hotel had a few visitors due to the fear of security and the season of few tourists," he said.
"But now business has improved from a meeting of head teachers, meetings and tourists from here in the country," he explained.
Mister Meng also explained that hotel is 10 percent of the tourists from European nations.
The assistant manager of the sales of the Don Bosco College, Mister Jamala Majura said that hotel has 78 percent of visitors arising from the meetings between the country and international meetings.
Mister Chaurembo has said that the International International Federation of International AGAPE broke the participants from European nations.
However, he said that hotel has 50 percent of visitors from here in the country, 20 percent from foreign countries together with meetings.
