
The government does not tire us to play.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

The government has said that it is stable, it has media houses that are keen and that it will not accept to see the country's peace that were played in any way.

It has said it will not accept or have talks with someone, a group of people or any political party with an intention to disrupt the country's peace.
The Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the state Hamad Masauni has said that today in Dar es Salaam city when he launched the program for caring for peace to protect themselves with a non-governmental organization for caring for Tanzanians.
Regarding the peace of the country, Masauni urged politicians to obey the authorities and laws of the country and never citizens should be sensitized on lack of invention and getting into actions that are of breaking the country's law together with the peace of the country.
He said that the government will not accept to be a group of people that will fall into the basis of democracy and breaking the country's peace because it continues to return to his normal state.
He said the policies and goals of the fifth term leadership is the country to grow the economy and the industries, in promoting development and those goals cannot be for if there will be no peace.
He said the elections is over, democracy has its cost, the citizens have already confirmed the leader with faith in the country, thus for now they need development in a peaceful country.
He wanted that institution to continue providing education to the citizens about the importance of protecting the peace of the country.
The Executive Director of Chakwama, Bishop Sedrick Duwe has said that peace in the country is the lives of people, therefore we should not hesitate to evade poverty.
"The world is stable for lack of peace, politics or religious, it is not less than to be used by disrupting peace, also issues of the region or tribalism.
While stressing seven pillars of peace, he urged the Tanzanians to be keen with visitors who do not have their information, the aim being to protect the peace of every Tanzanian and the country as a whole.
