
Tuesday, April 1st, 2014.

Disaster is wrong.

It is a disaster.

Dar es Salaam, the heavy rains accompanied by strong winds has caused more than 125 family members to lose their homes after their houses are being demolished and their farms were destroyed by low farms in Mbozi district in Kagera province.

The residents of that village speaking at different times with Mwananchi through mobile phone including the member of parliament for Meleba North constituency, Charles Mwijage said that disaster is big and more support is needed because many families are outside their houses and rains are still ongoing.

"The situation is not good and the professionals who are in the scene to do an evaluation concerning that issue," said Mwijage and added that village animator which has been affected by other villages which have been faced with that commotion is together with Benedict Liwenga.

Mwijage said that the biggest challenge to other villages are among the neighboring villages and the neighboring villages are being destroyed by their farms but the houses were not been put up by various donations has begun to go to the victims of the disaster including tents, food and medicine.

"Also the high youth in the country are trying to put up afresh the house which have been left roofless" said and added that later he will be in a good position to be able to know the level of losses which have been found and more donations needed.

A resident of Rupingu village, Richard Karima said that at the moment the families have been left roofless from their houses are living outside and bad houses that are collapsed due to the ongoing rains.

In the past they were left roofless from heavy rains, end up because they were able to sell the bricks, they shouldn't come, "he said and added that the studies have already been prepared in Primary School, Lugome and technical donations, does not meet the needs.

He said that the winner will be one day when it was given one thing, when there are 20 to 20 people and even a share of food is not okay and basically he said their lives already started in that village and every of their lives on the village.

"There is no cassava leaves from banana leaves, a strong man and wind is wrong in everything," said the resident and added that the bad luck was not seen and they are not seen.
