
The work has started the new constitution against 20, 2012.

The chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, Judge Joseph Warioba has put open four important areas that the commission would like to get opinions from the citizens about the new constitution.
Warioba who met with the journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Tuesday, mentioned those areas to be first, the foundation of the nation.
According to Judge Warioba, the foundation is the pillar for the culture of the country and its citizens, the foundation is the pillar for discipline in the country and its citizens, the foundation is the pillar for the ethics of the country and its citizens.
Regarding the issue, Judge Warioba says that "our constitution has mentioned a capital foundation to be freedom, rights, brotherhood, democracy and local government.
"The foundation is the pillar for solidarity and stability of citizens, some people say or it is not enough or it has been revealed that the commission would like to get opinions from the citizens about this area," he said.
He mentioned another area to get opinion about it is about the authority of the citizens, insisting that, the current constitution explains that citizens are the foundation of all the authorities and the great importance of this process of getting a new constitution is the requirements of enabling the citizens to make their constitution.
"There are people that the citizens are saying that the citizens' authority didn't be educated, they are saying that the authority of government institutions like the government, parliament, various political parties, and even political parties not to be buried and there is no procedure to used the authority.
"They are saying the citizens are being used politically.
Others are saying that those authorities are there but the citizens have condemned various institutions and the commission would like to get opinions of the citizens about this area, "he said.
The third area he emphasized and the prime minister, is an important goal and the foundation of direction for government activities.
The performance of the commission Judge Warioba also spoke about the way the commission will talk about its planned activities to be completed within 18 months.
The "commission has distributed in seven groups and every group that will make four provinces in the provinces and at the end of the year 2015, every group that will make work in an average of one month every province, apart from small provinces in the area where the commission will use a short time.
"We will begin with eight provinces of Dodoma, Kagera, South Pemba, South Ugunja, Manyara, Coast, Shinyanga and Tanga.
"We request citizens to come out in large numbers to give their views with transparency, without any fear and stability, we request the citizens to be patient and give opinions without jokes or not from.
We request citizens to be patient so as to listen to the thoughts of others even if they do not agree with those thoughts, "said Warioba.
The objectives of the commission Judge Warioba also spoke about the main aim of his commission to make sure that they benefit from a total of providing their views.
He said, "we would like to see if we have run, every Tanzanian to get an opportunity to give his opinion, but considering the size of our country and the real environment, it is clear that they should not meet each person.
"Together with that, it is our intention to do everything possible to get ideas which will benefit the requirements, the expectations and needs of all users to make sure that your opinion polls are presented to them.
"Together with various meetings that will take place in all provinces, because we will also have a system of receiving opinions from both sides of the country and outside the country through phones, social media networks like Facebook, Twitter and blog and also in the office of office," he said.
The commission with the same representatives of the number between Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, was appointed by President Jakaya Kikwete, according to the law on constitutional changes in the year 2011, the law that previously made a tension but later parliament is the chairperson of the commission, deputy chairperson, retired Judge Augustino Ramadhani.
