
Secret has been impressed by President Kikwete, "blesses the" for the presidency of Lowassa.

The secret led by Edward Lowassa's presidential race, to look for presidency by getting married, which are caused by 100 percent by President Jakaya Kikwete.
Lowassa has met with Kikwete several times and scored a secret agreement to help him as the presidential candidate through the Revolutionary Party (CCM).

All that are being done by Edward (Lowassa), have been done by Edward (Lowassa) without therefore, Lowassa would have been able to pray for himself, "explained one senior leader in the government.
Kikwete is the national chairperson of CCM and president of the United Republic.
Emerging as a report that Lowassa has scored an agreement with Kikwete, it's planned to come up in a period when that politician who was working on power, has started receiving groups of citizens claiming they had promised to vie for the presidency.

The news giver of this newspaper says, "Kikwete and Lowassa are meeting so much, in the secret and they have discussed many issues, including the presidential race since it will not be a candidate through CCM."

That Prime Minister has resigned from the scandal of a special contract of producing electricity, between the government and Symbion Company, ready to confirm that he is doing "his followers," could make some people with the aim of looking for each other and make sure he gets a chance to hold the administration in October this year.

According to the report from the people close to that politician, his agreement with Kikwete is the one that made him be "a ogo" to discuss the procedures of his party.
The general elections is expected to take place at the end of October this year, to elect the president, members of parliament and councilors.

However, the report giver of MwanaHalisi was stated, together with the presence of those agreements, Lowassa cannot ensure that the position of being a candidate.
He says, Lowassa is being faced with a difficult time to the groups that were scored by the name "they have succeeded because of his party.
