
We should learn, we should have the discipline we had reduced.
Last week I was talking about various challenges that are facing the buses project of high-speed buses which has started working next month.
These statistics can be able to start giving up and strengthen that project as a loss of benefits to the community.
By bad luck, the project of billions has started to be the termite, as for the first month it has paid 100 million shillings for the renovations of the vehicles that got the accident, it will be after one year?
This is a question I am happy and I do not hesitate to expand the project which by luck I am putting up his buses every evening when they remain at work.
There are several things that the operators of the project do not have to work hard if they want to see the project taken against them.
First, it is a procedure to buy tickets to climb those buses, which are available at the stations that are in some areas like Manzese area, something that causes the project and in one way or another that are in problems.
It is possible that employees of the stations like the ones that enter the tickets and their communications network, she didn't talk about one language, they did not talk about one language, not to provide tickets, an issue that is causing the problems to passengers.
Secondly, the medical equipment valued at tickets, especially Kimara, Kivukoni, where buses are starting a journey and sometimes it is expected to have a large number of passengers, to an extent that the operators of the project is like together with this and the problem is a problem.
Three, at the Kimara, Kimara-Kivukoni stations, the discipline of some passengers, the ones that contribute to those vehicles when they played at the end of their journey, most of them are participants who are suffering from small children, the elderly, pregnant women or even the disabled, who are suffering a lot of time without a must.
Four, inside the buses, some of the drivers do not wait and experience including explaining to the names of the stations, although in this issue among them, I have changed their duties as required, I congratulate you for a strong heart.
About the passengers going to buses, I urge the authority concerned to cooperate with the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam and all the provinces, Ilala and Kinondoni where this project is working so as to start putting the discipline of the passengers to buy for those buses, an issue that causes the reputation of that unique project in the East African countries.
It is clear that the passengers to plan the verses, that procedure is taking place in Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda where it is usually in the passengers of passengers for passengers, that is three in Nairobi, I commend and other towns to vie for then as it is in Dar es Salaam.
I wish you the chief advisers of the authority that deals with its unique project, should not be careful not to use police for a period of one week or two in the morning and in the evening and those officers should narrate to be afraid of anyone who are not able to buy tickets for!
