Reasons for Matamu Island and a pain of Stand United.
October 20, 2016 by Abdul Mkonga.

The results of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League continues to hold the pace at some of the soccer fields in the country and witness the various events going on to the field there.

That league which the leading club is the Simba club, has been faced with great events to fans of breaking up seats and other issues that are not the health of Tanzania soccer, which is this time goes up.

Despite the state of things that, the government has come out the issue of Stand United team that among three top teams in the premier league, being the popular team like Yanga, Azam and Mtibwa.

That team that comes second in the league's stand has been in a problem of leadership and making the former sponsor, the Drilling and Fisheries Development Company has been destroyed, fear from that conflict between the leaders of the two sides.

Despite the situation of things that, therefore the club has not allowed the players to forget their responsibilities and fail to play and be part of the conflict against him, those players have been able to join well and do well in the field and to make the team reach 10 games to some of the teams.

After Mke Mwema should see a lot of good results in the country despite the presence of leadership problems, they will look for some of the players to talk to them how the team is run despite the state of things to be in the squad.

Captain Jacob Massawe said despite their team being in the conflict of leadership, they did not concern them and it is to fulfill their responsibilities as players.

He said that until now, they are now the private efforts of the former teachers of France, Patrick Jean Marie Antoinette, who now has returned to their home. Massawe said that the teachers is the secret of them to do well until now.

"TOKIU is one of the best teachers I have ever done everything in my football life, this one is doing every player to be his friend and a person who cannot go back to this teachers it is a must for the teachers to different teachers.

"All the time he likes players who loves you for exercise and every time comes to training, comes up with a new thing different from some of the teachers being inclined more by lack of creativity in the exercise.

"If a player is happy with the head that is easy to understand, but when you are not keen you can investigate and see not a good coach then no 'said Massawe.

Massawe said another benefit of the teachers is every match comes with another plan, different from the plan for the last match and sometimes it changed even the players's squad due to their opponents the way they were given.

He said even himself was to be used to play the position of mid-fielder, but expects to return the position of mid-fielder and playing well. "The teacher does not depend on 11 players and use it or pay exercises because of the kind of game we are going to meet with them.

"Before our games you want to register their opponents the way they are playing with their opponents and said that this game will go in and said this game should go in which if we will use these players' players," said Maasais.

The captain continued to say that one of the things is swelled by the teachers, every time when it reached the game, it does not like to talk time after time and many times you want its players to arrive at the field early to give instructions of the end of the game.

"Many teachers on the day of the game usually have many meetings and give instructions of every time, but by enabling life you don't have.

"Apart from him he likes to arrive at the field to give instructions of the end before the game itself" he continued to say.

Massawe revealed that exercises for the teachers is good for a player who is going to play soccer in Europe due to many areas of trials, it gives exercises for that teachers.

In one of the talks that he had ever done by his coach, Massawe has confessed to told him that the exercise she has given is the one that is given by coaches from Europe and that a player who will not tolerate, he will not get a problem going to play soccer.
