The water minister, Jumanne Maghembe has urged the workers of his ministry to work hard and knowledge without getting tired so as to solve the water problem here.
Speaking during the occasion to launch a better service week for the customer that took place at the ministry in Dar es Salaam, Professor Jumanne Maghembe said one of the reasons for poverty is people lost a lot of time looking for water, an issue that is causing a reduction in one hour of work that may be avoided.
I thank you among them, so as to fulfill the objectives of the government to give water services to the citizens of the villages and by ninety percent and approximately twenty percent in the past five and ten thousand.
I ask you to know which way you will be able to produce them, they have made a song.
The fight for good work but not to present them before time.
So as to read a large group of five to achieve your goals?
But what is the meaning of the best contract to the customer.
Irishad Islamic Center is the director of administration in the ministry of water.
We should talk to him a contract with its customers because of the contract it has shown.
We're getting an agreement with the customers in the country to be served, he will be served in way?
However, the first service is that if you will see in the service to the customer what Ambassador Seif has reduced, according to the weight of his work, let me be given, my customer will not depend on after time.
My customer asking a request to have a request when they get a answer as a result of the ministry where we have also said, it is also a certain way of sending the ministry.
In the way they got up, it can be able to fulfill the way you will be careful on his side of Garagara River, Toba who has retired drought of directors in that ministry has been advised for three servants what should take care of them because it is important for his creation.
Do you efforts to reduce.
That's why we are doing and we see that users of water who are in those blogs?
It can be able.
In those groups of reliable water users if tomorrow they will be able to be assisted to ensure that the water sources have been used by touching the heart of Yuan is facing.
