
It has been named 'Thanks, May 5th, 2016.

Bob Entertainment and we will continue to keep in mind.

While we remember the death of the king of reggae music, Robert I was the Prime Minister, Bob Marley, "who died on May 11, 1981 in Miami, Washington, reggae music for Tanzania seems to have reduced due to various reasons.
The musicians who play the music entertainment have continued with other different activities and what they were doing in the past, by providing different songs with training, especially the union.
But there are some who continue improving the music by continuing with providing various songs but they do not have an opportunity to be played on different radio stations in the country because of different reasons including lack of enough programs to play the music, also lack of professionalism to the listeners and radio stations.
The big thing that is needed by those reggae music is not giving up with their music because it is not ready to start a long time without success but later they got great success to that, today we remember their records despite died.
Bob Marley was born on February 6th, 1945 at Nkugwa Eliona.
It is said that his real name is the Prime Minister Robert Marley, but due to his names given to his names in the documents of travel and using the name Robert Nley.
His black mother was known by the name CJichunge.'
His mother is married.
Despite you love music but when he was 12 years old, her mother made Bob Marley when she arrived in the Kingston's City, where he started a romantic relationship with another man, whom she got two children.
Bob Entertainment and Massao will join music to emulate music who were happy to listen to the radio, later met with Peter Waweru, Bhebey Ndey and later be popular popular in the world.
In February 1962, the songs of "I will not kill" "One Cup of Cuture Group," If I Find Hoja, Bhebey Ndey, Bhebey Ndey, Bhebey Ndey, Bompunga Padou.
In the beginning of last year, there were only a big group but in the year 1966, some of the musicians entered the group and leaving Bob Entertainment and Peter Waweru.
She allowed me.
When they were in Stezzano area located in IMR), he met with her friend Neville, popularly known by the name Nimlaumu Wama, little, they started to learn music until when they go to secondary.
Marriage is faith.
In the year 1966, Bob Maragase Rita has said that he joined his group while he was a singer.
Later he moved to a long time in America in Delhi. He was a employee at the factory order to meet Donald Marley while increasing the faith in the Russian militants.
After falling, Jamila Africa has officially returned to the court to look for him and to start paying the hair a car, "Masau boasted" said that this problem of illegal immigrants without cutting it is due to the instructions of the Bible or Samson who was explained that he had a secret number in his natural vegetation.
In the year 1976, Marley left Jamaaha in England between the year 1977 up to 1978, while there was a two albums album in 1977 due to 1978, it was between the best album for 56 weeks, it is said that it was out of 75 million dollars of that album.
Politics is not good.
In the year 1978, it comes back to Jamaaha in another country that is called "One 'Peace'," at the end of the show with Bob Entertainment, political leaders who were involved in line with their followers to kill him, Michael Manufacturing Company (leader of the opposition party ticket, Michael Maniza (the party leader of the Jamila Africa Company Limited (Iloha), they put their hands.
Bob Junior called the name Bob Entertainment and Ambassador Wiwa of 11 albums, four days of live and seven of those studios, including Visezi ya Mtungi 'and also helped to help different areas that were affected by political conflicts.
His death.
In July 1977, Marley was found with something that has been seen under the name of his leg, something that was seen by the doctors to be cancer, therefore, his doctor made a finger but he refused due to claims that his religion is not knowing.
May the year 1980, he had already completed his foreign tour but when he arrived in Milan, Italy did a show that was attended by 100,000 people, since he completed several exhibitions but his health started the deterioration of that body.
May 11, 1981, died at Cedars-RT hospital when he was beaten by 36 years of May 21, this year he was buried by his neighbor who was born in a national burial, and to the extent of his faith in order to look for him.
