
Mbowe parting them to Frederick Sumaye.

The national chairperson of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe has welcomed Prime Minister Fredrick Sumaye to join his party in order to continue the fight against corruption.

Mbowe gave that statement recently during the opening ceremony of the new building for the service that took place at the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Ulbrahim and attended by various leaders of the government and the church where Sumaye was the guest of honor.

He said the issue of bribery met by Sumaye that CHADEMA has been on the forefront to measure land conflicts, therefore other leaders are supposed to support him and support the church continue to pray for their voice without fear.

My brothers, the issue of bribery that is claimed that in this place and Sumaye is a very important thing, the rights of this nation is that good products and those who need the rights to this nation, others do not vie for the cost of their lives, "he said.

He emphasized that it is good for leaders to be involved with the borders of their political parties and to have one aim of managing the national fate by fighting for justice without the leadership so as to evade the affliction of citizens.

"All the leaders like we agreed to supervise this argument without seeing that he is in the party, the one who is doing this issue, and if we can make steps, and if I can make steps, and if we can make steps, and if we can make a long time," he said.

Mbowe asked the church not to help him in the issue so as to prevent the nation caused by leaders to put ideologies in front and forgetting that politics is the issues that they pass.

He said that at the moment the political parties have been interpreted as a result of carrying out people, while some leaders don't know that the political parties are the elections used to get leaders.

"We will not accept the bombs, they are being shot, we are together with the purpose of politics, politics is the first work, if God has written someone that and the leadership will get leadership without caring what he is in the church," he said.

Speaking about the new year 2014, Mbowe said it is the first year for people who are in great politics (political parties) who see the way politics are changed and that it is issues of encouraging people.

"This is a big prayerful person and we requested for the church not to be careful, the church has a great responsibility to help those politicians because we become inside a house to worship such as we have already been affected," he said.
