Denmark, let him Slaa to leave.
Mr, 27, 2013.

The Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA) has continued to get lucky to be assisted to get millions of money and this journey apart from the donation that was removed by the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Jaffer Sabo, that party has been given 400 million shillings from a friendly party of Conservancy from Denmark.
The goals of that donation is mentioned to be together with supporting political parties and women of the party, through their councils, the National Youth Council (BAVICHA) and the Council of Women Association (CHADEMA).
However, although it has not been clear that the results of that donation include or reduce the cost of CCM continuing to remain in power or to eliminate the party politics since its establishment in the year 1977.
Speaking at the handover ceremony of the donation, the headquarters of CHADEMA in Dar es Salaam, Tuesday, this week, the Secretary General of the party, Doctor Leonard Lutegama Maboko said the donation is aiming to help the youth from BAVICHA with the women who come from Tanzania.
"We have a plan to build a political capacity for women and youth in our party, therefore we should give these money that will be directed to the plan which will start soon from the national level up to the region and the second phase will start next year.
"In the previous years, we ever asked for support from the Union of Democracy and Development (MAGM), but at the time the Association of Denmark was not in the union, but later the government stopped the need to allow that party to join CHADEMA and later it is equivalent to 400 million Tanzanian shillings," said Slaa.
And the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs of the Party of Constituent - Denmark, Rhema Trust, who was signed, said his party was looking for a long term relationship between Tanzania and Denmark, have found Tanzania to be better friends.
"Before accepting this friendship, we did a long time about CHADEMA, there are good so much in matters to improve the ability of youth and political women, even in our country, women and youth have been given priority in political issues.
"I have faith that due to this friendship, Chama Cha Mapinduzi will be able to do something to improve the system of many parties in Tanzania, this is just the end of this relationship that will bring many things to CHADEMA and Tanzania as a whole," said Rwangisa.
Furthermore, the chairperson of BAVICHA who is also the deputy chairperson, John Heche said "the donation will help in large numbers to discover themselves, especially in the villages, because the youth and many women do not know their rights or not knowing the constitution of CHADEMA will be good ambassadors for others in Tanzania."
CHADEMA has ever been given various donations and money by a member of CCM, Sabo'clock for the purpose of various development activities especially in the regions that are led by that party.
