
23 October 2013.

Kikwete is a shame to the local government.

He cautioned the farmers to claim 1 / 17.

To give the ship in Nyasa, Victoria.
And our correspondent.
Hundreds of parliament.

President Jakaya Kikwete, has said it is a shame.
The government was alleged to have farmers of Ludewa district, Njombe Province who have killed.
Their maize is given.
And that situation, he advised that farmers to be paid their money.
As possible.

President Kikwete.
He said that the day before yesterday at different times in that district being a continuation of
His visit to inspect, launch various development projects in that province. "
The government is alleged to 17 billion shillings which is the debt for the farmers of different provinces.
In the country which was supposed to ignore the maize.
Last season, the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA), "he said.

He got a pose.
The development report in that district, President Kikwete said the district farmers.
Only, they are still expecting a government of 3915 billion shillings from 1200 tons of maize 231 tons.
They believe it will sell, "said until now.
Farmers in that district have been paid 2839 billion shillings arising from 5,67,888 tons.
Maize and NFRA) aimed at buying 1300 tons but it has been able to buy.
12911, although a big part of that amount is not paid by the government.
"This is a shame, the government cannot be informed.
Those farmers will be paid only, "said President Kikwete and explained.
Private that he took to make sure that debt.
When it happens, he added that the government will look at the possibility.
The cost of buying 972 tons of maize of last season that there are injured in the hands.
The farmers of that district.
"I have been told (NFRA) still needs 6002 tons.
So as to complete a total of 250,000 tons of maize for purposes.
The National Parks.
There is a possibility of buying five tons of Ludewa farmers, "he said.
President Kikwete also spoke of prayers.
Residents of Ludewa asked the government to mark the ship in order to take the Mv Tanga position.
The era of the lake region so as to ease transport inside the lake region, that borders.
The district.
He said that the government will qualify to buy the ship.
Transport in the Great Lakes region in the country, before the year 2015 and can be avoided.
Two instead of one in the lake.
Victoria, Tanganyika.

"We know that the ship.
Mv Mbeya played or in Lake Malawi.
And others in other big cities of Tanganyika and Victoria.
In my campaign I promised that I will buy one ship in every lake region, "he said.
Kikwete and added.
"We have ordered three planes from South Korea.
Now they are being built, we have ordered three other planes from Denmark.
They are being constructed so we can get more than one ship in all the three milk.
And two will officially commence before my leadership session in the year 2015.
He said.
Al said other problems were cast.
The residents of that district together with the construction of the bridge on River Ruidiaz, will be built.
At that time, President Kikwete has warned the citizens of that district to be safe.
Selling land and farms.
Which will have a great importance in the coming years due to fruits.
Investment.
He said the government is expecting to invest in.
Breast cancer, coal is found and many minerals that are found in that district will be the president.
Kikwete made those remarks the day before yesterday at a public rally held in the district.
And insisted that he will not get back early and start looking on how.
Benefit from the human resources in the country, watch him, "we have forgotten the name of other people.
Your land themselves, "said President Kikwete a, farmers in that district have been paid.
239 billion shillings, 839 billion shillings caused by shillings.
