
We have touched us the invited guests to make sure our health care?
Jide 19, 2012

There are times I decided to believe that the doors of the devil of phone has been opened in Tanzania, and that is why we are not ready to protect his creation of resources of our country.
When I'm in our district of Same and saw how the mountain has been destroyed because of illegal immigrants and minerals that will not return to Kenya, I think they believe if we are still the government that is responsible.
The government that is responsible for the citizens cannot be unable to protect our resources, especially the ones that consider thousands of citizens that depend on their daily lives.
For me in my district, for example, the investor was released for four years to target a plot and destruction of the mountain and the forest of Shengena which is the source of several rivers that are needed by many villages in that district.
While the destruction continues, the leaders of the district and province were selling their news on another side and should not depend on how the destruction continued for approximately four years, despite the mountain is under an international agreement of protecting all the forest of the East African Community (South Africa) that he bought at.
The truth is that if it is not this newspaper of Almighty God to address this issue in its two reports of investigations that it was sworn in recently, the government seems to have condemned the mining such as it was done.

But in addition to the good step that were taken by the government, we are still asking, the leaders who had an eye on the destruction for four years have been done?
My brothers, I don't know what I don't know, but I am my joy is that our government has not been able to protect themselves with all his legacy of our origin as it was in the past.
And it's because there are officials in the government who are very happy, recently, after the UNESCO meeting that took place in Petersburg club, the decision to allow the mining of God to take place in our park of Selcom Turnbull.
All of us know that Selahasi in the world is one of its kind in the world, and that is the reason that is recognized by UNESCO as one of the inheritance of the world.
However, because of our blood itself, UNESCO has agreed to use the farmers to take place in one place of that area of Selcom Turner and we are told to have already made a new song called on a song called Mwengi.
Something that is not even so, most of them don't know which, the delegates from UNESCO at the meeting which had a difficult place in Selcom Company in order should not be criticized by the Sunni rebels.
Such as the way it is known as the way to build a special thing in Tanzania, an act that is open up to Selcom Company that was unable to know the inheritance of the world, because its meaning is that the extraction of the world is the forefront in front.
However, as a result of our country has changed to be a small farm where foreign investors comes from, and then remove the eyes of the health of our citizens (who are not guilty) some of us have decided to meet the wisdom of our leaders.
I'm talking about the government to allow foreign companies to do research (SMS) and disadvantages of drugs in the country without a statement concerning the fate of the health centers of the quarry.
It is true that all the end of all will be heard few jobs in the Russian mines, and it is true that we will get little tax and you will also depend on little, and it is also true that the world needs minerals to make sure there is true that the world needs minerals to make calls for energy and weapons.
All that is true, but there is also another truth on the second side and it is that the mining of minerals is dangerous to our citizens living near the areas than the mining of other minerals.
For anyone who does not know, though the truth of there is a danger of her shivered to the human health, I will agree with me that these are minerals that maybe we are supposed to stay, "in our land at least now.
I am saying that because, it's not only that there is faith that we used to make nuclear weapons so that we would like to be involved in the mining of nuclear weapons and also its remains are controlled well in different types of diseases to people living near the areas.
Dust from the remains of God lead on the wind of wind, and then the people dissing the weather in the scene, the possibility of getting a cancer is very big and we saw in Tarime, Tarime and gold mining of North Mara.
Therefore, it is very important to see the remains of making sure that you can be controlled by the use of modern technology, because research shows that the remains are similar to the danger of more than 4 billion shillings after the mining takes place.
Who arrived at 4 o'clock in Germany they will know that the amount of the country's government is struggling to come up to now, to ensure that it is controlling it well the remains of an entrepreneur in the vehicle that was left out by Sunderland while that town was a big friend of Russia.
The area of the scene, in the outskirts of 4 town, it has been set aside because it is dangerous for the citizens to get close to the hospital and in addition, the German government uses billions of money to control the remains of terrorism at the quarry so as to avoid citizens not to be affected by the radiation (EFD).
And we have to control the control which is expensive to continue for many years and for many years, if I said first, the remains are continuing to be dangerous for more than four billion shillings.
But also, those who like to follow the news of the mining mining in various parts of the world will be able to understand the tragedy that affects the death of the gold mine in America, among them approximately four employees who have already been found, their children or their brothers are continuing with those cases.
I have given two examples of the situation led by the mining of America in two big and rich countries in the world - Germany and America, but the truth is that there are many other things only in various parts of the world.
In mind, even so, it is that America and Germany are rich countries with scientists who are involved with institutions with energy and modern technology of controlling the remains of what there is poor countries in the third world like Tanzania?
That's why I was surprised that together with all the danger, Tanzania we have learned and they were attending to the foreign companies (other higher education), to do research and the mining of America.
According to the website of cyber crime network, there are 20 foreign companies that are currently available in Tanzania, especially in the Central Africa and South regions, and for a long time, the mining will rise in many places in the country, especially in Dodoma, Morogoro, Iringa and Ruvuma.
News from some of the districts are saying that some research should be done near the rivers that cause water sources.
This way cause violence in the environment and water, because the remains of chemicals are directed to water sources while the rains are reduced and therefore the possibility of the citizens to get a loan, and eventually suffering a lot of cancer.
Take advantage of that disease in natives you can come out even after 20 years, and at the time the investor will not leave and billions he has given me.
I urge you to explain here that it is that the mining of there must be careful about the presence of good institutions that are believed to follow up and verify safety of public health that live near the mining areas.
You need young scientists who will be tested from time to time to time in groups that were left out of a helicopter crash.
I don't have sure that we have the ability, and more than all, I don't know that in these days where corruption has never happened to every Tanzanian sector, we have the reputation or the will to legalize the mining of those minerals.
But I know that if you ask the leaders and their party, they will answer you quickly that the mining will be done under the control of citizens in the concerned areas!
So, we believe that we believe it is not said, so in Tarime where now there are those that were affected by poison from the religion, that came in to a river of Tigo.
My great fear is that corruption and our salvation, to look for money for foreign investors will be able to expand the permits for the small-scale farmers in those areas, without considering the safety of our citizens.
At the end of all, those visitors will come out, they will make corrections, they will make corrections, they will make corrections, but if they leave it, not only a few minutes later as a result of it.
Maybe I want to stop this lead in Tarime, Tarime District, there is a small boy who is called Paul Kayanda, who is a big victims of this foreign investment in the mining sector that doesn't say that this boy who is not guilty of his legs has been destroyed badly by the bridge of North Mara.
He is a religious leaders who that made it take and took him to the hospital and that is continuing to help him in North Mara mine not only to help any young man, but even compensation for others who were found in paying.
That is North Mara, and the concerned minerals are gold, therefore there is a special thing in our park of Selcom Company and those involved in opposition, a situation that is not bad in the health of small villages and those areas, do not see the health of animals from the park.
My brothers, we have a question that warned our leaders that we have agreed to follow me in our country in our country and let them about the safety of our health?
It depends on.
