
Khajida Kopa, he has shown that?
August 8, 2014.

The former managing director of the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Haruna Masala, yesterday has officially announced his term of leadership of that new authority and a good thing in the country.

EWURA was among the new institutions that were started by the third phase government with an aim of making sure that although the country has qualified in political politics and the citizens did not qualify for business people or companies with up.

Today, eight years since the start of that authority, it has been an example to be followed among the institutions that are in the country, but in the East African region and Africa as a whole.

And this evidence is not in public.

Various research that took place about the performance of the control institution in Africa through the business community of Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Company in South Africa and East Africa (ACI), this year has mentioned EWURA to be the best institution in that area.

Do not follow another research that took place three years ago and we witnessed the energy area in Africa, also mentioned EWURA to be one of the institutions in this continent.

In addition to its implementation, EWURA has now been the solution to customers and users of services when they see their rights concern it's great success in a short period of eight years.

All these achievements have been reached when the institution led by our fellow Tanzanian, his skill of our colleagues and its workers are also encouraging our colleagues.

The photos that was built here is that when a good leader is in a good example and one with the stand, the institution that can implement its responsibilities without problems.

There is the concept that has been found in a recent days, that we should not hesitate to lead good organizations because they don't have integrity and ability, but what he has done is saying that there are people who are able to work.

When we wish her good deeds in his life out of EWURA, we are using this opportunity to insisted that if we reach you, they don't have a reason to build himself as our colleague has shown an example.
