
Services in public institutions to be strengthen.
And put it in eternal peace.

For many years we have witnessed the services in public institutions that are continuing to prevail, it's not public schools not to public hospitals, a situation that seems to continue being destroyed.
For example, you will get a lot of parents what does it to get entertainment and to take their children to private schools by seeing how the public schools continues to fail.
Last year after the year 2016, the national examinations exams are continuing to provide better days and to reduce public schools.
It is impossible to see that our leaders are very difficult to hear of their children being employed in the public schools, this being an important sign that the education in public schools are not small.
Let me think about if you were able to inspect all government officers together with all the leaders who are paid by the taxpayer money, therefore their children have been studying in public schools, maybe the situation would have been different.
Schools have changed the teachers, the child of the minister or member of parliament and a good ambassador because those problems were taken to the father or her mother and action can be taken immediately but the situation is different, while the child is different.
A taxpayer, when you missed books in school or even lack of learning while teachers have refused to make payments more, children and the rich leaders are still continuing with their studies as usual in private schools here in the country or even the cows.
The health sector is not only in the education sector, the health sector, these are the ones that are not available, there are no drugs that is not known to buy, this situation is not the same because this situation does not have a lot of questions that Kenyans have to be looked to.
It will be remembered that the founder of this nation, the late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, at the time we were on the freedom of freedom, he made him that his government was unable to fight with three enemies, with not knowing how it is after more than fifty years, the problems that the late Mzee Jichunge.'
Today we are coming out with schools that are only names, because children get out of a tree, their seats that are followed by the certificates are the public schools.
I failed to understand that the baby is a careless spender who is coming out with a wig?
I have been able to be read about the issue of our public hospitals, I am happy and every reason to say that our government has not touched me.
Our leaders and their families may look for treatment, truly there is a day you will know that services in the public hospitals are poor but the main government together with those of us have the responsibility to change this problem.
It is happy to see the big number of the public money that is taking place in different wards, instead of using the money for the benefit of the paid taxes, while others put aside for more than one hundred thousand shillings, while others put up for more than seven million shillings.
Just after time we have witnessed our leaders waiting to go for treatment.
