
We went on stages he wants to ensure agriculture is Shafii Dauda, 2012.

Like just every phase of the previous administration, the fourth phase of the country under President Jakaya Kikwete has discovered his slogan of agriculture first.
For sure agriculture is a good slogan and which is found in the ears and considering that the nation, since Uhuru has been following it as a nation of farmers and workers.
And it's not just that, it's a nation that since Uhuru has been doing that agriculture, which includes livestock and fishing was the cause of the conflict in its economy.
As a result of that fact, it was not true then to see that the first phase of the leadership refused to ensure that there is an industries that will give great help in agriculture.
Surprising thing is that it's not only that our farmers have been left using those poor infrastructure of agriculture, industries that have been started using agriculture and fisheries industries and even industries for agriculture, we failed to take action and we were able to recover.
We expected that agriculture is expected to open the efforts of since the Uhuru is paid in agriculture, therefore, it's a catalyst to the revolution in agriculture, to do what is for many years for many years, we have been using it only.
And what we believe in the moment are the corruption that could affect the importation of modern technology that is called Power Pool company that have no standards have been directed to sell farmers for the interests of few people.
By our leaders, they have written the political parties and they are saying this, CCM who concern them is to answer the rate, then it is nothing to encourage what we believe in what we believe in the life of the nation of agriculture.
Heavy rains come up, they are still continuing to live and it has already been canceled, there is no wonder, it is recognized by your leaders, "flash disk" to live on stage and others put it well for the general elections of 2015, where we took it to this nation?
