Media stations in the process of the new constitution.
May 15, 2014.

Last week, together with other things I agreed to discuss other factors that were formed by the scholars, that explains them because different countries are compared to types of democracy, today we are continuing with another concept.
The third concept, according to Henet Ward, it's Reyels, here the citizens who had gone down with the administration of the party that is in power they decided to remove the leaders with strength and put a new rule as it happened to Tunisia and Egypt in the year 2011.
The fourth concept is to thank the Quran, that is when the strength of change comes from outside.
When it gives this bill together with giving light on the types of changes that took place in our country, the program of democracy, economic, culture, and even the history of the country's economy, different, color, and even the history of the country involved in line with democracy.
Apart from another analysts about the transition political in our country it has noted that after getting the system of the electronic system as an important part of democracy, it has been seen as a project or capital, therefore the constitutional process has been a great cost, especially those that are directed to buy voters.
Its results, because the being elected and elect is business, when he becomes the member of parliament or the councilor is like that we are doing products that you want to buy products and he does not give them products that you need.
The concept of politics and business that I have written in April last year, has explained its better, Professor Samuel Mushi in a decision to buy business and politicians when they sell their businesses through the process of giving taxes to the community and to stop the requirements of the law in their businesses.
These are looking at many countries that are at the transition period and to a certain extent, even in democracy that are outdated, it will realize that this concept of electing leaders in the first class, have been built between people who are self-employed and then put aside for a long time as seen by the electronic system.
But there are some examples of how you've heard, for fear of writing the results of this hostility, they decided to look for heavy issues concerning their citizens, but they don't have been directed to think about their differences and even if they face the new constitution or not to eliminate the solution.
