
The high court has given the DPP document, a historical case, Kitilya Mkumbo.
James Magato, The Citizen of Jitegemee Jichunge.'
Dar es Salaam High Court has thrown out the appeal by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) concerning the criminal case facing the chairperson of Barclays Bank Tanzania, Shose Sinare and Sikunjema Solomon at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court.
DPP who in the appeal was about the decision by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court to arrest those accused of writing the money that was facing him together, he intends to appeal at the Court of Appeal to oppose that decision.
Before starting to be heard of that appeal the day before yesterday, those accused through a panel of lawyers who want him, Doctor Ringo Tenga, Majura receiving a red card and Alex Mgongolwa Valley have been thrown against the DPP document when he visited that court.
Despite the panel of government lawyers led by the attorney general, Timotheo Mwakifulefule is to oppose the motion of that appeal, the High Court in his decision yesterday agreed with the motion on the objection against the accused lawyers and put off the DPP document.
The high court continued to raise us from the appeal, it commanded those accused to return to the Kisitu court to continue with that case while the audience not to present the request to make corrections on the charges of the case, to remove flaws in the charge.
While giving that decision, the judge in charge of the high court in Dar es Salaam, Moses Mzindu said that there are various decisions of the high court and the Court of Appeal that have been supported by the High Court to listen to the appeal of the high court that does not complete the foundation stone.
Judge Chande has said the Republic has an opportunity to get his rights in that process, by submitting the request to make corrections on the charges of the charges he advised the government to use that opportunity before going to the appeal action.
The DPP document was given so, speaking about that decision, DPP au Mwaluka has said he intends to appeal at the Court of Appeal to oppose the decision of the High Court to raise us from his appeal and urging the case to continue the Kisutu.
Previously, while speaking about the decision by the High Court, lawyer Naiko said he has given the door to ask for amendments, different from what they discovered the decision of the Kisitu court that has been forced to ban the door of doing so.
Security lawyer, Magato said that the charges of the charges was to ask for those renovations at any time when you see there is need to do so.
In his appointment, lawyer Mgongolwa Valley on behalf of his fellow leaders, he said the decision by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court to cancel the charge cannot be postponed because it did not complete their case.
Responding to the motion, Lawyer Kakolaki said that the court has a full authority to listen to the appeal because it's a decision by the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court to cancel the charge that has dropped from the court and that there is no other way to sue them to the order to oppose that decision.
