
You should have an opportunity to protect themselves with the nation of Junction.

Africa is out far since the era of leadership that was producing one political party and the day of the army to intervene in power.
This continent is not expected to arrive in where African countries have peace to grow, in the economic, social welfare and the democracy that is built on foundations of African traditions.
FDL against this African continent today will see how African countries were able to look for better administration in various countries in Kenya, for example, the nation is preparing for the next general elections and already the presidential candidates have been made in speed.
Citizens from there were their part, they have already started fulfilling things that concern their lives and among those are corruption, the need for leaders to be responsible, tribalism and economic development.

In Angola, where the general election is expected to be done on August 31, politics that seem to rage.
A day of leaders of political parties comes just after opposition have already been killed.
There is a lot of information even inside the party that depends on the Kigambini bridge.

This is not great without doubt, it is the one between the government and the free institutions that are determined, they are transparency in the whole exercise of the next general elections.
Some of the institutions are questioning the noise that the national radio (Radhiyallahu An'ha) was to be major for a party that depends on them.

In Togo where in the general election, it is expected to be done in October, Prime Minister Gilbert Kadyage has passed away last Wednesday.
I'm saying that he took that step so as to understand the new regulations of election laws, he says that any government of the government wants to vie for a parliamentary seat in the general elections to when he resigned from his office.

Sufiani said democracy has been completed in our country and we don't state if elections is the best way for it to be able to reach democracy, "Nisubiri" said apart from Tanzania being involved in the process of giving it a new constitution.
Today in Zanzibar, for example, you're near the councils or go to the church, a big issue that met it is an exercise to give it a new constitution.
That is not a very surprising thing because the representatives of the constitutional commission have risen up to the recommendations of the people that they got from their homes.

Up to now, those delegates of the constitutional commission have risen up in the south and Central Region of Unguja where they hear citizens giving their recommendations at the future relationship between them and Tanganyika.

As it is, it is expected that in a democratic system, those citizens had various recommendations.

The exercise until now has shown some of the people of Zanzibar who many of them have explained that despite the results of the process of making a new constitution of the United Republic, Tanganyika will continue to ensure Zanzibar and that Zanzibar will continue to improve Tanganyika.

Those but will be found inside the international relations system between two nations that are free and said that every one of the nations will have a full authority to run its internal and foreign activities.

Those have also said that Zanzibar will listen to his right to be the seat in the United Nations, the rights of the United Republic of Africa (AU) and in the world economic and international institutions (IMF), the World Business Agency (IMF) together with other international organizations.

Opinions and recommendations of the citizens of Zanzibar have been sentenced to the time now, there is a need for their government to show his stand about this issue that is very important to the people of Zanzibar Islands, together with their future generations to enable the national union of Zanzibar.

That government needs to market openly in the agenda and get to know if you were unable to do so, especially because that agenda will bring the requirements and the love of the people of Zanzibar without caring about their thoughts in their political parties, as this current exercise was shaken.
He gave their views and recommendations were members of all the universities but they did not discuss their recommendations in accordance with the official policies of their parties.
That was coming down here in Zanzibar and the same time.

For sure, the future of Zanzibar is free and with a good authority is good and it depends on the islands of Zanzibar, the number of its people, the number of its people and its natural economy was the economy that was inclined.
It's not only that, that economy can be easily able to succeed in that of Mauritius, the island which has continued to move forward so as to identify Zanzibar, although all have many things that concern them.

There are people who question that one of the reasons that made Mauritius can be able to measure Zanzibar development is to have its full authority and important part of the administration.
Those who give out that argument are continuing to question that Zanzibar if it is returning to, the actual authority of the administration will be able to continue and make sure that you spread in the islands.

Zanzibar may be able to find out as poor standards of public services that are in administration and in the sectors like education and health as it is now the government cannot be able to help the poor and employment opportunities so that we can have the government that will have a plan to give citizens to free social services.

There's no doubt that as the people of Zanzibar, if they were given major changes and basically they are supposed to be careful so that their country can be able to register its economy and to be able to return to them, especially in the education side, to win other countries in this region.

Not keenly what is happening in Zanzibar today, the people of Zanzibar have great hopes about the future of Zanzibar with the actual authority of the catholic church, that is why most of them feel that there is a great need to look for them and convince them to abandon that they have forgotten.

This is very important to the future of Zanzibar, it is the establishment of the government's procedure to provide free social services. It is also important to have a economy that will enable them to make sure the country can be the same stakeholder in the nation.

What is required is that there should not be discrimination of any kind and that every Tanzanian economy should have enough opportunities to benefit from the future economy of their country, the economy that may be based on the basis of the qualifications of work and not about the basis of the qualifications to be political and brotherly.

One thing that led to the current state of politics in the islands of Zanzibar, togetherness and the union among the people of Zanzibar.
