
"Many parliamentarians have won with bribery.

September 22, 2016.

The member of parliament for Iringa town region, Peter Msigwa has said many members who were selected in the 2015 elections have been selected in bribery.
The member of parliament gave the statement yesterday here in the city at the debate of the international day of world peace that has been held in the city of the member of parliament noted that while responding to a question that was asked by one of the students of the college of planning, who asked him concerning the issue of some members of parliament who came to power through bribery they have said.
"Thank many members of parliament who have gone to power through bribery, but I am getting in the power of the public for citizens to see it without giving even a five billion," said Pastor Msigwa.
I advise that many members of CCM including CCM have gone to power through bribery and this issue is bad than all, I am getting in the power of the public, they ask my people in Iringa who are the ones who used me to get this parliamentary position, "said Versi.
Previously when presenting on the topic in that debate, Upendo Kilahiro, Msingwa, said bribery are bad thing and if not being left can cause violence in the country.
"It is true that the bribery that arose and it is enough to end the patient by citizens, our country is not safe because of bribery and Tanzania is one of the 64 countries in the world which is in danger of disappearance of peace because it is bribery," said Msigwa.
Furthermore, he said the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania together with the Institute of preventing and fighting corruption (VAT), its spherical guidelines in defending bribery, he said that the parliament is an agent to make law, but Tanzania has changed to be an instrument to pass the requirements of the government.
On his side, Dodoma Provincial Commissioner Jordan Rugimbana, who was the guest of honor at the debate wants the community to involve youths in the issue of strengthening bribery in the community.
"Youths are the national strength of the nation, we are supposed to involve all the issue of bribery together with ending bribery sources," said and the representative of the United Nations, Godfrey Malisa speaking at the debate, he urged the United Nations, Godfrey Simbeye, while speaking at the debate, he urged all those who have problems of disappearance of peace.
