
Agriculture and the fate of the economy of Tanzania IV are Shafii Dauda, 2012.

The report of poverty and Mandengule of the 2007 election that is given by the Ministry of Finance and Economy in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, shows that between the year 2001 and 2007 the number of people living in poverty Tanzania has increased in one million shillings from 11,07 million.
It has also stated that poverty is growing very fast, reduce the cities more than the villages and for example, while in Dar es Salaam poverty has reduced up to 283 percent in the year 1991 up to 1665 percent in the year 2007 up to 1665 percent in that period.
In this trend of issues of the development goals of Ulbrahim and an aim of reducing the poverty of income to 19 percent in 2015, and Mkukuta, to reduce poverty of income to 19 percent by the year 2010.
This means that used by the government and other stakeholders to grow the economy and reduce poverty that has not been discovered, then there is need to try to try a new thoughts, maybe which is not normal.
Before I have proposed an alternative means of bringing a revolution in agriculture, I should start by touching the limitations in the agricultural sector of Tanzania, the first probability of the strategies is to be unable to consider the truth that agriculture is not a permanent permanent activities for many people!
It is a transition period to the economy of the economy which is stable.
That is why we have been surprised many times that one of the use of agricultural development is to have a few farmers who have the ability to get more people more.
Farmers if it is used to get good income from agriculture, local law, it says that they will move or agriculture and start other activities that do not depend on farming, production, transportation, business and services like hotel or shop, and later on farming.
Most of the more people have been employed in these businesses, because of those who protect themselves especially those who leave the agricultural activities they remain in agriculture.
On that logic, therefore, the strategies with the aim of developing agriculture is to cut off the environment of increasing the speed of people starting with agriculture.
To fail to recognize the truth, the results of the agricultural projects in the country gets a lot of lives of those who are in agriculture, to buy two or three acres, or build a small market for selling of farming, or to build a small market for selling food production.
Those things will not give life relief but they did not affect the primary changes we will help them in agriculture. In short, our plans should not loose a lot and even when it comes to the issue of as compared to whoever they do not do well (surf).
We're not bragging, and we look at very far from our neighbors or other nations that are going on, therefore we are doing well and these are our colleagues that we see there, high roads and below the land are not due to having 60 goals like us.
Here others are saying that we are the poor and it is not enough to do a big things.
If that is true then we don't look at the center for what we need to do, we should leave what to implement the relevant projects in the whole country but I think it was enough to convince that money to implement the relevant projects in the whole country but I think it would have no wisdom to implement the relevant projects in the whole country but I think it would have no wisdom to implement the relevant projects in the whole country?
Another milestone in developing agriculture is that strategies have been divided.
It is trying to address all farmers and all crops with one way, as we start with this issue of farmers. It is not correct for all farmers to be put up in one source and later when he is the strategy of the country as one group.
It is good for the farmers to be put up in groups, by considering the size of their business in agriculture, example, it is for us to have big farmers, small and small-scale farmers. This will enable us to know how we get a certain strategy of the group.
For example, the government says that they have been infected with human resources (TIB) will be shaken, so that they can stop the farmers, we should know what is in the group that is set aside, we should start a plan to improve the farmers of the group, especially when this argument will be understood well in future.
On the wealth of the crops, the strategies that is trying to address all crops on the same weight.
It should be remembered that a big part of Tanzania is between a 0-0 win against gender violence in the world because this country can produce all types of crops, and livestock of every kind in the world.
Let us ask ourselves as Tanzania would have found themselves in part in eternal peace, it has the ability to grow two or three crops, but I believe our agriculture that would continue to speed up because we could have been divided without being successful.
That is why the country like breast cancer and rice has been enough to sell the foreign countries when it depends on a only river - the Nile river Israel together with the farm, can attract water from Galanos and fruits and fruits in the country.
We are together with all rivers that we cannot be independent in food and rivers could be released to the sea without any plan of putting strategies to be able to make our produce in groups and later we can have different strategies for every group of produce.
Likewise, our strategies has been unable to recognize that the problems involved in the agricultural sector have different weight, so that decision needs different priorities.
It is possible that those with great weight has been completed, if there is nothing for others what has already been depending on my experience, if you do a big challenge in the agricultural sector is in the markets system.
The market is the cause of running a whole system of production in any kind of business, if farmers would have get a reliable market of their products, they would have been able to get a reliable market for their products, their expertise, expertise, livestock, water and drug abuse.
It should be remembered that using modern practices, it is increasing the cost of production, therefore the agriculture market must increase the price that will benefit those costs.
While it has come to use a large section of funds for agricultural projects in order to address the challenges of markets where we are not so that the production will also be dealt with easily.
Non-governmental organizations, for example, Mviwata, Mighty One, Mali, and some sponsors, have already revealed that the truth and they are committed to address challenges of markets for agricultural produce as a good way of developing agriculture.
