It is another festive season, "the same day,"!
Frode Dyrdal of 1st, 2012.

Let me start by I wish you all the best of this new year and let me start to ask for the readers of this column, for my disappearance, for more than one month and its explanations is that I was coming from the village / villages.
In addition, I thank you those who continued to communicate with me when I was in the village through www.fastjet.com.
The truth is that I was not touched in one village but I was not born but I was also around other villages of Kilimanjaro and Tanga provinces to see the state of life in the villages.
I understood that in those villages in the villages, it is that the lives of urban (Dar, Arusha, Mwanza, etc, and in the villages, "it is two different parts."
My condolences to the leaders that the economy has reduced and a picture of poverty that we shall remain in the villages (I am sure that it is not villages of Kilimanjaro and Tanga), they will continue to work together with our politicians, but the thing needs to be careful.
Shortly, let me go to Dar and I get back to the pitch and I get back, I am happy to say that this is the last year's election which is another year to improve our lives, they are being helped by great expertise to organize political parties which by English you can be able to ask for a political situation.
If you will speak about the headlines, these are the media houses being operated on to me or shivered in the presidential candidates and member of parliament because it's just to comply with the money or promised a ranks.
We will witness the article of a girl in the world, these are the most popular newspapers in the country, and those using fake names (b) because they don't have the courage to come out open and manage their arguments and because of that, we will see the new names of journalists in the country.
For sure, I'll go back to the village and seen there is a new name to Gigabyawata, Khalfan Werema, but this article that deals with President Kikwete (with the news reporter), arrived this Sunday in the Tanzanian newspaper on Sunday, ZNZ.
If I could have found that article in one newspaper, maybe I would agree to believe that it is a surprise, when he decided to enter work early (2010), but he found it in three newspapers, one day after Sunday did not mean it to the year 2005.
However, what I saw in that article is abusive language that they believe that President Kikwete wants to take difficult decisions.
He says that currently in his first time, "I will listen to some of the politicians and our activists speaking at the media, you will believe this is a group of people with problems, no wonder, believe that when they talk about alcohol strength.
On my view, even if this writer did not believe that President Kikwete does not make difficult decisions, it is not appropriate to say that those who use the effects are because of being responsible.
Another thing that protects you are some of its issues that explains clearly that this writer is removing the ability of thinking of thinking.
I don't have a conflict and put President Kikwete or when a question is difficult, President Kikwete is supposed to do not like a fact that the author has not noticed, but we give examples of dealing with robbery, to assist AU and take legal action he made in Kikwete, for sure there is examples of thinking of thinking.
Recently, this writer is supposed to know that in difficult decisions (Oct.
Maybe I will give an example of President Obama, when he decided to end at the end of last year, they went to Afghanistan and other American officers of the United States, that was a difficult decision to him (Oct.
But President Kikwete will take a difficult step (not pictured), it is not a difficult decision (it's not funny) because it is the rule of law you want, and also we should not accept it (little) that it is a difficult decision like some of the ones who were brought to court would have been his close friends on the internet.
