The Almighty God rest my heart or?
I have seen the spread of my voice that he told me if you are saying that when the crows do not be there that the phone sim card is not less, Pallidum and not those who are selling.
.
Any time you will read the first day even if you know what you are going to have a small voice in my voice but I am a person, then I saw the here you cannot get it, it is enough for you to sell it.
I request that school is what I want to go.
To look at those things and the late God bless Tanzania, I look at now I will give you the form of the class you will be remembered?
That's just one day I'll see what I told me when I know your same or not knowing that "flash disk" to how many times a week.
When the two don't know my thing on earth, deserves to be a song that does not mean that, I was not like the song and I was not yet known if I was able to receive him very much and we put it better to be careful.
Today the foundation has said.
The late Almighty God am very close to the end of how it protects you from.
The late?
If you look at those things, we look at the things good things, the late I read it and that it has taken them by seeing your call me, I am not supposed to be careful.
The late God is like I want to tell you of using those so much.
And then I don't see if you are different from committing sin? I am very many to forgive me several times, but he has talked to them.
In the past, is only one of the times when you check for, you will make you a must that when it is a pursuer.
Which way has it has added.
The late Adam and those in the other, I got to be very close to be done but let's contest.
Look at us there must be there.
Then if the deal of the same way you need me to build it with your behavior.
Therefore, a question was forced to come up and there is a problem, there are those who are involved or faults that concern your account, Benitez has decided to loose the reason why the doctor will have only just like no one who live.
No so that is that then that is the reason why that day was to know why he knows the accounts and the one who doesn't know.
His running mate, Bill Nas has said that is now to know that then you use it is the reason to look if there is someone who knows the accounts and the one that is now she knows.
He was happy to say that something is not right now, and it is not the same way it is not same as the councilor is not right now.
You can't know the Major General don't know that is why I see I am pleased and there is no something like that same.
Today you will come out how many hours you have?
At the homes.
Today I will go to be a man I don't know what I will go back to how I went back, I can tell me they are not involved.
It's not and I think even something at eight o'clock at the moment you know the father are very close to when we've heard, but I have not told me if I had told me if he was not told me if he is not told me.
I don't know where there is okay what did you get the red card I was called before the one who was called before I explained to the church he is okay, he can have many and she was going back.
Still, we have not registered themselves because they intend to do because they intend to get until when you know if we are not seen, we don't know if we are seen, we don't know if we are not aware if we don't know your songs, I have already lost their songs.
Martha's why who failed to them now, but you will know that there is something that we do not like, but here you know what's why I love me, but you know that you can't have a lot more than other people now I don't have a lot of brothers.
Whoever does not mean to God bless you, because it is Chris Brown is not a person to do soon, the late God bless you and do good work on night to come.
By deaths.
I have written with you and we are not able to know what you want to say and do not know what we are coming, but we are going back to now, except that we are going back to each other.
Then when they go back.
But you feel that we have lost.
You will go hand in speaking with those people we have talked to them, we believe the mud they saw.
They said stock.
The late God is not the ones who had said that, two weeks even before the crows gather, I was just one day even when I was going to the servants, but I was there last week I told me, "I told me," I told me.
Same, if you are surprised and we do not wait until few people again, let me eat at least if you get married, I've seen him so that I come back, then you go back to welcome me.
That is the ones that read it and how to give them?
The late God told me his webpage that poured and there.
And now the child is to stay, a mother who doesn't know the mother who doesn't know the reputation.
You say you want to live.
All of us took her to the mother and you know the way you took him there and he got its obligations and he decided not told me, I was going on Sunday but I was in school.
Since one day let's go, but you're happy to see if you go back so that we can be able to see if they get them, you told me that if you say they are marrying your schools or not.
Let me tell me now I did not accept you.
