

By Pendo la battling, Mbeya.
The challenge of the shortage of desks in many primary schools in the country has increased every long time this year as a result of the government to start implementing the education plan without payments.
Many schools have been affected by making many students who joined previous classrooms and a class one.
The size of this challenge has caused the various councils in the country to emerge with strategies to deal with it, among those councils in Mbarali District, Mbeya Region.
This is one of the six councils that form the building of Mbeya Region, it has 112 primary schools among them 109 are government with 49,724 girls, 24,046 girls and 4645 girls.
In the beginning of this year, the district had 19,046 students with the previous classrooms and the first classrooms, the number that was approximately two times on the level that was expected earlier.
Fanta, this was mentioned by the challenge of increase of desks, which since the previous was facing this council.
The evaluation that was done by the experts of the council in danger of being the schools in that district have 12,389 desks, while the needs were approximately 860 desks.
This means there is a shortage of 5,371 desks.
In addition, the experts inspected the average of the average of every water prices in the estates and discovered that the council would be able to use more than 800 million shillings to address the problem, with an average of every desks is 20,000 shillings.
This amount is a result of this council which at a large extent is going on agriculture, while irrigation infrastructure is not expected to last year, thus it is facing a lot of challenges for the desks.
That is when the idea of the council to have its garage in order to make those desks, a situation that is not only to reduce the cost of making those desks but also making employment opportunities for youths with skills in the district.
The strategy will enable the council to reduce the use of desks for desks up to 800 million shillings from 800 million which would use it if it would take it by.
That shortage of costs has been due to the involvement of citizens in all the 20 wards that form the district, whereby every ward will contribute pregnant women that will be dealt with because of making the production of desks.
The director of that council, Alex Msama, says that they are sure of the exercise to succeed as soon as possible, especially because there have been a big challenge of citizens in collaboration with them so as to avoid the problem of children studying in the floor.
"When I do not see two villages that until now they are determined to contribute pregnant women for the purpose of carrying timber and other villages that have nominated their votes were cut off in order to solve the problem of children living in difficult environments," says the director.
