
Huawei has launched the program of 'Sethi.
The Huawei company leading in the provision of information on information and communication technology (ICT) in the world, today has launched a education program called Sethi.
The program for the 'Seasons Hotel for Ambassador FEST has come to be a 10 opportunity for the students of here in the country from universities to learn and work with Huawei Company which is the headquarters for your lover.
The project aims at helping what is taught in school to meet the real needs of the employment market for youths here in the country including the expansion of TEHAMA and encourage the participation in this sector so as to deal with the current community and communication technology.
Speaking during the ceremony to bid farewell to students who were selected to study in China, the Executive Director of Huawei Technologies company, Mister Bruce Zhang said it is clear that these students will be given priority on opportunities to learn through the employees of Huawei and visited the laboratory of the company where they will be able to see and make changes in modern technology in communication.
He said that those youths will give modern skills that will enable them to compete in the technology sector and communication, while they get to care of the competition in the employment market.
When he arrived at the launching of this program, it claims that we will continue to help the ICT sector in the country, to the way, "said the director.
When you visit through this partnership with Huawei, the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and the University of Zanzibar (SUZA), I believe these students will have a unique opportunity to work and study at the Huawei headquarters, while they learn the culture of China and visit important areas of tourism attractions, "he said.
He said, this project is taking place in various countries in the world where Huawei Company is doing its activities and here in the country, because there has been organized for 10 students who will participate in China and will play on May 20 until June 3 where will participate in those important training.
He said, as a period of Seasons Hotel for Zanzibar, it will be a matter, a situation that has revealed that Huawei has set aside in the development of education in universities if the way it came out, during the launch of this project is dug well.
And the guest of honor of that activity, who was the deputy permanent secretary in the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, Professor Simon Msalika said the introduction of this program is evidence that Huawei Company has planned to help in the development of TEHAMA in universities in the country as well as making Tanzania to be built in the technology and communication technology.
In the past, this week will enable our students to learn and understand and be a vibrant employees in IT issues and the communication sector, "said Professor Msenduki.
The Deputy Secretary General of Education added that, the program of Seidel Foundation Fund (EWURA) will help the students from those two colleges to learn more issues so as to deal with the needs of the world market in TEHAMA.
