
CHADEMA is working in parliament.
The expert of Damu Salama, Zahara Muhidini Rashid, welcoming the secretary of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Dar es Salaam Province, Henry Tandau while the leaders and members of that party when they contribute blood at the Muhimbili National Hospital yesterday.
Dar es Salaam City, the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Dar es Salaam Province, has condemned the statement made by the member of parliament of CCM, Goodluck Mlonganile has said that for women to get a chance in that party we must be known, "said the word that could be used politically.
Recently, contributing to the discussion of the Ministry of Constitution and law, Mlenda, who is the member of parliament of East Africa, gave a statement that had brought up to parliament and caused the members of parliament of the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) from outside the hall after being satisfied by the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson.
While speaking yesterday outside the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), with his fellow leaders to contribute to blood, the parliamentary secretary of Dar es Salaam, Henry VIII said they are disappointed by that statement of member of parliament who was given priority and to be trusted by citizens.
He said that in order to be a member of parliament for special seats in parliament, there are four steps of building including women themselves to play the district level through the People's Women Council (TPBC), so it is not easy to have something like that of the love relationship.
Kadilana said, "couples" but my close friend, even our colleagues in CCM was silent without giving a statement of paying them. "
He said that the residents of Dar es Salaam, is partnering with the members of parliament of Ukawa to oppose those statements of us.
Regarding the blood issue, Mbowe urged religious leaders to build a habit of contributing blood in order to save the lives of others admitted in the hospital and health centers in the country.
"CHADEMA Dar es Salaam, we have shown an example we are requesting the other parties to forgive this example so that we can help people with blood needs," said Ndesamburo.
He said more than 40 members including parliamentary leaders have contributed blood and that the process will be time to time.
The member of parliament for Meleba South Constituency, Ruth Meena said that Chadema members should be appointed and they have a lot of skills and she didn't know whether the positions as the Mlenda.
"I have seen I heard about this statement given by the youth who is like my son, because he has not done justice to the mother.
Shows how there is still the thoughts of the male system. "
Said Molel.
The information officer of MNH, Neema Tawale, said that the hospital needs blood with an average of 80 percent to 100 but available is 40.
However, Mwangi, thanked his fellow leaders for their heart and urged others to come out to provide blood in the hospital.
