
These investors is equal to contraception?
Ezekia 22, 2012

This previous edition I discussed the issue of foreign investment in our country to interview some of our leaders to open our country's economy and ethics.
The foundation of my motion was the results of the research that was done by the Deputy Head of the University of St. Augustine, DFAA Charles Kitoro, in the tourism sector.
Among other things, those research showed that approximately 1 trillion shillings which are available every year in the tourism sector starts outside the country, from big international organizations that invest in that sector in the country.
That big level of money that is coming out of the country comes from the truth that visitors are big business owners in that sector instead of local contractors.
Doctor Kitegu has given an example of 38,667 that are owned by visitors and I explained in my last article of last week that even though the research of Doctor Kitila was involved in the tourism sector, but the picture is that one in other sectors.
I wrote last week that one of the ways to reduce that big amount of money that takes place outside the country through the capital city of Zaire, is to ensure foreign investors are forced to be forced to enter into partnership with the natives that do not invest in the country.
I said that, several countries in East Africa have been worked in that, and also thank President Mugabe of Zimbabwe for following the footsteps of those countries, under Government Authorities of Zimbabwe currently, it gives the visitors to 49 percent only in the year 2012 and 51 percent.
Most of the readers also using your account or also called me, while others ask several examples of our country, where the guest of honor is not allowed to invest without having the native language.
My dear reader, Rashid Abdallah, gave an example of the Emirates countries.
I wrote recently, "Mister Cruz, is that in the Emirates Emirates, it is the name that she has given a permit to work and to live with a visitor, called Igaka or business license will be the native language to sell water or juice."
I think that even so, that not all the readers who joined my motion are that they are tired of their fear, it is that the foreign investor cannot go against him, even if the ratio is 51 to 49 as it is in Zimbabwe.
I would like to visit the women by giving them back to the future, it has been placed on a Tanzanian internet that is living in, Shaaban Katwila, about the foreign investment in that big nation in the world.
Shaaban Hinterland, who has written a lot to advise our government - sometimes entertaining one of the ministers, chief secretaries and directors, is the native and big understanding in the issues of minerals, oil and gas, and is a person with bitterness for his country in Tanzania.
In his tour of August 9, 2012 with the head that is to be easily read, "me ', has given an example of an entrepreneur in building his motion and that it is not a lot of foreign investors to own all shares in investment that are doing in the country, and that it is not a argument that they have managed to marry off many shares to that investment.
While giving an answer to one of the one who identified himself, "it is not easy to get an investor to lead the 100 million American dollars and it's not a lot of millions of dollars but billions (for more than 500 billion dollars) and still the government (through the public) that has many shares.
In addition, on the investment in the oil and gas sector in the area of Arnautovic, the foreign investors has also been forced to pay compensation or expenses of research conducted by the government in that area before the signing of a partnership.
But it's not only that, since the foreign companies came into legal action, it will also pay a partner of 3,389 percent of the cost that he got in the past, in the whole process of getting research licenses for oil and gas.
And the foreign companies are set aside, gas or oil, then it will be forced to pay the government to pay billions of money as a bonus, while they ended up the shares of less than 350 percent.
In that meaning, 66767 percent of the shares in the gas ownership or oil has been discovered the government through the public through the public, Rosary and Grazprom.
On other words, the government of the country will not be able to win any money on the investment of various partnership between giving a lot of oil and gas to the investment in partnership with foreign investor and not the guest of honor.
That is the situation as it is in the country according to the details of Shaaban Katwila.
Now, if they are doing so and many foreign companies do not come out to invest in oil and gas, because Tanzania and we shouldn't understand the footsteps in minerals, gas and oil that are being implemented in the country?
For what we want to give our resources easily just to foreign investors, there are fear that we are not satisfied by the leaders that we are doing so, or we will not get foreign investors to come from?
Why is that there are foreign investors who have a difficult conditions on investment of oil and gas in Arnautovic and they are unknown there?
It is clear that we are not affected by reasons, together with being difficult conditions, while their shares has increased in 33 percent, still the international companies are making great benefits.
That is why it is surprising that the international business companies (bulb), that seem to invest here in the world in difficult conditions as well as Tanzania are making sure that they are doing everything - capital, equipment, experts and others that are doing so that they are not sure of getting benefits!
Maybe I would like to inform our colleagues that these foreign investors is equal to those planes without stopping.
Quail is what they do not tire to each other, they have remained with a lot of farms but if they leave, there are other foreign investors, we are telling us to open doors for instance, although these foreign investors should follow up or put up closely so as to reduce them easily.
These foreign investors we are welcoming all the minerals sector (for example) when they did not end all minerals, they will leave the machines and their experts to go and look for other countries which still have the mining of minerals and to prevent them like what happened in the elderly.
And that is why the country like the country (according to Shaaban Robert), it has decided to know the truth of those foreign investors in the sector.
But we know that in Tanzania a lesson to our leaders (CCM) and his government is to see only a large number of foreign investors have been coming out in our country to talk to each other.
It's like these our leaders don't know that those guests are not affected in our country because they've heard one of the countries in Africa where there was no reason for economy and windows to also.
But if we ask our leaders for us to tell them that these foreign investors is equal to quail is similar to each other with skin disorders which do not want to wake up! We should do what should they do?
It depends on.
