Especially big stakeholders in this are political parties and many times we have witnessed.
They are taking place like well but these events will start.
This and that depends on how to ask for.
The results of my death is that it is supposed to accept the results because I think if you will become if he visited the stations that is done with enough transparency.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we will be present when the youth do not be there.
After taking place where tourists participated in which will be able to get that station and every agent will be given that opportunity because they do not understand that these opportunities are taking place very well, that there was no need to do any opportunity to be able to sell the internet so that I request it is.
After the supervisor of the elections of this province to announce results, they have not accepted the results.
If the director for our journalists also made them that there are some of the five hours this was not most of Ongea will go to vote and make sure you go back during the campaign I will end up, people like them.
Recently, I think it is due to what or maybe I think it is why until at least five hours, there is one person even so as to meet the stations.
By bad luck, I have not got a report of our center in the way that I would say it is that when the stations he visited your blog.
The late, when I reached where I did not want the systems but up to time, I think you are only a lot when I'm in Dar es Salaam, all over many stations were arrested for one hundred people and others have already bought two hundred people.
To continue to continue that, it is supposed to maintain your person but not because the people do not come back to vote.
And conclude that in this talks at the polling station.
Our news reporter to me, says to witness a group of youths they are getting to each other and they could have been trying to prevent the vehicles that concern the chest with other people I think when they are waiting for people.
And they were.
Within one hundred meters from the Noah type to the best.
If the news like this, the director has you decided to do and maybe it is not this one you want.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I don't see me because there are my colleagues that you have shown that maybe a woman whom we will know but for now, he is the Ambassador to make it only.
The late God, but there is a prayer in Dar es Salaam to see the commissioners from.
Those who will have passed there and maybe if we be able to make corrections.
But I can say it is normal in accordance to the law.
There is no one who is being in two hundred meters since the station of the station I think maybe even though the reader is possible, he gave out the instructions who deserves, but we don't jump and she is supposed to be a difference of a distance station.
Not less than a habit.
.
If you thank you in relationship and without doubt, later we will get many other things.
I thank you so much.
By giving thanks for a sin, Zakaria is supposed to find him for now, it was also a commander of the police of that province.
Officer Rogasian Kaijage, but what I was getting until I will go against them, what we talked with them is.
Those leaders of the army are in the meeting and I met with the head of the operations officer, he said there are things that are going to him and later we will make sure that I would like all of us here and to consider the security situation until now, but for now, these are these from here.
Later we will communicate with much more.
