If you know your right to give you a chance to bring back the stakeholders while in the middle of writing this constitution when our colleagues have already been found.
Stomach, you will look for research and a report I don't know who is a surprise of the government.
People met with the president.
All Pictures by some people.
That when you look at this process, we do not want to identify the constitution of seventy-seven constitution I want to tell me what there is lack of patriotism in the beginning after the election clapping as ten, we were standing up to claim the new constitution and we have said that this current constitution can be allowed.
Let's allow you to change new constitution that will be accepted, the law will take place and its amendments to how the procedures are going to go to the constitution.
There are people who were unable to make laws the law made him that everything is in place.
Now, what is something that is not there is the same time to start the process of writing a constitution.
The only way to convince it is to change the constitution of the year of genes, it has used now for more than three primary issues.
The results of the president in court is giving the results of elections to go and visit because of a member of parliament he could be given a easy way to the court but also another second period of election results if I remember well, something there are three other things.
The process of the free commission of election results is easy and.
For the private candidate that the court has decided that now it's why it gets though for now, it is implementation of the presence of my grandfather's presidential candidate, but our colleagues are saying that through it is that the constitution now the genes; put up these things so as to go in the two and five elections.
But I want to say City inside this issues in the proposed constitution these things?
If it is a big cry for ninety minutes I see the things that in the proposed constitution that did not want to make sure you had put it well more than our colleagues they could have been there about it.
Day like it would be like a team and I say I think about it.
If you shouldn't know for now test is one of the people they want to constitution.
This constitution will be resolved by citizens reading and considering that we have never written the constitution.
But the citizens being assisted to read.
They will inform me and for sure.
This is one of the best Constitution, a big issue or one.
