Very much in the short period of the bridge, which is a period of employees in homes is a place where you meet it so that we can be employed so that we can be employed because you're being employed because you're very happy because you're just like, and you feel only.
It does not have a meaning to take this here, it does not have after going to you because when you go back to school, we see your life here in your life and even when you finish your life here, we will be good for your work to be.
Only, in the Ndanda soccer know, I know the way we have in Dar es Salaam, I request me to inform you again that he does not want to inform us again as an employee at their homes.
And who is very big opinions, there is no home employee who can reach a great success.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, if you know if you can be able to make steps we have.
As a player in our first team of reviewing then today's day I'm very happy here with the representatives of their homes, we become a topic where we see a topic where you see you, that is a knee problem here is true.
We are expecting great changes in those topics that we have continued to speak about that if it is causing you to meet if I said you will end up today, you will abandon the issue of close relationship with employees in their homes.
Many that will follow here is because of every bridge he will have talked about.
But we want to learn what we want to know?
Do you go back to homes when they have a relationship between.
Also, many times he is going on and you will see that grandfather has been changed and they are not in use.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, you will see that maybe he can see if he can get pregnant and leave them.
And I also care about the workers that I have ever been that there is a person who doesn't know that when she gets pregnant, he will destroy the work and he went at the other things.
We know that it is not for a person getting pregnant while he gave birth to a man.
And relationship, but there are those that will be your account.
The late God rest his votes is the problem that is coming here on top of her breast cancer, you're welcome him here, we got to work even if we have.
It's not that, we should know the relationship like me and Bob, shaking hands with work so that we don't read my house but he was a worker at the home and he was a worker at home and it will be a employee who will work but now you will know her close to her sister Jichunge.'
Very much, thank you, you have heard about the words that the plane of me is to know the truth, for your relationship, what should it be?
Rarely you see if you put me because there is a lot of relationship with many people because there is someone you want to have her boyfriend.
Kapuchinski is not just to cheer several others that are doing to know what is working is working.
The relationship is relationship.
Therefore, it is not good.
Also there was also a problem, it's only one person to cheer up his hours during the time of doing work because that is from you.
He is expecting to meet with the wild life that her child is not that I am the first he is in work and with them is this one?
But it's not that to carry one person and her lover or anything that you get that you are getting, more than bringing violence that you will not know what you are doing so that there is a big percentage of the workers at their homes.
What think I think is why?
Hayatou, I know where we are doing so that he does not understand because.
The relationship is relationship and work is working and other things and work is different things that can't hesitate to know the position of her boyfriend to work and the position of 'Boys and the age of it was buried and when you get this is to the boss and during the first time when he was not with her boyfriend.
He will go back in the city and we met with bad luck and it's not true because I would like to buy a car to leave when I'll see how I went to buy a vehicle when I think I will allow me to fulfill his goals let me listen.
When the head was wrong on that amount after you ask you for your boss and work.
Those are those?
When the late God, we look at what Islam are paid a little salary!
But he was told that, her husband can sign him just and he does not have the ability to do there again without he has promised me.
Maybe you have narrated it.
When you going to, he is no one in this season?
It is possible that he does not give him but that it did not allow me for his future life and to look at what I'm in do so that he can help it.
.
And maybe a lot of things that are done by maybe I have not tried to understand what you have received.
Similarly, the effects that now someone has been looking for I will go.
And the job also did and sees no value.
Maybe the employee of this type you can realize what he is doing.
I could attract us because in the past, when he went to him when he went to him, he is going to listen to him and to listen to it when he is going for a certain place or to listen to it when he went for a long time, but how you get them is the same but it wants to get a lot.
It has come from the teeth that you want to go to work, Maulid (in the evening you find the child that will be done if you are a child of hunger and that is there.
Even when you ask you again because he has done Mister Djinnit.
Now the late God is no one to know what he has.
Therefore, the biggest reason is that if you get who others get until her boyfriend you have seen him is to listen to the words that the former boss, the boss is not supposed to be small and that can be able to contribute.
And that money is after another I will give you right just after people.
People should intervene in the houses of those people is a topic because I don't know what I don't know why I don't know what I don't know, but today you will give you a habit, we want to move to the disaster.
Blood can be given philosophically to be new.
And someone that had enough money when you are believed we should partner.
It is not found.
Having a relationship, he said.
We think I think?
Everything should happen to have good relationship.
Your friend?
Even to office work.
And there are others who have met them at work in parliament, you have heard about getting married, he said I have been married I think you are in your house, maybe we are looking for another person because there are things concerning the problems.
Say it is a person drinking and another person getting close to the girl.
That he becomes worried that he did not fear until when he was only one man, I know here there is a foolish thing that I saw here, I decided that I decided to do when I've started doing things, I have started doing it's because these days you put it.
But the?
Insults cannot see that the girl child has also been able to go to Busega things not to live in tomorrow they are living.
And if a person is inside and you will not be patient with any person that you want to work and you know that it was able to work hard to pave way for your goals but if it is men even there, we have not been seen, I have not been seen.
You must know that I was surprised so much?
You know if it has given you the senior officials to work but my goals are this one to go.
Late God, but it's not the first you will be given that name in the year now, we will ensure that I have been from work there is your behavior that you get married to live in price.
We were his effects, it must be a look for it was possible that he loves you, there was a residence, there was a lot of money but now he has put it up because he had put it quickly.
Do I know what does it hunt?
Her sister was surprised by her life he knew what he was someone can get that is therefore getting in the world.
You can go hand in Ukawa, then you can't accept to tell Mister Djinnit soon, I was coming from us then for a period of time.
Another is a great loss.
If you play in the past, this words I have written, I don't know who?
He wants you to love this when I'm at work when I am looking for things?
Do you ask you day to go to her for his cargo and said.
It is the meaning they performed well.
That is the father of the house and the pastor and the head to the father of the house and we want.
When we shall know that, that person was pregnant?
Maybe I would know what I think what should be done to employees in their homes are doing what to help them, maybe if you have a advice to them about having relationship with employees in homes every person has a problem.
The late?
Maybe be it?
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we should see the achievements they should do so as to be in education.
I did not know that any corner of you want to ask for your muscles and explained if you have not reached a message to go to study immediately, they want to get married when I started getting married.
I have been in a long time or a mother I don't know yourself in our country but it has reached the time you decided to go to me my life but not that a girl had gone to you because it is still a girl.
It is not right.
I am looking for you to go and put up and that was found to see why your goals have changed all of them, you can be promised another match.
In the sea then it is the reason that you failed.
Is building so.
