For you, the visitors will be known as one thing is called like one but I have never made us because there are two important questions that if one mother wants them to see us because there are many youths who want them to see them as well as the best youth especially in the presidential elections, "he said.
And use of the same type, there is a day I will see you or just after a procedure, she has refused to do with me.
.
And it is something!
And tomorrow if you are the youth.
He knows youths to bring you know if I have seen as a leader?
A political party and family is what I think you shouldn't succeed in women.
The women who will take their colleague, he said it has said that it is a must that there is six.
I had gone down of six.
Therefore, they are now doing here in if you want to buy.
How come the qualifications, then I believe it is facing a man or no one when I think it has been do not do not get married but my friend to our youth then it's not good for us to get pregnant then it is good.
.
But the leaders are.
Most of us have been discipline because the person getting married and then that the primary thing is products, I know the reason for investigation is to see wisdom and wisdom in Uganda.
We were saying that we are not able to put up people that I put him a ring, I put him a copy that I put him into the headlines because it cares for peace and harmony in a period of fifty years to go to the mountains.
If you want to succeed a patient will be given by Mose.
If not then?
I don't want you to do when you want to do you, now there is a person who is saying what is a must.
The same time we were losing to the visitors.
When the reception is, they don't have a respect to them, what does not have done to succeed because these people were able to look for many youths who are in political parties and the good thing we know or more than twenty party is what we believe is to see our scholars and that it must make us feel.
But he has said.
Similarly, there is no reason to arrive at top, except that he will not need people who are in their party and our youth don't work.
In the PAC government.
And many people are that now he can be a leader.
Therefore, because we are.
Challenge explained that it is a must that Ukawa can make sure he can do that to put things that many.
Our we have been, you are required to know that if you have not love the Tanzanians, and I would like to say that you will be at home under Mister has caused their youth or leaders if you want to be first five thousand in the world.
It is not true.
I usually thank the person I request for me.
This is without a result of it and it has been seen as an old man but I had not affected the late father.
In short, I am very happy where he is seeing that it is not well said God says without caring that the army is going through.
Therefore I want to tell him.
