
The media bill to be completed this year.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published today September 2016.

The Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has said that the media bill will be presented in parliament this year for money and its laws will be completed within the period of this year.

Nape said this while speaking about the implementation of the plans and strategies of his ministry in the period of "we expect that is aired by the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC1).
"We expect that this parliament that will start on September 6 (today), we can give this bill to parliament and be read for the first time, and the November parliament will begin his debate and I have hope that this year's financial year is not allowed before they receive the bill," he said.
He said, the bill has reached a good place and we have completed now, we are ready to follow the normal procedures of closing up to parliament and be read for the first time, it will have laws that have been written about, "said the bill is expected to resolve the laws that are not yet known.
In addition, he said there is still an opportunity for stakeholders to continue giving their views after being taken to the parliament and that the bill has been given a lot about stakeholders compared to other bills.
We want this bill to follow all stakeholders and give their opinions and all the opinions, we want to make sure that this law should not be used in parliament but we want the journalists to be careful when we want the bill to help the profession of journalists, "he said.
He said that about the punishment for the media, we have to be looked at afresh so as to prevent it and deal with the writer instead of blocking the media owners and to make the hundreds of people to work due to the offense of one person.
In addition, he urged the news officers of the public institutions to give information on time because they do not have the right to be given information on time.
"I have noticed that some of the news officers are small, therefore we start by improving our media stations and also the law will inform the public officials to ensure that they want to allow the news officers to make sure that they are going on," he said.
In addition, he said that when they get the report of the information officer that causes the required news to go to the public, they will ensure that the concerned authorities don't understand because they are not allowed.
He said that in improving the department of information (details) for it to be modern, so that it can reach many areas in the villages and strengthen the interests of its workers.
