
Raila did well to avoid "Babu,"?
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
Although it is a culture that has been known as a time, in the Roman Church, it was taboo for brothers to inherit the best man to inherit the old man.
According to the Christian and a phlebotomist from the Roman Church, our brothers have also succeeded to sleep inside a house (that is Simba) of his life, or else that he will have a lesson.
On that logic, the leaders of the party who suggested that the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga succeeded late Olav Espegren.
Mister Odinga performed well to refuse to refuse to prevent it because he had been stolen, "said political" therefore his intention to be the year 2017 or a ton.
Politicians who tried to convince him to sit on the parliamentary seat are to understand the following, Mister Raila Odinga has said that he would lead the opposition being out without being in the government, parliament or the Senate.
By getting that seat, Mister Raila would have been seen that a leader who doesn't have a good stand and who are greedy for authority on how their opponents have claimed that one of the main qualifications of the former CCM party is to become a stable leader who is not unyielding from other politicians.
In addition, the residents of Ikay Say would like to feel that "they have been treated" the constitutional right to choose one of them to represent the Senate especially considering that Mister Odinga was coming from a result of Siaya, Nyanza.
That step will also be able to have been done in any village of Homera, there are no good leaders that can represent the residents of Nyanza.
Mister Odinga is a national leader and if he gets Senator saying that he was as the former prime minister of Kenya, would have been directed and started to marry off if the former vice president of President Kalalay. "The step refused to vie for the former vice president of President Kalalay.
Similarly, if Mister Odinga would be chosen as the Senator for Homay would have been forced to be under Senator of Bexhill, Moses Wula who is the very few leader in the Senate, therefore he would have a sharp object.
