
They do not know that TFF will destroy his points.
They thank the TFF Charles Kimei, The Citizen Director @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam City, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has gone into his decision of reducing three points after Azam FC claimed that it was supposed to take early that decision.
Azam was striped of those points the day before yesterday after it was revealed that loss of Azam points lost by mistake a defender Erasto Nyoni in the match against Mbeya City, February 20, with three yellow cards, something that is wrong.
Different stakeholders told this newspaper yesterday that TFF was forced to give that decision early and not wait for a period as this league was heading to end.
"First, they have not said the session of deciding to resolve it when they also agreed to resolve the early and not to come to give that decision today.
If you look at Mbeya City it is among the teams that managed to remain in the Premier League, an act of giving three points today is to make another team that will fight with the position as our team.
"Let it reach a step, TFF is supposed to change and build a habit of giving complaints on time so as to avoid such a situation that happened," said the African Sports manager, Abdul Wakil.
The coach of Mwadui, Jamhuri Kihwelu 'Julio "said that the punishment has been released since February.
"We are supposed to know the match to be played when the appeal will be played on the second month, then the punishment is sold today in a period when Azam are in a great fight to vie for the championship.
"If they were able to give a decision on the scandal of increasing the results of the first level league within one month, they have been unable to do this card early?
"Something like this was given a stern warning inside 72 hours after the concerned game, how can it be today, two months is when the team is organized for a championship environment," said Julio.
The spokesperson of Toto Africans, Cuthbert Sawe said that took place is the cause of few people wanting them to solve some of the teams.
"When you look at Mbeya City, it had 30 points that would have been involved with its own teams. It will give that decision today when the league has played two matches, that will involve other teams.
"TFF was where the third and fourth term will give you the decision to kill in May? (Toto) we believe that there are people who have interests with some of the teams that they had already taken action about that issue despite not ready to put in public that action have been taken.
"I cannot say anything because if the club we have continued and gave a decision on that issue and we will put up three points with three goals, the situation that is making them three points in the premier league standings.
That team has risen up to eight matches out of 11 that had been partnering previously after getting a 1-0 victory from Mtibwa Sugar, a situation that explained that it is delaying the participation of that league next season.
The assistant coach of Mbeya City, Mohamed Kijuso has told this newspaper that they have been annoyed by being given three points with goals.
