The youth of George Bush, Cameroon, landing in Dar.
Mpozi from 1st, 2013.

The killings of the former journalist from Channel Ten television station, David Cason, together with other killings that are accused of involvement of political events in the world will involve some of the youth members of the famous political parties in the world, citizens, Mwema, has been told.
Those parties include the Republican Party in America, who is the one that made birth to the government of that country that was led by George Bush, but apart from the Republican, other parties are Christian Democratic Union (Cub of Germany, together with the ruling party of the country, David Cameroon.
Those parties and the other parties which in general they will be discussed in Dar es Salaam city, September this year, by being represented by delegates of the Union of the Union of those parties, known as International Young Africans Union (IMR).
Those parties through their Tanzania Tourist Board will meet at an invitation by the Youth Council of Democracy and Development (BAVICHA) to witness what is claimed to be a critical condition of the political trend in the country, together with the violation of human rights rights.
Their decision to arrive in the country is due to the topic that was done by the chairman of BAVICHA, John Heche and Albania, in the capital city of that country very delicious.
Heche confirmed that the presentation of the topic which brought the Tanzanian board of Mwenge to meet in September this year in the country, in ensuring that our writer is true, they will arrive in the country on September.
He continued to say, "an emergency meeting that took place in Albania has gotten a short message from February six to 10 this year, I explained the pictures of events of various citizens in Arusha, Morogoro, and other areas like Igunga, the killings that are being done by the government and the Revolutionary Party to try to protect democracy."
"I have explained that the killings in Tarime, I have also talked about how the government conducted freedom of media houses, and I urge you to request their government to stop their donations to the government of Tanzania because it is not a democratic elections and they are doing corruption for the donations that are given by their government."
As a result of those reports, our reporter also spoke with the youth of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM) in order to know the opinions of the big political competitors in that issue and that is where he was given the UVCCM secretary, Martin Saanya.
The details of UVCCM.

In his talks with our writer, Nyambui said the CHADEMA style to be supported within and out of the country is very disturbing, again it was to be like the style that he uses in the rankings.
"I have heard that the reports of their reports are to use the pictures of events of violence involved in their public meetings and even the pictures of the killings that happened in Iringa (Nelly Mwangosi) to give them to their sponsors outside the country so as to give them money and that they claimed that they are marrying them.
I think they have been with the project of that way for many years now, but their project starts to protect themselves because they did not mention the killings of the youth of CCM who qualified to sell the body and it's why they did not participate in the country which they are going to lead.
Answers of Heche.
On his part, Heche and required to give an explanation of those issues, he said that when they come up "to present those pictures, it does not pollute the country, an act of killing people is not pollute the country.
"They are the ones who have written this country not the one who took the pictures of the killings what they are doing and not the one who got the reserve or to view those pictures," said Heche.
The murder of journalist Nelly Mwangosi which happened last year during CHADEMA, when they were in Iringa province for their political activities.
As a result of those killings, the two committees were made for inspection, one was made by the Minister of Internal Affairs, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi and others being made by journalists through the Tanzania Media Council (MCT).
