
The Eindhoven mid-branding of the sun is dangerous to the economy of Kagera province on May 30th, 2012.

The season of selling coffee in Kagera province has started.
This is also the right time for all business people because the circulation of money is big during this festive season.

Coffee is the main market in Kagera, especially in Bukoba, Muleba District, Karagwe and Ngara district, therefore it's impossible to talk about any economic and social development that were not available in these districts without mentioning coffee.
The basis of the development of education and social development that was done among the citizens of these districts, are coffee at the popularity of the cooperatives in this province since the colonial era resulted from coffee.
Therefore, the systems (Emanueli Imanani and clove smuggling) and events that affect the coffee production in Kagera province is events of going back to the development of citizens who depend on this product.
Likewise, any steps that can be taken so as to revive and increase the fuel production in the province is a step to redeem the citizens of this province by doing so, the economy of the citizens will benefit.
I write this article when I met in Karagwe, I witnessed how people continue to sell and buy coffee at a girl (girl) of selling alcohol, was heard on the phone while Kayun, Mwanza and Kahama provinces, removing his colleagues in Mpwapwa, Mwanza and Kahama provinces, to save the money easily as Kayun, Mwanza and Kahama.
"We will give enough money."
Blood contributes up to a large extent in the economy of Kagera and the nation.
If the government would have prepared themselves well to sell and buy chicken, the lives of chicken diseases which he would make it better and it would have given enough revenue.
Now, the management of selling and buying coffee is bad and that is why the coffee price continues to rise in the world market, farmers are continuing to sell their coffee at a low price while the government is not enough revenue from coffee.
What's surprising thing is that agents, IMF are companies and political parties to have a great extent due to the drinking water than farmers and the government.
Companies and political parties at the price of buying chicken to the farmer due to the price of the world market and the agents are clear, the farmer is the one who is getting high prices and up to now, there is no need to defend the farmer to get a good price.
Apart from companies and political parties to remove the farmer on the price of buying coffee, there are three things that involve the gold farmers.
These things are supposed to marry off, there is the eyes and smuggling should be harvested and sometimes there are farmers who have not decided to sell their coffee alone in front of it is given a three year money.
It has a meaning for the whole period of three years, the farmer will have the work of caring for the farm, when you get time during this season, we have the ability to buy coffee alone and sell coffee at companies and political parties.
Due to the difficulty of life, some of the chicken farmers do not sell goods into this system because there is a frog video and you eat at home for following the price of the last season.
Due to the coffee price, it comes every year, the farmer that sell her blood through this way gets especially big, and he knows it at a high price in the last season, those who bought it in a high price of the new season.
Ehud Olmert is a system of selling coffee like a little and there is a system of selling coffee alone, but without considering it, it is a system of selling coffee alone, it allows the farmer to sell coffee alone, it allows the farmer to sell coffee at it.
At the moment, both buyers and coffee at the end of it would be expelled from the price of 50,000 shillings in that disease, if the farmer would leave it by there they were not getting one hundred thousand shillings.
Apart from the farmers to get a huge loss by selling coffee at this period of even the whole community is getting losses while it is sold to this system and it does not depend on how to contribute to social services as it is through water that is sold through political parties.
Coffee being sold through political parties, there is an excuse of developing those parties and other contributions to fund the District Council so that they can provide social services like building the environment and improving the villages in the villages.
Companies and brokers who buy coffee at the same system should be expelled from their meaning after draining areas where they bought it in this system, they have only two times or more.
Smuggling is a system of it live outside the country and this system has already been used for many years in the Kagera Region being sold by smuggling at the neighboring country of Uganda which is believed that half chicken which are built in Kagera province are being sold by smuggling.
Farmers, they love you so much the system of selling coffee at smuggling, because they get a good price, every year the price of coffee at the neighboring country is about more than our price and this is a big loss to the farmers to sell goods into smuggling.
The many vehicles that are studying in Karagwe, the ones that sell oil in Uganda through smuggling so as to sell oil in science and these achievements, not because the people like fighting corruption, no, it is because the price of Uganda is good.
Maybe the blood price here in our country would have been good, the people living in smuggled cloves. There would be no need to use the police to control the drinking water.
By not knowing that the farmers should know the system of smuggling and they know so much, the truth is that this system is very bad, and the economy is unstable, even the person who sell his home against smuggling and get a lot of money.
The issue of insisting that here is that, coffee is sold by smuggling or not the one that is aired alone, but even they were shocked by the need.
People from neighboring countries who engage in Kagera province and buy coffee at two or three years.
"
The government in Kagera province, has strengthened the security of preventing smuggling of anyone who wants to do a permit to buy gas in Kagera province, because of getting a permit from the district councils, it is a must to pay one million shillings to strengthen security against smuggling so that there is a must for more than one hundred thousand shillings for the sessions to discuss ways to control violence.

One of the pregnant mothers together with a condition of not having his name in this article, explained about the contributions to strengthen the security of smuggling so that the government can make efforts to make sure the systems were stolen from each other.
Farmers will continue to look for a good price while it is difficult to use corruption in the country that close to each person has the difficulty of life and our police have a difficult life, it is a must they be approved by the smuggling of coffee.
The basis of it is to put good systems for selling and buying flour and smuggling will die. "

Many people I met with each other about the issue of clove smuggling, were with similar thoughts, that to protect smuggling at gun point is losing any time, because of the protection it is strengthened.
If he said the Dengue one is there, there is need to make a good system of selling and buying chicken and to make sure the coffee price is better than the neighboring countries of the neighboring country through this way we can fight against smuggling so that we can fight against sexual violence and it is possible.
There is also need for the government to stop this systems, they should be dealt with and there is a problem so that the poor farmers in the villages can benefit from a huge amount from this chicken.
I have faith that the citizens see chicken contributes up to building a clinic, school, making a good road, to bring water and other development, can't read it again against corruption, they should be expelled and there is a frog.
The coffee price is good and they get money to build a modern technology and live a better life, can't sell goods outside the country.
However, if you see the drinking water, the price is going on being under the neighboring countries, it is a must that they can take me! They can reach o'clock and it should be.
