The hearts are called Jakaya Kikwete for what order?
Dec 5, 2013.

Let me start by asking for my readers by not touching on this platform for approximately four weeks because the primary reason is that, I was in a long-term tour by maybe when I saw there is another long story which maybe I got it.
I should also start by saying that, I received a lot of money from my readers when I urge you to change the analysis of the future of CHADEMA after that it has stopped the leadership of Zitto Kabwe, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo and Samson Majwala to explain my stand about what happened in CHADEMA.
Because this issue has been discussed so much in the media and even social media (social media), I don't see no wisdom to discuss it but for those who wanted to know my stand about what happened, it is that I have supported the step of serving the three youths.
Maybe I love you very much by saying that, CHADEMA has contested for doing differences with the ruling party, CCM which for three years now, defeated them, "Magula" the three twins.
And on those who are CHADEMA who want to end that party as the chairperson of Zitto Kabwe, Doctor Kitila they will be expelled from the membership or will decide to marry off, I would not recognize that the political party is not the names of people, but it's the philosophy of people.
If they joined CHADEMA because they were impressed by the philosophy policies of that party, it will be the ignorance about it if they will decide to move from him because Zitto and Kitila have been sacked from the membership!
During the short time, Zitto Kabwe, Kitila, Lissu, Lissu, Doctor Slaa and many more others will come up to CHADEMA, but the philosophy of the party will also go there.
If they went to CHADEMA because of his left wing, the left or the central on the left, then, they can move ahead if it will continue and be on the left wing or central on the right, and not for the right time to Zitto, Kitila or Mbowe (not in peace!
Doing so, it is ignorance, and wherever you are, Zitto, Kitila and Mbowe will come to most of them and get to CHADEMA, but the party will not remain there because the political party is more than the names of people!
After realizing that, I would like today to finish the issue of corruption of internal affairs being done by the government, and especially when I read it on this column, my release of 268 percent of the previous year (NBL).
In that edition, I cautioned the government of President Kikwete that if it will not be able to stop the corrupt funds, and if it will still continue with his bad behavior of not supporting them to the corruption authority (to give them the donations and claimed to be restored so that they agree.
I issued this warning to our government after our neighborhood, Uganda will support donations of money and several countries in the European countries were led by Ireland, and so as to find themselves in huge problems, "he said.
What happened in Uganda at the time they were given donations by those countries, it is a money that was coming back to 13 million dollars followed by the country to help improve infrastructure in two provinces of the North of Uganda which was affected by the fight against the fighters of Tanzania.
Those countries which were waiting for those funds were stolen by the authorities to be stopped and arraigned before law, otherwise, Uganda does not want to get donations from those countries including Uganda not to get more than to restore those funds.
However, despite the warning I have given one year last year through this column, our leaders continued to inform the one that took place from Uganda and Kenya - that is alleged to have efforts to return to them their money affected.
According to news reports of the media here in the country, the biggest countries of Tanzania from Sweden, Finland, Holland, Japan and Germany have shown a letter from the ministry of finance but they were born with the corrupt people of our councils.
For other words, what we really fears that will happen, now if it was in Uganda and Kenya, us will be forced to return those funds from our collection of taxes, that is, us will be forced to return those funds from our collection of taxes, that is, us will be forced to return those funds from the collection of tax.
