
Parkal Randall Company, civil servants and Tanzania participates in a new shop of agricultural produce in Dar es Salaam city.
The Local Government Communications Regulatory Authority (Limited) that is owned by the natives have involved the irrigation farming production of Matopeni Ward and how cabland has opened a modern shop for selling their crops in the neighboring country and Victoria area in Dar es Salaam city.
While speaking with the journalists earlier today in Dar es Salaam city, during the introduction of the shop, the activities that are being done by the Tifa Conservation Authority (Limited) and the managing director of that company Mister Franklin Repyson has explained that, they have decided to bring back to citizens, good farming products which they will be able to prepare for a clean environment and modern environment from the internet to be able to identify the consumer.
During the short time after investing in four years in farming, agricultural, and vegetables using irrigation technology, while having the sure of providing every kind and they will get to the same state, therefore, we have invested in the infrastructure to ensure our farms are available on the internet, and on the same way, it has invested for them, "Masau boasted.
He added that all the attempt failed to be harvested and being transported to special vehicles depending on the need of those crops, being received and finally the quality of goods is used to ensure that the quality of goods is used in their restaurant where many experts of health advise people to use.
On his part, the Executive Manager of the Tifa Conservation Authority (Limited), Mister Nehemia Kyando Mchechu said that in reaching the goals, operations have been able to use a big amount of more than one billion shillings.
He added that they are among the local contractors, they requested the Tanzanians to support them because by doing so, they will also help a farmer in the village whose products are still buying some of the agricultural activities that have been charged with the aim of helping the market especially in the country.
He said that the customers who will arrive at our branch will win various things and it is the right time to take advantage of this opportunity for the farms which are in our homes with natural fertility.
All of them used the importance of getting better services through fruits and vegetables as we listen to all those with children to make sure they buy a habit, so they can be able to check up since it started to the community with the benefits of the country.
The civil society and Limited runs a modern shop for production of the farm, it has also been a restaurant and Bartez had a special device that makes it to fruit products together with all the issues of breast cancer which are traditional foods.
