Let's wait, I saw it, then!
December 11, 2014.

I have discovered that in order to build the foundation of Diplomacy, so as to build the foundation of Diplomacy, we have no need to check the things we are doing and stop what they do not have benefits and instead do not have high costs.
I have said that we must make sure that we go with the system to bring in large numbers of people who do not have a habit of doing anything but they are set aside in that case so that they can get the payment of DSA, which is big than that is paid in other countries or in the United Nations.
My view here is that we do not have any reason to pay the huge tax than that is paid by the United Nations. We have no reason why it enabled them to pay its big standards, these countries do not use these payments so that we are not involved.
Our country has a lot of problems, big and primary and our people are still poor, and every efforts are required to be done so as to save the poverty that has no reason of continuing giving them.

When I look at the cost, we are looking at the purpose of "diplomats," us to travel and there I have a good image that we have in our relationship inside the country, the authorities are looking for every way that we want to help citizens, and many times when they think they have no ways to control those leaders.

It is common that local politics is the ones that make politics from outside, that is Diplomacy, and like in the country, you have been used to prevent you even in political politics, or at least you are oppressed on ways of injustice and not any things you are so used.

One of the words that shows this is that Diplomacy, now has not completed the relationship to fight against smuggling and violence in our political politics, and every person getting a grant is God, who did not kill him, even if he went to our colleagues.

We have seen the way that we have been getting bad luck, are used by incapacitating the ones who are doing that offense, but we are preparing to building for a long time and that it has already brought to honor.
Once I be heard of our minister of Diplomacy, responding to a question about Tanzania's stand several years ago, a question that was asked for Tanzania's stand about the defeat that was being aired by Israel against Atletico Madrid.
The answer by our minister was that the stand of Tanzania is that one of the United Nations because we are members of that union and our stand has no reason to be careful.

Like that, it is true then we have no need to have a whole ministry of running our Diplomacy, where we need to receive, email, "from New York city, for time to inform the leaders of the United Nations so that we can defend each other.

It would have been a stand of our country to be the one of the United Nations that we have a campaign to make it back to South Africa from the United Republic of China in 1970, and on that logic, the Tanganyika Union in South Africa would continue to be a member in the previous years.

The country did not love New York to look for his stand and be taken into home and taken to New York city where it was appointed and then run away from other countries and finally be given the position of that time.

However, that stand when you can be Ukawa is a transition position because some of the countries continue to hold his stand up until when it's where we are not less than to include it between the United Republic of China inside the United Nations.

I think that it would have been you today and we do not discuss your Boers and enable us to allow China that we have been listening to the sponsors, they are saying what instead of the right logic.

These are very easy things that is understood, but do very difficult to identify which is expected to supervise, we do not have any other interests, DSA and when we do not see this that the members of the country have already discovered the size of our country.
