
Those foods live.
By Bashir Yakub.
Scientists have warned that some of the foods that are sold in the capital cities in the country saying they have been commended.
Some of the foods that were mentioned are together with bananas, saddens (Apple), the chicken you want this week with milk.
Those chemicals do not tire to break food to the chicken, be used by poor products that are sold quickly, or if the distribution of food shortages are sold at the market, a total of water problems which have been very difficult, for treating or control.
Chiponda village is not a decrease in several estates in the Nairobi city, usually have been planned for a long time without water, which you can buy and can be used for a long time without a shivered and therefore fruit vendors live near 40 percent of their cost.
A woman who did not want to be identified, he confessed that before getting the work of the mother to the school this month, she was believed to be using the dangerous oil.
"I was carrying 10 million pounds per liter equivalent to one sales and using close to three months.
The sales, from the Makondo area, he would like to put aside its ills, normal oil for cooking, "he exposed.
Mister Aniva band, who cared for the air strikes in Rozana area, Mwesa, Kasele and Zlin Roida, said the oil oil is used so much.
"It comes from a very bad luck one has been used by the company's employees to distribute electricity from Kenya Power Pool company who sell it," said Mister Sendo and added that the price that have been planned for the fuel usually have a mosquito to attract the gift of a gift to him.
Doctors have warned the crude oil in color to cause infections in food ways in the body.
Fruits in the city of Mombasa and Nairobi has also determined to have illegal chemicals, have been started in Jide, which use them to marry off the farm that is used to unite with plastic seats that were found in bananas and beans.
Doctor Diana Oguda, the doctor in Nairobi, said that the plane has been started with mangoes is coughing, depending on a lot of relief for a short time after eating. "
In the end makes a lot of problems of breathing.
It has been reported in large numbers that you missed the week in Nairobi has been forced to fight against the rivers by using abusive water.
These water are faced with a bullet in which Doctor Bryton Ntacht of hospital, has found the procedures that caused many children to hear, kidney, and also stunting.
For adults, can cause unnecessary effects, reproductive rights and pressure, lose hope and pain during your muscles.
