The honorable or at the Julius Nyerere International Airport started getting injured in the beginning of one thousand only one hundred thousand, having only one building which was known as relatives.
One of the nine hundred thousand things and what the government completed the construction of the second building which the project is like to wait, accusing this one and its infrastructure being the expansion of since we started the league and at the moment the province that is headed by using a draw in one evening and two hundred thousand.
In addition to this, a small thing that is so much in ensuring that league is giving out approximately two million shillings, the word he termed it doesn't cause a quarter way to build and use more than two times for their ability.
Honorable.
My life for houses in this fields started coming out in the nineties, at the end of the grounds, we are using six hundred thousand passengers and therefore, we shall begin a huge process to make major farmers from the areas to start the league as well as looking for money to improve infrastructure and building a high building.
In an effort to be half a half and starting to reach ten thousand in the ten thousand year and one government was renovated and its brothers together with the army of this project could be able to you for Tanzanians at an amount of one hundred billion shillings.
If it is being used or going for a donation since Holland is 50 percent of the United Republic of Tanzania starting from fifty percent to the completion of this project when I got a certificate from using the plane to do without forgetting the plane.
It was for a half when I was in the first half which will be completed in two thousand and ten thousand.
More honor.
Some of the issues of the purchase of the new building of and its infrastructure can be able to use six million beer because I am expected to cold drinks, we have two hundred and everyone with the truth.
Therefore, the project is being implemented in funds for loans from the religious bank.
John noise on bail is supposed to have a lesson through her love to be Private Sector together with some individuals, Honorable they can advise that we should learn from.
Who is managing this project is called which they had gone down from other.
The Honorable and the coordinator of living as usual.
The construction of the second building is alleged to have the ability to attend to school, he look at a year together with putting the electronic systems.
Safety and to go to the Easter holiday do not lie!
The construction of music.
If you go right to give you a lesson to the army with the ability of the army David best, including a big plane in the world.
The area of these will be hundred thousand shillings compared to the answer that wisdom without paying for ten thousand shillings.
Honorable president the work of a business building for its teachers after completing the preparations.
The project is expected to be completed in March.
Their expectations will be able to forgive me!
He told me this words and you are something if he is going to go to my door step.
The delay of your project and can cause the delay of the consumer and to climb that bus.
Honorable president is expected to be completed in the construction project of a three family building together with its infrastructure, he will increase the ability to the stadium to serve the league.
One million and broke down?
Passengers are far here.
For the one that will be, after the completion of the project.
You will receive the Julius Nyerere International Airport to be the high level.
You will speak without employment for more than five thousand Tanzanians which will attract Tanzanians and therefore increase their income and therefore increase their income, you will not understand among its people instead in order to help grow the economy get married.
When the honorable president of honor and a teaser sin who had been forced to give my condolences to you?
By scoring or put aside from various obstacles that you should be given about the foundation stone in he will bless you to commemorate the union celebrations.
