The shortage of doctors came out something.
Jide 17, 2013.

Problems of shortage of doctors, equipment and beds, patients in the referral hospital, provinces, and even health centers have been a bad effects to patients and sometimes to cause conflict, wisely, the relatives of those patients against doctors, Almighty God, have noted.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), one doctor is supposed to treat 10,000 patients, for Tanzania a doctor wants to treat 30,000 patients, a situation that is doing health services that is claimed that approximately 34 patients out of every 100 are treated without seeing the doctor in their lives.
Mzee Seifu Abdalah (69) is among the citizens who attacked with that problem when she arrived to Bugando hospital for a vehicle for patients on July 8, from Kigoma Regional Hospital, where he was given an appeal to the referral hospital of Bugando.
According to Kassim Mohamed who was accompanied by the patient going to Bugando, a patient arrived in the hospital at 9 o'clock in the afternoon and started to be treated with the previous services until when it got to home and return to the hospital the following day so as to continue with the tests.
"We was received well, we agreed to continue with services of tests and other small businesses, we will end and we were told to go back home so that we need to go home for more tests and in urine, which was tomorrow at eight o'clock in the afternoon," said Mohamed.
He explains that they were unable to remain in the hospital because they were not ready to take him to a patient, but it was impossible and even when he was going to go home without explaining the reason why he had to go back home without explaining the reason why they had waiting for surgery on the date it has not been planned.
Director of administration and service of the referral hospital of Bambucha has told BBC Mwema, something that it did not affect the hospital if there is be returned home, there will be back home, there will be brothers who do not be satisfied with them.
"This patient is not new, according to our statistics has come as the first time here on the 16th of July, this year, and he continued to come up on 6th January this year, and he continued to come up on 6th January this year, and he continued to come back on 6th January this year, and he continued to return it because any patient will be able to dismiss him for any reason," said Kaguo.
"Flash disk" when I met the specialist doctor of urine, Doctor John Igoshalimo welcoming the concerned patient so as to be careful so that the hospital can make sure the patient is like a patient is like a bad situation.
"The patient did not be sacked from me, I have ever released into one hour in the evening, I told his brothers that there is a long list of patients who are supposed to know or if it's an operation would have been noticed," said Doctor Igaka.
"It is possible that brothers do not be satisfied but I promised them to come out the following day for their benefit, here there are big shortage of patients to an extent that if they were put up until after the answers is when the tests would have shown," he explained.
He says if you allow the patient was admitted without the primary reasons in the location of the ward with the congestion of patients as it is in the hospital but it is not good because the patient can be infected with other diseases and to reduce the cost of going to the hospital so they can be admitted after being operated on.
The referral hospital of Bugando has an ability to sell 900 patients per time, a situation that makes it to meet with a big challenge because it comes from the referral hospital from Mwanza, Shinyanga, Kagera, Geita, Geita, Geita and Simiyu, which is heading to Bugando Referral Hospital for their patients in need of appeal.
