
Give a call.
The supervisor of the police station Area, Amos Shamenda, was opening the demolition of houses for private individuals with Nairobi Mike Pence, when he arrived and asked him to leave him.
The tough objection between them was followed when the gift of returning his mobile phone and gave him that President Kenyatta said that he didn't know the incident.
Their talks were recently, Mrs Salma, the honorable president's house worth more than 10 billion shillings being sent away by hooligans.
The president of that minister?
President of Zanzibar, I will communicate with him together with Minister Ole Lilenga, stopping the activities so as to give an opportunity for discussions about that issue.
The demolition was suspended immediately after the talks that was organized by journalists.
Mister Swart, who was accompanied by those houses, said that those are legal owners of that land and that they have all documents needed.
Almost 20 houses that have been set aside since June last year fell in the activity that began at ten o'clock in the morning under tight security.
Sigano Mallya said that those houses have not been given any notice, although he confessed that he got 6,173,433 votes that the ministry had planned to win that land number 138 hours.
While addressing journalists a short time after the activity being stopped, Mister Khajida Kopa, he was holding that land is wealth of poverty and then brought to the current owners.
"This is land for the agricultural department in my ministry and they are claiming to know what they said and know that they were stolen from the certain people that took place from the government," he said.
Mister Kraehenbuehl has also agreed that he identified himself and the president is where he stopped the demolition, but he insisted that the efforts to take the land will continue.
"We have stopped this bill for now, but it will continue after my ministry to do more talks with the concerned," he said.
The Church of the Gunners International organization is among other buildings in that area that are being used to be demolished.
