And in a special parliamentary meeting going on in Dodoma where the parliamentary candidate of the constitutional parliament, Honorable Samuel Sitta before the start of special day activities he has announced to delegates of special parliamentary procedures, we have two hundred and five days now where we are going to the union's holiday and will be at the end of the month to meet again.
I wanted to also prepare well.
The delegates of the special parliament came to continue with discussions where the big meeting still have remained in the union's structure with the government that came out in the first round and six of the draft constitution that has been meeting to be discussed by ten days of the parliament.
You will be like even if the man is a must that you get time to Zanzibar people only?
All of these are inspiring.
You shouldn't know what can help us in problems.
The Maseru.
Union of the federation as a government.
There is no one.
Sunnis are two who go together.
Those business is true, I don't know today.
That is the first commandment which and the second am no?
The late God said that there is no government of which is happening today, Dubai.
You know that every government of a union did not want jokes in the three governments in continuing to live with him but to listen to him.
Where is it?
But their origin is very delicious with me, when you were taken to us that some of the citizens have said they were affected by some of the languages that are given by some members inside the parliament.
He is one of the delegates of the special parliament contributing to the first round of the draft constitution that is other languages.
There are used to learn more, the condition of another person without abusive language, why are good deeds that has begun to come back to people with an amount of pregnancy, there is still a message that he can be contribute to the primary school.
And standing without getting early and wherever you are starting, but there was carrying a lot of statistics to go against you, there should be a bad thing to the table that there should be bad, I give me different people, I am taking all the effects of infection.
I think about each other.
Mwajua that it has come to the constitution of security because he got into large percent, it has been just the first time since I was unable to know the constitution is going on so that eventually the availability of the best constitution in the future of the national nation, George Mwakalinga, now.
