
Donations for victims of the earthquake get to the ones.

It has been written by.

It has been published in 15th of September.

These Tanzanians are now in a state of solidarity of its kind to deal with a big earthquake that is facing the province of Kagera at the end of last week.

As a result of that disaster, we have lost the lives of our colleagues in 17, others got injured, 840 houses were defeated and more than 264 houses have received a dangerous winger including 44 buildings for public and social institutions.
Due to the reality of the disaster associated with the prime minister, Kassim Majaliwa the day before yesterday forced business people, ambassadors and others with good love and encourage others who are faced with a disaster which a total of 14 billion shillings were contributed.
In line with the contribution of money, he was given out of 2800 bags and other companies which are determined to build two secondary schools that were scored due to its buildings getting married to the earthquake which is together with tents, food and medicine.
We would like to join with our Tanzanians to thank all our Tanzanians and those who continue to do that with the main aim of enabling our colleagues who are faced with this matter, to return to the reality of life after the big disaster.
But we would like to give a directive to our colleagues who are concerned with the coordination for donations that are given out in this earthquake that it would like to put up a procedure that will enable them to ensure that all the funds of money and different equipment for improving infrastructure that were destroyed, to reach the beneficiaries and not otherwise.
There's no objection that there are people who have been infected with their behavior who like to use disaster like that so as to be able to use personal interests instead of the beneficiaries that are currently in a difficult state.
As a result of that situation, we would like to inform us of the security committee to prepare well to deal with people of that kind without stopping us and if they will be found so that they are found to be taken to the law so that they can be taken to the law.
The citizens and on their part should be eyes and people who will try to identify those targeted by those contributions, by giving information to the relevant agencies like police and government leaders so as to be able to be availed to the loopholes of corruption.
Tanzanians start doing so, we have a culture of cooperating and listen to the disasters and different problems it does not affect our community, therefore we believe that in this disaster, we have also been buried and the disasters by giving them the donations they need and to ensure that it will be available.
