
Tanzania maintains the peace for the first of East Africa.

Tanzania has been explained that the country with a lot of peace and stability than all the countries of the East African Community (EAC) has been partnering with the 55 world position among 162 people where research on the state of peace and security has taken place.

That research that is known as the year 2013 Global Peace Prize (GPina) that was done by the International Institute for economy and peace, shows that Uganda is the second one for the EAC while is holding the fourth position in Kenya, 136, and Burundi, gambling.

At the time Tanzania participates in accordance with the report, Rwanda is one of the last countries in the world that seemed to have peace and peace for the past six years, Rwanda has been put in one group and the highest countries in Syria and Libya for lack of peace and calmness.

By putting it in Rwanda in the second position, they have been accepted, the report is against the government's stand of that country which has been saying that it is among the countries with peace and calmness in the world.

The press from the report are saying that the European nations will also use democracy when it is mature and settling more, the ones with peace and stability in the world and confirmed the relationship between the rule of law and the participation of the citizens in the existence of peace of peace.

Tanzania has been getting high points in the issue of calmness and peace for many years, therefore, the researchers say that the reason to continue in peace and calmness is the leaders to respect the basis of good administration including the issue of respect two presidential programs including the fact that Tanzania has not been facing a large area of internal confrontations between the neighboring country.

That report shows that, "three countries that have had great changes in peace in the past six years, are Cindy, Georgia and a very important time the countries that brought back quickly and with fast speed are Syria, Libya, and Rwanda."

However, that report has been received with different feelings in Rwanda, while the government shows the fighting with those results, other people are complaining.

Analyst of political issues of the University in that country, said that there is a difference between peace and security, insisting that the absence of war is there because citizens live in peace.

"Peace is good for people to get an opportunity for development and to advance them," he added, "people want to participate in their country's plan to look at our parliament, not something that we have been appointed, but not the parliament that was chosen by the citizens.

"We have no sure that the transition process from the current administration to another one should be dealt with because of our relationship with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), so as to sit down night without weapons not to be patient."

In addition, Rwanda is accused of involving the media houses and political parties, it is said to return behind because of its participation in the DRC business and the great increase in terrorist actions and killing in Rwanda itself.

Recently, Rwanda has also witnessed bomb attacks which the government says that it was removed by his opponents.

Regarding the action of the government of Rwanda to stop the media and their opponents, it is true that what has witnessed what is explained in the report that it is an increase in possession of political parties with a large number of people who were scored in prison, to be a big level of killings and a terrorist attack. "

The freedom institution of the world's news agencies for journalists in Rwanda is bad and to make that country be one of the best 10 countries in the world being partnering with 168 countries out of 1200 countries that were allocated, last year.
