Why do CCM fear the lack of leadership in the constitution?
Jide 24, 2013 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

Last week I wrote that it's ignorance to believe that we can leaving your benefit, approximately 85 percent and then agreed to run the country by registering themselves in peace and then we are expecting to continue living in peace.
I wrote also that however, patriotism we want to inform you, right now, to convince us to move forward, you cannot grow to prevent and in the great gap between the rich and the poor, because of them, if it is in peace, we have not been done on the foundation of rights and equality.
When I get my friend, there were several people saying (through their own kind), I will follow poverty but I did not know poverty as it is why all the time I am living in town and do a great income.
I think those who warned me, therefore, we are starting from a high level or a group of people feared, that any changes in the next general elections (2015), like CHADEMA to arrest of dollars, can't take any way to benefit from it.
At their answer, my answer is that the life of poverty I do not understand well because I am saying I met us, every year when I was going to go back to my village or I see himself how poverty you go against them.
I would like to tell you that, since I leave me in writing news on the environment, I have a lot of opportunities to visit many villages in Tanzania, and there I will follow me how to make them lose their lives.
I urge our leaders to continue to visit the villages (not in Washington, London, Zurich city, Dubai just so as to get the feelings of citizens in the villages, problem and more than to get the opportunity for testing the plans and their statements they have announced the city to see if they have any meaning to the poor.
So, I want today to read a bit about the draft of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania which currently has reached the discussion stage by various constitutional councils in the country.
That was in Hong Kong to write about that draft, the news that I got that the ruling party is not pleased by the issue of lack of leaders putting into the constitution as possible as the party members in those councils to discuss the draft that they have been directed to oppose that issue.
If those news are true, then you know that what I have been writing many times about that party, the current leaders don't have any intention to redeem themselves from poverty, but their intention is to continue to capture our country's development.

But also claiming that CCM does not have the truth in fighting corruption in the country or build a good ethics for the nation.
Otherwise, I did not understand what this party is common among them, Mwalimu Nyerere, by making sure that the issue of respect the management of leadership is to be the first to oppose the issue of Tikrit and other political parties in the country, but not CCM!
Any Tanzanian keenly, and those who loves our country thank Judge Warioba and his colleagues in the constitutional commission by seeing the importance of strengthening the issue of lack of leadership in the draft constitution.
To me, that of lack of leadership and that's the gift of the nation, is the important things that will decide this season to be in the areas of our nation maybe more than all other things inside that draft of the new constitution.
In that draft (third from the second part), lack of public leadership has been talked about long, but some of the public leaders don't know or receiving bribes, the public leader is not supposed to use that position or his position for its own benefit.
