
The community is been advised to respect the culture, culture.

It has been written by Bashir Nkoromo, Monduli.

It has been published yesterday, 27th September 2016, the government has been advised to continue protecting the traditional elders and the crowd that are affecting the union by ensuring that it is raising the youths in good ethics and to value the traditional contribution in their lives.

That advice was presented yesterday in Monduli District and the elder of traditional elders of the Maasais', Noah Sapuk in the village of Moalimu, when they attended the gender celebrations of that community while welcoming the age of Mortuation, that the age of elders in accordance with their traditional elders.
He said the age of age of traditional elders of the Maasais' has helped many youths to discover and also they will play as a community and every time to know the reports of each one and a place where he is.
He said that.
In addition, during the celebrations the youths who are involved have already moved out of their wives and this takes a result of their wives to go and leave as a sign of showing that they have already had gone into another age.
Speaking with the youths, Bruno Antonio Joseph said the importance of that ceremony is to start the official launch that now they are supposed to have a lot of wisdom because of having a family, therefore they are supposed to be keen on advice from the family.
"We know where we are the youth (Morse), we were handed over to us, and to be given a special sticker with those things, that is why we the youths are supposed to go through any war, but now we have asked the age to go and if we are just one beauty," he said.
He clarified that more than 600 youths who participated in that ceremony, half of them are scholars of universities, but due to the good foundation of science, that is why all have returned to the village to participate and also used to provide development for development.
Speaking about education, he said at the moment in that community there is a big awareness of education, but they have not affected their primary schools and that is why they are continuing to happen.
In those important celebrations in the age of youth happen every after seven years, they were attended by various non-governmental leaders of the county level and other neighboring countries.
