
Do you have money, we have land for what we don't have 50% for 50?
Petit 13, 2012

Today I would like to discuss again the issue of handing them our resources, especially land to the visitors and we are not supposed to get tired to discuss this issue because these resources are very humiliating from our brothers, and therefore us have the responsibility of getting rid of our future generations.
Listen to us, the experience have shown that these foreign investors who have contributed to some of the resources for what is called "the foreign investment" is not good for us and do not say it.
Recently, for example, if you have heard the chairman of CCM of Shinyanga province, Hamis Mertesacker played, speaking to Baray's company that now she gets a gold even in the areas that are not her, and that now it is doing with other minerals and not only gold.
A story of Baragina in Tanzania is a story of many foreign investors in poor countries in the world, and especially in the African continent and all over the whole world, they have never seen the opportunity of using their ignorance, but because they do not know the opportunities of using their ignorance, but because they do not see the opportunity of using their ignorance, but because they do not have better opportunities of using their lives, but because they do not know more than billions of money and that is the truth here in Tanzania.
And it's no reason, the ignorance of us, our diseases, our diseases and lack of patriotism in the African continent, has been a big attraction to anyone who will fill in Africa to get easily as thousands and thousands of land hectares, because those who are mentioned by our weaknesses.
The research that was done last year by the organization called International Land, shows that, between the year 2000 and 2010, more than 200 million shillings were sold to foreign investors and the government of poor countries in the world.
Between those 200 million shillings, that research shows that approximately 4 million shillings were sold to visitors in the African continent only, I have no need to agree here that Tanzania is in the list of those countries in Africa which have reduced (or the ones that do not go down from 99 years!
But this issue has caused great debate all over the world and especially in African continent, many have been satisfied that the first is the beginning of the colonial history in Africa.
According to the importance of that issue of land, every kind of land has been started by the debate that is being started by the debate that is carried out on the internet. I am talking to website such as Bodaboda, during the launch of the East African land for visitors called on top of East Africa.
There are several factors that are provided in that debate which if we expect it we have no doubt and I had previously written the way, the way I said first, it is possible that you need to know this issue of visitors of our land is the second coming from the colonial era.
The issues that are given by those who have been supported by their international funds that are being supported by other African presidents, is that Africa cannot finish his problem of many years of lack of food if it has given priority to a big business farming.
Claims that the farming can be done soon in success and foreign investors with big capital, and therefore the government of the poor countries are supposed to irrigate their land laws to allow it.
Claims that there is a big business center for investors from outside it will give employment to the poor citizens of the concerned country, and therefore it will help reduce the problem of lack of employment that doesn't know, at all the countries in Africa.
But many scholars including the activists, members of parliament, political parties, and even the farmers in general (which are many) in Africa, are opposing those issues and explained that when they are not able to resolve the colonial history in Africa.
They are saying that you will inform the killing of the African visitors' visitors that will cause the farmers of this continent to curb restrictions in their natural areas, and will be forced to be 61 years (ones) in those big farms which will be started.
They know that there is a big business center for foreign investors to end the problem of hunger in Africa by saying that the visitors passing the problem of hunger, they have the legal freedom to produce their crops but it is not a must for them to be like food.
A good example of that argument is in Mbarali in Mbeya province where an investor (in the picture) after being swept away from the farms which was paid by Bungado (EAGI) instead of rice.
In that step of an investor to buy tax in Mbarali District, it doesn't give 60 percent of the rice bran in the country, and therefore, affecting the poor nation of large numbers.
Any way the speed of the World Habitat Day to vie for land in Africa has been big in the recent years due to bad financial situation of many countries in this continent as a result of it has dropped by their crops.
Many times the presidents of those countries brought down the World Cup (example America) while some of the beggars were given because of the loans or donations of money they were given to the conditions of improving their land laws so as to allow visitors to take land in their countries for the purpose of that is called a big business industry.
The research that was done by the American organization called Oreo ', shows that the World Bank (WB) has been used to help the visitors to take land in Africa.
One of the reports of the research shows that, "the Ambassador of World Bank, especially the World Health Organization (WB) has reached a very big margin of land laws in the African countries, with the main aim being to bring progress to investors outside the African countries.
Certainly, in some African countries (I don't have an assurance from Tanzania) World Bank - WB) not only has given an emergency funds to break the land law, but it has also congratulated his advisers (it's) in the state of land, and some of the countries they are even in the State House.
Therefore, at the end of all, these land laws are taken to re-branding, we know that it is not because of the will of those African countries, but it is with the directives of the people of the world through their media like the World Bank (WB).
Here in Tanzania, already we have heard the minister of land, Mama Anna Tibaijuka speaking about the plan of improving land laws so that land can be used as property, and to be used to get shares - themselves by Tanzania.
I have been able to listen to the mother being interviewed by BBC and said that, under the amendments to land laws that will be used to be used as a result of foreign investors who will start 75 percent of the shares where those of those will go to the area (district) where land has reduced.
I am not an economist and not a expert in these land issues, but I did not need that thus knowing that in a scandal, the shares in companies or organizations or in anything which is 75 percent of the property, and is the one with the last statement.
Therefore, we shouldn't understand that we will still have a big voice in land that will be self-employed, because we will use that prison for, to get 25 percent of shares!
Friends, 25 percent and 75 percent of where or from which are the advice to the World Bank (WB) who were put up by that bank in the land ministry in Africa?
But also to say recently, together with my good understanding about the economic and land issues, I have no doubt that all of us believe that all of all other countries that are in the world, and that is why the country and the country is fighting to contest for land.
As he did, said the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, land is the great gift that God has done a human being of a human being in 1958, even before the presence of freedom from the colonialists, Teacher asked the citizens about selling land.
"Land is a gift of God for a human being in our country like our country, where African countries are poor and the visitors are rich and the locals will be taught, and this is the only way for God to a human being, can it be separated by any amount of money.
Now, if basically there is no amount of money which can be used according to the value of land, because if the current leaders, they have decided to assume the point of Nyerere of not selling our land in the past, and that we should stop the shares of 25 percent?
Why, Tibaijuka wants citizens to register themselves with that 25 percent of the shares we will fall under the peace procedure because our land will be trusted and from the village because of that big business industry?
They don't have a lot of money, but we have land, and the value of land is big than the money that we have no way to verify what they have any way, then we should not qualify for the 50-scale shares instead of being satisfied with 75-25 shares.
I know our leaders will inform you that it will be careful, and that they don't sell all land to the visitors, but that is when they sell Toto Africans, there was a surprise of the rains and not knowing when the rains were not allowed to fulfill the mistake.
After a long time, I commend and ask you to fulfill his own pen.
Mwarabu has said that she will not accept it, he will not leave it after time, on the end, he knew that he has thrown out the whole and Mwarabu has been buried outside the rains.
That is also what will happen in Tanzania and we will sell its land in our land in the past, and we will take 75 percent of shares in agricultural investment within the land and they will have 75 percent shares, we will have reduced a big part of our land with natural fertility.
- the same thing is normal and following me!
Any other, this is the colonial era of both sides, chief Manguanjuki and Maasais', whose era gave birth from a big land after being given a gift of money to register themselves with beads.
I know!
