
President Magufuli has intervened in a disaster of sugar.
Our journalists, Citizen.
In Dar es Salaam city, President John Magufuli ordered the arrest of business people who follow the sugar level with an aim of being shot dead in the price of that product has reduced due to people that are measurable.
Those have happened at the same time with the expectations that are estimated in sugar all over the world as a result of big producers of the product to be affected by rain el Hajj which is facing the world, and affecting the crops.
While Katoma in Manyara Region yesterday, President said he has got a report that there is one of the business people of Dar es Salaam city, he has got more than 3,000 tons of sugar in the story and another he has bought 3,000 tons in the factory and he has ordered the media stations to listen.
The president said it's there to have a plot for business people to maintain the sugar so that they kill them and that the sugar industry from outside come out of its time and caused the citizens to get diseases which have never been found.
"I want to call on business people that were sugar and sugar, while one went at the Kilombero and he went to Kilombero, he added more than 3,000 tons but he did not expect more than 3,000 tons but he does not want to allow citizens to stop sugar," he said.
"I want to assure you of the sugar you can't understand it.
I have already ordered all business people who were poor.
Those are changing the economy, we shall take the sugar industry and we will take free of free but we will take free of free.
"Therefore, if there are many business people they feel like, who want to play with this government.
They are playing with their lives and to remove the sugar and they go to them as we decided to thank my brothers who have Katani and Wiz Khalifa, do not be worried.
Magufuli said that the problem is for a period because his government cannot be unable to buy sugar and already he has already directed the prime minister so that the sugar industry is abolished by citizens to buy at a low price.
President Kikwete, who has been using the road transport, followed Katani while he was on a way from Dodoma where he attended the session of the CCM executive committee heading to Arusha.
President has said that during the sugar time it seems that they are measurable in the country, while the price could have reduced since the government intends to ban the importation of that product apart from a permit for the state house.
Giving his speech to the budget, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said that currently there is a shortage of sugar in the country and the government will help 100,000 tons to fill the deficit of the products.
The Green Resources Officer of the Australia region that performed this research earlier this year, claimed that the world will be faced with a huge shortage of sugar in the year 2016 than it is expected because of the heavy rains.
That institution said the use of sugar in this year will increase to continue with the needs of 495 million tons, which is 19 percent of its expectations in January.
Drought will affect the production of India, Thailand, and China this season and next season, according to Green Houses, the rains that poured under the level of India last year, caused a reduction.
The shortage that are facing the country at the process of involving themselves with sugar traders with an aim of getting married, a situation is bad in the local market.
The investigation that was done by the Citizen has revealed that the sugar prices in the regions of the Lake Region has increased from a huge price of 1,800 villages per month to 3,000 shillings.
Also, the 50 kilograms of cement that was being sold at 80 million shillings, equivalent to 949 billion shillings, now is being sold between 110 million shillings, whereby approximately 7 million shillings.
A resident of sugar of Tarime Town, Bhoke Waanga said that due to getting several sugar, they have been forced to increase prices so as to get benefits.
"At the moment the sugar industry in the country is small and cannot meet the needs of all the citizens, many business people have decided to distribute that product to the neighboring countries," said some of the traders from the lake region said the reasons for selling that price is due to buying neighboring countries of Kenya.
The business officer of Kagera Sugar Factory, Isaiah Shoki said they have stopped the production because of the preparation of the natural resources in the next season.
The shortage of sugar in line with the reduction in the price has caused the women living in Mwanza province to increase water prices from 200 shillings to 700 million shillings per week, a resident who identified himself as Idd Seif said this is during the official market so that the government can use this opportunity to benefit themselves and identify the poor people.
"We are expected to be announced, the sugar that is constructed (TPC) a distance of 40 kilometers sold to 500 shillings per liter, while Zambia and Vietnam that reduced the mountains in the reserve up to a easy price," he said.
A resident of Malampaka Ward in Babati City, Rutaisingwa, Martine Shigela getting back to the colonial era of raping and put aside the tea time because they will be able to withstand the price of sugar.
While citizens came out to get that product, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Adelhem Meru said there is no shortage, but there is an increase in sugar prices and the ministry is supposed to make sure they be sold at a guiding fee.
"It is true that the sugar level is being sold at a high price due to some of the business people fully in order to make sure that they are measurable.
He said that situation has been caused by people wanting to buy sugar at a guiding fee.
Mtwara Province, residents have complained to the rise of sugar prices from 2,200 shillings to 2800 shillings.
The businessman who is called Rajab Hamisi wanted the blame to the government and said that since the educative seminar of 1,800 villages will be announced that sugar has risen.
Another resident of that area, Mawazo Ally said for now, they are forced to drinking water instead of tea because of the high price.
"I used to buy a quarter of 500 million shillings, but today I has given 700 million shillings, I decided to buy a high level, I decided to prevent them because those environment can't be stuck because the government will not be avoided," said Ally.
Business officer of the Mtwara Municipal Council, Chrizostom Thadeo, said that since the president had banned the sugar importation of sugar, the level of the importation has gone down and some of the business people have been taxed.
"We have a huge shortage of sugar and in our municipality until now, we have done an inspection, there's there that sugar in warehouses and the shops we have inspected, some of the shops you find the shop is two kilograms," said Mharage Change.
Mtima councilor of Newala district, Nditi Rashid said that the shortage of that product has caused some of the areas of lack of areas and advise the government to allow sugar from outside to eliminate the gap in place.
It has been written by Ngapa with John Okello, (Mwanza), Ann Coaches Association (Tarime), Modest Mero (Quran), Florence Fashen.
Anthony Mavunde, (Kigoma), Rebecca Malope and Salim Kimaro (Mtwara).
