The education raised for all the claims of teachers.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako has said up to now the ministry does not have a debt that is claimed by the teachers in the country and that the debts that resulted in 22 billion shillings were paid.

Professor Ndalichako said that the day before yesterday in the evening when he was speaking in a period of we expected to be aired in the air by one of the television station of the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC1).
Speaking about the debts of teachers, he said that the government is looking for the teachers in the country and there are different efforts that have been done to ensure their claims are not allowed to enable them to be paid.
He said the debts of your number of teachers is one of the salaries that their ministry did not be accountable but are under the office of the president, service and others, which is under its ministry and urged the teachers in the country if they have a new debts from now to present at the ministry for the purpose of being paid.
"The ministry we recognize the contribution of teachers and their importance to our part, we do not have any claims of the teachers to prevent it, because we do we have a procedure to pay as what we do," said Professor Ndalichako.
Speaking about the issue of ghost workers, Professor Ndalichako said it is good that those who benefited in the verification exercise that is going on by the team of directors from various institutions, including directors, they quit them themselves in employment because the charges are marrying them.
About the verification of students of higher education, Professor Ndalichako said that until now, they have completed 31 universities out of 80 universities that are in the country and they have signed 2921 students who did not come out in time for verification, despite advertisements and direction.
Professor Ndalichako said when the verification of it was launched in all universities and also those colleges will be removed from advertisements in the universities and also through the media and also through the government's government in the concerned colleges, but that number did not come out.
He said that for a few who were tested and even if they are in the last year of studies, they will still be recognized as ghost students until when they get married, it will cost them to pay the cost of depending on that verification.
Speaking about the challenges of students, not to read and write, Professor Ndalichako said the government has been given training to teachers who teach in class one and second class and that as time you're getting.
About the procedure of giving loans to higher education, Professor Ndalichako said the challenges are there due to the system that was used in use, but the steps they have started to be taken so as to improve the records of the beneficiaries so as to be easy to claim.
In addition, he emphasized that students who had completed their houses in various universities in the country and if it is discovered that they got through bribery, was revealed that they came out.
