
The Member of Parliament for Correa scored.
And listen to me.
The representative of women in his country, Miss Zainab Chidinma (in the picture), accompanied by the safety of security, contrary to the stand of his fellow leaders of Claire.
Miss Chihira has said that the recommendations of that relationship should not be accountable because of human rights but aims to give security institutions to deal with terrorism and another crime.
"We must help him to be involved in terrorism through any way, including the rules of law, and therefore the preparations should not continue being attacked by the terrorists without taking any action of strengthening our systems in dealing with them," said Mrs Chihira.
Many leaders of Lufunga led by their head Raila Odinga have been forced to go to court together with calling the demonstrations to oppose that conflict, who are saying it endangers the rights of it.
On his part, the government was being led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, has stopped the recommendations of the game saying it should be allowed in winning the fight against terrorism.
Some of the recommendations of that meeting is being held by suspects for up to one year, security officers to urge citizens's communication together with a stern warning to the media by printing pictures of victims of a terrorist attack.
In Mombasa, defending champions of human rights warned the office of the president and the police department to break the constitution on the excuse of dealing with terrorism if the security system will be law.
The Executive Director of the Africa Human Rights Organization, Hussein Khalid said that the song goes against the constitution and put behind the steps that were taken in the country.
And the Executive Director of the Islamic Commission for Human Rights Commission (Muhuri), Hassan Abdille has claimed that the song will play Muslims together with denying them the media houses.
And with different feelings of being given about that problem, the parliament has been extended up by its public meetings tomorrow at the Jamhuri Stadium in Nairobi.
Hall, Nairobi.
In those sessions, the members of the Parliamentary Committee on issues of administration and national safety, will discuss the views of the citizens that will be keen on them.
Farouk Jivani will be awarded a finger to the executive committee.
