
Students listening to the Kili Challenge and Zhakem Grounds, Dec 7, 2012.

The CECAFA tournament that is taking place in Uganda in Kampala city has reached the semi-finals of the two teams in Tanzania to make that action as a good news in four teams to bring in two teams.

It was not a small job to be able to win a difficult team in the quarter-finals of Kilimanjaro Stars beating Rwanda 2-0, and in Zanzibar when they played for 90 minutes without scoring and Burundi being led by a player who was playing for the national team, for all two seasons.

As the people of Zanzibar they have no reason to thank their goalkeeper Mwadini Ally who succeeded to score a penalty between two who Burundi has failed, including the first one of the game being the total of 6-5 goals.

The intention of this article to talk about the preparations of these two teams to participate in the international competition, it will be taken back because the competition of CECAFA is taking place in Kampala, and by the good luck the city of Kampala, we've never used the fans that give the players their condolences to the field.

I have seen on social media networks and to view some of the media especially in Uganda and Tanzania, people are surprised to have a little group that is seen cheering in every Tanzanian team when they leave the field.

That is like luck, but it is clear that the football parties in Tanzania and Zanzibar were not ready to come up with the fans' team so as to give the players.
This is a technical offense because there is no wonder, if the teams played away away without the noise from fans who support him.

That group that is being used for many noise every time in Tanzania, when those teams played is for small students from Dar es Salaam University (thirst), that helped him to collect and take money for transport to go and return to every match.

I met with a leader of the group that she got married by one name withheld, says, "there is no one who has a sponsorship to us, we do not see football and we are looking for ten thousand in a day to go and go back every day they play."

Private have been going on two matches since the tournament started, the Kilimanjaro Stars match against Somalia that was played at Luahaga station and later, he joined Al-Square group to support Zanzibar, who were playing with Malawi.

In all the two stadiums that will be a distance from one stadium to another one is 30 minutes, there was no fans of Tanzania.

This means that if these youths have been used here, then our teams would have played the first until the end of the tournament without fans' fans know the effects of the team without fans.

I was not lucky to meet with the TFF leaders but I met the member of parliament Juma Noma, who is a journalist who was in the same way.

He said that I am happy about those youths, the Tanzanian ambassador, "for sure these youths have really impressed me, the first I did not know if we have spoken to them and also I have given them a little money to help them especially after listening to students.

"Shows a lot of patriotism in a high level, if they drew in Luwi.

I think now there is need for our soccer parties to have a system to enable some groups of other groups, to show their players and use every team that is prepared within the East African countries where the cost of the journey and living is still under little.

The surprise of Mrisho Khalfani Ngasa who has been showing great ability in the country together with the discipline of the high level, that people want him to be the best scorer and even to be a better player of the disease.

It is a surprise for a player to have a lot of goals in one match, Ngasa did not succeed to get a goal even in the first two matches against Sudan and Burundi, but in the first 2-0 win, the first goal was scored in the 7th minute of the game.

That two goals were scored by John Bocco who is also on the list of top scorers with five goals, one goal being scored against Rwanda the day before yesterday.

CECAFA is unable to prepare Swahili who are saying everything will not get a mosquito to the Uganda Football Association (EFG) which are the hosts of this tournament which has been transferred to water at the stadium that have no status of big competitions in the East African countries.

Previously this tournament was found to be played in two stadiums in Kampala city where I used to enter that center in the city of Owino, with a big field with international status Nambale who was known as Mandela Stadium, because the former president of South Africa Nelson Mandela.

But up to the tournament which is ready for that competition after I used to contest at the tournament, after I used to boycott the tournament, therefore the FA Cup will decide to inherit the Luahaga station which is under Azam's field of Chamazi.

However, after Nagged over the water they had a lot of work to be conducted at another bus station that is near the north, east of Uganda and for sure that plot is a high status.
According to it, it is a must that it can be used.

In another step, the reports that were released on Tuesday were given to work by the chairman of the National Sports Board, Geoffrey Kissima, being led by the Minister of Sports of Uganda, Charles F. Mlingwa, claiming that he was unable to satisfy the meeting of the board for a long time and to fail to organize a stadium for the CECAFA competition.

There are no doubt that have no weeds, this tournament is expected to be completed this Saturday, while the semi-finals played tomorrow Thursday.

The finals will be played at the Nambara stadium to conclude the tournament for the same team and show great talents to the participants which are Tanzania Mainland, Zanzibar, Kenya, Uganda, Sudan, South Sudan and Malawi which are the invited teams.

Up to now the ones who are leading is Mrisho Ngasa (5) Kilimanjaro Stars), John Bocco (5) Tanzania), Brian Umony (3, Burundi), Bira (3, Burundi) and Msepwa (3, Malawi).
