
Chihira has been allowed?

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

Issues with stakeholders when I am happy about how he made the minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu about the effects of a eggs and remember the questions that I saw in the internet about that famous food popular in the country.

Among those questions, it's a person who had come up with the creativity of a spirit what has been very popular as well as providing a lot of employment to the youth?
Why do you know that most of the men are men and why if you were buried and the woman takes place, why Minister Ummy has urged us to stop eating cases because it is dangerous to their health.
He made that directive in Dodoma city during the closing ceremony of the supervisors and regulations of research on the indicators of AIDS results in Tanzania of the year 2016.
He has said that citizens who have been successful in their bodies and not because of the eggs are not a lot of eggs and even if the Prime Minister Ummy was explanations that they used the effects of the child.
He got a danger of a eggs, a eggs did not change the truth that, that food has a lot of oil and is claimed to be among the foods loved by more than 300 megawatts.
When you eat a lot of eggs, believe that increasing a big amount of oil which is dangerous to your body and if it does not do exercises if you enjoy the heart problems especially from passing through deception.
It is alleged that, the body of a human beings will not depend on, if it will not be used for later, and that is why when they eat food of a lot of fuel that increased weight and weight.
Taxed is a source of many diseases because of large numbers of oil in the body that is causing to reduce the ways of transporting blood as a situation that causes extra strength to be used in dividing the blood in order to increase the heart.
Although many like to eat at different reasons including easily get, prices and views that do not depend on, it is not easy to reduce the eyes of the human beings and love us so that they can increase the sweetness of human beings to change their health.
Make sure that the opportunity to know that, fruits and vegetables are important in the body and it is not a must for you to have a degree to recognize that, among the big enemies to our health is us themselves.
