
To eliminate the coach is not medicine for Stars.
And apologized.
Every time when the national team of football was forced to do well in the international competitions, quick action is usually welcoming the coach.
K in the competition continued as possible.
Instead, we have continued to witness a soccer level continue to wane.
Coaches when they enter Taifa Stars is lack of very enough players in the squad.
We have continued depending on the old players instead of looking for new strength from all the corners of the nation.
Every year there is a big league that are being prepared apart from those who involve the players in's squad.
Those league are what is used to use new players who can get married and enable a national team to get strength.
A vibrant players has completed form four players every year and he did not end in the streets without any important thing to do in life, though they have talents to be criticized for making its own pen.
The intention of every player is to reach a national stadium so as to make sure that nobody would like to take over.
It can be able to continue depending on the players that they started to be heard for the national team approximately one year.
In what happens, we shall talk about what happened to the teams that he did in the previous years but now it has any attraction.
One of the teams (Super Eagles) of Nigeria who for now comes a lot of open due to the poor results, that team is praised so much until when his vibrant players played, though the veteran players got into a place of elders who graduated from Tanzania.
This is the situation that supports our national team, although our situation is so bad.
The responsibility of making upcoming players are not supposed to be released on the instructions that are in charge for your national team alone.
The teams that are the national soccer clubs have also been a great responsibility of contributing to those efforts.
Although it is possible for now, some of the teams have contributed to a certain amount to take players from rumors, there are many more that can be done.
One of the establishment of the youth team of the age of 18, this is a step that he appears in the nations that are continuing.
It is better if you want to go down, if we want to see soccer being done in here in the country.
The youths when they started participating in the league with small age, they will be able to have enough competence when they will attain the age that will enable them to join the national team.
Apart from that, the local government will also get to an extent in growing soccer in all corners of the country.
It is a must for enough sponsorship to be done by the local government, he says that in order to strengthen the situation of sports and also to supervise the teams of the teams that are under it.
We should be able to be a nation to wait, when the team comes badly, then we are going back to live, but we need to come out and each one to strengthen soccer in the country.
