
Employers are required to pay debts from workers.

October 21, 2016.

The secretary general of the Union of Workers of the Government of Health and Health (TUGHE), Thanduyise Hery Chiliza, wants employers to ensure that they pay the debts of their employees in time so as to prevent them to work hard and even eliminate complaints at work.
Mkukuta, said that the day before yesterday when speaking to the party leaders in a brief ceremony to hand over the office, that took place at the headquarters of TUGHE, here between him and retired secretary John Sendo.
He said he recognizes that there is a challenge of complaints by workers and its members, especially for failing to be paid their debts quickly, to be taken to the levels and even the payment of extra time, an issue that is affecting the performance of the work.
That secretary said as a result of that situation, he has urged those employers to start improving the debts of debts and other complaints on time before legal action will start being taken, so as to give them an opportunity to the workers to work hard.
"We got a great solution to be elected by our members so that we can be able to defend their interests and even solve their problems, therefore, we will work well in order to fulfill the members of TUGHE and the workers in general to get their rights and payment of them on time," said Mkulabi.
On his part, the retired Secretary of TUGHE, Simeone has said that the handing over he said that he has left to the party, while leaving 54,162 members and that he has urged new leaders to ensure that they protect themselves and to care for their members.
Hanjo, he urged those leaders to continue cooperation in the implementation of their responsibilities so as to help the members and the workers in general in making their challenges at time.
And the chairperson of TUGHE, the nation, Benoit Janin urged leaders who were chosen to be one in implementing their responsibilities, the aim being the implementation of the party's purpose according to the strategic plan of the year 2017 / 21.
That party has caused new leaders after the elections that took place on September 28 and 30th this year, where Mnemba emerged winner by his vice president, Magreth Kajege, while the Secretary General is Mkuyunim Ward.
