Most of God rest.
Dec 4th, 2014.

Popular businessman in the country, Reginald Mengi, is alleged that it is one of the people who are used due to the scandal of Tegeta Escrow account, which was completed in the parliament last week.
When you go to that event this week, relating to those allegations of threats, Mengi, in a short conversation with LHC, he said in short, "I am not left to God, all security issues and my life."
A lot is explained to be in danger of the explanation that he followed by members of parliament who were holding him to be taken to the directors of the government and politicians, those mentioned to be involved in that scandal.
"Many of it has two goals and one is claimed to have killed and Sendeka (Christopher Ole), so as to be careful in the second government, the relevant agencies are being affected so that these things are facing," the source of this newspaper.
Others in addition to Reginald Mengi, who at different times have told BBC Sport that they are together with the member of parliament of Kigoma South, David Kafulila, and the member of parliament for Simanjiro District, Zitto Kabwe, and the member of parliament for Musoma Villages, Nmrod Mkono.
Politicians and those business people are saying that it will be protected by people who are saying not to be faced with the way that is causing the issue being led by the media and the public to an extent of putting the government in a difficult time.
While reiterating that he has given information to the police force about their lives, and he has claimed to have severe poison when he was at the parliamentary tour in England last month.
Ole Sendeka, one of the members of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), is happy to have a big difference with the leadership of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo with the general secretary of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo with the secretary general, Eliakim Maswi was also very close to Reginald Mengi, who has been accused of putting up on the list of people who are in danger.
When he was interviewed by this newspaper about threats that they received as a result of his stand on the Escrow scandal, Kafulila said that he started doing life since he started making noise on the issue of billions of Escrow in the beginning of this year and that even his life have been changed and they have been found.
During the campaign meeting that ended in Dodoma last week, Kafulila says he went to thank the police force as a result of a message that he was used through his mobile phone with unknown people.
In his talks with this newspaper the day before yesterday evening, Zitto confessed to know about the danger facing him and he said during the previous parliament, he did not show any place anywhere in his home where her sister was born.
I know it is because people who were suffering from their stand were displayed by the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) and some members of parliament and that is why they are very keen more than another time, "said Zitto Kabwe.
Police force in Dodoma province have already participated in receiving reports of falling on some of the politicians who attended the occurrence of these reports.
Already the police in Dodoma province is believed that one person who has not been mentioned is the name of claims that he went to the province, with some members of parliament.
Reports of threats from Reginald Mengi and those politicians depend on fear that maybe the groups of the left wing have begun to expand here in the country in a recent days.
Already there are events of journalists and they have a habit of being badly due to another offense after being seen to intervene in the interests of some groups of people with great strength here in the country.
