
4 people in one community live.
By Stella Manyanya.
Four people including two brothers and private brothers were died yesterday morning at the road accidents coming from a celebration to cross the year in Hong Kong City.
The accident occurred in Makulu area started in ten o'clock in the morning while the vehicle passed on the road and broke several times.
Who died were among the seven people who were coming from the slaughterhouse in Mount Kilimanjaro, for a celebration to cross the new year.
Although the Deputy Head of the police of Chakwama, Joseph Ole Kina said that police have not signed the vehicle that he did the vehicle to stop the road, he said that maybe the driver was passing through a fast speed.
"Two people died on the spot and two others were stolen from the mud which was rushed after that accident," said Mister Lekule.
He said that three people have been transferred to the Uhuru Kenyatta hospital in Nairobi after the request of their families.
That accident did a number of people who died in road accidents on the first day of this year that nine people were injured in the accident that happened on the main road of human beings.
Despite the national authority for transport and security (NTSA), said the number of people who died in the accident occurred by 9 percent last year, many people are continuing to die in road accidents.
The road safety director of NTSA, are seeing them (in the picture) said a total of 3,907 people died in 2014 compared to 718 people who died in the year 2013.
I will ensure that 19 people have died in Christmas season last year in the country between December 24 and December 26.
"In 2013, 54 people were injured in the road accidents on the Christmas season," said Mister you are seeing them and added that an accident that happened in a story where five people of one family have died.
According to the authority, 3,000 people's authority.
To listen to the effects, and photos, Anthony Mtaka, died on the road accidents in the country in a period of one year.
In that period of 8,448 shillings, they got injuries and these statistics were not involved in accidents that happened after December 18.
According to those statistics, many of who died in road accidents they collided with two vehicles.
I have been running a great campaign to encourage the Kenyans the way to maintain road safety through the media and by using other ways.
On December last year, the authority forced the department to investigate the night of vehicles of public transport.
Officers were sent to 20 areas in road and capital cities to ensure the vehicles that will participate in the night do not involve the law and laws of controlling the journey of the public vehicles which were started after the accident occurred in Narok August 2013 where 40 people died.
Nairobi in a model who is 19.
