
CHADEMA to boycott the registration of votes.

Rashid Mkonga.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has said that the launch of the voting exercise that is taking place in Makambako City, Njombe province is an aim of bringing in the citizens that we are heading to the rights and equal to October 31st this year.

That statement has been made by the National Chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe when he was speaking to members of the council of leadership of that party in the southern highland regions at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Mbeya City yesterday.

Mbowe said that the whole process of registration and the registration exercise has had a great importance between the National Electoral Commission and the ruling party, though the senior leaders of other political parties don't know what is happening.

"I am a leader of CHADEMA, I don't know what is going on to voters, there are few days heading to the general elections, but there has been a great election done by the Electoral Commission," he said.

He clarified that he has been invited in the last minutes to attend the national launch of registration of the voters in Makambako City and said the whole process is not beneficial to the beneficiaries because the exercise will take place in 9 wards of the city instead of the whole region or province as a whole.

"This is the destruction of money for citizens, the launch it is done in 9 wards in the city of Makambako City, instead of taking place in the whole region, there is something that is happening in the whole country, there is something that will happen in few wards while the needs are all citizens to register themselves in the permanent registration exercise in the country," he explained.

He said that he would like to ask a special expert on registration issues from America, Darcoboa, Geology, who was supposed to help the preparation of the electronic fiscal system, Bieldt.

Mbowe said that the expert after doing his research gave the answers of that it will not be possible for the exercise to be improved and completed in a short period towards the general elections of October and that preparations for the system are required to take a whole year so that the registration can go to the appropriate procedures.

"As a result of this it is difficult to get into the elections without the existence of anything, I have been invited to attend this launch, to take my brothers to the party or get to get," said Mbowe in front of the delegates of the council of leadership in that party.

After meeting the crowd of members of that meeting from the Rukwa, Mbeya, Iringa, Njombe and Ruvuma were cast in the air by saying.
"I did not lie! TE, Mbowe warned three times the delegates and to be listened to so that when he gave a statement that he cannot participate in that launch.

"I cannot participate in that launch, I believe that I will be with the end of what I would like I have participated to prevent us from those delegates.

Previously, Mbowe speaking to the security forces of the party through the Revolutionary Party, he said that those groups of different party as well as the Revolutionary Party are expected to teach them patriotism in entrepreneurship, ethics and managing elections on October 31st.

"I want to know that CHADEMA is a political party or not the army, we are doing our issues in public but our colleagues are doing well in public and to cause violence in the general elections, but it does not affect the discipline of the party without caring for ideology," he said.
