

By Pendo la battling, Mbeya.
For several years now the parents of Mendes Hospital in Mbeya province has been the solution to pregnant women with problems in the whole period of pregnancy and even at times of giving birth.
But there is a probability that this situation occurred if the legal action will be able to give it more that the hospital will be taken.
Historically, that hospital was built in the beginning of 1950, and the main objective is to make an institution that will serve the patients of tuberculosis in Mbeya Region as well as the neighboring areas.
During the construction of that institution, Mbeya Province had the residents that are estimated to be 10,000 shillings.
In the year 1985, the government officially announced that hospital and has given priority to the women's services.
The importance of this hospital to the residents of Mbeya together with the neighboring provinces of Iringa, Ruvuma, Rukwa, Katavi, Njombe and Songwe, has been great and beneficial to hundreds of women in this region.
The government at different times has continued to invest more energy to ensure that services that are provided in that hospital are of high level and thus reducing the deaths of the women that were resulting from family problems, together with young children.
However, one area which the government has not seen it is the one to expand this hospital infrastructure especially the buildings, since the government failed to take this hospital, a big issue that has been added on the side of buildings that have been added among the buildings that have been added by the ones that have been commended.
Therefore, he can visit this hospital, one thing that is easy to know is the quality and cleaning of the area, although this is a result of a person getting outside the hospital, therefore, the situation is very different.
It's something sad and to remind and more than all that is a threat to the women who go to get services in the hospital but also children who are born with those pregnant women.
Having only four wards that are officially launched to patients, this hospital are not seen in any way to be in a condition of being able to cater for a large number of patients who require its services. "The province had approximately two hundred thousand residents.
Currently the hospital is giving services in the area where the number of its residents is estimated to be eight million.
This increase of people's population, is 40 times the number of people who were present at this hospital being built, and in any way it will be able to build it as a renovation of buildings and infrastructure that can be able to meet the needs of this number of borrowers.
While many big hospitals in the country are being faced with a huge problem of patients suffering from one ward while most of them are very bad in this ward, the situation is so bad in this television hospital because there are patients who are even a chance to listen.
This hospital which is the regional Referral Hospital in the Southern Highlands Region, which is in Mbeya town, has only four wards with 120 beds and 30 beds in every corner, these beds will be used to use 120 patients only.
