
Happy to Nelson Mandela (12, 2013.

In the holy Bible Church, just after Jesus Christ, died from two pieces, the country shivered and the rebels were admitted to say "for sure this was the first lady of God of South Africa, of the fight against racial discrimination, Nelson Mandela.
News of the death of Mandela's death is not only seen despite the fact that his health was it when it reached a long time, but it also touched approximately many people all over the world as they tried to make approximately many people all over the world.
I request to think that though I was very happy and thank Mandela, but I have identified himself the size of love and respect and maybe it is because the media have been using a lot of time to speak, but more than to me is to get time through different wisdom of that big politician in the world.
My quote from the Bible does not allow Mandela and Jesus Christ.
And also the meaning of the quote of that leader does not mean that any way to go as compared to "Madiba" (a high table), the law was surprised by my person (I think this) is the words of Mandela during the case that was opened by the Board. of Boers in 1962.
Why this quote has really touched me so much, I have ever seen as the victims of my human rights and constitution to have a stand on certain issues, believe in that position, and that will lead the position.
By bad luck, if it was for Mandela in South Africa, the only stand that is accepted by the ruling party and it is the one that is in line with their opponents, even if it is not right.
Whoever will be standing in fighting with me, then they should be ready to face ractory sides against those fights. Mandela did not want to fight with the electronic system that is facing people with the origin of color, and he was not able to deal with that commitment in actions.
It is important to recognize that the fight against the electronic system has reduced, so as to prevent the elephants and drinking alcohol, one of its important criteria, and thousands of citizens who don't have pain or injured in the fight to claim the rights and freedom.
This is during the short time of the son of South Africa, who this time I see this article, he is expected to be released by President Barack Obama and retired presidents, David Cameron, Tony Blair, Tony Blair and John Lukuwi.
But if several times we have been touching on the toes of some of our leaders in the loved ones, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who was a close friend to Mandela, it will be afraid of Mandela without considering his great work that he did in South Africa and the world as a whole.
Tears we want to thank Mandela who will be free for free if he will not tolerate its faith that there is no opportunity of any kind to a human being or a system.
But maybe the most important part from the death of Mandela is a challenge to politicians and our leaders in different levels, be political, religious, and social networks like this one of your end in the whole world but being a good example of the world to be available where he is a good intention.
There is another important challenge to prevent us especially after the commemoration of 52 years of our freedom this Monday, where our freedom require good freedom and they don't have themselves so much, but our nation's resources are unsuitable for few people instead of each one of us?
I request that I conclude this article by admitting that I have found a very difficult time to prepare it, it's difficult to recognize the death of my important person like Mandela, and it is like a good person that does not know your soul in eternal peace, Amina Salehe, in Washington DC.
