A rebellion like soda, Lieutenant Colonel Iriyo has asked to support the United Nations.
Jah 03 / 2014.

Today we are continuing with the seventh part of the armed forces on night of January 19th this year, by checking different issues that happened at the time of those issues include communication that took place to the United Nations (UN).
The list of witnesses was enough which also made it to the Private Alex Tugara. "We are believed to participate fully in preparing a short time before the official session of the whole group that fainted often.
This is in his evidence in court explained the way he met for the first time by Zena Moses, who is among the accused of a rebellion, explained that Edmund Moses met with him and requested him to join the police group with an aim of joining the army officers.
It has explained the court that in the afternoon of January 18th, there were invited to his home to corporal Moses and he said.
"Edmund Moses told me that the main aim of the special group of police is to stop the camp and in the army officers because they don't have complaints from police."
He claimed that Edmund Moses continued to convince that the children of the whites officers have been taken to school because of the army while the children of African police go to school on foot.
After a teaser?

After the appointment, Private Tsehai said that he explained and he explained to the court saying that he had explained to be part of the group of those police and we did not have water, which was a distance of approximately four people from the military camp Colasso (now Lugalo). "
He said that the official meeting of secret started at nine o'clock in the afternoon and completed at 11 o'clock in the evening, 13 police were present.
While in the court he continued to give another evidence, Private Brian Umony was able to recognize four suspects who attended that meeting.
He said in their meeting they used the way to implement the strategy of joining the whites officers, how they will win the African officers without forgetting the way to increase their salaries.
"After agree on how we will implement this plan, we're welcome but we agree to meet again in the shop of the business person in the night," he said.
70 soldiers were present at.

During that meeting the night before yesterday at the area of a small business person in the world, Private Tsehai said that more than 70 officers attended to the members of the members they had decided to take a session of nine o'clock at 11 o'clock.
After that meeting, the police started implementing a series of rebellion like Spain's defense forces, were found in a risk of heavy rainfall accompanied by officers arrived at the camp and without the delay of involvement in defense and killing them.
Private Brian Umony has explained that the court that he saw him for the first time of Sergeant Francis Hovind, who was not in the last session at night. He said this morning (January 20), he saw two soldiers who were in the army and private vehicle going into the Colyvas of the military camp.
He said in the private car, he saw the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defense, Oscar Assenga, and several other citizens of Sergeant Samuel Eto'o explained to the rebels that he has brought back to the camp to listen to the complaints of police.
In his speech, Private Brian Umony explained that the court that the rebellion have been planned to be done in a political without any actions, the aim being to make the army to have a picture of Africa (African Continent) by making their talks during a rebellion or murder cases.
Another witness, Lieutenant Francis Ntalazi, explained how he was forced to go hand in hand with other two officers to go down while he has said that night of rebellion.
Several witnesses like they gave their evidence in court about the rebellion, January 19th and next day, that is January 20, last year only.
In front of the special court of Cooperatives, they were accused of breaking up for a mistake and gave evidence to the court together with Mgana Allo, Lungwani Market, Private Brian Salva Rweyemamu, Brian Bribes and Sajuki.
Others are Captain John Mbasha at the Magala grounds to inherit Peter Mbasha at the Private Brian Salva Rweyemamu, Mrs. Gervinho.
Communication going to the UN.

In a series of rebellion, court, it was explained that Sergeant Francis Itofali Emmanuel did communication with the secretary general of the United Nations to inform you about the rebellion, remember late Sajuki.
