The torch of Mwenge will end up until now, to do what?
Jide 24, 2013.

We are saying what we witnessed right now should do the greatest desire to accept it because of the failure to bring themselves development that we promise us themselves about five years ago.
Our soul wants us, and we are forced to inform you that we are supposed to be canceled, and instead we are looking for every kind of thanks so that we can be able to register our history in short time.
When we got Uhuru we promised the world, while we had promised you to be the hosts, (here I am talking with joy) that we will do hard to build our country and be able to show more better than all that they participated in the British.
In 1958, the founder of the Tanganyika stadium, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, on behalf of us, that we would like to oppose the torch and managed to fight to Mount Kilimanjaro, terms of love, love and give birth, love, and honor.
These are the words that were annoyed so much by the sacred heart of Asmara, who received her life in service and services to the poor and they should come out by a rich family of Honorable Asser, and in his same way they participated in the business and grow their father's problems.
After seeing you light, "Masau boasted on his family and he gave himself the responsibility of people and other creatures to them is for his respect being launched by the Ntasoma Hotel, whose ideology is facing poverty and humility to the service of God and his people.
In the year 1961, Teacher told the British (through Richard Turnbull), the governor of last year that he would have invited him after ten years they come out for yourself the Tanganyika development they were in front of them, that was not yet known.
And true, ten years later, he invited and they mentioned a nation known as seen because it shows every sign of making steps to move forward. December 1971, I was quoted by the famous visitors (VIP) national stadium, as I have witnessed being a big offence during the commemoration, together with the bad security situation that was caused by what was claimed to be the champion club of Ugandan and its spherical guidelines.
At that time Tanganyika went to join Zanzibar to form a new nation of Tanzania, and the fate of our country was written with great skills, we had our businesses and business equipment, we had our freedom to inform the heads of the world, to read and leave them.
We are building a primary school, at least the beginning of our country, we were the main pillar for developing African continent, and the liberation war was reported to Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe, Namibia and elsewhere.
Fifty years after Uhuru, we have been bigger than the biggest reason for our weakness is that we have not succeeded to confirm the dreams of the era of giving them our citizens, especially the poor.
I request it should be understood well here.
I love you, if we do not want to discuss our problems, and instead we see a solution to those people, as we believe that they are supposed to be shown in public, it will be satisfied with the debate, it will be satisfied with them.
Probably you miss that, and instead of every day you will be able to take a new chapter, bad and very dangerous parasites, "it is not with any skill of looking for him to do," it is not with any competence of looking for him and research in large numbers.
Different from looking for me, taking it is easy to our leaders, because when you look for them what you want them, they do not want them to do any way of giving an order, "know!" You are not enough.
