Lowassa's Ukawa are lucky or has been?
Brightiles 12, 2015.

Finally, the attack has taken place after his name being used in the race to look for the presidential candidate through the Revolutionary Party, and after the rumors that had been running for a long time, if Edward Lowassa will remain or leave the party, now he has officially joined the Demirtas and Development Party (CCM).
Lowassa is now the candidate for the presidential position through parties that make up the Citizens Union Constitution (Ukawa) of up of the political parties, the Civic United Front (CUF), will pray and National Examination for Change (NLD).
As a result of his move from CCM, Lowassa who was the prime minister, has made history by being the first leader of high level from that party to join the opposition since Tanzania started political parties more than 20 years ago.
At the time of vying for that position through CCM, Lowassa was seen as the running mate and many research that happened by him as the candidate who had a great opportunity of winning.
Lowassa is a politician with two different articles as well as others, seems to be an example of leaders to be followed keenly and not words, but some others seems to be the father of corruption "here in the country.
However, the issues that Ukawa has been preparing for a long time, Lowassa is not a type of someone who is going to have the policies of Ukawa, has built its reputation due to two big things, on the first position of supporting the recommendations of the commission of Judge Joseph Warioba about the new constitution and the second constitution to oppose corruption.
One of the sponsors of the proposed constitution which is owned by Ukawa was Andrew Chenge, who is one of the political leaders of Lowassa's political leaders, Lowassa also has been accused of Ukawa as the father of corruption and parliament for a long time and now they will get rid of the citizens otherwise.
That is why they believe that the elections on October 25th this year, will be dominated by policy issues or not because this is the name of Ukawa.
CHADEMA and other parties that make Ukawa have agreed to enable them to maintain their lives by making a politician who have used a long time against him and call all the bad names of the former secretary general, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, now they have remained to be viewers.
The leaders of Ukawa have decided to play money gambling.
Lowassa also has played anything of its kind because everyone went to be after what happened in CCM, he would decide to be retired.
In more than one way, that took place for Ukawa to support Lowassa is seen as the decision that was done quickly it has shown that Ukawa did not have faith that Doctor Slaa could lead the CCM candidate, Doctor John Magufuli.
It involves Lowassa as a person who made a decision as a result of lack of another way the party has decided to put up his basis because of getting the authority it does not have Lowassa if someone who decided to put his personal interests on the broader interests of his party.
According to the resignation of the side, a big question of asking him is one of the times, these things have the effects on the elections and for now, this is a question that is possible to avoid problems that is was known as well as possible.
The following questions are important to get his answers before doing it.
1 - when Lowassa will leave everything?
At the moment the reports of thousands of members of CCM, normal and other leaders as ministers, members of parliament and party leaders in different levels, he was moving to the party and moving to parliament, he has brought in fire.
If the words of his followers about the political strength he has, Lowassa in CCM is true, because there is a probability that the party had condemned the party's probability of having followers who love her or else they were born with other things.
Many people now do a decision about their political future because this is also the time those parties are in the process of looking for candidates for parliamentary positions, those decisions are required to take place quickly.
