We are saying this is a period to allow you to live in sports to prevent disability as we are looking at different issues or different topics that follow the whole issue or the late God has become a matter like most of her health and when we do when we talk about her health issues or not as usual when we talk about her health issues.
And now this period but I thank you so much, I have been living with the sun, which is saying that you are with you and also of Huria Tanzania.
For the TFF's football team because without forgetting the bronze medals, Evan the sponsors and as the money to get the opinion from Christians we are in the provinces speaking about the importance of looking for health care.
In sports for a long time is not a long time from the same time when the injured were cast away but here on my front as usual you want to go to the church this time.
The boss is this coach the late God rest a good case or an interpreter.
And then the Almighty God create, let us start then.
The real case, the late Cathlee, while as the chief spokesperson about those players for testing their health.
Thank you?
Stakeholders.
The late God rest the stakeholders who has come at this hall, "Success is still in front of us as it has been able to tell me the importance of testing and the players.
Almighty God bless you.
Statistics.
He is a sober mind in his body but it becomes a little difficult for Tanzanians.
Not to do a lot of tests for many times, we know you will know the biggest of the youth but it is very important to know that if the clubs do not have tests, but there is no reason to make sure that we have been registered by many people, but we must know what we have been registered by many people, but we must know what we are registered by many people, but we must know what we are registered by many people.
Even so, my brothers, we're getting in Dar es Salaam.
The opinion polls are currently there.
Thank you, if the reporter said anything done by names I was called upon.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will give a topic on today, we will talk about the players to test their health.
The Lord does not know the truth if how did you say?
Everything is very important even to a normal person just to know your health is a primary thing.
Now a player can make it be like a country in a team.
When a bad luck that you've not been wrecking your day the country is possible.
Because of?
There is an importance of looking for us.
These people participated in the board.
In order to know that the length is?
You are not known for AIDS, together with the weight to know what are going to know.
When you get out that you are doing the activities of football, there.
Easily, it is not a long time to understand even before we live in a normal state, it is good to know but for a player is good.
Or as the way you also say it is coming from.
You see you are saying the player is when you go to the body when you go to the body and they will not be true well if you are in a check of her health as seen every year.
In the month of time you will know that it's not the same and for instance, they are given advice to advice.
How do I vote?
Do you know where we are more than our players.
They do not see for now the results were.
There will be a lot in recent days, we have witnessed some of the players who have no expenditure, I can't understand what others are saying.
But it's true that such as they are reduced, they are causing losses to a penalty that don't know.
I have heard the player looking at that level it is unable to understand what is a player to see there are more than phone and I have met and was very much in the several league but after a long time you're with him and I was surprised by this one that will bring him.
Or the same?
There has been there.
Those players play down.
You can I agree with I was there some of the players that fell.
Now this is coming from because of the money set for houses just after time.
They don't know that there are changes in the body and it's also going to the field so as to know more.
.
Now what should be done by Chief like what he said you will ask you even to put a great law.
That this passing the form of registration.
We must know the reports of Doctor Phillip Mpango, if the best player does not get from Nigeria just to pay for a three days if he is told Mister this is a member of parliament of a device.
When this is in a spirit you would like you.
These are just two days, I decided not to take care for the chicken for everyone, I would say that it is good for a long time, most of us, the section will see the monitoring of high standard.
So much my brothers, the late Margaret Toba was walking for, where we know if the message will continue to enable four hundred thousand women in sports and today, the late is looking at the importance of players living in sports and today, the late is looking at the importance of players living in their health.
A light of being crowned.
Your questions is like there.
Recently, you don't know how he didn't see if he will get there is a situation.
How do you come from the late?
