Simba, while carrying out their leaders that will improve the field.
May 22, 2014.

The important thing that led by being waited for great desire to the Simba club is the whole issue of the general elections of that club which has been scheduled to take place on June 29, in Dar es Salaam.

A total of 41 candidates participated in order to vie for various positions in that club while in the previous step, there are some of the candidates who have been seen clear that they have no criteria to vie for different positions in that club.

While Simba continuing with the process of that election, their old rivals, Yanga, who are in that plan to get new leaders who will lead the club for a period of four years in accordance with their constitution.

For sure I were a member of Simba, for this time I would have tried to check the leadership that was in power for a period of four years, he has done what I would have decided to choose other leaders who know that they will improve when they were in power.

I remember last week when some of the candidates in that club taking the forms and return it, who came to different types of celebration together with the celebrations that were accompanied by great groups of the aides.

I was surprised a lot because in any kind of elections, every candidate will be in his style to ensure that he seems to be better so that he can get that position.

Many cases in Simba's elections are supposed to be in the presidential position with his vice president, but it is a surprising thing that there is no new name to those candidates, this means that they have decided to go back again.
There is one candidate who was contested with saying that he wants to use the club's resources in order to bring development to the club so as to bring development.

Currently, why I have not seen the candidate even one who plays for evaluation of that club and discovered that a big problem which has been a song "remix is" which is the one to build a club's field.

That is why I have broken down saying that leaders are leading in these clubs that are self-known as Simba and Yanga, are not supposed to perform more than filling their own pen.

Recently, the secretary general of Simba tried to make a wall about making the stadium in the Bunju area, outskirts of Dar es Salaam city, so that at least they can be used in the previous steps for the exercise of that club and he seems to fail, after his efforts are seen to be unable to succeed.

The leadership that completed his term under the president, Aden Rage, has expressed his promise when he got into power, all of them have been like the songs that have no permits.

There is a big possibility of these clubs to continue considering that their members have been unable to get a good leaders, that emerged with those who went to power due to the time he is returning again and continue to defend them.

That is why there are other stakeholders saying that there is no need for the club like Simba and Yanga to have the members who have failed to implement the development of those clubs as a result of the invention and small things.
