The business environment in South Africa.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

The institutions that deals with the environment of investment in Africa (FGM), have been criticized the report that shows the business environment in that country since the year 2007.

During the launch of that report that was done today in Dar es Salaam, the co-chairman of the board of ICSIDO, Retired President of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa said the institution has confirmed that the investment environment of investment can be done quickly by using little resources and bring efficiency in the high level.
He has said that the success of that institution is that it has enabled more than 73 projects to be based on changes and bring productivity in Africa, and the real examples include the construction of good environment for doing business easily and at the past compared to the previous days.
"Julio has urged many business people to be signed, systems for tax paying in Africa has been revealed, the company is now to be signed in the internet and for a short time, because the business environment in general have been improved," said Mkapa.
He said the only thing is the country to see the importance of using the opportunities available and increase their economy while insisting that the important thing is to use small resources that are in bringing huge results and by being involved in private sectors.
"It is the responsibility of the country to recognize that system of ICSIDO and derailing the development of the investment environment that will bring development and grow the life of life for its people and to involve the private sector because they have a contribution to improve the economy," he said Mkapa.
He has said that the country like Rwanda has taken a great step in putting a good environment for business and systems of tax paying, because they discovered the opportunities early and they decided to implement those opportunities and to make steps and take action.
And the chief executive officer of ICSIDO, William Asis said that if you have been able to build their ability in Africa, public institutions and private sectors as well as citizens in different areas including increasing the skills of business and business laws and quality standards of food.
If you do work in 21 African countries, it is one of the African development organizations that helps to reduce restrictions of doing business and it has contributed by 100 percent in improving the environment of investment in Africa, which believes that investment environment will increase and grow the country's income and reduce poverty.
That institution has prepared itself in eight important areas which are registration of business and licenses, to build the ability, implementation of business conflicts, financial markets, empowerment of infrastructure, property and business cooperation.
