Mkuranga will expected to build factories.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana, Mkuranga.

It has been published today, October 2016.

Coast Provincial Commissioner, Evarist Ndikilo has officially announced that province as a region of industries, after many investors came out with an aim of starting new industries in that province.

Mkuranga member of parliament, Abdallah Ulega has said in front of President John Magufuli that until now in his constituency, a total of 53 industries are expected to be built.
Those leaders have said that, yesterday at a ceremony to launch a factory to process fruits that is under the food company in Bakhresa Area, Mkuranga District, Coast Province.
Ndikilo said that for the intention of the fifth term government of building the economy of industries, the province has intended to change to become a region of industries and already the strategies to make that intention has started to be implemented.
He mentioned the strategies as together with the directive by every district council of that province to set aside land areas for the purpose of industries where several districts have started the process.
Ulega said the residents of Mkuranga have organized to receive industries as a result of the opportunity for the pass of gas pipeline from Mtwara to Dar es Salaam.
However, he mentioned some of the challenges facing the region as a shortage of electricity since there is already an investor with the intention of building a clothes factory in that province that will be given employment by 142,500 people but its condition is electricity.
The minister for industry, trade and investment Charles Mwijage, said that his ministry has prepared himself as required by various investors who want to start the industries in the country.
He said the issue of availability of electricity, already has spoken to TANESCO and agreed that gas which will be held in Mkuranga from Mtwara to Dar es Salaam will also be used in the Mkuranga area for the purpose of industries and other expenditure.
