
The government said before others.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

The government spokesperson, Hassan Abutalebi has said that he will make sure the government says first before others said.

He said that today in Dodoma during the launch of the website of Tanzania Food Reserve Agency (NFRA). Abaas the Executive Director of the Department of Information (details), has said that they have begun to select the constitutional process to destroy the government.
"The government is supposed to assure you, I will ensure we become a government that says before others don't understand," he said.
He has said, the world has seven billion people and out of them, three billion are using social media, a situation that makes your Joomla website on the internet.
He said, in the world there are more than 200 networks and every network is popular.
"Statistics show that 91 percent of a big company like Sony and Indians who have passed are two to five social networks and many of the world leaving the system of depending on the newspapers and television," he said.
He has said that the government on its part is using social media for the purpose of spreading information.
"We will speak there are a team of news officers of the government doing the work of using information, photos, even the video on the internet," he said.
He has said that many citizens use social media networks because it is free, with the chest, you know what is going on in the world.
"The beginning of government people were not supposed to use social media, now they are using, because its benefit is big and the world cannot stop the type of communication," he said.
The Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, William Ole Nasha, has said the website has an aim to ease the performance of the government and the provision of information to the public and already it has been organized a draft that will give direction and could be able to improve and improve the performance of the service and service delivery.
He has said that the government has intended to have reliable and communication system of information and communication technology (ICT) because it is among the important issues since the internet enabled citizens to get services as the Deputy Minister said, the website will have important issues and wanted to be more than the libraries, since many government institutions are being started.
"Website is a private sector, it is good to continue to improve other website, it is not correct for information that are made since the website was made," he said.
He wants the website to continue to be active in order for many people to get new information every time.
"If you start a website and people did not visit your website, we do not want to know, experience shows many websites for ministries are like a lot of challenges that have a lot of challenges and if you see you are lack of money."
