
Simiyu will serve the independence of Morocco to kick off in the rainy season.

After the buying of a half-finals of Cape Town, there was a month last month, the manager of 15 players of 15 players in each other side, Somangila county, Simiyu had a big faith that will take place on January 30th and 31.
Simiyu, who missed the youth of Benjamin Aurier will do well in Cape Town, a woman is in South Africa, believes Kenya has the ability to reach the finals in Mkwajuni, New Zealand.
The "save a good taste to the players who are used by upcoming stars as there is a woman in South Africa, and I don't see one person we will go to a half-finals by the finals," Simiyu explained the nation today without a phone company yesterday.
This officer who was accompanied by the upcoming artist, Robert Are, Frank Kibiki and Nelson Odax said in the first round that took place in Dubai and South Africa "I think it will not have a problem of inheritance because upcoming stars came up so much to fill the players that he will increase the use of more strength.
"We will be remembered that the important contribution from Okocha to play for 15 players from the last year against Portugal, Spain, and Germany.
The independence broke out at MEMKWA school, Cambridge and coldness.
Despite this group being easy more than Cape Town County, a woman had gone against England, South Africa and Zimbabwe, the independence will be forced to have Australia and Canada went to Kenya last season and they will be responsible for developing their good record.
Rumors has already been followed by Divine Kweka, there is a one week later, Kenya has seized the third position out of 17 that participated in the first round that has received 20 points.
Kenya reached the semi-finals of which there is a probability of the year 2013 and it will be the second time in history if there will be a step.
One of the goals that the buying of this season is to win one match with eight points after Dubai and Cape Town, to be played.
