
What happened in Mbagala, our problems are Islam and Christianity, 2012

Maybe it is not for this writer, but some of the readers who saw a surprise after dealing with knowing the thoughts of Evarist Mwalongo.

It is reported that Scotland's law living with writer Evarist Ndikilo, a situation (or not out of taxes as the editor does the whole), provide justice to a great extent more than many other countries in Europe.

The suspect, for example, its rights are protected with a big margin in England where there is a source of "mystery, which is used in Tanzania.

It is possible after living in peace, Make Me Sing and became the consumer of "they impressed me.
"Flash disk", popularly known here, Evarist Ndikilo, the situation has been abducted.

As usual, the situation is a Christian and then the truth is following the teachings of his religion by close to them.

The girl, doughing, as she is not in the Holy Quran not a surprising thing, maybe the editor and other readers do not like to study, but the truth is known among Muslims.

This is not the incitement that is wanted to be the presence of good relationship among local dances without considering that the meaning of being best than another which seems to be among some (a big part) of Christians.

After the tragedy of yourself in the Quran, the youth Emmanuel did not talk about having an appeal but even so, they did not get good cooperation from the mother of the youth and therefore they found the police station to look for justice and something sad, is that there is no one newspaper in the country that wrote this news.

That was a act of looking for justice and those involved in the accident can't be criticized by the elders that are involved with their respect to the same place.

One of them was the religious leader in that area, Sheikh Khajida Kopa, this is the one who was collaborating with the police on this matter. It's impossible for journalists to get reports like that is not correct for sure or even if it is not for instance, then you are already using security.

The fact is that it was approximately three days after the young man to be taken to the police where Muslims feel they are oppressed because there are no steps that were taken to Emmanuel in order to look for justice.

It is clear that the complaints from Muslims in the country to be taken for this event is one example and the truth was rumored by the newspapers or the police themselves.

At the end of the police giving poor information and threats from the media, he knows the truth where I don't have sure that if he is wrong, there was a great offense, and its punishment was very big and to see a youth.

It does not write your article (standing) in this newspaper edition of November 8.
.

A lot of news journalist Salva Rweyemamu, was asked to be interviewed in the Swahili broadcasting service of the England Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) that he knows the state of the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) that he went to the security situation in Tanzania in front of the questions that spread in the country when there are others living a safe life.

Rweyemamu, without trying, he knew what could affect religious violence in Tanzania. It is approximately seven or eight years since he gets that.
When I met with the BBC, I explained to support him.

It's not difficult to know the conflicts of those ways and first leaders of politics and religious leaders every day they have been questioning the big difference between the rich and the poor.

But there is a big possibility between Muslims and Christians in many important sectors in the country and in the past, because of their patriotism they do not care much like the heads of all districts are Christians and Muslims but now they have been getting confused for a long time.

I will see that the blame from the discrimination system in the country is not a bit about it, "Engineer Evarist Ndikilo said that their complaints (Muslims) are believed to have complaints they have no evidence while every day he is usually given by the system in writing.

The day before yesterday in Hamza Johari in the whole time, Hamza Johari in the world that is aired by Channel Ten, Sheikh Khamis Matandiko and told him that the government has not received complaints from Muslims.

When they write a letter even so, "we have written the letter" which is a act of honor, they don't know that this is a fact, a situation, then you have written it is important for Muslims to invest in education.
One is that there in the Ministry of Education has been born with many of Muslims.
The truth is that there is big.

In his book which has been banned here in Tanzania, Professor Hamza Mzige, has given two examples of evidence that he has flown from Tanzania, Mzee Batakanwa and some of them, is that the number of people who passed the examination is that the number of Muslims passed the exams got an amount of 80 percent.

Right now there are big complaints against performance that is faced with doubt in the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (NECTA). There is one director has been sacked from those complaints which for the first time the government was listening and took action.

That is to invest in education, brethren, the situation is very correct since the past Muslims discovered the importance of studying in school. My father, Al Marist from Mtunguja was seen in the primary school primary school in the year 1928 because of pressure to be baptized.

The normal issue that caused many young people in urban planning who are Muslims living in the school of injustice to the school to save the school.

Those who are the Christian children who are studying in Islam where they are not allowed to get married, but if you ask you will be told that at now, Muslims have risen to an effort to build and run their schools especially in secondary even though the status is in the school.

I have ever talked to the former prime minister of England, Tony Blair (and Msasu) urging them to help youths with African origin who don't work well in their exams.

How do I finish with our brothers, my opinion polls with the aim of wanting them to protect Muslims and if they go through our country we should not recognize the state of peace that will be available in the real picture of peace (albino).
The words of the father of the father of the father (a member or a member of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT) that had already been allowed to have peace where there is no justice.
