Kinana will fall into how many sides of the country?
May 22, 2014.

Last week we learned information from the ruling secretary of the ruling party (CCM), Abdulrahman Kinana, while casting her finger to Kongwa district, Tabora province.
Kinana denied the enthusiasm after he gave out the life of farmers of discrimination of Mgambo Village in Kivule-Kitunda Ward while explaining how they are used to make sure that their money and the cooperative party starting on payments.
Because I am not a close person to Kinana, I don't have sure if anything resulted from great joy and true after you missed the farmers.
I am saying that, these days where we have been involved in corruption of every kind, there are those who pour out skills of an artist in public, to prevent us to identify themselves as an artist, I'm told that, here in Tanzania, you can't know whether she is like an artist!
Any reason, I urge us to believe that Kinana was tired of feelings of true and I think that they believe that they were stolen from the fact that he cannot do anything to help the farmers against abort.
That's a result of another truth that, in that life that they read to read, the complaints were directed to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, Christopher Chihira.
On other words is that, the suspect was the same person Chihira who in the past Kinana had promised the farmers of Ruvuma province that he will ensure he is removed from that ministry, but later he was presented to that issue in the CCM executive committee.
And now he is in another province tour, but farmers still do about the performance of that minister, who he has promised he will make sure he gets into a minister because they are not responsible, but President Kikwete, until now, he has refused to remove it.
In that environment, Kinana did not want to do more to place each other when they continue to hear of what they love farmers?
And that's why I urge us to believe that tears of Kinana is true and it is true and it is a lot of joy and not knowing if an artist like they will have other politicians.
However, without caring about it, she knows it is true or it is an artist, a question of asking him is that, Kinana will get married to how many of Tanzania?
This question is coming from the fact that, abiding by the fact that, I have witnessed with the police farmers who are likely to have witnessed with other fruit farmers in the country where he will visit.
For example, when it arrived at our village Ndungu, Same District, they will hear the complaints of farmers about the lot of money they were charged for water payments for the rice bran and also poor prices they are forced to sell their rice.
But it is not Ndungu. If Kinana was born in Mbarali, he will also give the complaints from several villages that have no farms for selling rice, but there is one investor that was sold by the government, at a good price, and instead it usually uses the farmers with little capacity, again at a bad price.
In Rukwa, Kinana was fighting with a situation where "I believe it is supposed to help thousands and thousands of land grabbing here in the world, though thousands of people do not have farms for peace," I believe it is true the truth when those people do not loose all.
Kinana promised the farmers of those villages that "I went up with me" the problem of "I saw" when he denied those thousands of land grabbing, but he climbed to resolve the problem if he saw the prime minister, Mizengo Pinda.
And the explanations offered by the authorities in the government about the name of Rukwa province is to be remembered by the ones that were released in Mbarali and elsewhere, and it is that the investor bought that land was legal and that he has all legal documents of land ownership.
But those answers do not give a solution to the primary problem, and when the successes he achieved, the government agreed to find out a person just after thousands and thousands of land hectares, while thousands of people surrounded by the land have no crops.
