
"The Chief Justice and his colleagues have a case.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been published today September 2016.

The District Court of Arusha has said that the former head of Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), Bernard Konga, and three of his colleagues have a case to answer, and to plan two days of giving their defense.

While giving the decision at the court yesterday, Resident Magistrates' Kisinda said, due to the illustrations that was given by the president of the Republic, he is proud of being with the citizens who have a case to answer.
Judge Kisimba has urged the citizens to choose an agreement of defending himself as a result of the law to allow two ways of sending and defending himself, in order to release the court to work in looking for evidence and to give their defense.
The citizens through their lawyer, Beatrice Joseph, who is representing the youth, will be the first to be the former manager of tourism of the authority, Swaliatu Msuya, former Director of Finance and Administration of the authority, Swaliatu Msuya, former Director of Finance and Administration of the authority, Swaliatu Msuya, former Director of Finance and Administration.
Hayatou, who is also a member of parliament of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) through his lawyer, claimed that he will cause one witness with two illustrations, while three others through their lawyer claimed they will cause witnesses and illustrations but they do not know how many are many until they prepare.
After explaining that in the court, Judge Kisinda had only two days of defending himself which is September 15 and 16 this year.
Ayo TV and his colleagues have been charged with misuse of power and causing the loss of 3,3890 million shillings per day, the United Republic has already brought witnesses the court that they received several reports and four witnesses.
In that case, the United Republic was represented by the representative of CCM in Arusha province, lawyer Rehema Mtongani.
