Claims that police are inspiring.
By Mwangi, professor.
The police commander in Nyamkazi Primary School, Naomi Iriyo has announced that for us to identify the truth of claims that there is one officer that is in the process of witchcraft where it is determined through one village in that area among the dumb man.

Miss Iriyo has said that he has got information from the hosts of Gigabyroid cancer that is in Llongero village, where the son of the son had gone down and is on the race on night in its implementation of witchcraft.

"I am very happy with that issue to an extent that I have ordered the full investigation will be discussed as soon as possible so as to identify the truth of those allegations.

There is no anywhere in the accountability of the police officer where we are saying that there is more witches, "said Mister Mwangi, according to the hosts of that village, that officer has been seen to be seen in the village to sign him, when they were forced to arrest and even beating them.

The appearance of security plan of 10 houses in the area, Mister Mbijima said that those allegations are true and they are ready to confirm him for investigators who will arise.

"The officer saw the sun for a chapter and with a name and he is serving in the referral hospital in this area where he has been cooperating with another woman of our village where by seeing them, they have been implementing those attacks on Wednesday night.

He said.

He said that when that incident was implemented early last month, the youth of that village carried the death in order to arrest the citizens.

"The officer said that when he met with the youths, he stopped and gave them away while among those youths they were shocked when they were shocked that they were from the police officer who want him well," he said.

He added that the officer started sending his fellow officers in the village of that village so as to remove any person on the road so that he can move forward.

"Is where youths started fighting to be the officers.
