Of the soccer issues here in the city, when I have been of my visitors, there's no longer a member and a member of technical issues, where I was also a member of the technical committee, Mister Wilfred Lau, and the main aim is to ensure that you are doing well and also it is also a technical director, "Masau boasted.
And private have been used for only reasons for the other who had been arrested by soccer stakeholders that soccer have been mentioned by Yanga soccer teams from Mtibwa Sugar, but many of them are coming from Mtibwa Sugar, but many of them are coming from Mtibwa Sugar, but many of them are coming from Mtibwa Sugar and all of them coming from Mtibwa Sugar and all of them coming from Mtibwa Sugar, which was done in Singida.
And after that, it was made not that a panel of people like seven o'clock at the moment did not remember the full number but the chairperson was retired Colonel Ali Iddi, a panel of the crowd took place at a long time and I was appointed by a panel of 67 coaches and they go around the whole country for the purpose of looking for talents and videos then up to this time.
Tukuyu, Rungwe District, Mbeya Region have put a camp and at the moment there are some national policies and I have spoken to ten thousand players from tomorrow and the day after tomorrow they will receive ten more than six players from Morocco then they will start to join ten thousand players from Morocco when they will start directly from my questions.
On the right is the technical director, Mister Muskat Maliya.
Close to this topic here, you have never met him at the war studios in order to improve the national team starting without the coach.
The late?
The head coach will not be found for a long time and it was not long.
I would like to say inside the two weeks time.
Christians are many.
This is the fourth month and the first match may play for a period of five.
For going to China it's only one month of five out of ten thousand, the past two weeks later, it means that he will come at the last report of the next month and to say anything.
That all what are you see?
Welcome him from Tukuyu.
Preparations for the preparations.
That head coach has a report and he is participating in one way or
Let me say that because I am no other things to announce that you have.
During a long time, they will announce his head coach and the body of the body that is going on in the country we are not getting the insurance insurance and it's something.
In one way or another.
What unites them is what he is in.
He joined the team.
Join but.
Where is there?
I don't know what you want to join us earlier when he joined Preston. I will go back here, then you're getting in the final matches of the league because he can get the last week later we can come up with the end.
Yes, that is why there are players who will take maybe if I say anything.
He invented any country in the world.
Our foundation should have been installed.
To say that most natives have to know their players.
And they have said that the late Adam's coaches should I do in Zanzibar in Zanzibar, it is true that the government is a must for ten thousand in the month of December.
Where coaches are politicians.
Together.
On the stage of who won the same as a cookie.
They met in Zanzibar to fulfill this strategy and remember that this strategy is made, the head coach also wants you.
How is this news.
And we had a team that they were facing him that competitions in Nairobi also, Charles Msonde, for the strategy made in the program that has involved coaches.
But as to help this support it has been taken to their head coach.
Who we will be able to be added, and ask for now the Tanzanians love God only and he is the coach who is about.
The high level they ever taken is one of the African countries in the south of the Sahara Desert.
Today.
That was organized would be accepted by coaches.
Do we consider the family of football?
One hundred and nine hundred thousand shillings.
And two.
While the Honeydew estate that will take place in Mwanza town.
The squad's mid-fielder is ready to see that it involves it.
The late God was players like this that you will bring us to get through a way.
The late God was working with in Rukwa Joshua to see the names we are taking, Uledi and Zakari.
Let me know who later.
Yes, Master is another one for the ones that were looking at the premier league at that time, Hussein witnesses who passed to George Masenze that would you use the quarter-finals.
But he was surprised to see that they are not a person.
We see that we are doing this strategies to ensure we are improving our squad, we become the first we see 'Imebaki Story.'
That we have the players that we have as a result of our premier league and those who are outside the country are what these players benefit from a big country like this.
Therefore, it is not good.
