What are the ones that are there?
They are sick.
Today, today I have tried to find a good wife and it's good to tell me what you are doing.
If you are, at work I am hard to work hard for children?
It is same.
My children, the late God bless Tanzania, I don't know what I don't have children, but I would say it is okay because there are others who live with them if the others live with them like those who live with them like this one, I hope that I wish you shortly.
Now you are enough to be submitted.
The danger has destroyed the disease or I'm confused may be the late?
Your wedding and it's a person that I told me that I got them there to be cleaned.
His husband told how he was not a father who does not want some of the directors.
Health especially when you know who you know today, you have written the very delicious with I asked our children, but it is true he doesn't know what I am pleased with our children and let me see you, I am happy and know what I'm in you.
It is like that then I don't see and say I have ever heard, but I would have never heard that, why should they know if Mister think about me.
I have a chance to mix up and now I have lived again another day, I have never happened and you were surprised again we should not enter and now I think it then and asked the late.
That issue is that, the voice of God is not true and it's not a way that is going to come up because I think it is like a phone that you will speak and then there is a phone of death on issues now there should be a phone that I will be given.
If you get into this minute we have been here and we thank God, it will be at a small minute we're with here in Nairobi and others think of them to be in parliament and do not have faith.
I love you.
If you know that there is a person that you can talk to each other, the Lord does not know what I'm in front of me, I am very happy to hear in the front line but now since I had been working hard to come and come to come and come to come.
How will it happen?
It is not right.
Did God bless us.
How do I know how to tell me then it is now?
