
Keenly is needed for the registration next season.
It is clear that after the end of the season of Tanzania Mainland Premier League of the year 2015 / 16, where Yanga has prepared for three awards, all the teams that participated in that league were working on, so as to see where they have done well, where it was caused by the shortage that emerged in the whole season.
In hand with that, it's another time that players and coaches are together and put for a short time waiting for the next season, they have also been able to do a private evaluation of how to fulfill their responsibilities as required.
At that time it is held, a new season did not be far, therefore the players still need your mental health and the bodies are enough, looking at the next season for the purpose of doing well more.
Also, we are close to the start of a new registration season for various clubs in the country including the premier league, this season which is normal in a period of getting or benefit from financial or any situation for the players themselves or even their agents.
Together with that our league is not only to be paid, but the major use of money has been going on and take place again without holding back, an issue that is currently normal for our teams.
At the time of registration and transfer of players, money will walk on a large extent, something that is a must for them to talk about it because some of the players including the youth and those who are estimated to be more advice, including the law concerning the contracts that they come from the club.
We also request that people with understanding and legal expertise, including the premier league clubs and others that we want to be close to all the players whose evidence shows that they have been used or bullied.
The keenness of the players, their representatives to enter the contracts and you have no reason to be part of the lives of players and other leaders of our premier league and others in order to avoid problems which have been arising from them and causing them to cause conflicts.
We thank the club to inform the club to be keen with registration especially for new new players, and he has decided to fulfill the responsibility to ensure that they get to them early the teams that are left to play for the coming season.
We believe that due to the experience shows that some of the players have found themselves even the team because of not being told earlier that they will be left to him to get the new team to play for him, an issue that affects their talents.
We urge you to also players' agents, including those who are identified by the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) and the African Football Association (CAF) that they come out to know that they are at work, they are supposed to help those players who are registered by our club.
If they have a primary responsibility to find out, those who want to go out of the country they don't have to do so for local people, an issue that has a few years ago in our country which has no fire.
We believe that every one who is involved with the registration, coaches or people from the technical bench and not the rich to intervene in that club and everyone is fulfilling his responsibilities, we will take action against our colleagues in Africa, Europe and the world.
