

By Eliud Tawi Nyauhenga.

The Rungwe District has been having more than 97 billion shillings from the tea that is sold by farmers.
But that amount of revenue was coming up to 27 percent every year due to lack of natural resources in the farmers.
But after getting the new seeds of that product, the natural resources has started to increase and many citizens have already started to see great benefits from.
Those are showing the production of many eggs and it was previously.
They are saying that they have been suffering from the seedlings that were planted by a lesson.
In the previous years, it was called and when he was giving a little leaves of tea time.
One of the farmers Tuntufye Mwambusi says after being told about.
The new seedlings decided to buy and put up and saw different achievements and previously.
Where the tea which he started in the year 2013 has started harvesting this year, Magila says that farmers are required to buy those drugs so as to stop agriculture that does not have productivity.
The farmer says that they had previously buying their crops and got the money from three to four years different from now, where for two years they start harvesting.
"The new seeds which we have been advised and our instructions have been of great help us because its production becomes good and it was previously," he says.
He says that after the seedlings to be taken to the farmers of Majani ya Chai.
Rungwe, Rhema Trust) have been encouraged to start using them but the hopes of farmers was contrary to the depending on the old seeds.
"We have been told that there is a new seeds that we have been brought to the group we were worried that they have come up with any problem but yet they are different from the past, but they had a long time to start being harvested different from the current seeds," he says.
Another barley farmer Kekeletse Phoofolo, from Masala ward, says farmers have been accused of having those new seedlings which could increase their income more than that they are.
He says that the old machines were discouraging them or many they viewed as a situation that resulted in a situation that resulted to the value of that product to drop and have no meaning again.
Mwaisege says that they were given those new seedlings from their union, it has been the ones for other farmers to join that union which has become small secretariats, agriculture and buying the tea processing at a guiding fee for government.
The old treatments are caused even the quality is reduction as a result of traditional seedlings and not releasing many leaves that will be benefits to the farmer.
"The new seedlings have caused the rise of value of this kind, leaves that poured, a lot and have a high level to compete with the other countries," says Mwaisege.
