This business business is not supposed to be called.
Jide 15, 2015.

For another time, we have arrived in the election season, which will continue until October.
It is clear that for all these students is that money takes a great importance more than another thing that is evident, it is also that every new election of the election is clear, the use of money in the business of selling and buying the votes are lifted.
I have heard, there are many times, warned about dangerous people arising from this business, together with me, they have also involved the famous people in the community being similar to our leaders, but it cares for these signs that they have been unable to deal with that business.
This means that in this next three months, that will be the main business here in the country, and will involve various people every corner of our country, which will remain at the time of voting in our country, our country will have been buried and I will be cared for this illegal business which is produced by our leaders.
It is a illegal business where I will answer you because it makes a whole process of elections to be creative and there is no need to use a lot of time, lot of money, a lot of money and spreading them in the whole country in a exercise that has no ability to produce what is expected.
That is expected, or the one that love them is expected to have a procedure that is aiming to help them get a group of people who have for our consent, will be the leaders who will be leading in efforts to serve us in poverty that is at least little.
But this did not happen if all the people who are coming out will enable us to qualify for us to be able to help our workers. I don't want to be paid by someone who came to him so that we can make them like our workers!
This has been talked about many times, but what is missing is a good step of making them to stop this mistake.
The fruits of this loss are many, if I have ever said several times, but it will not say that many among them are very bad people, I don't believe that many among them are very bad people, but I don't believe that many among them are very bad people, "we believe that many among them are very bad people.
We have already witnessed how our political parties are making, even the elderly saw it more than small children, because only they have bought them, they have discovered them to witness the way people who have bought them have changed and covered by those affected.
I start to reach a step where clean people in our community will not fear getting into politics and now, if there are good people that make any important activities in the community that they need to get success in the leadership because they fear a probability to get success in the leadership because they fear the possibility of getting success in the leadership because they fear the possibility of getting success in the management of "our politics".
In the announcement of all the constitutional process this week inside the Revolutionary Party, the one that wrote here has come out for another time again, this journey has continued to have many years ago, money that has reduced people who would we expect to have a lot of joy.
There is no reason being able to prevent those suffering from that process when we get in his skills inside the parties to look for parliamentary candidates and councilors, and during the time of looking for the president of the Republic.
Those who do not see if the products that have been gathered in the market, in Bongo, let us see that, if we are phrases of cassava, or the sheep has no value in front of who used to make sure they have no value to them.
But this business has a great dangers that we love.
