TFF is impressed by the league.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

While the Tanzania Mainland Premier League is expecting to continue again at the end of this week for seven stadiums competing in the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), has said that it was satisfied with the trend of the league together with the referees.

The TFF information officer, Alfred Lucas said yesterday that until now there is no complaints on the side of more referees out of plots that he has claimed that they have a different quality with some of the leaders to intervene in the Uhuru Stadium.
That team that will be played on Saturday are Yanga who will be playing away by Mwadui at Kambarage Shinyanga stadium, while Mbeya City will battle against their brothers from Prisons, Mtibwa Sugar will play against Kagera Sugar at the Manungu Stadium.
Another match that is expected to have great opposition is that of Simba and Azam that will take place at Uhuru Stadium, while JKT Ruvu will battle against Toto Africans at the Majimaji stadium, Songea and African Lyon will battle against Toto Africans at the Karume Stadium, September 18.
Lucas said that until now the stadiums are being affected by the ones, therefore, some of the teams never have points.
"The Uhuru Stadium that you know about that bad, that is that, Simba and Yanga have been discovered to have only enough points, those players themselves are used to play" Ndeki "at the actual grounds than used in the league," said Lucas.
The TFF's statement has come a few days after some of the coaches of the Premier League among Yanga, Hans Van Pluijm, who claimed to take the time his players swept up to the same field of counterfeit drugs which have no quality and also the valleys.
Pluijm has complained about the stadium after their game with Majimaji where Yanga emerged winners by scoring 3-0 goals and said that the dummy check of that stadium is not good because the ball will make it successful.
A dummy check is good and even if heavy rains poured and claimed that they contributed to a quality of quality, it is not correct because at the field there is a referee who is supposed to be a problem then he is supposed to be the first person to identify that, "he said.
Moreover, Lucas congratulated the referees that for four matches have shown a good level and until now there is no complaints of referees to make sure that the league has had a great opposition.
Lucas said that TFF is still emphasizing the referees to continue with professionalism in their work and to continue to avoid sexual violence from different people with the ability to convince them during the match.
"TFF is requesting the referees to be patient during their work because the elections for those referees has been seen to have the capability, will help the champions league with great professionalism and to build the Tanzanian league together with them," he said.
The Tanzania Mainland Premier League is leading the position with 10 points after playing four matches, it's only one draw and it has not lost only one game with 10 points equivalent to Mbeya City who are leading three points while Majimaji has been closed down and has no points.
