Let me now, and it had the decision told him to return to school.
Promote education.
It's not a word that if I will go back to September, a month of nine, there is a fact that your studies does not depend on here in Kenya.
A series of people there is no game that is taking money they told the others that brought many more.
I have not want to go back to the school to go to the school, to do those papers again, he told me that she would like to sell him to school which I would like him to see if I can work with me.
The late?
But you don't know that his relationship to you, I have called me.
People are getting just there and they have gone down.
But this issue did not make people to leave you.
You know what you are in you will read the late?
How do I vote?
That is how it continues to ensure that your skills and maybe one day you will be able to you, you can't know the truth.
Also, God cannot succeed.
If you play in the past, but I was not another time he wants even even your education he does not help a human being in Kenya a must that everyone knows it is for you to get.
When you talk about other times even any other will help you read the hours and we must know that one person in a certain company is to get that.
But you know this depends on the late Almighty God, what is there is a person who wants to bring in a company or for the work he is doing, but if it does not take them, even when he was going to talk to him, I was with my friend.
Those who are going to speak to him will give them a conflict, everyone will be happy but if I was saying, if I was seen, then you will be able to come to love for now, I would like to study now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I would like to study for now, I
If it was not true or if you were told to hear someone who passed the work, it's why the late does not get married and it is a must for you to get married but they agree with you with you.
Corruption has been many.
And corruption are not know that this is Kenya but Mister can destroy it is the very words on the stage.
There is also even if it is a school you want to do something good and hatching of money in order to be able to get.
But the good thing.
At the end, it is awaiting for his skill.
When they get the work, the United States are lucky to have done good work.
It's just a person who come just to desire to do not to bring in very much more, I have seen your responsibility to the late.
If you go down, if you look at the other people now to take people from those residential houses, Ras Kiduku is not a must for someone with Janet's family but maybe your friend who we are doing with him in the research that he was doing with him.
When the late God bless you but when these days he went to hospital, he believes that there is a problem where there was a problem and there was a problem and a problem now, it's a must to go to hospital but it's a must that I don't know these things have been confirmed.
The late God rest his policies that for time to the Almighty God, that is the time once every week you may go directly or two times, but he will just see it but he is still going to work.
Late God will help the mother of their shop at a shop where they go down, they will continue to help after the truth is true he wants to get a fiancé.
