
Public thank artists from committing sin?
January 26, 2013.

While the process of the opinion of the new constitution is heading to one day, several media sources have said that more better views that will be able to build its vision of the country, come from citizens.
According to those news sources, it's different citizens who have given the primary views compared to groups and institutions whose opinion were prepared to defend the needs of the groups and institutions.
Mke Mwema should be told that it is a big offence if the process had started by listening to the leaders or various institutions instead of starting with ordinary citizens as it was, because of being a big part in the views of institutions and groups of the groups that are depending on the defense of their special interests.
The investigation of Mke Mwema should involve the opinions of the opinions which have been given to the commission on constitutional changes, it shows that the opinions of many ordinary citizens have aimed to build their country's vision by setting up operations in good education sector, health and ethics of the leaders.
The analysis has revealed that in a big part of the citizens, it has also put the foundation in the division of human resources and guidelines in a good sector, contrary to the opinions of leaders, political parties and various institutions that bring changes in leadership and systems of getting leaders.
In the education sector for example, the citizens, among the students also proposed education standards in the country should not be responsible for any leader of education that will not give loopholes to any leader to play for the extent of his will or the will of his political party.
They also encouraged the issues of health services, citizens want leaders who have been banned from outside the country in the normal environment, so they want them to recognize the importance of improving the health sector in the country, that are believed to recognize the importance of improving the health sector in the country so that they are believed to recognize the importance of improving the health sector.
Those ordinary citizens have said that in their views that the system of education and health is giving excuses to groups of leaders and their families benefit, while ordinary citizens have been seen as a citizen of the second bridge in a country known as usual.
Those opinions and others came out last year when the commission of constitutional changes was collecting opinions from the citizens that they meet with in a public rally.
For example, September last year, in Ruvuma province followed by students and other ordinary citizens, their views were able to provide better education to be officially launched (constitutional), to be the right of the child of Tanzania, different from now.
In what they can be interpreted as it is to put effort in education in the country, they provide education to secondary education to be a must, and to be given free (flyover) to be released by the government and more than 100 percent to all who passed.
In other parts of mosques located in Nyasa District, some of the secondary school students of diseases have contributed to primary and secondary education to be a must and quality.
It is in those explanations of wanting better education, by specialists of the constitution and law that concern the views that it is wanting the constitution to realize that better education is a primary thing and is the life of the country, something that's supposed to be part of the national policies.
In insisting that issue, a student with skin disability, Leonard Kapinga (13), where he was quoted giving his opinion when he wanted the people with disabilities to get an opportunity for education, health and security.
In one of the meetings of collecting opinions held in Matopeni Ward, Ruvuma Province, the chairman of the commission of constitutional changes, Joseph Warioba, said.
"It is very happy that it is pleasant and that your school's youth have come to contribute to your constitution, a situation that will you get more than fifty years to come, there will be very happy to see him in large numbers and you have contributed well."
