
Muthir was charged with the theft of 1200 shillings.
By Richard Mwaikenda.
Senator of Dar es Salaam, Azim Dewj and the former secretary of the Ministry of Information Doctor Bryton, Ndonga yesterday was opened against the theft of 1200 million shillings and the bad use of the authority looking at the purchase of a total of fifty acres which will be built in Kvitova in Mbeya city.
Those two together with the directors of Malcom Company, David Ndaiyo, David Ndevu, James Kitilya Mpolo and Julius Mbambo 'is the former Commissioner of Lands, Clodwing Mtweve and the Director of Land Rebecca Malope, Mister Musaa Ghatti Mosore and the Executive Commissioner of Lands, Kaizerege and Mujahideen.
The farm, Malagala so that it was bought by the government to build a unique city in the south of Sahara Desert, on June 17, 2009, the city has been taken in an area of Maasais.
In the demonstrations that were presented in court by the lawyer Paul Chacha, on behalf of the Director of Public Servants Pension Fund (DPP), "we are in, Mister Coutts 49,00 Tanzanian shillings together with directors of Malmo, Kitoro, Kitoro, Kitoro, Kitoro, Kitonga and Mabogini village.
Doctor Ndayisenga says he violated the law of purchase on June 27, 2009, at the Telegraph building for signing a contract of the purchase of a total of fifty acres. It is claimed to be given a contract before it hasn't been elected as required by the committee of tenders for the government.
The second charge against Doctor Ndemo is that he refused to select the inspection committee between January 21 and 28th of 20, 2009.
Mister Musoma. who is the brothers of the former vice president of the late Professor George Sawazisha 'is alleged to have received through a way of buying 40 million shillings from the lawyer Eric Mutta claiming that his Gigabyroid cancer was used as part of the selling of those acres in July 7, 2009.
"I request that the court does not want to court to answer the charges against them on September 5, 2014," Mister Ndembeji, urging the senior judge of Nairobi Mister Peter Ndembeji who attended the case of corruption.
"All suspects who were mentioned in the charges he was presented to court are required to arrive in court on September 5th, 2014, to answer the charges against them," insisted Mister Ndeki.
Previously the two directors of Kiliberali has been accused by Peter Mutta and they have been accused on the theft of the sales of the farm from the stock market.
