The program of TANESCO and development today is a continuation of the past term about the education on better use of electricity in offices and industries together with the effects that can arise if used in use.
TANESCO has been building a house to house so as to inspect and give them its customers about the reputation of political lines in their houses, what is your password.
In Sinza Kijiweni in Sinza experts, those to educate customers about the importance of having an emergency surgery on houses and also lack of electricity infrastructure so as to make sure they were given about if the position is getting it, it's my friend.
When the late God did not know the need of people who are not seen but because I have happened, who is very delicious.
God bless you to see a difficult exercise if we now has called TANESCO for advice to ensure electricity is there inside a fire.
Do you do?
It has identified himself as a result of giving advice.
And the advice to the customer?
In his construction, you know what you want to do a lot, the preparations will be forced to separate himself from people with bad intentions to be the late father.
But the second side is making sure that you're getting in selling that position from Bongo Flavor.
I need me.
Because for example, you can be Ukawa and your mind like this, but the party has a point inside, but there is an interview with me, I know what happens there is nothing to talk about it, I know what I went to check on.
But sometimes, we have appointed Semboja where we are able to read it so that there is a sister we are going through but he knows how her husband went through, but when he went to you, there is a problem because you are in a room, there is brother to do you feel.
When you go hard, you find you the first, you do not know what is going on, we are told me that you can't read it, then it's going to leave you and get a chance now to get the opportunity for them.
And accept to be one of the first of May, you do not have the end, if you see it, from a religion what does it mean?
It is this Saturday you are using that to rule the shareholder as a rumor.
Which is the best person to the late?
The time you rise up for five times more times it is enough to brought down.
Because, when the time you are able to fall into the world and many are the ones?
In order to get aroused.
Therefore, I would like to advise you to inform you that we help them to marry off the wife who has your family that they know that is a great secret for example.
There are customers who we have in the school when you visit the house as it is.
His chief technician, who is building.
He personally and the Catholic church who defected to later, they are supposed to appeal to anyone who are in the referee which is very good because of the first time.
As it is required to choose Kassim Majaliwa of a certain religion here in America, his family we know why he has lost, then it does not make changes when you get inside, when I arrived, I was surprised at the same time when I arrived, I was surprised to be the one on a half of one person to who come from there.
Now the fight has been explained that no place like those who had given that call but Chris Brown is first to wake up on the fire.
If you go to the late God rest his memory and that is where I remember there is first of what is done by that miracle after an aim at the door to her and Reading and Diamond.
For many times, other people who visit and their children have.
He can be in your life to be close to their homes, as a result of one liter which has never been stable while about us in the country outside the country.
He asked those who know which is a plan to save just I appoint you.
There is no one problem and see it?
