I was happy.
The government in Kigoma province has been closed down after the areas that provide healthcare services and fruit processing of natural water in Kigoma Municipality on the end of last week at the beginning of this month and at the end of last week, the head of Kigoma Province, Ramadhani Mwenda has said that they will take them that step after the results of various samples which were taken to the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, to confirm that the killing of cholera disease in Dar es Salaam.
The grave of the Kigoma provincial head to be keen when I arrived at the same time when I suffered from Dar es Salaam, medical services should be given to patients and children who are outdated.
Following up on the cholera, although they were getting the treatment it's like the truth when he explained you love for love, therefore, all the patients had arrived, although others have been taxed and leave it.
What measures have it been taken?
First wells will not be transferred to the girl to go to the use of the products, Adam and therefore the army of defense did not tell our people that they have said.
Drug abuse of food has been popular as the name for their rights and what is to prepare.
In the colonial era of Kigoma, the number of strengthening.
The implementation of the instructions of acting head of Kigoma province, the words that also were.
The Kigoma region here in the market, four hours but we been able to change.
Every after the ten stars were injured.
Phone has failed to use names because it is my good!
However, in my efforts to follow up on the instructions of the acting head of Kigoma province, your vehicles have warned the spread of a lot of dirt in different areas in Kigoma town and the rearing of fish that take place in Kigoma town, a situation that was a lot from citizens.
We will help this here is a situation of disrupting peace, so that the major taxes are depending on but there is no any thing.
Why do you know that every big group, we have at least use, they are inspiring.
We will arrive?
You want to explain well.
The whole world, has brought him keenly.
Only, the attempt failed.
In addition to various efforts, I want to control this disease that will help them in the place because there is still a big challenge in these challenges together with providing them in different parts of the city, Kigoma is crossing the child's estate.
Any way.
