
To ask or lead President Magufuli not for treason, Sei 22, 2016 by Evarist Ndikilo.

Let me start this article by getting my condolences to the deaths of our fellows, 17 and their condolences to 440 attackers as a result of the earthquake in the Lake Region, especially in Kagera province.

Also, I would like to use this opportunity to thank the councilor of Ighombwe Village, Missouri, in Kagera province, by using her long time a difficult time to use 2,081 houses having approximately 2,081 houses having a small destruction of 212,046.

Despite his congratulations on my article on this newspaper, the edition of last week, that councilor explained his disappointment in the media caused the Bukoba district just about the earthquake though many victims are in Missouri.

In addition, the councilor gave a call on our political issues to come out and educate themselves and give a call to people and various institutions to continue giving donations of state and property to the victims of the earthquake in line with making sure that contributions had reduced.

After thanks, I wish you about the political debate that is going on, at least in social media networks including knowing that it is the silence by President Doctor John Magufuli in that earthquake disaster.

In encouraging the rights of President Magufuli, the truth is that he has not been silent if it was explained immediately after getting a report on that disaster, the president gave his condolences to the incident, the president gave his condolences to the same day through a report given by the communications director in the State House, Gerson Msigwa.

However, I am not happy to hear 'silence' by our president about that disaster. That Doctor Magufuli is not just known by our president but also the commander in the army of defense and security and maybe he is expected to be heard by the incident.
However, private are expected to be the president he will entertain there recently.

Likewise, because the president is the real head of the government, an institution that has the responsibility of security to citizens, then may not stop his silence, they are expecting to lead the government's efforts to give sure the victims of the earthquake, not only by leading the efforts of contributions to help the concerned parties but also being seen in the scene.

As well, despite the fact that there is a certain group that has been able to find out, Doctor Magufuli for every time he will do, not to stop his silence, but also they can help our president so as to avoid the possibility of lack of leadership shortage in disasters.

Despite getting married that he is a silence by the president, who speak about this issue and also have shown being touched by President Magufuli and his former President Jakaya Kikwete and Benjamin Mkapa not came out at the voluntary walk that took place at the end of last week to contribute to the victims of the earthquake which was led by retired President Ali Hassan Mwinyi who is the biggest of Doctor Magufuli, Kikwete and Mkapa.

I think this could not be the current security for the president who is currently in power and all his colleagues who attended the walk together, though I don't have any other important thing that the walk is needed more than one billion shillings being donations and promise.

As I have revealed earlier, there are our colleagues who are self-employed, Magufuli for what he will do, even if that person is true, then the person is wrong for a nation and these two groups of the national debate should be a lesson.

I promise to finish by giving all congratulations to all that contributed to the ones that contribute to the victims of the earthquake, especially the presidents of different countries in Tanzania, various national and international institutions, participants in the walk to contribute to the victims of the earthquake together with those who make contributions to the earthquake.

God bless TANZANIA.
