Most of how you were unable to register myself, let me find water they did not accept to go back to home, if you see me, I saw him but I saw him but I saw him and I know what I wanted to help me, I believe I will help me, I know how he knows me.
The late Almighty God is confirmed to work is for you, it will be a woman that will be in the same o'clock at his home, her sister is in the minister.
Now I am a mother.
Those support are only two in the body.
I don't know how he went to school, because he knows me when he knows me in the year 2015, others tell me that when he went to school, he has decided to go to school because it is not from how to other years.
Hayatou, I think that when there were two sides, there are now ten years and I started looking for her father is like even.
The truth is to employ one day if you buy when you missed the reason they did not want.
At this time I get to the answer.
In the very good he told me that he was looking for a phone when he went to Dar es Salaam, I don't know what I don't know what he did when I told me when I told me when I told her the phone she was shocked and think about me when I saw him.
And if it comes back with the army you want to leave him for a third time.
The Almighty God rest his application and put it up with me now when I found it to take it to the head.
She was suffering from a mosquito.
Who's the child said that his child is the police.
I don't know but it is not known when he went back to home, the late God is okay, then the mother to another mother, the mother of her mother, then, I believe it is only I am happy.
We are saying that all of them don't know!
For sure this child will have to forgive me now, we will have to tell you the people and two children depend on yourself and I have never thought, it's only one of the moment.
If you have never been a long time now, she is one of the problem of paying, anything that I don't know where that player there was given a friend.
Let me let me try to agree with each other.
I want to see in we.
The Lord does not know what someone has been seen.
All of them are still ongoing.
