Nyalandu saw a white when he worked more in Tanzania?
APR of 03 / 2014.

In a normal state, you call him a strong person, even if it is a true must, he cannot get a lot and even when you take a total of all clothes to make sure you get a lot and even when you're doing so that you are not a lesson.
On February 9, 2014, Tanzania followed by being beaten, being beaten by the face of the world, this is after the writer Martin Fashen.
Our president, Jakaya Kikwete said that he was shocked, and I had Minister Nyalandu, who was at the Julius Nyerere International Airport ready to travel to England at a meeting organized to discuss the fight against violence, but they saw them to postpone that journey in order to stop the heavy accusations.
Nyalandu confessed and explained the strategies he used to deal with war against corruption, although some of the strategies have not asked questions like what he knew that the problem is lack of great laws for example, he believes that it will be a great law for a very long time so that he can talk about it in a long time.
Basically, the hopes that was used to welcome the writer FEST has been very high, and as such, someone who invented the same way, someone who did not believe in the same way, she did not believe in the same way, he did not know what they did not like.
They are saying that there is no wonder, Musa will see the Honorable Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu, he gave out an invitation to Mister Martin FEST to see the efforts of fighting corruption.
Many arrested this controversy, while stirring then simmer and buoys were written by a girl, she would have been written by one of our newspapers in the country who were arrested and it is not true that the newspaper would get banned for incitement cases?
Basically, the invitation that was donated by the ministry has done Minister Nyalandu when he came out as a person who has no ability to kill a person who doesn't know the priorities of the interests of the sector he is leading.

This step in the ministry is faced with a huge disaster of robbery, while his police had a draw with other working tools, there is no difference with the attempt to convince Tanzania to pay 560 million shillings for the Miss East Africa competitions.
The results of the English Premier League (FGM) and his colleague, which was attacked by the ministry, is the article that wrote on Sunday, March 23, 2014, with the news headline that is in be easily - Henet Ward, Zanzibar, with the press that will be known as Hanns Sethi.
Some of the Swahili language is a shame of the first picture which had already been following the first time so as to know what is not aware, so if we want to know if I want to know if I want to know if I want to know if I want to know if he wants to know where he wanted and Nyalandu himself!
Martin FEST has said that the invitation from Nyalandu, was something there was another incident that wrote another thing, "wrote a surprise for Mister Lazaro Nyalandu, Mrs Salma Kikwete (Sunday) (I have already left another to Honorable Minister Nyalandu when he visited Tanzania!
That would like to be a bit even if he encouraged the England writer to those words, is proud to and make sure that we are not mental.
And the person who is spread here is not Lazaro Nyalandu or our government (institution) only, but we're all from here, FEST I was surprised and how we pray to the amount of "we are rewarding them, the things that are good and the only thing.
How's a journalist who has been given an opportunity to sleep and eat at Serena Hotel where the writer who is in the country have ever got into Ivory Coast, I do not see our journalists themselves so that we can talk to our journalists themselves so that we can talk to our journalists themselves so that we can talk to our journalists.
In that article, FEST has been surprised by the condition of 'Walk It here, "said Minister Nyalandu.
