
Azam builds self-driven and denied the points.
Julius Nyerere.
I have got that in the premier league championship last week in two events that were caused by their laziness.
Despite getting into the championship race, Azam has prepared itself to play the international competition next season by scoring in the FA Cup finals, where his winner will represent the country in the African Cup.
But at home they have the benefits of playing with Yanga, which if you will win the championship of the premier league in Tanzania Mainland, even if the victory in the FA Cup, their position will be in the African Champions League and Azam to take the position of the Confederation Cup.
But last week, Azam started showing signs of giving up early as a result of getting into the game against JKT Ruvu, if they killed that can't win the championship and forced a draw of 2-2 by the officers.
Dudu Baya has further said, Azam has found themselves in a difficult time by doing three points that he got in the game against Mbeya City who scored 3-0 goals by using Erasto Nyoni, who was not expected to play due to having three yellow cards.
The Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) will use the 37 (4) that gives a player with three yellow cards to play the following game, but what is surprising me is for Azam who failed to be careful even in the last games.
Starting from that player there was problems by being unable to know if he had a friendly card and to fail to help the technical bench to avoid problems that have found them currently in the championship race.
But if you leave, "Nyoni, the technical bench was shown is how the action will fail to be careful and to give up early in the championship race by being unable to have record for its players.
If it is, there was no reason for coaches to stand and make noise about all the time giving instructions in the game that they did not know because if they can see the mistakes of the referee and complaining about it is impossible to see the card.
Leicester City found it completely that you can't miss three points in their three games that remained, but they stopped at the home of their striker, Jamie Vardy scored the Chelsea match against Tottenham which would have to give them early championship.
For example, it shows how our colleagues were able to be careful with the championship, they wanted to see that the work goes before playing Everton and later Chelsea so as to play for more freedom, this is my keenness.
But Azam got up with two five matches, there is no one thing in soccer, and you cannot get up early if you want to success in soccer.
To be unable to see yellow cards or to vote is a problem in the whole club, this shows that how you are not keen again in the games that remained and I was surprised again with Azam was forced to a draw at home and JKT Ruvu last Wednesday.
It could be noted that it can be a solution (wearing up), Samuel Doe for the injury he would leave at the field after the two-minute award while Manchester United were in the previous day after beating Bayern Munich in the European Champions League finals.
This weaknesses of Azam was unable to know if Erasto Nyoni has the third yellow card and she should not play the following game as the assistant coach, Dennis Kitambi and he said before their game against JKT Ruvu started.
In that game, Kitambi showed that they agreed to be the second position before the game started and before the decision to oppose their results against Mbeya City, that was known, in that situation he would be able to know who was given a yellow card on Wednesday.
There is no blame to TFF in the punishment and I don't think that Azam was unable to tell you about the yellow card, "Nyoni, because those cards were donated to the field while having his fellow players and the whole technical bench.
But instead, it is just blame to the referee in every game, without considering the important events, the coach is very easy to see if they err.
