In this article it repeated on me, I know me.
Speaking to the youth, the topic giver which says.
It has also been said.
When the youths know the profile of caring for their health by the name is called 'thanks, Master is in this topic says that if the youths know us to test for our health as youths I can say that we are in the house.
Or the Tanzanite in two sides, there are those who live in life, we do not put it very much and life.
Why is it?
And if it is like the Konongo and those ones.
The age of age.
We know you?
That for us, we are looking on or we are still unknown.
But if a person is caught in a environment of then he will be in the competition.
Like and saying that our culture is going to build in.
Look at it immediately.
Ras Makunja has saying that he had not know and we have talked to people with ability and those who don't have the ability to have the ability.
He becomes a living life, we live in life life.
For us to talk about that she has shown these motorbikes, we have seen that you will succeed in the farm.
Know why every reader is going to test for Mariana, sending a phone.
And then comes back to head to bid farewell to the head to be careful, the commission is faced with the words of Allah.
We have been able to be used to below and also if we use a lot news, that has been able to make sure that the late is seen, our culture is not supposed to build in that state.
Check yourself from time to the name is called me, so that if the youths know the importance of testing their health, I would like to say that if a person does not want to do anything for a long time I want to do anything for a long time when you go through a way or waiting for us to have succeeded in month.
In public I don't know what?
How?
I know I am more pictures.
How many times I don't see if there is a person?
?
I was called benefits.
I have not seen.
Not knowing the importance of investing in example, there is a period that the government was giving free service to many people, to discuss the health of children's health to come out of what the games are not to discover ourselves.
If it is in a sister Hilda from here you can say all the youths protect themselves in or they have not seen the youth the process of getting health services is easy because if they can talk about a lot of health services it's found or the youth can win or continue to follow the same time.
I have ever done festivals or questions and that people has arrived in the provinces and they have not heard that, why in that commemoration, the person failed to serve Tanzanians did not use but the youths can use but the state of health services reach the community.
I want to talk to Mandela who are very well said that two person is.
And saying that youths know it is true that the youth is supposed to know but for now, he said that it is not true and that it is not true and that we are doing then we are marrying.
For the whole issue of AIDS for someone he sees that I could be able to get my health when I will face her silence, especially when I believe that AIDS is a disease if another person gets any person and when you decided that I will be taxed.
You continues to understand more and educate people to the youth, the situation but a man will be known and he said that if you use it, it is why we are proud of going to test for you, because we are not worried about what we are doing and support all the youth parties that have a great importance of understanding.
So as to say this is why we become a moment so that we be able to inform those who are doing so that I would like to inform us that what I would like to educate you, that I would like to see you know that the community of the people of Ufulaga like to play.
Mother's mother immediately then I will organize those actions that will improve their health be infected with malaria and others because or even getting into the game that you can be able to check if you get married but we do not know but we have no creativity.
He has reminded me about something that he has talked about every person a bit about.
These youths why do we speak to health?
He has a mixture of mental disabilities through health.
And soon, Her does it mean?
Magesa and let me say that when we talk to health because I don't know that, it doesn't have a little understanding when we have a lot of understanding.
The health is fed an indication that you know Arsenal.
But we will happen that CHADEMA was good for us to be dealt with your health, we are saying here is very different to test for health, it is first to say that the youth have an importance of testing their health and the funeral that there is the first.
But now there are carelessness and cows that have two things that are very dangerous and then the first they know what is the laziness of going for a second day, he believes that it is the good solution like entertainment especially sex issues and even youths have been involved.
And.
They were left in the sea.
Here in Dar es Salaam, Tanga province, there are many youths like very much more than testing their money, it means that a health word they do not like.
A good example to hundreds of people.
And a small youth?
We are called for Hance.
Father should be demolished because they have the procedures.
Everyone is a must.
I want to ask you.
You know this happens?
He would like to sit down and lack of alcohol what does not care about it, that is when she gets only, that this is to measure and to read it is laziness of the youth.
That does not have HIV about it is good.
I was kidnapped by the debt.
Fifty best more to get their studies or not you said if you have no good health to need and to make sure everything?
He does not like to then fiesta for the youth because we were so much and it is not to look for football but it is only the first health.
I will end.
Listen to second health.
I think this thing that makes him a youth in India is fear of sitting on her health, you know it is called Messi to recognize them is a student of the journalism college.
The biggest thing that is doing a youth or a child to test for is to look for?
Let us talk to him that they are him in the death of the late?
Especially for these diseases, you see if there is a lot of diseases you know if we are saying in the disease of AIDS, maybe there are many people who are tired of my health and their health to go and check it, it will give you hope.
That is true that if a person has been so much in the community, we believe that if the young people were able to recognize that the youth are their in order to make sure that they go to test themselves.
We are going on with Esther Matiko of the health center has ordered you to listen to the youth and maybe he can be two three months of contributing to it just after our.
So, youths know the importance of looking for their health to listen to the youths themselves and are self-employed we think that you get health or even if the community we have been using good health or even if the community we have been so much for what we are doing.
And youths as they were.
Ongea will enable you to test their health the preparations should be free and any symptoms of the stadium you decided to make sure that you don't have a problem because most of them do not recognize the young man.
The child should have a habit of testing his health and at least two times or once for a year because there is a song that is due to the decisions which most of them is what is following more than four years, maybe I have loved.
Someone can be Ukawa and problems through veins.
You can be a problem maybe the eyes of the kidney problems so many times we advise people to be.
You do not like to test their health before you see that and the problem is not waiting until someone I start using a certain thing we are going to test their health or on the other side, we are doing advisers for example it starts with you.
In the age of age.
