
Somaga should be a lesson to protect themselves.
By Benedict Liwenga.
I went to a day before I went to give money from ATM, I remember the scandal of Trading Company.
I remember that the machine itself had a business announcement which he said, "Tracht, where the money comes from" sorry,, a patient doesn't have a relationship with the scandal, where he was given oil and the organization of Kenya Joseline Itatiro.
The scandal emerged early in J 2009, up to now it is believed that Devis believed to have conspiracy by the chief officers in the government to forgive him.
It's a heated one that, I remember the Devils and then the news could be able to emerge with another suspect, because there is no long schedule.
Anything done in secrecy will have been banned from international televisions in Somangila county, finally there will be one day.
He resorted to many during the rule of Kanu and Daniel MOI and was among the investors from Asia who are believed to be made by politicians.
Recently, the recent news that the businessman who was killed in an extent that he had conned Sergeant of fraudsters, Kamoga - Pickup, will serve his sentence of eight years in prison.
The England High Court does not be sold at the Beliebers, shillings, they are believed to have a huge criminals, because it had conned black patches on 6 billion shillings.
It's not true that you're very happy about shame and what happens, but his incident is very disturbing as the enemy is a person.
To listen to the court of England to make sure that in the basis of his health and therefore, they do not support him in prison is like a bad story.
When I say when I saw the University of Plasmodium falciparum for many years earlier, it's not the first time when he was to pay better lawyers in the world, he continued to look for the machine themselves by the rich and the rich, but the current one has moved forward.
The Vice Nay wa Mitego has said that the handover are supposed to prevent the chicken takes place in prison before getting their past two months to end, some of them was sentenced to an appeal but it is supposed to identify their fate.
Approximately 15 years ago, we said Bayern Munich will get in that situation they had been asked if you are able to use Kenya billions of money in his luxurious hospital, it is not close up to cold drinks and Frankland conflicts.
Those days used threats of P esa, she was with her mother and when he wanted it even when they found themselves in a high level of running it by having a great plot for him, with the politicians who had a huge crowd.
Water came out and ran away from office in the year 2002, Kenya is still asking to welcome him and that's where he went to England.
Majuto who is a grandson since there.
Let me look for now, most of the business that he started in Kenya, India, South Africa, England and elsewhere, are claimed to be afraid, it is alleged not to be careful.
His cry in court in England to play in prison while the kidney disease did not lie!
The current situation has conned Bayern Munich which is a warning to Devils and caused some others who are going on fraud.
The day he died on Bambini Journal.
In order to make sure you fulfill your password.
