
They were forced to play for Simba vying for the registration.

While the new coach of Simba, Abdallah Kibadeni has officially beginning work.
To coach that team, 30 players from DR Congo are some of the countries of DR Congo.
And Mozambique, yesterday they identified himself the exercise of those black spectacles.
Msimbazi to contest for being signed.

Those players are Joe Fils, Fabian Tugara.
Balton who come from the Lumbumbashi town of DR Congo and Patrick.
Richard Mwaikenda from Salena FC, also in Lumbumbashi.

Others are Mohamed Abdallah of the Funding club.
De Costa scored the Mozambique, Aaron Nanyaro, (Newala), and Shaaban Robert.
(Mbagala Jack Sports Academy.

Some of the teams that came out to vie for.
Msimbazi is Rashid Salum (New Boko, Zanzibar), Ramadhan Mahano (Buza).
Shaaban Saidi (Boers Azam) and Samuel Ngassa, former African player.
Lyon.

Some of those who came out on the first day of Kibadeni has put on bags of coach Patrick Liewig to enter in Kinama Stadium.

Paraguay was chased by the leadership shortly after the end of the season of the Mainland Premier League.

Speaking at the Memorial Stadium, yesterday.
He played for that club and later as a coach, he said.
Do work with freedom and without integrity in its responsibilities.

Kibadeni has said, he is not a coach?
He has promised to teach and because of that reason, he would like to get cooperation.
A good one from his leaders.

"This is my fourth time to teach Simba.
Members and soccer stakeholders know how I was and leave.
All the time resulted from lack of freedom, before joining Kagera Sugar, "
Said Kibadeni.

Kibadeni said that the great reason to join.
Kagera was attributed to the step by the coach of Simba at that time, Moses Sethole.
He knew his assistant should also be from outside and therefore brought him.
How does it mean?

"There are things that basically you can't inform you.
When the leaders they decided to do a certain decision, this occurred.
We live in Simba in the previous years, "said Kibadeni.

About the registration, Kibadeni said Mrs I have found himself.
Already it has plans that some of it has been implemented.
Do work with players with good discipline. "
