The government has presented his statement in parliament about the scandal of registration of doctors in various hospitals in the country and insisted that it has planned to end the strike of doctors and also explained his disappointment with the effects that came up to citizens.
The government's statement has been presented to by the minister of health and development of the community, Hadji Mponda, followed by the opinions of some members of parliament from the country, he was present where the deputy speaker Job Ndugai, made the directive that the parliamentary committee will break up the issue but requested the community services to address that issue and he is going on a report.
The fourth session of the sixth meeting as the fees started on a period of questions and answers after being employed more the statements of ministers.
This is where the government's statement was opened by many about the expert doctors will be presented at the conference by the minister of health and development of the community, Hadji Mponda.
First, he gave a result of a strike between the government and other doctors, it was started by various experts for health experts including doctors of motorcycle riders, goats, specialists from laboratory experts in the country that claimed their allowances for the month of December ten thousand in the country.
As a result of that situation, those experts decided not to go to work until their crops is implemented by the government.
In order to avoid the dangers of fighting the government.
It is not to pay a sum of eight hundred million shillings.
Nine hundred shillings each one.
This is what was claims of those allowances.
You know that the government can make payments for those experts told me.
And finally, the minister came out the conclusion of his statement.
Honorable speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the Holy Quran and the public of Tanzanians that the government has intended to solve the problem which is in front of our logic, we urged other professionals in the health sector and all stakeholders in the sector to use that opportunity in front.
To give their opinion, the committee that was set up by the government in order to get a better way to solve the crisis they had come and avoid I'm in the same day after that statement, then the members of parliament are required to ban the government's statement when I'll be able to capture the government's statement that has been submitted.
You don't know the name of one number.
When I arrived at the time of the deputy speaker Job Ndugai, gave guidance on the government's statement together with the request of members of parliament to claim that one is still a time written here and it is difficult to do something.
Then it is clear that the discussion of Mister claims that in the ministry of health.
There are some of the senior directors, the late Adam with the small ability of performance and leadership as required.
And those directors have a statement of scandal, they do not despise the doctors.
By depending on the team that was set up by the government in this report.
It will be difficult for us to get the truth on this second side.
In the way to use the regulations of better teaching to the parliamentary activities and the mother of something which had been given.
Dilesh Solank when he decided to follow up on this issue in the community service committee.
Whose chairperson is Honorable late Margaret Samuel Sitta.
And his vice president is Doctor Faustine Ndugulile doing children but still.
That committee was sent by the government.
It depends on the side of doctors without stopping.
After being postponed the session for a half time, some of the members of parliament and when their call was unable to make sure that doctors go back to work, therefore, I will continue to make sure that if the doctors go back to work, therefore, I would have been able to discuss any time and then it will also be able to discuss any time and then it will also be allowed to go to the committee.
While those going on in Dodoma here in Dar es Salaam, at Muhimbili National Hospital, the number of patients that will be reduced has reduced the hospital's spokesperson, who left the service in that hospital which they started to return to his condition.
Services are continuing to be released.
As usual.
Let me follow it?
In addition to.
Because you go to the clinic there is a new issue to utilize this week I will give them to the members of parliament.
It is a bad thing.
SA and also members of parliament are very small.
I wish you an opportunity to see patients in the new building that do not have more than one.
What is it?
The number of parliamentary and knowing that they have no longer groups.
And as a result of that unit, it has reduced to become one thousand.
Come to come.
It needs fifty.
Therefore, it is not good.
The experts, you know your are the old songs.
And it is only one of the ones who are coming?
For doctors who love each other or he shared with each other.
