Four of the four Tanzanians were transported from small tribes to the country and not for the support of the promise that they were going to do the mining of minerals, but they not noticed that until now, it was forced to escape and go back to the country and be taught to use fire weapons and people with the Somalia origin.
When I explained what I understood the union of those Tanzanians, but arrived in the country on July two this year, she has claimed that there are many Tanzanians in these things that are used to work as compared to others when they get the military training in that step Doctor Freddy Manongi said he has done an interview with food and his brother I will use this information.
A food is still four years old, the pastor of gold at the Old Trafford stadium in Butiama District have found themselves in their journey of going to perform the mining of minerals in the country that is claimed to be with.
But after starting our journey, we don't like to arrive in Kenya, there was no other because we are using the way again.
But now.
After getting to those areas where it is called Kenya, we managed to die.
Therefore, we do not have been sent away without understanding after getting to them.
We found many Tanzanians.
It is one camp that there are ten Tanzanians like five.
Kilimani City are there people who have already have because the Kimbari have done with the mining activities in different wards.
He gave the Tanzanians that are there if you are all Tanzanians who are in your life is the life of this very big life because the Tanzanians eat it immediately and eat food that you find Fatma, which is Ugali, which have we been used to include Ugali, a situation that we have been used to be affected.
And how many people are there?
Is it true that?
Most Tanzanians who are there several times would inform you and to ask for them, we were told in that forest that he will join approximately quickly.
I see your who are there?
Whom they are doing that activities because in peace is not true.
Because other Tanzanians know.
More than fifty thousand now that are you now in a bad state.
After the police of Iringa province, while asking for him a interview with that Tanzanian and investigation is going on.
The idea of Mwasiti has a child.
