21st December 2012

Events of drugs are lead, '.

Zena Mohamed and Neema Tawale.

The country's police force has said the high level of criminals of the drug abuse has increased to a large extent in the country compared to last year.
Speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Deputy Commissioner of criminal Investigation in the country, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that crime in a period of January to November this year.
52,589 percent of those drugs and non-communicable diseases were arrested compared to last year which was killed by 146 percent and two suspects.

He said in that period the many security guards came out despite the police force dealing with terrorism, there are illegal immigrants and illegal drug trafficking.

Other threats are the problem of controlling the environment and resources, the importation of illegal immigrants, drugs, political conflicts, religion, Pickup, and conflicts between students from institutions and higher education colleges where those events will not cause death, injured and destruction of property.

He said the weather in the country is measured by comparing the mistakes that were given information at the police stations in the year up to last year where criminal offenses that were given information at the police stations this year is 67255 compared to 49 percent shortage in the year 2011.

His analysis of these statistics is obvious that there has been a huge shortage of criminal offenses here in the country because the biggest reason is the partnership between the police force and the citizens in giving information, "said Colaso.

In addition to that, he said the army has set up various strategies to prevent and deal with crime including recognizing the good areas with criminal acts and they put up security, what is not stable.

He also urged various government institutions, public institutions, private organizations, political parties, religious leaders, religious denominations and citizens in the last period of one year and giving information that will enable them to deal with crime and criminals in the country.
