
20 December 2012

The government has given the stand of funds.

By Eliasa Ally, Iringa.

The government has given its stand that it will ensure they're talking to all people who had put money outside the country through illegal ways to follow up closely so that all those who are involved in dealing with those people by taking any stern action against them if it is revealed that there is no money they had gone outside.
That government's statement was issued yesterday by the Minister of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, while speaking with the Majira newspaper in Iringa town.
After the opening of entrepreneurship training to 29 groups at the Kilifair Development Hall which is in Kitanzini ward in Iringa town where the groups in the region are sponsored by the member of parliament for special seats of Iringa Region Mrs. Gervinho.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM).

"The government has started following all those who put funds outside the country and if it is revealed that those funds have reduced the illegal ways, the government is mentioned to be afraid that those funds have been mentioned to ensure that those funds have been said to ensure they get money from outside the country."
Clarified Doctor William Mgimwa.

He added that those people who will follow the money outside the country are causing the economy of countries to continue preaching and where he said that the government is unable to stop those funds within the countries in the country so as to grow and increase the income of the government something that will cause great benefits.

Doctor William Mgimwa said that the government's step to announce that decision has come following the actions of some people who come from the country and take them to banks outside the country and that the government will tell all those who follow the money outside the country and to enable those funds to return to the country.

In addition, he urged all those who are responsible for preventing billions of funds outside the country to open them and give explanations of their goals to place those funds outside the country so as to eliminate challenges that are given to the citizens and different institutions concerning the issue.
