Other opposition parties in Zanzibar has requested the revolutionary government in Zanzibar to control the economic activities of Zanzibar you must change in the union.
In order to avoid preventing the Unguja Island residents.
In addition of those property, Tadea us?
Or Dina Moris has condemned the violence that occurred and testifying in all political parties that came out and condemning acts of all acts of marking the occurrence of peace that would like Zakaria is informing them.
Sometimes it is not Zanzibar people because we are divided into that.
I had a long time we were.
The thoughts can be good but the good thoughts is to disrupt the statement has been issued by the Secretary General of Democratic Alliance (Tadea) Mister Ally Mohamed on behalf of the parties in a meeting with journalists that took place at the former council of representatives in Zanzibar town.
I follow up he said that the national unity government has managed to restore peace and someone as he becomes the citizens of Zanzibar but now it has begun to be shaken because of actions that continue to come out in Zanzibar and maintain the state of politics.
And conflicts between the religious denominations in the islands.
In the statement of that party they are doing.
He has urged the revolutionary government of Zanzibar to ensure that violence that happened in and six are not affected by the law and the law will be able to take legal action against those who will be involved in starting and continue with the activities of opposing United Nations.
That there is a lot of your partner and that is why we know here, all are the national leaders in Chumbuni, he had gone to, but every one with his opinion if someone will face if they want three governments to want.
I think there is a commission to coordinate your opinion.
Let's see if we the citizens only or not Zanzibar.
Come out to go to give opinions.
You would like to go back the views that I will be with campaigning for goats, he said that therefore, he requested the citizens of Zanzibar especially women to accept to play and talk about the process of wanting to enter the country on foundations of peace.
Between the two regions and instead of developing the unity, togetherness and the long-term people have been running since the end of the local government of Zanzibar.
You can baptize?
Its channel.
Shaaban Robert.
