
A little position for players decided to decide the registration.
Registration for the new season is expected to start on July 15 for every team to check the shortage of their squads, being to plan new competitive strategies.
In this, many times a good procedure is that the one to follow the report of the team's coach to do registration, since it is the first person to know what happened last season.
This time many times do not be done more by the small club that can listen to their coach and do if his report has shown the required part to be given priority more than Simba and Yanga.
It is a procedure that does a result of many coaches in the world every end of the season, to show a place where they succeeded to have attacked them due to the next season and give his views in the following season.
There are the real meaning of the decision between the coach and the executive committee because of registration, because many times this area has been faced with leaders especially for a big team.
This season, there are things have begun to show a good start for players who are seen to be affected by registration conflicts from their clubs.
A good example is Yanga striker, Paul Nonga has requested the club's leadership to be able to release a loan due to a limited position to play in the coach, Hans Pluijm.
It is a good decision to a player as a result of seeing that he wants to play and he has failed to convince the coach to hold the establishment of Donald Ngoma or Amissi Tambwe.
That has also happened in the Azam Club since its striker, Kipre Tchetche was asked for his club to sell if he will get another team for the purpose of getting a new challenge in his soccer life.
The other is Didier Kavumbagu who has been named as he wants to go to Mbeya City and more than that environment.
If you look at these players, you will discover that one of the players put wisdom and agreed that there is a broad range of speaking instead of getting into conflicts with no reason and the club.
Wisdom that they started with it is clear that it can also be followed by the players of all the teams from everything that she does not have a chance and even the concerned teams will give them an opportunity more than winning and insisted that he was to give him down.
I am saying this because there are some teams that will be able to stop stuttering on how to let him be a player despite it does not mean to be able to release a team that even a player sees it is a problem.
I have refused to be released on a loan and without doubt, he knows where he was going to get a chance to play, it needs a lot of Yanga to get a solution as the applicant from it.
It is the right decision for a player, the club also needs to focus on this issue in a period where a player can get a team instead of waiting for the end and endanger their soccer lives.
There is a good thing on some of the clubs to hold registration at the end and getting a player in the period as he is unable to know where he is going on, this is what I called me today.
We cannot have conflicts with our players for the things that go through, instead it is really appropriate if they have shown the Nonga and Kipre is to be followed by the team and other players.
To release a player in a period that there is no enough time to look for a team to do faith in their lives, especially after being left with not knowing where to go.
Another of the players said the problem of being left and failed even to claim that their primary rights came from getting contracts together without the support of the law.
This is a big problem in the side of our players, who feel it is the cost to pay a person to help him in the contract or from the sun.
Many players are believed that there is a day of signing up for many money you can be completed or let your way and therefore, they can be able to get support.
That is as a result of the presence of badly, since the time he claims it is possible that he met with the language that transported their language, but also many sections of contracts are laws.
At this time it is important for the players to be careful in the contracts that they are doing so as to avoid conflicts from allegations, this happens a lot of time and the people failed in law has been affected.
All the two sides, the player and the club are required to respect the contracts for the purpose of doing work which will be profit to the Tanzanian soccer and to eliminate conflicts between the need.
Players are a must to do a lot of things I have not yet known, the must for him to have a manager, lawyer and even his advisers, this is the time of change, your Europe colleagues had started.
