
Body of Doctor Mvungi to go to Doctor Shein today.

The Vice President, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal, while introducing Health Insurance Fund, Anna Shayo, who is the wife of the late Doctor Senny Mvungi, when he arrived at the home of the deceased, Kibamba, Dar es Salaam, yesterday afternoon to address the family of the deceased and gave their condolences to the body of the deceased, is expected to arrive in the country today evening from South Africa.
The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of the Council.
The Revolutionary Party, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, has sent condolences to the chairman.
The commission of constitutional changes, retired Judge Joseph Warioba due to death.
Member of the commission, Doctor Sengu Mvungi (61).

In his greetings, Doctor Shein has explained his disappointment.
And that death which is a big blow in the development of the nation and where we benefit all.

"Doctor Mvungi has the patriotism of love.
His country and the law expert was an expert politician and keenly.

"I personally, citizens and the government.
The overthrowing of Zanzibar.
We have been saddened by his death, I give my condolences to the commission and its chairman.
Family, relatives and friends, "he said.
At the same time.
The body of the late Doctor Mvungi, will arrive in the country today from 12 May 50 at the evening.
A report that was released in Dar es Salaam yesterday.
The secretary of the commission of constitutional changes, Asser Rashid, said the body.
You will arrive with the plane of South African Airways.
He said procedures.
Lilian Liundi the body of the late Doctor Mvungi, be completed under the coordination of the deceased, Doctor Mvungi, be completed under the coordination.
Office of the Tanzanian Embassy.
In the country.
"After arriving.
You will be taken to Lugalo Army Hospital for the purpose of getting married.
Doctor Mvungi to be bid farewell at the Karimjee stadium tomorrow.
"He is expected.
They are being transported on November 17, this year to Kiselya Village, Mwanga District.
Kilimanjaro Province for the purpose of the burial which will take place on November 18th.
This, "said Rashid.
Doctor Mvungi.
On November 12, this year, at Millinga hospital, in Johannesburg city, South Africa.
He said the ones that were sent to the purpose of investigations and more treatment was coming from.
Muhimbili (MOI), where he was admitted after being defeated in his home, Kibamba.
Kinondoni District.
People are not found.
Those who had left Ruvuma province has been shot dead in head on the night of November 3, 2013.
Up to now the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam.
He is holding 10 people who are alleged to be involved with that incident.
