
Magufuli meets his objection in the president of Zanzibar.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published in September 2016.

The tour by President John Magufuli in Pemba Island has ended the political objection against the followers of the Citizens Party (CUF) against the Revolutionary Party (CCM) against the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the islands.

Those members were forced to leave at the Old Trafford stadium while cutting them after President said that another election will be held in the year 2020 and that President Ali Mohamed Shein is the general leader of Zanzibar who was appointed.
The followers of CCM and the Civic United Front party for a period of seven months now have been in conflicts between politics and that of CUF, they have been saying that the repeat election of March 20, this year was correct so that it can make international communities to know it.
The conflicts were given more speed due to the time of the time of the secretary general of CUF, Seif Sharif Hamad outside the country Doctor Seif vied for the presidency on October 2015 and failed.
Those visit are mentioned to give the hope of CUF that the government led by Doctor Shein will last.
Some of the residents of Pemba showed the coming of President Magufuli saying that his arrival has completed the objection that lasted for more than seven months from the CUF followers who insisting that the government is in power will happen with the strength of the international community.
A resident of Chake-Chake, Pemba, Asha Said, said that he is impressed by the statement of President Magufuli of the truth and transparency, especially when the responsibility is no other elections until the year 2020.
The CUF councils in the province of Chake-Chake and Wawi constituency is seen it has dropped by many more people while discussing the speech of President Magufuli that he made on Friday in Pemba Island.
One of the members of CUF at Wawi constituency in Pemba, who identified himself as Said Said, said they were waiting for the secretary general of their party, Maalim Seif giving a statement about the speech of President Magufuli.
The chairman of CCM in the North Pemba region, Mberwa Hamad Mberwa, said the speech by President Magufuli is a strong desire to the opposition because it has set it publicly the truth of issues.
Mberwa urged the members and the followers of CCM to listen to the statement of President Magufuli of strengthening the union and solidarity by building a party so as to continue being in power, he said that the truth of getting time and getting into political conflicts with leaders who take their dreams in the afternoon.
