
A new contract in the city is found.
By Farouk Jivani.
The government of TDPF in the country has got a blow after the construction of the road construction in the country (Kenwanja) through its project of putting traffic lights in the country.
The project of 8 million shillings was taken to listen to his contract who was given the job to seek permission from that council.
While speaking to journalists in Mwanza town, the chief officer of the government of he said that he was from the department of ethics and the government of the provinces, and the local government, "he said that his contract was given the AGAPE company.
Furthermore, he also pointed out that appointment was supposed to address that issue before starting his work officially.
"The main challenge where the biggest challenge at the moment is that the council has stopped this project until when we shall get out of the country," said Mister Rished.
Mister Mwageni has explained that the project was launched officially in August, last year and it was expected to be completed in January this year.
He added that for now, they have given a letter to that council and they are waiting for its decision if it will decide the project to continue or not.
"Earlier this project not we did not take it to light weight this issue, but we should not be careful when you visit our contract that made him," said the Municipal.
The officer where he was not happy to be the government of he said that he doesn't have any authority about that issue more than a letter which he has already been written.
At the same time, he said that for now it is difficult to say that the project will continue when it is an issue that was praised.
"As the government we have already implemented our responsibility which has agreed is to wait for the decision of the council," said Mister Rished.
Mister Mwate Madega looking for a finger to listen to his contract by going on work despite getting what was required.
Similarly, he advised the government of he said that he believes that they were seen about those procedures but they were left to listen to his contract to implement their responsibilities.
