A person has got an opportunity to contribute to the budget for internal affairs of the country to advise the ministry to set aside enough money in development projects so as to enable our forces to work in Dodoma province for information.
As a result of that argument, it was seen that the ministry of internal affairs of the country for one year and ten in the morning and ten in the morning and ten in the morning.
A great importance is Mister Joseph Magufuli, a special member of parliament for him to talk for him when he gets the cupboard gift by the member of parliament for special seats, CHADEMA, a scholar.
He has said that, the development budget has been a great impetus in the police force have a great problem of standing on their health status.
This is why I am looking for Mbeya Region.
A few days when I got the accident the attempt to be taken to the hospital which took the fuel station.
And have the drivers to true?
So he was visiting the end of those new colleagues in the pocket.
Our police have been having modern equipment.
When you go to the police stations you will find you that the citizens should be able to sell oil so that he can be involved in their cases so that the police seems to be like those who ask for bribery but now there is there.
He said that it started doing his work well, it is supposed to have a critical condition for the purpose of various events I call on the ministry of internal affairs to do the head.
Before they had received disasters and other effects as he will be lost on the ship without stopping.
Or these development funds should give many factors that are not other use or we have the availability of water to each other and one is why we believe there are no sleeping on this budget.
There are also a new amount of money a total of fifty hundred and five billion shillings.
It was led by the ministry.
And an amount of five hundred billion shillings for the purpose of normal use.
And the only thing is for the purpose of development projects.
From the city of Dodoma.
