
The opposition camp broke out a loss of the projects in parliament.
It is that regarding the environment, wanted CAG to inspect them before being stopped by the parliament.
Sharon SCE will not turn the Citizen Commission, annamatinde @ gmail.
Dodoma.
While reading the views of the camp in parliament yesterday about the budget of the office of the Vice President (coalition and environment) for the year 2016 / 17, the spokesperson of the camp, Pauline Kasilati, said that the government has requested for the financial year 2016 / 2017 worth 247 billion shillings (section 10 billion) for the sake of working together, which has already been set aside by donors.
"The opposition camp has a great report that this two projects were faced with huge corruption that was being run between one servant in the office of the Vice President, the department of climate change while collaborating with one big veteran who was in the State House during the fourth term rule, which had been issued by the sponsors," he said.
Geiro said that the camp aims at the office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), that will do a special inspection of two projects.
"CAG should work together with all other projects being supervised by the department of climate change which is under the Department of Environment in the Office of the Vice President (environment and union), because there are those who are marrying them," he said.
"Moreover, we urge parliament to come out to change the request for the money for this project until when the special inspection will take place about the money that were given by the sponsors who were mentioned by the sponsors who were mentioned by the sponsors who were mentioned above," he said.
While explaining that projects, Geology has said that among the one to build a wall to prevent the sea get into the ocean road "by Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial University, Kigamboni.
He said in December the year 2011, the World Health Fund (Afb Tanzania) with the headquarters in Bonnele hotel, Germany passed a project to help Tanzania with a value of five million American dollars.
Geiro said that the project was implemented through Saccos for a period of five years starting from May 2012 to April 2017.
"It was supervised by the office of Vice President by involving the city of Dar es Salaam and its councils," he said.
He mentioned another project that it is to build the ability to withstand the effects of climate change in Bagamoyo, Pangani, Rufiji, and Zanzibar.
He said in the beginning of the year 2009, the World Health Fund (TANESCO) with its headquarters in Washington, America revealed that project.
However, the process took the time, but December the year 2011, it intends to give 336 dollars of America to help Tanzania to build the ability to withstand the effects of climate change in those areas.
While reading the speech of his budget, the minister of state in that office, January Makamba said that due to the huge destruction of the environment that is going on in the country, 61 percent of the country are forced to change the desert.
He said every year the country has been losing 3723 hectares or approximately one million shillings of forests.
"The condition of the direction of our country's environment is so bad to the extent of switching off the efforts of development and welfare of our country," said Makamba.
He said in the past 10 years the country has lost a forest area that match the country of Rwanda.
Chairman of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Industry, Trade and Environment, Doctor Peter Nyanda, said they have been impressed by the steps that are being taken by the government in controlling the haphazard construction.
