
Muhanga of Uku, now be supported.
King Mohammed VI of Mafoto and Lilian Machela.
The governors of Uknga region yesterday did a meeting with their group photo in possession of Maasais', while refusing to put aside the parliamentary step by the governor.
Doctor Alfred Mutta (MARI) and Doctor Julius Malinza (Kitavi) attended the launch of a structure of nursery school to Msufini Primary School in Makalama District, following an invitation by the governor.
The governors of Chakwama, Kitegu has been forced to attend the heroes memorial area in he said that he didn't want to attend the reception area in he said that they had to tour them as a sign of standing together with Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
They were announcing that they will run together with Professor Ndalichako when he was defending himself by the Senate and court, and even if there will be a small election.
Those governors who said that Uknga region is being faced with a same problem of land conflicts, and that they will give a shame to their political opponents and "the enemies to ask" who want to stop their development agenda in the area.
A resident of Bongo Flava, who is happy about the members of parliament in that area on claims of removing the representatives of the county from them and said that by doing that, they are targeting their authority to remove the law in the national level.
Doctor Maluja said that parliamentarians are supposed to direct their power to follow up to 85 percent of the Kenya's budget in the hands of the national government and leaving the governors and representatives of the council to supervise the money for learning.
"Our members of parliament are supposed to understand their responsibilities as it is explained in 94 percent and 95 of our constitution, and order to be involved in the operation of the government of he said because it is not their responsibility," he said.
Doctor Mutta said that Uknga region has gone behind in development since independence for the reasons for the leadership of the fish, that doesn't care for the interests of the community.
"Our people have gotten a lot because of the effects of bad development.
We have a bad road, a shortage of water, but it is possible that we want to change the things that the roads are put up to all sides, "he said.
He added that the incident of violence before being evicted, Professor Lyoka, was a great shame to the community and it would have been a disaster if the governor has been shot.
"It is not wrong again, Teacher Kisongo had survived his death because of the grace of God, and everyone saw that he was set aside, but we will sit together with him, against threats.
That meeting was attended by members of parliament of Wines, who are many, but those of Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
The three officials have also started a committee on law issues and policies, which involves their wives, to present their views on how to run the economy of the area.
The committee will deal with issues like discrimination, water, primary and cigarettes.
