One resident of you have a lot in the district of Ilemela in Mwanza province, who has been admitted at a special camp located in Miraji's area in Mwanza town after he stopped suffering from the Ebola disease, the head of Mwanza Province, Mister Valentino Mlowola said that those steps have been taken after the patient revealed that some of the symptoms of the Ebola disease, where the samples of its tests you know where Esther who had gone to come from there.
Furthermore, it is a special camp that has been set aside for the purpose of giving a person alleged to be the Ebola disease from Ilemela district, Mwanza province, the chief physician of Mwanza Province, doctor Valentino Mlowola confirmed the occurrence of the camp who we did is to do procedures of getting married.
He could not mention this artist for service because it is not well known as a way.
Continuing to sit and have for instructions.
And place where it will be successful.
He wants to speak.
Therefore we have been so that we will be our team and it is not easy.
Tarimo, it is a man at the junction until the same hours, I know it is the patient with the symptoms of the Ebola disease, he started getting in addition.
Because of getting that?
The control of life is small.
And because he was not ready.
In the blood.
When they were taken to Bugando Referral Hospital.
Blood today we were seen in the country to fail when he got.
But also to have a chameleon well and continue to say this here is also good.
For the era, it got it and.
All of them is that there should be the last day but even me, he said?
It's not a big problem even so, a problem of marijuana was removed from citizens and I request.
The father of the driver, as usual the village does not get my condolences, I am surprised if we see God, we are ready to work on this area where this camp has been put while some people continue to live in this area where this camp has been put, while some of them have been sent and open them by using them.
Night.
SA I don't know this recently, the head of Mwanza Province, Engineer Evarist Ndikilo, giving a lesson to the residents of Mwanza province about the possibility of the Ebola disease that is facing the neighboring country of Uganda while explaining that the province has organized a road with symptoms of the disease which will go in the province, Esther Jeni.
