
Pressure on the blood is Shafii Dauda, 2012.

A few hours before the new Minister for Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, reading the government's budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013, the budget for some of the ministries have lost in the third minute, and now approximately seven billion shillings have been reduced from the list of the commission of constitutional changes, citizens, Almighty God, has been told.
The budget for the ministry of constitution and law which is a result of the constitutional commission and the funds of that ministry, have been read by the minister, Doctor Mgimwa, Thursday, this week, parliament in Dodoma town where the budget is expected to be 15 trillion shillings for the financial year 2012 / 2013.
Billions of the Electoral Commission that took place in Dar es Salaam last week between the Parliamentary Committee on Constitution, law, and administration and executives of the ministry of constitution and law led by Minister Mathias Chikawe and the deputy minister, Angela Kairuki, is the one that led to the completion of the budget of constitutional changes.

Speaking at the same time, the budget for the commission has been reduced from approximately 40 billion shillings to 33 billion, for the financial year 2012 / 2013.

The first meeting that gave birth to "at the time of the" took place on June 4, this year, and members of parliament of that parliamentary committee were amant to pass the ministry's budget given by Minister Chikawe, on the explanation that, the budget for 3949 billion shillings is very high.

In a situation to confirm the main budget of 15 trillion, that will be read by the Minister of Finance, he told our writer that, even the budget for the ministry of constitution and the law of 1867,888 trillion shillings is small compared to the responsibilities of that ministry which include the court.

More information say that the officers of the Ministry of Constitution and the law gave some of the use of the Constitutional Review Commission and those funds are not in other use.

"The ministry went down in a budget of commission and loss of 3995 billion shillings, 94 billion shillings and good administration, the office of the Director of Public Human Rights Commission and Good Governance, the Office of the Director of Public Service and Human Rights Commission," says our news source from among the members of parliament of the parliamentary committee.

On another side, the reports indicate that the commission of collecting opinions is expected to start his work in eight provinces of Tanzania, being the first phase of its performance.

Our news source read Minister Chikawe and the delegates of the parliamentary committee in one of the parliamentary committees and eight provinces for the first phase, the delegates will go there for one month before going back to the headquarters of evaluation and going back to other provinces. "

However, it is still the official date of the constitutional commission to start the work of collecting opinions not to be put up.
Opinion about the budget.

While the situation is like that, on the side of the commission on constitutional changes, citizens are still insisting that the main budget of the nation, if it will identify the problems they are facing.

But on another side, it is said that the budget of this year can answer part of a cry or doubt that the citizens, and especially the sale of non-communicable diseases.

According to information just reaching, it is a big part of the allowances that are not a must for leaders who have been sacked from the amount of money that was to be done in development activities.

In line with the cancellation of those allowances, "we saw the debts of corruption among the government officials are mentioned to be controlled by considering the views of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).
Among the advice of CAG that will be shown is the use of the renovations of the government vehicles, the area which has become 'Sura Sirambi' is to chew billions of money and it was said that President Jakaya Kikwete has begun to take action as well as reducing the dispute outside the country.

"It is not good to speak about the government's budget before it was presented to parliament by our minister, but I would like to assure you are very big changes.
Opinions of the citizens this journey have been considered so much because the allowances that increase the expenditure of the government without the need have been sacked, "explains one of the officers in the Ministry of Finance who is currently in Dodoma.

On the other side, another officer from the office of the Prime Minister says, "it is true that there are big changes in the country but not changes, we aim to be keen on the use of that budget with the ability, by considering this new team of ministers."

But also in another step, Good Citizen has noted that the presence of great expectations among the workers in the country has not been reduced up on taxes, and when workers are in those expectations, they can buy vegetables and fruits outside the Arusha High Court, Fatma Hamad (44), told the author asking for vegetables, rice, rice, rice, and rice.

And the farmers of Southern Highlands, they are forced to get relief in agricultural technologies and the whole system of giving birth certificates they want to be used instead of the district commissioners in the district, some are affected by those farmers.

The expectations of the Southern Highlands.

Some of the managers of agriculture, business people and farmers in the Southern Highlands regions have expected to expected the budget of this year to come and solutions to the problems facing the agricultural sector.

"Tanzania we have said that we have small-scale farmers more than 90 percent, this is a very big group in the nation, but our farmers are malaria, a budget is to give answers of the small-scale farmers," says Christian Amen who is an expert in agriculture.

In another step, many farmers are expected to enable the government to enable access to solar energy in a price that small farmer will be maintained together with the procedure of using Saccos, it is more better than supervised by the district offices and directors.

According to those farmers, other areas that they expect the budget of this year, will give priority is irrigation farming and sure of markets for agriculture.

The farmer, Rungwe, Rungwe, Mbeya Region, is advised to be removed from the value-added tax (VAT) in products that are derived from the agricultural produce, giving an example of milk.

"Milk doesn't have VAT on the same, but the produce that are produced by milk such as we don't increase VAT, in this situation makes our products to be less compared to the neighboring countries, and the current market is open," says Nsekela.

On the other side, Nsekela said there is no transparency in one type of money, others get all the years, others that they cannot get a farmer, therefore it does not allow the farmer because it does not benefit farmers, it does not benefit them very few.

The expectations of the lake region.

From the Lake Region, our writer, Deus Kibamba, said the expectations of the residents of the lake region.

From the same, the senior lecturer of the St Augustine Institute (T) Mwanza and the senior journalist, Peter Ng'amilo, says that in order to improve the ordinary citizens, it is important to improve taxes to employees and start strengthening the central railway.
He says it is important to control the price of prices, because what is happening now is to be bad in the economy, the market has been destroyed, and it wrote on paper.

While giving his opinion, the Director of a non-governmental organization for Change and Local Governments (LG), Jimmy Luhende, has said that in the economy of the economy, there is no new issue that the citizens can be able to ensure that the real situation has resulted from hope.

"We are in the picture of many economic activities that show that this budget will not help us, first, in the year we had a budget of 13 trillion shillings but there is no council that got more than 30 trillion shillings, even this will not be able to have any new system," he said.
According to Mwangaza, the problem is the management of resources that are there and that if the problem has not been dealt with because of free the budget.

Ansudane Soulaimane while who is a businessman in Mwanza town is expecting a budget to put a good environment for citizens to work and live in a human life.

He advised the government to reduce tax exemptions for big business people so that the nation can benefit from its resources, considering that it is not right to forgive taxes, big business people and without paying taxes to the poor.

From the northern region.

Our reporter, Paul Mzamili Ally from the northern region has said that some of the citizens of those areas have had a lot of opinions about their expectations, many expect a lot of lives to come out.

Idd Ramadhan, a resident of Ndonga village who is a farmer and an entrepreneur is expecting a budget that will give life relief.

"Budget enabled us to reduce the series of taxes in primary products for the use of every day for the lives of low-income citizens as farmers and small entrepreneurs," he said.

Ramadhan who is also a cadre of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) is expecting the government to send a lot of money in agriculture.

"During this year's budget, we have been told that agriculture has been set aside 100 billion shillings among those the government will give 10 billion shillings and the others will be offered by the partners, now if the beneficiaries are not given the money for it is that agriculture will be stuck on," he said.

He added, "we are our expectations that the government will pay a huge tax in oil for the lights which are the biggest of many people in the villages who depend on the oil such as energy."

He said in the last year's budget was a very big offence to increase the tax taxes so as to deal with the problem of lack of petrol oil, a situation that caused the price of oil prices to rise up to 300 percent. "

He also said that the government of controlling its workers are self-reliance, even if we expect the ministry to have a budget of one trillion shillings if they will be able to misuse public funds so that all of them are the government and its responsibilities, "he said.

On his part, LoLSay, who is a member of the United Republic of farmers in Manyara Region (Mviwata), has urged the government not to increase taxes in the vehicles of vehicles so as to avoid a tree planting price in other products.

The lecturer of the Faculty of Law in Huria University, Eliona Lollipop, is expected the government invests more in the important sectors which are fishing and livestock.

Another citizen, Ansudane Soulaimane, a resident of Karatu district, explained that he will not turn back in the budget of this year due to executives in government not to close to citizens, different from the leaders of the government of the first phase under the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.

"During the first phase of the first phase, I remember well the Minister of Finance was presenting a budget that consider the interests of a human being but currently the leaders are different, the leaders are doing anything in every day life," he said.

Fatma Hamad (44), who is a professional to vegetables and fruits outside the main market of Arusha is expecting a budget with life relief, which will involve the prices of important products like sugar, flour, hatred and different types of products.

"I request only that the prices of those products is enough for now, for example of 2000 shillings, approximately 1,200 shillings like rice, rice, and beans, so we do to buy those products so that we can get our families," he added.

These opinions of some of the residents of Southern Highlands, the northern region and the Lake Region are expected to get answers in the government's budget for the financial year 2012 / 2013.
