When she gets the benefits of TFF for Yanga and the fate of our soccer.
Dec 23, 2015.

The success of Tanzania's soccer club should depend on discipline, the efforts and the sincere condolences to all stakeholders in soccer and to consider the basis of success which will be raising our soccer.
One of the most important stakeholders is the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), which has a huge responsibility to manage soccer in the country, but if you look at its trend, you are worried that there is a sincere will of developing our soccer here in the country, especially if you look at how it takes place in soccer clubs.
TFF has been competing for Yanga and Yanga for a long time, while various stakeholders did not understand what is going on between that club and the federation's leadership of Yanga Club that is in power that has completed his term since June 2014, according to the constitution of the leaders who are in power so as to change.
Last year at the general meeting of the club, the members decided to break their constitution to allow their chairman Yusuf Manji to continue playing in power for one year contrary to their constitution, the financial year has ended in July this year.
The members of Yanga did that after Manji refused to continue leading Yanga, and wanted to continue to lead Yanga, and wanted them to give him another year so that he can complete his promise including building a modern field.
Manji entered Yanga as a leader in the year 2012 at the by-election of that club after the former chairman of the club Brendan Rodgers and some of the delegates of the club to protect him after going to power for two years only.
Previously the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) wanted Yanga to change their first constitution and to bring in the section of a long-term leader so as to legalize the long-term leader, but up to now Yanga have not done so and TFF is silent.
This gives the questions about the ability of TFF, to watch it "and do justice to clubs, be ba together with Yanga for the end of their constitution, up to now, there is no need to look for Yanga continuing with their constitution.
But the situation is therefore for Yanga, recently the TFF urged leaders of Coastal Union, Africans Sports of Tanga and Toto Africans of Mwanza to do elections in accordance with their constitution and if those teams will not do so, they will not participate in the premier league in Tanzania.
As it is not enough for last year TFF given him a letter to the former chairman of Simba Club, Ismail Aden Rage, who wanted him to do the reforms of the constitution so that they do elections and leadership can obey them and do so.
The leadership of Yanga in August this year made a letter to TFF to move ahead of their elections until the general elections of the United Republic of Tanzania will expire.
Elections has ended up to now, he did not be announced on the election of elections and they have not done amendments to them and TFF, have continued to consider if they have not given instructions.
Soccer in the whole world is done in the law and regulations, members to know that they are under the law and regulations of football, they can make any decision inside their club but it must be inside the law and regulations.
As every club today I decided to do if he did Yanga soccer club we will also take it to our football, Yanga if they were forced and Manji continue to remain in elections and gave a permit for continuing to lead Yanga for another period of four years.
What is happening in TFF is another sign that we will not be careful with what we do when it comes to the issue of soccer in the country, our football needs a lot of stakeholders together so as to improve the environment of discipline and to respect the procedures that are leading soccer.
TFF, as the chief supervisor of soccer in the country, is not supposed to have forgotten that some of the clubs and hurting others, the situation is leading to be trusted by the federation and to stop sexual excitement.
Leaving Yanga, they gave you like you about the law, it did not lie or even Yanga themselves because their success will also depend on, because of their success they have the discipline of managing the law and regulations.
Yanga like they don't know and when they love their club, it is a must for giving excuses that, today they will allow them to benefit them, but now they have developed a lot of resources that are the best.
TFF are believed that they are required to ensure its members are required to make sure that its members are following the regulations for everything, it shows that there is a problem in doing their work on that, there are people who have put ahead the era of the club and forgetting their responsibilities.
