
The year 2015 will be welcomed by joy all over the world.

Sinyati Enterprises, Australia, the capital city of Australia yesterday night led to the world celebrating the new year for the celebrations in Freetown city despite being faced with threats of the terror attack.
Millions of people from Hong Kong City up to London, New York to Rio, came out on night while getting the first year to welcome the new year of 2015 through political tensions.
During Christmas celebrations in Syville Smith was attacked by a citizen of Iran that had the weapons that were killed by 17 people before facing the police.
More than 16 million, the 6 million people were arrested in SynoHydo Corporation to celebrate new year with great safety from all security guards.
Mayor of SynoHydo Corporation Celine Kamuhanda, led to the citizens to remember the two hostage, Johnson Mbwambo and Barqat Mvungi who were killed in that attack on the shop of selling coffee.
"We are celebrating the great wealth of this kind and we will continue to live in peace in the new year 2015," said Mrs Fissoo.
After the terror attack, the Prime Minister Tony Abbakar, said security guards have discovered the presence of a terrorist network and warned the existence of a terrorist plan but he removed the security during the new year celebrations.
In addition, Mrs Lily has thrown out the terror attack and said, "we are faith that we will have a peace event" in Asia.
In Thai village, the popular tower of Thatcher famous as 101 billion was flooded the millions of people who were affected by various artists.
In Japan, Mlimani City Council is adorned with the ones that brought together with the believers who showed up for the new year celebrations.
The religious hall was arrested more than three million people.
In Berlin town, a special event of the famous song "the 'BayArena" were led by artist David Lugenge from Bribery, where he led another ceremony to fall down in Berlin Marathon last year.
A lot of citizens in Africa attended that service at the church taking the new year.
The millions of Spain's citizens were seen to have had gathered in the bar and drinking alcohol takes.
The new year celebrations took place in River Dar es Salaam but the government allowed the fees that had arrived for the big number that emerged.
In New York, approximately one million people arrived at the Times Square hall to view a special event that was welcoming the famous year "New York's ball, New York's ball, including Taylor Swift.
