Even me I would like to introduce himself, "a customer service called"
May 5, 2013.

There is a time you can say you have gone to and see everything that, then others are receiving a lot of things that have happened last week at the union's award as President Kikwete has awarded various awards for others but he is the award of the inspector general of police (IGP), Said Mongomongo said that he did not know my head by asking various questions.
Mke Mwema, she desires to depend on a certain kind, but he was given a medal, "public service called" it is a must for me ask him as President Kikwete and his team's award for an extent that is causing the lack of professionalism, wisdom, or a vision of leadership there is not enough to remove it from the award.
I believe that Mwema should not pollute the medal after a series of events under his leadership in the police force also removed the qualifications, which has paid a good service called "I request you to allow me to get out a few things.
The murder of?

If there is a scandal of bad performance by the police force is to emerge with the wave of albino killings in some of the provinces where people with mental disabilities (albinism) started again and that there were people living with skin disability and early this year, these events have started again and that there can be able to give them an award for service that brought down in the environment like this?

The police acts are using strength more than usual.

If there is another scandal, how the police force under Said Mwema should not understand its position in the administration of democracy and human rights, we have witnessed several people as a point where the police force have been given a great leadership of honor, therefore we saw one of the biggest weaknesses by Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi.
And another example is this day the day before yesterday where I believe that what happened in Arusha, to arrest the member of parliament of Arusha, God bless Lema, is a bad use of power (T).
True that the police force can go to be used because there are a leader that is seen by the police who are confirmed to arrest a member of parliament because there is a person that doesn't jump and give examples of these army people have been touched by saying that, Mister there is someone who deserves to get a great medal?

The police force and removed the opposition parties.

If there are a way that we have seen in this police force under the "

Also, we have seen that the army is used to oppress the leaders of CHADEMA every time when they get the position she does not understand the way the chairman of CHADEMA Freeman Mbowe made the way the opposition members are oppressed, "we believe there's a medal in that service that is highly successful.
There is just one reason for giving him a medal.
