Simba, Yanga banned the National Stadium.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The government has banned Simba and Yanga teams to use the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city to give another position as a result of violence that happened the day before yesterday when the two soccer clubs in Tanzania Mainland season 2016 / 17 and caused a huge destruction of property, where special seats and the documents are not stolen.

In addition, as a result of that destruction, the government has also barred the income of all the two teams that are estimated to be more than 340 million shillings and used them for the purpose of renovation of spoiled votes while emphasizing that if those funds don't know, the Simba and Yanga club will be decided to compensate the loss.
While speaking to journalists yesterday when he visited the field to see the destruction, the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye said that violence have destroyed approximately 81 seats together with two certificates while fans admitted to enter the field in a match that ended in a draw of 1-1.
Nape said the government has given that ban on claims that it has been satisfied with the destruction of time to time because it had been done by those teams and added that Simba's fans have broken their seats and he claimed that he had broken the seats.
He added that his government was surprised more by the foundation stone of standing on the field where Yanga's goals and Simba already harvested.
"This is more than bad luck, it is a very big issue to see people doing this destruction this week, this is not Simba and Yanga only are not involved in their matches here, but even they are playing with another team not to get here," said Nape.
He added that for now the government will fight the camera in the entire National Stadium so as to identify the destruction of any kind that will be able to come out in the field while claiming that he has been called by President John Magufuli that showed his disappointment with the destruction that happened.
He said President told me that he had following up on the game through television and he was announced by those violence because he knows that sports is a friendship.
Speaking about the use of the electronic tickets where it was for the first time to be used in the new system of that stadium, Nape said some of the fans demonstrated "to the use of those tickets, they used to get a special card.
He said that it was forced to arrive early and get into the field so that the game can have been reached, but others continued to sit down until when the game was when you're near.
In addition, he added that there are fans who even when they were directed to use other cards to intervene in the field, they refused and wanted to use those that they are used so that a situation that caused the huge congestion at the exhibitions.
The sports minister said after seeing that situation that it has caused disasters, he decided to change the system to intervene in the stadium to use the electronic tickets and using normal ways but still there are violence.
Nape denied reports that the machine for paying for those tickets had a problem and insisted that he had worked for all the inspection and even the electricity that was given by Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and to be returned.
I am saying that this is why I am saying that this is just good and it's not another, that is everything there was no reason to break up for property, even if there was no doubt that has been caused by the referee, coach, players even many fans is dangerous to the destruction of property.
On his part, the Secretary General of the Tanzania Sports Federation (TFF) Selestine Mwesigwa said that violence that happened yesterday is a great shame for the sector of soccer because the football stadium is a friendly place for everyone and is supposed to be taken.
"We like TFF, we had agreed with events yesterday (the day before yesterday) and we gave their condolences to all those who were injured in that day before yesterday (the day before yesterday) and offices will follow up on that issue, but concerning the ban on Yanga and Simba in my office that has not been given official reports," said Mwesigwa.
Simba fans bought special seats after Yanga scored a goal in the 26th minute was scored by the striker, Amissi Tambwe who before scoring, he left the ball but the referee was unable to break up the seats after Shiza Kichuya and scored a goal in the 87 minutes.
