
The signing of the vehicles was announced.
Petit 14, 2013.

The government is expected to announce the process of inspection of vehicles in foreign countries at any time from now, our citizens has been told.

That step has come about three months since the process was taken against the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) through its committee of complaints to identify a lot of shortages in that process of tenders, being together with the violation of the law of civil servants.

In his talks with this newspaper this week, the director of Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Joseph Masikitiko said they are expecting to announce the contract of inspecting vehicles outside the country, after many communication between them and stakeholders.

"After having a lot of communication between us (TBS) and PPRA and our other stakeholders, recently we are expecting to announce the contract through the media such as the law of purchase laws and those who will be ready to request for the contract for the inspection of vehicles outside the country," said Masikitiko.

Moreover, the end of the tender to take place in TBS under the former deputy executive director Lewinsky being in the final stages of giving of tenders for the companies that were in action to be presented on that assessment.

According to the report from TBS, the companies that were previously in the last process of getting the tender is together with the Japan Iniesta, Wilfried Bottling Company Limited (Japan), Wind East Africa Limited (Japan), East Africa Dairy sector (Japan).

Others are Jade of Kilimanjaro and Auto Fm, MONDE, (Radhiyallahu An'ha), Serengeti Boys and Fashen.

Speaking in an interview with Raia Mwema, in his office earlier this year (2013), the Executive Director of PPRA, Doctor Ramadhani Mlinga said, "the step of stopping the process of the contract and ordering to be afresh, has come after PPRA launches an appeal from M / S company, which had requested the contract," said Mlapa.
According to PPRA, apart from Kuala Lumpur to present his appeal, the committee of complaints in its investigations revealed some of the companies to provide false information to TBS following those companies being involved in selling, importation and manufacturing cars contrary to the requirements of the tender article 31 (1).

The companies that were awarded that section include M / s, Serengeti Boys Secondary School, M / s, East African Relief Organization, M / S and M / S / O and International Cellphone Company Limited.

In another step, through his report to the press, TBS has noted that some of the companies that have been given licenses are using the standards of TBS in the country failed to meet the conditions of their licenses.

As a result of those companies going against the law, the regulations of 3 (1) of the regulations of controlling the quality of the year 2009 that aims at any person using the cost of TBS in any products without having a license.

By recognizing that, TBS has requested all the participating in all the battery of Tigo Company 'together with those involved with the business of the battery that the producer of that product is unable to meet the requirements of the quality of quality points.

The products at the moment are not yet known as a system to confirm the quality of products in our country which came from (Prize), Vermont Bernie Sanders, and not otherwise.
