
Bishop Batuli wants religious leaders to follow the performance of JPM.
Leaders of various religious denominations in the country, have been advised to follow the system of President Magufuli to put in front of the interests of the citizens, so as to eradicate the dangers that caused the leadership to make sure that the leadership is a lesson so that the leadership is a solution.
The call has been made yesterday by the Archbishop of Free Pentecostal Church of Tanzania (FPCT), David Batuli, when he was speaking at a three-day seminar to build more capacity for other leaders, pastors and guardians of the church in this province.
He said that in the previous candidates for various leadership positions, they used to get the concerned position, they had a culture of preparing a mother from the country because of sending him.
When he was a politician who made a celebration to one main reason, it is that the period of benefit from now is the family of the concerned leader, neighbors, and friends following the strength they have at the time of benefit or leaving, it has come, "said the bishop of Baton.
He said that for the government of the fifth term, many things have been changed and there is no time when the party is unable to hold elections, or during the swearing in line with the leader of the country.
While clarifying, the bishop of Batuli said right now there are signs that citizens should expect to get important services to the high level is encouraging and also Tanzania will make more steps on development because the government will have enough money, after all the illegal immigrants.
Speaking about the leaders of the religious denominations, he said that in and it is not safe because some of the leaders are voters in the same way, they have been forced to put in the country (not in the interests of the development of hunger or to their believers.
Bishop Batuli said it is an issue that will allow God for God if all the leaders of the religious denominations, by imitating the leadership of Doctor Magufuli's leadership of requesting them before the interests of their believers and the community that surrounds them.
While talking to the leadership of President Magufuli, he said that when he was given the leadership of DFAA John Magufuli, it has been set by God because it is making war with all the relevant authorities, it is put in front of the interests of the citizens and especially the ones who are not affected by our country's leader, is a foolish thing.
Stressing further, the Archbishop of Batanyita he said during the process of the general elections of last year, Doctor Magufuli was not in the legs to prevent many of us, but he was the name of God.
And I got to me Lungles, Singida.
