
He said that they were affected by conflicts.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
He said that he from Maasais', Kisumu and the mosquito is among them that he has been affected by the conflict, this year.
The fate of Father from the government of Maasais' now is in the hands of President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is expected to build a special commission to investigate if the local government was to be taken against them.
Section IV of the constitution of Kenya gives the president the ability to fill in the local government, he said that it has not been unable to implement its responsibilities for serving Kenyans.
This happens after more than 800 residents sign the signing of President Kenyatta to break the government's case following conflicts of time to time between representatives (MTVs) that he from the governor.
According to the residents, that conflict has violated development projects in that area.
The Governor Sele says that all efforts to look for peace among the leaders of the party, he believes that there is divided into the residents of Maasais' so as to be given an opportunity to elect the new leaders that will serve them well.
On September five people were injured in a shot following an eruption of violence in the parliamentary seat, he believes that the governor's followers came out and those with other leaders who were chosen to deal with them.
The leaders from Kinyanyiko area, he from Maasais' and Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
In the past two months, the parliament of he said that he passed the argument of sending him Professor Manyele while being supported with that argument and 10 opposing.
MONDE, he believes that he has condemned the president's office about the conflict that is going on in him, he said that the state of the conflict that is going on in he said that it has no money to run their campaigns in the new election of a new leaders that he will be prepared.
However, the high court blamed the Senate to discuss the expulsion of the governor whose case will be heard due to the criterion that the governor did not be given a chance of defending himself before being evicted.
On February, the governor of Emosquitoes, Martin Saanya entered the history of history by being the first governor to step down from BADEA.
Mister Gerson Lwenge has been sentenced to the law in the provision of the tender that was chased by the Senate but later the court changes the decision.
Two months later, MTVs have stopped him for the second time, Mister Pengo, a step that was sponsored by the Senate.
The high court put up for a long time the Senate's decision to send him a case that was presented by a group of residents of this mosquito to be heard.
Court also liked to be deputy governor, including Nditi Rashid as the new governor for a mosquito.
On the month of May, the speaker of parliament of Eucharist Justus Msepwa. He disappeared from being found in five days later in Lumwaji.
Hostility among the leaders of Eucharist was revealed during the Republic of Jamhuri where the CAMON C8 phone group was conducted by the Senator of that area.
Two months ago, ODM Party has shown a special committee that will help to solve the conflicts which has been facing a fox which was led by OAFLA, Doctor Charles Oldonyo Sambu.
According to ODM Party, it has changed the development of he said.
He complained that the others that are flooded with conflicts between MTVs and their governors who are Kiyungi, Garbo passed away with an accident among them that he from the others.
