
Who died the earthquake that happened to 16.

It has been written by Angela Kizigha, Bukoba.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

More disaster is reported in a disaster area which occurred last day in Kagera province, where it has been reported that the deaths have increased in 16 people, while others were injured and caused sadness and shock to many families.

That event has done the prime minister, Kassim Majaliwa to be forced to do a surprise visit to visit the victims of that earthquake which has been claimed to be caused by poverty in neighboring countries of the East African region of Kenya and Rwanda.
In another step, the University of Science and Technology of Nelson Mandela which is in Isikizya area, Arusha province has explained the plan to start getting devices that will give a sign of events of the rival sides before the disasters.
In that special project under the department of research for rocks and mines, the university will partner with various higher education institutions that are in Europe and America, especially from Glasgow, Scotland, according to the Prime Minister's office, the provincial commissioner, Retired Major General Salum Kijuu said the event is the first in that province and that it has caused great effects to the citizens and stop completely publicly.
Kijuu said that until the report is organized that 16 people were killed after losing lives and caused 253 injured and at least they were admitted to the Provincial Referral Hospital and 83 households were found and allowed.
He also said that the earthquake has caused 840 houses belonging to their homes, 264 houses getting a high speed and 44 buildings for various institutions including the school.
He said the earthquake which is a size of 57 points which were tested for a high level of testing the couple, has caused great effects whereby the regional government continues to evaluate if the destruction that was caused by that earthquake and also the destruction that emerged and then taken to the office of the Prime Minister.
He said that the steps that were taken by the province until now is to bring him and take people to the hospital for treatment and to give them a lot of time some of the citizens who were affected, while other plans are being prepared.
That report by the Provincial Commissioner gave the Prime Minister to explain his disappointment with the government arising from that disaster and gave their condolences to the citizens that had effects and visiting patients admitted at the provincial hospital and also all the areas that were affected.
"Today is not a good day for us, I have tried to inform our president of the United Republic of Tanzania who wants our condolences to our Kagera province and we have never happened in Tanzania, we have never happened in Tanzania," said Majaliwa.
He urged the citizens to be patient, to show a union and cooperation, but also come out to comfort their colleagues when they get married, while we have witnessed a great secret of us, but the day before yesterday we have witnessed a great secret of us.
"Up to now, we have no sure that the great joy will be sustainable in which way, I want us to know this matter so that we can make sure this issue will be continuous, so as to see the symptoms or symptoms of this matter," said the Prime Minister.
He said that the Provincial Commissioner in his report told the evaluation that it is continuing and that he has ordered the security committee of the office of the prime minister to arrive in Kagera province immediately and going round in the whole region in collaboration with the leadership of the province with an aim of doing an evaluation of total.
He said after that evaluation, the procedure will be followed since the government cannot get the support the citizens, and also used that opportunity to tell the bereaved as the entire country together with them in the disaster.
While explaining the tragedy, Happines Madoido, who is a resident of Kagera County who was admitted at Kagera Provincial Hospital for getting a great joy when he was inside his house, Happines was thanked the employees of Kagera Provincial Hospital for the good service they gave him since she was admitted to the hospital.
Another suspect, Paulina Shao who was admitted at that hospital while she has been seriously injured, he said inside his house, suddenly he did not have a great joy that was accompanied by a landslide victory of the house and being in the process of wanting to run away from the wall.
The injured wanted the government to help them by building their houses and also to give education about such events so that they can be able to invest after seeing the symptoms or symptoms of how it happened the day before yesterday.
Addul Kiba who is a mother of the late, Vermont Bernie Sanders, has died after being covered by a house resulting from a house, speaking on behalf of the family's family to take the deceased up to the villages because of the burial.
The equipment that involves itself at the fear of the incident, especially due to the Kagera citizens, it is not aware before the occurrence of the earthquake due to any reports that will give a sign of events of the Turkish institute before those disasters.
In that special project under the department of research for rocks and mines, that college will cooperate with various higher education institutions that are in Europe and America, especially from Glasgow, Scotland, according to the Deputy Head of that institution, Professor Bro Mwamoto.
In that first project in the country that aims at providing the dispute between the two earthquakes that happened in the country, special equipment which will be contributing to the probability of the disasters, have been supported in a very important areas like mountains in the country will be buried and areas that are usually paid for.
The expert of rocks, who is also the head of 'Siri ya Mtungi' that deals with the research of rocks together with explosions in the entire East African region, has been a big source of the rival sides in the whole East African region.
Those equipment that destroy the bomb attacks have been buried in the mountain area, Lake Noma, Mount Meru and even Mount Kilimanjaro together with other areas in the country.
But that step is not that there was a result of an earthquake that is facing the many areas of the country, but it is a plan that was renovated by the experts earlier this year and that the only thing is the implementation.
The head of communication unit in the Ministry of Science and Technology of Nelson Mandela (NM), Karav Dhingra said he was giving an official report about the development of the program this week.
Recently, the government built big laboratory equipment from Nelson Mandela branch, Arusha which was launched two months ago.
The government of India has also issued its contribution by getting the university a big computer and with great ability in the country known as' Parade Kilimanjaro, 'which together with other activities, it is expected to be used in research events, natural gas and also in this new project to follow up events of the earthquake and the explosions in the world.
