Citizens should start destroying the oil infrastructure, gas.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

Some of the citizens of the areas where oil and gas infrastructure is at the Kinyerezi electricity generation equipment and others that are continuing to be built, they have started selling that infrastructure by making various destructions.

The destruction is to accumulate points, they put aside some of the points in the gas pipeline that were kidnapped by the others.
Due to violence that are dangerous and can cause huge effects to the economy of the country, the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has been forced to inform the executives of the country, the chairpersons of the estates, all religious leaders and the security of security in those areas to put strategies to eradicate those acts.
Those leaders met at the TANESCO offices that are available in Kinyerezi electricity generation, the acting manager of the Kinyerezi electricity generation company, Lucas Busquets said that the aim of the sitting is to educate the safety of the infrastructure so that those leaders will partner with their citizens.
While presenting the topic, senior security officer of TANESCO, Misango, said that there have been issues that involve the safety of that infrastructure including reducing skills and building where there is a shortage of gas that go down.
"We are preparing to build a fence in the whole area of infrastructure, the police force and its security guards which are an army to build a nation leaving, in the area where they sell the destruction," he said.
He requested the local leaders and the citizens to continue with their cooperation in protecting the infrastructure of those areas, because from that center started working, there have been a fire incident that was being controlled but they did not know her because.
The chief medical officer of the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), Elias Muguma said that in areas where two gas plants are called to Gongo la Mboto in the past and at the end of which they are doing business is very dangerous.
He said the security problem is more than seven tons of seven tons to live in an area of crude oil for gas, while there is a campaign of yellow cards that shows a gas pipeline that is called for the safety that was donated by the fire that was done by the same year.
"Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Mjimwema, there are people who died in the areas of gas pipeline and build afresh and they have been paid in order to eliminate the" X 'goal, so as to be demolished and soon they will be demolished, "he said.
