And tourism is a sector that has great success in the country in the country to contribute to the nation's economy for two years ago to date.
According to the statistics of the Central Bank of tourism revealed to continue to improve the mining sector of minerals at the end of last year, although the gold mines had a very high price with this success but how come for a dummy check.
It is in violence.
The political and bad state is the late father of his government becomes close to five times.
Why should we miss this year until when it will be for example Nairobi city only have many beds in the tourism sector compared to all beds, which are in all fields of the way here in our country Ramadhani Mvungi who has tried to look for answers of the questions.
The tourism sector is caused to contribute to a large extent in helping Tanzanians among the entrepreneur and maybe including minerals.
Tanzania is among the few countries in the face of the world with ltikadiu in areas with tourist attractions including wild animals, as well as a human being explains that it has not taken a lot of resources that we have.
Are not open about ten thousand animals in the country including the wildlife park.
Without forgetting that you have been the authority in Ngorongoro Conservation Area.
Areas of cultural tourism together are being mentioned by one of the stakeholders in that sector when they appear.
That money are used well that can help the country to grow the income.
Tourism sector in the country may benefit from the sectors that are doing well in the issue of economy in the country?
Because the contribution that is found in the tourism sector is great.
To an extent that it is good for various efforts to be made by an eye for the good sector.
The tourism sector starts and contribute to ten percent of five points to the whole national income.
But at the same time the tourism sector is enabling many more than twenty thousand employment for all Tanzanians in the country especially in general, it helps to see that it is a period that has many employment opportunities but also to go to the tourism sector is among the sectors that have great investments for two thousand and ten thousand.
The tourism sector.
Investment is near ten percent.
Most of the whole players of our country depend on that, you can't know that I am a sector that has great players and the tourism sector like the other sector is that there are many challenges.
One of the challenges that are in the tourism sector.
Tanzania is estimated to have a number of people with one.
In doubt, we continued to discuss and continue with one with the eight with eight in the middle.
Then when you go to Dar es Salaam, you're close to close to one five beds, they are still continuing.
Such that remain are in other provinces.
In general it came to the area of those killers.
Tanzania is still a big challenge and in that area we are not doing well.
The number of our beds in our country is about to be under a bed that is in Nairobi alone.
Therefore, it is a lot of challenges that are in the tourism sector but also we have problems in service to our customers! "
Tanzania is saying that it will not be available in good health services in the side of all, he cannot have issues that are related to and.
Together with success in the tourism sector of infrastructure including the journey of the plane, it is being mentioned to be the challenge in business.
Third, a man of the nation of the nation was stable.
It was stable because we are unable to choose that it is a place we can get tourists when we decided to do so I will give you an example that many tourists now we have been getting many tourists from America.
Together with other European countries, but for now we would be able to do.
The late?
Our institution in our African continent, I would be stable if I would like to see if we can be able to get tourists from other areas for example, from the east of the central region and life is the areas which we have for now.
But because we have no plane that we can decide to know that we are using the eastern central region and get get in foreign countries.
This means that we will receive only the tourists that the aircraft have decided to go to those countries depending on their interests and business.
Therefore, it is a big challenge that we have but we are also speaking with the problem of infrastructure.
We should come out for now because some of the internal infrastructure is well but I think they are still efforts to be done to see.
Another inside the road because of the road, but also a matter like in Zanzibar's side, it is one that is aired by making sure that the area was and he will also get a chance.
According to the stakeholders of the tourism sector in the country that is supposed to be done now they were unblocked in the discussions.
That will involve the government and the private sector, there is a way to make improvements in this sector now after seeing these things that in general.
Tanzania does not have a group photo that people can sit and discuss matters.
Tourism is because of challenges and opportunities.
In August, the person has decided to bring up that which is known as usual.
How does it mean?
It is a message you have no problem which is in the tourism sector that we have seen that it is good to get a place you don't understand the people from the private sector and will meet people from the private sector and people from the government and various issues that will be said in general we are talking.
You will be born and accountability, will not be sent away, he said that in that way we will look for different issues to look for the issues where we are going, even when we focus on issues.
.
Results of joy when all of them feel that they are taking place to be between tourism or other community issues is that if a person will help to bring together people's ideas.
It is facing Mwanza people, it is easy to get answers of various challenges.
