The pastor leading in eternal peace.
October 5th, 2015.

The activities of human rights in the country are flooded with a big blow after one of the discovery of those rights lost life in a car accident at the beginning of this week.
Pastor Christopher Mtibua and Democratic Party's chairperson (DP), will be remembered by all those with good love for his activities of defending human rights.
It is clear that Pastor Mtika but he had a lot of controversy in many issues that he said and the others should be done, but that it has not been a politician and a good position in the issues that he believes in issues that can make them put in the record of defending human rights, it is a step to defend the rights of a private candidate.
Pastor Mtika but it is the only politician who has changed their health, every time when he saw the justice will not be accountable, he used it well at the court's stadium to defend the rights that he believes were to get to the citizens of Tanzania.
One of the cases that are record for its rights activities, is the one to claim a private candidate, where he won the government in court but the government had been unable to change the law in parliament but the government had been unable to change the law in parliament.
His stand of not knowing the government of Tanzania and claimed that Tanganyika, making his party to be able to understand the permanent registration because of failing to fulfill the conditions of registration.
History of the process of claiming that this country cannot be written without mentioning the name Pastor Mtika but it is a type of people who don't have any time when they believe that the rights are inspiring.
This year he requested to vie for the presidency but he did not get that opportunity because of not knowing the procedures that are required by the National Electoral Commission (NEC) through his statement before the chairperson of NEC when he didn't go to heaven, "it can be said, it was said to be said, it was said to be said.
He believed that he believed that the primary thing in his life is to see you in order for you to see for everything, it is a good thing for everyone, that even so we are to be left to me.
When we are going to say you are that the nation has lost a person whose importance in defending justice is not to be of its own kind, his death is to help other activists who have been able to recognize the responsibility of fighting for human rights without stopping or getting tired.
In addition to his problems that they did not pollute, but Pastor Mtibua but he has made war to do well in a speed that has finished its stand, he has finished his stand and of the future generations.
