
We need to do like Toyota in 30th.

In caring about the cost of providing better education and health services to our children (yes), our nation) are in many ways we offer to ensure we get those funds, and some of them should discuss little in my last article.
One reader has reminded me for his recommendations about the costs that we can reduce and the money that will be used to be made by the health and the health of our nation, "says that we can reduce the costs that are caused by the infrastructure of our nation's health, the heads of approximately 130 districts and every kind of officers who are not known for what are doing.
Moreover, he has no reason to have all the ambassador in the country, says he is looking for African ambassadors who are in Dar es Salaam city and asked himself what the work especially when they are doing more to attend the function of alcohol and share information that are available in the network.
My skills about responsibilities of our ambassadors is very little to an extent that I cannot say that's or when I think it is that in general our administration is very big.
Ministers, the deputy ministers for permanent secretaries, deputy secretaries, heads of directors, deputy directors, heads of provinces, heads of districts, provincial heads, Ras Makunja, DED Bunda suspends and likewise to be a lot, and there is no evidence that the numbers require productivity in their work.
We want to ask ourselves if all the officers continue to be with them because we are pleased with that we need them, or it's why we have been informed about "changes" for public service but this is why we will involve the reduction of cost of operation.
What seems to recognize it is not less, it doesn't have reduced, it has been increasing through modern cars, it is clear that our leaders do not live in different parts, it is clear that our leaders do not live in different places as well as free. (It is why we will get time to discuss.
Currently, the world is being faced with the economic systems that was caused by parasites of petrol and capital systems in the world, who don't have stranded, who have never seen for approximately one month of Toyota in the world, which for 70 years have never seen, the word "loss," at the moment is wrong, "it is now normal.
In listening, the companies have been forced to go back and investigate its movements, including reducing the workers, closing some of the activities that are in losses, and to eliminate some of his colleagues.
I would like to resolve the activities of our administration and those of these companies, maybe I believe that our administration is running its activities in a huge loss, and that there is no benefit from our leaders and to reduce by big percentage of the directors (supervision of their skills) inside administration infrastructure.
Basically we are receiving because we are not enough, and it has not received energy to make us believe, they are forced to do things that are required to be done by leaders, therefore, they will be forced to do things that are required to be done by leaders, therefore, they will start doing things that should be done by leaders, but at least they will start getting leaders.
When you get that time, or when you're close to you, they will come out with true leaders, who even if they will be associated with the previous leaders, they will be led by people to do different from their lives, and not in words of politicians.
This is possible, and it is because it is possible that the citizens have had every time when they give their fellow leaders a new contract (in the life of life), every time if the leaders have been able to study at times, and that this journey (Mrema, 1995, in 2005, things will be different, and good.
All the two are fruits in fear and asking for politics that show the new issue and raising new expectations that we can get inside, but I believe that even inside this debate, we can get lessons in solving some of our problems, therefore, I believe that even inside this debate, we can get a few things to help us.
In the contest for getting the president of the United Republic of the year 2005, it is obvious that the ruling party was able to collect a lot of money from different sources, up to other people they saw that if the kind of money collected from the party's candidate. (In the picture), there are reports that are recognized as part of the money resulting from the corruption scandal that will be discussed today.
For those funds that were collected from "businessmen," those are the biggest of contributing to the campaign fund of the ruling party with a person who finally became the president, truth is that everyone knows the president since the beginning of the campaign between the party and the person who finally became the president, fact that everyone knows the president since the beginning of the campaign between the party and a person who may be found as usual.
Now, if that is what happened, it is why we can be able to go back to this exercise, but with the purpose of collecting billions of shillings for the purpose of dealing with true enemies, ignorance, and diseases, instead of counterfeit enemies, CUF, CHADEMA, TLP or NCCR-Revolution?
If the year 2005, we make business people "they wanted to be good in front of the leaders and the actual event, it's why from him to continue being good in front of the leaders, those who have the same friend to the same time, who is now the attorney general?
And if the leaders were collecting those funds because they wanted to continue being in power, and "Masau boasted" he wanted to get into power, it's why all of us from using the collection of billions from people who graduated in the year 2005, but only this journey has a good intention to change the state of life of the citizens?
It will continue.
