You cannot deal with the corruption here and to get out of them.
Jon 09 / 2014.

Last week I wrote about hypocrisy and how you want to do things that are not easy or keenly because we don't allow you to look for him about any issue and I given one example, the one that was called "operation."

Let you look at what we do with, what we want to pay, let me return to the word which we have used to pay because what is not funny when we look at something that is not seen and then do not lie!

These are recently been part of the lives of wildlife and wildlife in this country since the colonial era of robbery, but only that it involves theft of animals that are reserved under the authority of the government, a small-scale farmer can be done by one person, while many times the theft, being one of people who look for subsistence while getting married.

Many times, these are those who live near the park, and that in general they are providing great help against huge crimes and these are the ones that can be signed by the government that they will release reports of crimes and the one being done by big business people.

Now, we are supposed to ask ourselves, these people who do not know, even if we do not get a lot of ordinary citizens, it will be true that the government heads do not recognize the business people of elephants and aspects that are facing government businessmen.

This newspaper was given out reports of animals that were being transported to the plane to go into the country, even Twiga Stars were able to be taken out of the bus without any defects or not knowing that the district commissioners and security officers do not know this.

These are things that have been the top two days in the world, we should be known that we and our country is a source, which aims at ending our animals, but before the rest of illegal wealth, she will not be born with what is not born?

Now, when it is when the things have been caused by an extent, especially when we are told the world that these things have been a series of crimes but we think this operation which will benefit many people, others among them were not guilty.

Believers of a certain kind have reached an action of believe that you can do any sin, when he gets into the end of the week to go to the end of the week to go to the end of this week, but these people are known, but these people are known, but those who are known?

Its reason is this is not possible to deal with criminals in one of the crime in the whole community, and other groups should not be avoided, therefore their networks are needed together with heads of government departments who are their partners.

No or when you are fighting with corruption in general, all of your department or you are doing "an operation" to appoint you, but any kind of corruption you want to solve if you get married, but there is no reason to eat it, but there is no reason to forgive me.

You can take other areas that advertise us and you will get the same way, we have the habit of releasing things not to do here, or if we see them because we are waiting for our place then we are ending, we are waiting for our time to be there.

Then we shall talk again from hiding anything after time, we have seen that the situation we have done in stopping.

In addition, it's impossible to fight with any defects in one sector while it will not be patient in other sectors.
