Close to this discussions here is here, I know God and here ready to have the youth and the topic being discussed.
It is because some of the girls to give birth among their children is called Mary Magdalene, that is for men.
Think about it?
A difficult daughter can make pregnant women to produce a child, she has refused to refuse to tell you those who told my office around him who failed.
The same time when I am at home and I am just my work, how we will do the sex of my child even Elizabeth Michael is the host of Iringa.
That problem will be there.
I was coming from.
How are you to come today.
Children to score.
To get pregnant that is not supposed to do that?
He is in school they did not expect that she will get pregnant and you can sit down or you can remain at the right time.
She desires.
There is there?
When you are not a child and it is also another thing that the second issue does not affect the child, they could not be afraid that I'll be found that I am found.
I have understood.
While continuing to find that, the pregnant woman refuses, said that, so few cents.
When a student is going back to home, believers can realize that she gets the stone and it will be a child who's a child.
Among those who came out and then I will give birth to the child we did not live it, I'm in a different environment and at home and maybe the child is holding it and he decided to leave.
To give birth to the child and beat up but not a fetus, I would like to know what I have written the child and the environment that I have written the difficulty I have written my brothers and what they have tried to do my brothers.
To avoid the child another reason, there are spongers who like the late God likes to do his things.
His things at the same time you don't know that when he comes from what they did not want it, it did not know what is there, it does not know what the Almighty God is looking for when they give you the same time.
You will get pregnant?
Make sure we use our way it is impossible so much to hear.
Deserves, the child is giving you a lot of allegations and that they have here pregnant girls and then they think it's why others feel it cannot be able to ask the one that the child decided to put him a lot of women to kill more children.
He did not have a hard life.
He desires to do everything?
So that he can live life.
Prevent us from there?
For someone to get a child?
It will be a must.
It has understood the age of nine months and we are not supposed to do you with the child.
The preparations will go to it is something.
Keko secondary.
And that, if you give her a girl, then you agree that she is unable to do so.
That is why it is possible, you need me because maybe you have that many in the front of many girls did not have many men.
Little little, he becomes a lot of men so that you can give them her because.
I have seen that the house is my house.
You know that I have worked on how many times you know everything that I know you will be able to see my pregnancy.
Maybe I want to know that this woman has done many of the woman, we had many people in a way, walk with him and he was walking with me, that you will leave me, that you will be able to hear them that you are for men if you can change a woman.
She has no terrorist who is running with a woman that he is not involved in us.
To them giving him?
This depends on different meanings that you come to refusing it just after being given another one and then I stopped Mister I followed it because she has a little ability to marry off the child and he threw her the child and he asked him in stopping.
If you came from what I refused because I know it is not my friend because brother you said that all events of people used to give those children.
It is that they were grafness or other people who are not true they are those involved.
He arrived at the lights being involved in pregnant women and there are some that was causing the life of life and it does not accept what I had not tried but let me feel like, I see if I will go to sleep without considering that, I see people do not have been paid.
Let him be able to understand that your government depends on such attitude and I have been able to sell the smoke, smoke, but he is.
She is unable to make up a child until now.
She is unable to go to Rhumba at a time when he is doing.
This situation is unable to tell me now, it is like this child like this child when he is in the village, she is going to own a child from there and another person who failed to live as a bad luck and another person they agree with him because of my pregnancy and another person they want.
Spongers to stop the children but it is a bad thing.
It's not good in front of God that God has given you the way you would like it would like to get another child here, I would like to get married when I got the child when I got to get married this child I got into a environment which I am happy about.
If you want to talk to our family as very poor, I have been very high to see when I completed the title he had died in the month of seven and I finished all the end in the month of me when I commend and let me feel much.
And when a girl is a story and it will not accept you, if he was extremely tired, there is no woman who had told me that I will not see me if I was to end, I did not know what I will do here, I saw it.
And I think that my brothers have said, we are expecting to read the truth now after the first in Msimbazi Center.
When you get pregnant, the act of getting pregnant as it is the end.
They have agreed.
There is no doubt, I know what this education does not have the end, I believe it's not the end when I told him, later he told him, I would like to read it, I would like I don't know it's true he didn't know it's true.
When he saw my side, I will explain to him in a good thing, when I took my mother to my mother, why I am told my brothers to take my son until when I am told our brothers to take a lot and something that is contrary to the men when he knows it.
He doesn't know his responsibility of doing evil deeds that I think about me that I have given birth.
These are three children, when we live in Dar es Salaam, they shouldn't accept it is within three years and for every woman the woman is in another woman when I told another one who I'm with him until the past.
Therefore, the biggest thing is that we request that to help to help them in this marriage with a man if I have agreed with someone that we have a good life and even if you have no longer a woman if a woman is supposed to come and even if you have been given a child with a woman or a woman.
If a woman doesn't jump and I see your child my son and we have no longer a shame, he can come up to send the child it is my friend and she will do so as to solve this problem.
Some of the girls to buy children should be completely read in the instructions that are there.
I've heard of thanks that the coalition government had on the right of men.
To give spongers that are dangerous to the houses that the players were in light or a good sister.
He has said he does not love him, that is the same way to know that I do here.
Or if I give the number of pregnant what does it mean?
When I walk with that woman the woman for peace he is just that I will be imploring into the sky.
I don't have this problem so as to reduce.
Or to come.
On the side of these men giving up even to desire every woman she will make sure you stop completely and also we can't remove their fees so that we can be enough for you, then you can use them and then you can use it, then you can use it, then you can use it.
To avoid things like these kinds which are not expected to do this problem, we are required to do not for women who have contributed to you all, what they have contributed to you, I have no advice and added that my name can benefit from talks to get married.
