
The government will cost 70 billion shillings.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

The government has said that it has set aside 70 billion shillings to deal with lack of drugs in the country, and is expecting to build a medicine factory in Simiyu Region.

Deputy president, Samia Suluhu Hassan said that yesterday when he was opening the annual general meeting of the health sector, including the doctors of provinces and district.
Previously when he was welcoming the Vice President, the Chairperson of those funds, Doctor Leonard Lutegama Maboko said there is a problem of lack of drugs and medical equipment in some of the health centers in the country, a situation that causes complaints to citizens.
"Honorable Vice President together with all the things but we have a challenge of lack of medicine and medical equipment, this situation has caused complaints to citizens on the process of availability of drugs and it has also been a long time from MSD to reach the concerned area, there is also a group of special people and they missed him," said Doctor Leonard Kazoba.
While clarifying about the efforts of the government to end that problem, the Vice President said that those funds will buy drugs, which will be aired live in health centers, Mrs. Samia said, "we have allocated a total of 70 billion shillings for the purpose of reducing the debt," the deputy president.
He said the long-term plan for the government is to have a industry of medicine and that it is a plan to build that factory in Simiyu province.
"We have a request for industries like eight or nine of drugs and now we are struggling to open a big industry of drugs in Simiyu province, the aim being to deal with the problem of medicine as well as our aim of Tanzania of industries," he said.
Likewise, he wanted the ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, to ensure that many of the traditional treatments are registered due to their importance in the community, "alternative treatments and alternative treatments is the profession of the African background, I urge the ministry to ensure that many of the traditional treatments are registered and are not known," he said.
He urged those health experts not to take stern legal action against all that are found to be against the ethics and the procedures of work.
