

And the United States development, Paul.
The speed of the use of information and communication technology (ICT) has brought a lot of success in various fields of daily lives.
These achievements are confirmed as a result of an increase in communication services, financial services and use of social media networks.
Moreover, those achievements have brought in many challenges in the community.
Climate change are done every day to the world and change the effects of life and performance in the sector and various profession.
There are some people to be careful when all of them have been following changes so as to ensure they don't leave behind.
Among the lack of technological changes and that believes that without using modern technology especially in production of industries is not easy to do production with productivity and success is Engineer Salvatory Okumu.
Rweyemamu, who is the manager of TBL factory of TBL Arusha and the barley farmer factory located in Moshi in Kilimanjaro Province, has said that together with a lot of responsibilities, he does not ensure about different issues concerning the new technology that are emerging every day in the world so as to make sure he is going to hand in hand with the changes.
"I love my engineering profession to a large extent, my long time is what they used to read many things related to this field because technology is very fast.
If you want to be a specialist and work harder, and in a big company, when I was employed you need to make sure that all the time you are going on time, especially to know the technological changes that arise every day, "he says.
He says that most of the time always does the scholars of the science profession in the country, they can use their profession to bring change in the community and to make digital innovations instead of depending on the creativity of foreign experts who every day they cause new things that they are not good.
Rweyemamu, he got higher education at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) where he was handed over the first degree courses of electricity and was among the graduates that did well in the year 1988.
After completing their studies was employed by the TBL company in Ilala factory as the engineer of electricity.
"After doing work in a short period, I was supposed to get affordable housing opportunities in Germany, when I was based more on the distribution of industries and systems that use modern technology," he says.
He says that after going back in the country he continued to do engineering work in the TBL factory and taken to the position as a result of its success until the position he was in charge of two industries.
