Swaya Ward, are very happy with Tanzania.
Sep 5, 2013.

Due to the death of journalist, David Misime, the minister of state, Office of the president, who has no special ministry, Professor Mark Mwandosya, showed up to the extent of reaching the borders of the country and talk about how the period of the rule of father of the nation, Professor Mark Mwandosya, showed up to the extent of getting the borders of our country, different from now when they are seen as people of violence.
In fact, it is a shame to be a shame, that small things of the country for many years have contributed to Tanzania losing my journey in the year 2009 to Mauritius, which is still a African Continent, where I was appointed and asked questions to become a nuisance to them.
I was forced to know that Mauritius have at that time and without doubt until now, it does not want a Tanzanian to have a habit of getting married but I would have been able to get a plot to enable them to reduce the airport.
I recognize that before my journey, there are boxers from Tanzania who had been arrested in Mauritius on with drug abuse and bad qualities that our country continues to get spoilt, but different issues are supposed to start afresh as a nation.
News reporter of Mwananchi has called me, "it is not drug abuse, there are some who have been arrested in those countries while carrying the elephants of elephants, minerals of different types and are asked, they are saying that they have happened in Tanzania."
It is a great efforts to be held now to connect good citizens to fulfill the consent of citizens in several primary issues, together with that it can be seen, it is easy because we are requesting the leaders "of the country.
I don't have to say, despite our brothers that have touched me the reputation of the country, still a Tanzanian has no right to be written on his head without being affected outside the country.
In the first page of climate change in Tanzania, it has been written, "this is asking and requested them to follow the name of the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, all of the ones who are involved, for what purpose of allow who are very disturbing as well as giving a donation to any security that will be seen to be a must.
In the second page, under a stern warning, it has been taken by the government at any time.
These words are very big and if we start with the first time, it is clear that the president of the country does not want to get any discomfort.
Cases of people to reach a place even to be returned to their homes, maybe as a result of the problem of not talking to foreign languages, it is not same even a little, there should also be the president of the country or who is under it.
And this, I am also a leader of the opposition parties who want to get into the State House even one day, I have heard a leader speaking about the challenges they are getting in the country outside the country and maybe this is because many of them live and are very disturbing.
A small example of the biggest nuisances for normal people, is the local community with this community by bad luck, it has maintained the purpose of leaders and if there is a Tanzanian need to go back to England or the country that continues inside that community.
It's just the day before yesterday we had heard that the speaker of parliament of Tanzania, Anna Makinda, has been appointed in South Africa, to be the chairman of the Revolutionary Party in the country (CPA), South Africa branch and I have sure the benefits of that position will end to the only leaders.
Maybe it is not enough to have only one points without giving recommendations about what should be done in order to deal with this danger which is very disturbing, it is true that even a person to get alone, is not supposed to be the right to someone.
