There which occurred in Dodoma where Directors have witnessed all the names of five names that there will not be given a great opportunity more than who she had been given a big position.
The procedure of every party to be.
How to get candidates vying for one position of the chairperson.
But as every party the party has announced that we will put the presidential candidate and its procedure in how to get the child, would go to compete with the late father.
Very much, the Central Bank should now be because we will talk about the revolutionary party, it is an appropriate truth that the late does not work with me.
Therefore, the number of those medical camp talked about that system of names of names and people who passed for the best five, if we do not give a chance to the former prime minister Edward Lowassa due to how he was receiving any point but maybe I went back to the Revolutionary Party in the country through the secretary general, Nape Nnauye.
I have ever said that we shouldn't say that we are starting from now, we don't know what they don't know who are seven in the village.
English, a fake news, Edward Lowassa is possible that the top five are the one that is going on in the surprising thing in the best three that it reaches the same.
We wanted later and which are indicating that he is forced to come up and that the name of that candidate who is self-employed when I was born.
They returned to delegates in discussing.
The way to get three names and delegates were adamant to sit down and most of them do not have faith in the songs that is mentioned, which is believed to have faith in the song by mentioning the name who was born with the presidential candidate on the ticket of the Revolutionary Party.
Among them is that many delegates did not agree with the decisions until the average of the committee ethics.
Maybe?
Others will take over, as we are waiting for we to understand because of informing the candidate who he is expected to have many that the business is commended for the revolutionary party when it reached in October, and on how it is seen.
It's not dangerous not to speak is that the delegates carrying them under they are vying to be remembered that recently we had three examples.
I was taken to parliament for the purpose of being approved by an emergency certificate to members of parliament to fight against some of the opposition members.
But what happened it is.
They scored against it is not one of the good committee of members of parliament from him but they returned them there and even one were when I saw them, but we saw the support because they are still holding the race until all of them have passed through that certificate.
Now it is not true.
The late God say it is possible that they saw the father they were told when I was told to make my grandfather's decisions in one of the political party because twenty days and the preparations should see you have a condition of getting membership and to go to the work of our cards to come from.
We look at three names which due to the language that it was going off from if I was told the ideology of the party, the preparations should be read for me if you can see you like the party's procedure in order to use democracy.
The party has decided to be for 67 people who collected the form to take a bouquet of names.
And not having that maybe the person to meet the criteria is the meaning that he has been left.
I take this environment.
The process of getting the presidential candidate of the revolutionary party.
The article for more time is that if you have not been infected on our reason, it will not have names, when they get in their constituencies that this is a picture but in competition there is a match.
An ancient attack has failed because they failed.
Where we ask ourselves to why God bless you, 'do not have words that you can be able to fulfill the ship to look for all the times a woman did, I know I will be.
Now if you have said that the whole disease in the picture.
That they went for reasons since then I was in Mwanza, why are the real people and I urge them to take them time.
Small-scale farmers in the first position, I asked himself, it means that this phrase is saying I did not believe that democracy is very expensive.
We see that he has taken a step that there is no voice even if you want to say everything he sees you.
And led it here but in the fight.
Four only Simba will give you the I who failed but they know that they are a must.
And it is the list of competition to be seen that we will not agree with ideas.
Another, you find the home they seen.
It's a candidate and if it is a running mate and you should not accept to carry if you believe that the devil of is.
The problem of problems.
Still, at home that he will be Jamila my people I will be surprised at the table and I will not be surprised after thinking to take buses to have bad luck and go back to the end if you are Download List.
The words had won and it finished by the people of Zanzibar.
This is a council or a very good thing that Ukawa can prepare and take their dollars.
I was my friend but.
Its a good Mosque in a very long time, it has already paid many years since he is my friend to grow and have faith in the second floor.
It is not know that someone should also be bad in.
It is possible that if I was seen bad to some group, but I am saying it is good but it is not good but it does not tell me even without being trusted by I agree.
Any person when we are not there at the end, snacks, soda, and a motorcycle riders, I told him what I think here is going on.
It could not be the smallness of us.
On the right is the prime minister, TAMISEMI.
But or else I'm looking at me he gets so much to leave a lot of mother to return.
He has also decided to leave the stations I decided to go well.
And that is the procedure it is required.
If so we are still a lot to me, action is still ongoing.
The late?
