
I would like me that I would have raised all the fare and allowances for them to go to vote.
On October 14th, 2015, by Mke Mwema, entertainment and games.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
The honorable lover.
See your condition, you have not been affected by the weather as a result of getting abusive language every day. I urge you that here in the morning so as to leave here in the morning so that these things are now, but these things have been destroyed like here.
Especially on social networks and his boss, showed others and they told me that there is a law to prevent abusive language and false on the internet.
But others are annoyed if the boss, the boss is still getting a house every morning while doing exercises for her child and even though he did not love her to get her mother and even when she knows her, she does not love him even though he did not love her, then she does not stay outside, but when she didn't leave each other.
"Would you know the father? I have given you the best exercise today."
"I don't have a lesson on the same way, the shivered out of the farm, is the same way and he does not go down," he did not go down. "
At the end he gave out of taxes, and claimed that it's not a friend. "I don't know what he did not want to do it, so that it will be careful when he decided to work on stage (so that the stage was taken by men).
But it's like him and told the White lover that I have heard the one who wanted to put him a candidate to me if you shouldn't see me.
Or after the election, what he also did, he will make sure that all the ministers are because there is a scandal of her father and her child, I met yesterday that all honorable members were found in the State House and then they were planned so much and in my dream you know why each one was found.
Minister Minister.
Every time when they read it, then they were defeated twenty-old people they were told they have made those exams and those are those who will be ministers in the next phase.
I don't know if I don't know if he is true, his lover we don't know if I will win it, but even inside you, it could not tell you, but when I saw it, I would know why I would like I would like to know what I would like to answer.
Therefore, the things are that, his lover with others do exercises for the mouth, without getting tired, the words that get from the female especially the others do not depend on the truth of other things.
"Go to there and when you know your mother, your mother, you will end the university during the general elections because you know the students it's just a bit when he had joined Boko Haram."
"Ah's father, there are no good people as students, but if you decided not to do justice to prepare."
"That is why we want jokes.
I would like I am a candidate, I would have missed all the fare and allowances so that they can be able to go to vote for five years ago to play against the same same.
"We be demolished because it's bad luck.
BB sees much easily but he did not know how to do it but later he told him.
"Truly, Hidaya Kapera (front of words), because there should not be a plan to consider the rights and the rights, that is why all the students will be unable to go and they registered themselves so that they can be able to vote for him because students are not important in this country?"
Sihana said the word like it is the sun, you cannot destroy the BB but later it was a good reason for these who wanted to get my victory, we cannot get my work for free for this year!
Your lover.
Hidaya.
