The late?
He is saying?
To you, even if we can see in December there was a journey, even when I don't know what we feel like, I don't know what you are living with my mother and even you know what you are living with my mother, therefore, I do not know what you are living with my mother and therefore do you get back again.
Amani's peace is always my one for us, the Almighty God speak out and even Mister she was taken to you because I was at home for how it will be told to go back again.
Again, the child is another.
For Mister.
The late God, then there is no longer.
Now I don't know anything that I don't leave at home now I don't know how to follow up.
And therefore, our time we have been touched and why do you told the stars.
You don't like to you for all the time while he was told the behavior of you by you.
And it is very delicious with the Almighty God, even when I don't know me, we should leave me he told me the behavior of Dodoma and my brothers.
Things are at home, I even I will not see you love the house's cells because it is not true so as to stop at home?
It is a question.
Let you have risen up to Town, I want to meet?
It has been launched in South Africa.
They had decided even Town we should meet and then that we had reached, we will expire. "
Almighty God bless you and since it is politics only, the late father are still unknown and they will be accompanied when you were accompanied when you live close to the late God whom she decided to get that singer, her brother to marry off their cloves.
We are meeting and it means that he is doing, I know what he is requesting me if we are meeting with you, I saw him on Facebook to play and use it, I will use it.
Why and why do not have the answer.
I have forgotten the one.
This will not be the late God bless you, then you know her child has died yesterday to go to home at home or a half now, the child has died yesterday morning at home, the late Adam.
Now a cost you cannot go?
I will come to you so that he doesn't know yourself from ley ley then we are to meet what we are.
We should meet this Thursday.
It is not the late God we will meet this Thursday.
You come or anything?
Almighty God bless you.
If you want to go to you, you're welcome him to come up with their own kind and not you know what I will help me, I'll see you and why I will help me let me tell ourselves what I would like to tell them if I do not want them to tell them if he is still not well.
Still when he was everything he is happy and they left who?
In that meaning the person told me 'Imebaki Story.'
