How the Blair go down.
Jide 11, 2013.

One day, for a long time after America and its partners to take their army in Iraq to break the special meeting at 10 o'clock at the headquarters of the British Prime Minister.
That invitation reaches a little because of the invited guests, they will be has arrived before one hour in the morning, because all of us we were mentioned before time except that our host.
I remember there were two African countries, one was born in Senegal and the other one was Doctor, John Saso and the other day he is the Archbishop of New York, England.
One journalist, another journalist who was invited by Richard Dimwa, who was previously the editor of South Africa's newspaper, Independent Power Tanzania, currently, he is the Executive Director of Royal College of Africa Limited.
Others were together with heads of various organizations like OXFAM and the institutions that deal with development of African countries.
That was not my first time or at the end of being invited at 4 o'clock in the day I was given by the Africa Power Station, and in England one of the fruit juices.
I was also one of the delegates of a panel that was appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of England (GNP) with the aim of urging them to convince the ministry about its policies in Africa.
The host of that morning in the morning was the prime minister Tony Blair and asked him that he decided to form a special commission on Africa and asked our advice.
If I got 6,173,433 votes in the Blair I understood at a meeting although they have been living in that country at 4 o'clock in the evening after we were arrested in a high table as the one was seen as a person who had gone down and who did not sleep well at night.
And so that is the way it was like the wife had recently given birth to the vigil of our child, whom she ordered him night with a cry for him.
After failing to ask for himself, he didn't answer his soul in the seat, but before he was not satisfied with me, I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if I'm in Africa recently, people have been relating to your stand on Iraq. "
The Blair stand was supporting President George Bush of the United States for its decision to take the army Iraq and the Prime Minister Blair said that what made him to take that step is evidence who were with them that SCE will face the weapons and destruction.
Now we are complaining that Blair did not have any worries at the time he said that he bought a lot from him, in the hearts of a philosophy studies that was written by Ibrahim Al-Marist when he was a student.
Pascal Shelutete said that the truth is called "Iraq's Security and Holiness Church, Guelord Bhagala '(security of Iraq and the intelligence network should guide the analysis.
Many don't know that this Ibrahim Al-Marx, although he has the Iraq origin, for sure his elders were admitted in Zanzibar and it's among those elders who came to Zanzibar from Iraq to lead the believers of various denominations of Kising'a ward, but others are others.
The shop that has planned for me the Blair during our meeting, Blair stopped him on that the defense did not impressed me on the morning and although Blair did not see me in another morning, I told me he should not involve him.
I remember time to time when he was speaking, I told Bongo, "this youth has a lot of success."
I was mesmerized by the way he used to listen to Africa, on how he used to give our questions, to know how he used to expand the statistics and distributing them about different levels of development of the African continent.
When he went to you the state of Africa I would like to know that he was in the African continent and his details were very humiliating.
Remember that apart from other activities of running the government and its problems, the United Kingdom has positioned itself well to war Iraq and he had not been a good friend because she didn't jump and her child.
And about all those in the morning, Blair was keen, giving topics that had great strength and let me feel that while giving them and want them to see the late.
One of the one that he said and asking them to investigate it is the concept of democracy and how democracy is important for the development and development of Africa.
However, my love with Blair did not last long quickly when I continued to enter war in Iraq, when I continued to change the natural policies of his party of Lewinsky and instead be directed to the policies that he went ahead, "he said."
