
Education is required to deal with them.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

I was heard of 12 September 2016.

Although tax exemptions have said that the accident does not have the body, it's our responsibility to ensure that we can meet and prevent it that caused many deaths and others lost their lives and others lost their properties as well as many family members.

Those events that have been caused by the weather especially such as the cause of the floods which has been caused by great shape and to stop the citizens being worried because of the fact that many do not know what to do exercises when they come from.
The day before yesterday Tanzania was flooded because of the earthquake the size of a red carpet of '57th and 7 provinces in three provinces and caused the deaths of 11 people and 120 others being injured.
That earthquake that is facing the towns of Kampala and Rwena from Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda, and Burundi, affected various provinces of Kagera, Mwanza and Mara in the country and caused several buildings.
Many of the ones that lost their lives in that incident and those who were injured were found dead in blood, media houses, to get shock arising from the experts, an incident that was high for a period of a high level of 'Race'.
In addition, the former elders saw the earthquake, were discovered that it is a big earthquake that has ever happened in the country in a period of one person.
The truth is that there are many effects of these kinds which are most of the death, most of the ones who are most affected are women and children, a situation that is faced with a big problem of not prepared to deal with disasters due to lack of education to deal with conflicts.
As a result of that, there is a need to have a plan to deal with disasters when you come from, a situation that will to a large extent reduce disasters, which is not easy to be approved as a result of the attackers.
It is clear that the education will also help to unite many citizens in opinion polls to understand that any thing that can arise and soon they need to ensure the safety of people living around them and their properties.
The earthquake has happened in the areas that have been accepted by the Indian Ocean and several times the scholars have been explaining that it is dangerous because of the possibility of the crowd that had been unable to deal with disaster but the great force is still in understanding of citizens.
The community with enough education about disasters, even the construction of its house is clear, but it will also be ready to cooperate with the government in a difficult time instead of relying on it as it is now that many have complained to the Meteorological Authority (TMA).
It should be remembered that Tanzania is one of the countries that have executed an international plan for 10 years with an aim of reducing the disaster in the world that ended in last year by strengthening the provision of education education to the public and to be able to deal with different types of disasters.
In addition, there are many ways of dealing with that situation and the biggest challenge is unity and solidarity of the citizens immediately when a problem if the community cannot be dependent, it is clear that the effects of disasters will be high than it is expected.
It is the expectations of many to see that plan after the completion of now, there is fruits and different strategies that will enable them to deal with disasters and have been completed including an earthquake.
