Use of your humanity does not yet confirmed, our thoughts are not yet confirmed.
August 19, 2012

Last week I started this column, to bring afresh the debate about the main challenges that are able to discover themselves, share experiences and how to distinguish itself if a human being who we think is equal to them.

I put aside that a great reputation that has made it depends on whether full human beings are not the end, where it makes them to know more and get more knowledge and more skills that helps him to deal with the challenges of living in any way.
It is our thinking that gave him to appreciate your fellow human rights, it does not want to come from a poor state to go to a better state, but if I will do analysts and get out of a good condition as well as directed more to her thoughts, his will, her creativity and his efforts.
On the end of last week I promised to ask for analysts of the concept of development to make sure that you meet in the context of my debate Mister Nakamoto, that there are experts who are involved in explaining the progress of development, but no one has been used in explaining the progress of development which have been used for example, many times, people do not hesitate to sell their differences.
So, it is not true that you can't found a modern Swahili (heart), but he was not going even little by you, you can't found a shivered because she does not found himself with the criteria of his humanity, he was found himself well.
I will not like to use the example of the Wahaya tribe of the Wahaya tribe of South Africa, two who live in different lives so as to explain the difference, which makes them be sold to the market and later to go back to the market and later to go down.
These Wahaya brothers know that later visitors could not have played 74 matches, they have assessed our people in the business of slavery and especially considering that the visitors were found a habit of our people and the other to oppose them, others love me, then they've heard, they could have taken against them easily.
The two Wahaya brothers do not remember that visitors who came to move in the African Continent, after losing us in Europe without involving our culture, so that they can own their daughters, "he told them to own their mental disabilities.
They have said that for those who came to Africa to promote a grader from the man's foot and to go into all ways to buy my grandfather's mother and they were unable to have the names of the era like that of our Wahaya brothers, they were unable to have a lot of people to teach my colleagues.
The two Wahaya brothers, they know that the visitors were unable to take their Wahaya brothers, but they are blocking the Wahaya tribe of their origin while they are blocking the Wahaya tribe of trees or a rumor that they will give birth to the clothes that they had brought to them.
In the short time, I will talk about the results from where they know where a black person was discriminated, and they are warned that they have forgotten in the basis of their marriages and that human beings will be a grader "the second one was a white."
In his book about his business and political life, Mzee Njeza, Karume of Kenya is proud of how many Kenyans who have gone to live or the rich and they come to visit his home to inspect their lives such as they get to them.
