I don't want an invitation from the conference, a seminar.

October 12th, 2016.

The minister of state in the office of the Prime Minister (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Employment, Youth and People with Disabilities), Jenista Mhagama said that he is not ready to receive an award of meetings with the seminar that does not have any facts.
He said from now, his office will not receive the award asking to be the guest of honor in these meetings, because they have no benefits to the nation.
Mhagama said this yesterday in Maswa District, Simiyu province when he launched a small factory for producing chalks to be run by the Maswa District Council.
He said due to the performance of the fifth term government, the issue of meetings, seminar and meetings have no doubt, instead, what is needed is the implementation of the government direction on actions.
"I want to address the launch of this factory, the ban on an invitation of meetings and seminar in my office, the office is not ready to receive, but we will receive an explanation of the launch of the development projects for youth and community.
"The government will continue supporting the efforts that are being done by the youth with the aim of bringing economic development by starting small industries through their union," he said.
He added that, youths of the group have shown way to youths of Tanzania and to increase the leadership of that province under the provincial commissioner, Antony Mtaka, that the first directors in the country will start implementing the directive by President Doctor John Magufuli of making Tanzania a country of industries to help the youth.
He said that he will communicate with the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment so as to look at the possibility of the government to make a great amount of importation of goods from outside the country because the government has invested many money in industries like that.
Mhagama said that the group by giving them 30 million shillings which are loan so as to reach the goal they have.
Previously when he was reading a short report of the group, the chairman of the group, Kelvin Steven, said their aim is to make social activities and production of property.
He said the needs of not in that province is cartons of the month where they will have more than 70,000 tons which they will sell out of that province.
Maswa District member of parliament, Stanislaus Magesa Mulongo said many youths have been done especially to start small industries will reduce poverty and dependence.
