
On the issue of the constitution, we should vote on May 24, 2012.

Those who believe there is God and it does not want to prevent us from evil deeds, and even if they go back, maybe what is affecting us without any sin?

And the country is therefore, if we believe that there is a government of people, there is a free court, then even the minister will understand that he does not look for him and he can end up in prison.

However, if the government is a group of people's group, there is no free court, then Tanzania will be to be for those outside the group that is called the government and those of benefit and corruption of some of the leaders come from the situation they have changed in the country.

Well, learn from your neighbor, Juma Pondamali, yesterday I wrote on that the problem is not the council of ministers but it's our system and that it is not enough for the president in power to change the cabinet of ministers without great changes in our country.

What is needed is the changes of the system that will lead the presence of revenue collection and expenditure of the government, the existence of control of our resources.
The changes of system that will lead three years of dollars can be controlled.

The changes of the system didn't be done without the changes of basically the constitution is of our current constitution that is intended to contribute to each other in the year 1977 due to the constitution that is organized in the same party and that does not meet the requirements of the time we have at.

South Africa and our neighbors in Kenya are some of the examples that we can try to promote the South African constitution that has been organized by involving all stakeholders in the community that has tried to meet the modern nation's needs in the same time.

But even our close neighbor to Kenya have been in the process of amendments to the constitution so as to meet the needs of the time there and next season, the strategy to build a modern nation.

On Sunday the day after tomorrow, our neighbors are going to the elections with a new constitution that has been set aside for instance, the presidential candidate of Kenya have also been a member of parliament for that time and should not be a member of parliament.

By reading the newspapers in Kenya, we see it is the way this country is in the process of building the foundation of democracy.

We agree that Kenya's today are playing in a different league with us, although it is true that there are Kenyans who died from the violence associated with election campaigns.

But that is an issue that occurred in their activities of voting in the opinion polls of their constitution, those are the cost of building a stable foundation of democracy.

In addition to all that, we see the way many Kenyans have shown to continue doing politics and they have shown how to do, in a democratic way, they can ensure that the government is everything they want to the interests of their nation.

It will also be remembered, that in their last election, Daniel Makaziwe who of the ruling party, Daniel Misheto who released the authority of Uhuru Kenyatta, for vying for the presidency on iTunes.

Kenyans have decided to protect themselves from power, Nwankwo Kanu and they were unable to fail, he gets to the opposition party.

In the year the day before yesterday we saw President Mwaulanga as his side of banana unable to face their colleagues in Kibacha decided to fail, the symptoms of Kenya is believed to be seen.

For our part, we are not supposed to understand that we are supposed to do changes of basically we will lead the changes of the system.

The system that is to a large extent is paying for our speed of economic development because it gives the loopholes to our country's economy and in one way or another they avoid getting into the hands of law due to the weaknesses of our constitution.

We would like in Kenya with strong winds of us in order for us to avoid the previous effects that our neighbors are fighting themselves by themselves because it is no doubt.

If you look at keenly, we see a good thing that arise in Kenya, good that has pushed forward the political, economic and social media, we see that many Kenyans are determined to bring change to the truth and basically they are in their country.

There is nothing to look at here where we are just and we have agreed that the problem of basically in this country is the constitution of the constitution is like a small group of the community, without all the community groups, without all community groups, then, they will make sure they want to use them, for their interests.

That constitution will not be treatment to solve the problems of the country and that constitution will be the source of protecting and protecting the political diseases, economic and social networks and we know a lot of pain and diseases that a cry does it mean.

The constitution are necessary for diseases that do not meet the public needs and do not affect the interests of many and the interests of the nation.

Many constitution of these countries have been the source of existence of ruling party for fear, many times the authority of a student were piled up by one person who is the president.

In these countries, it's not only the president can give an order to set free citizens, he has also said that the provincial commissioner has the ability to give an order to set the citizens.

For instance, the head of the province woke up very well, then a bicycle for those who caused the driver of the driver that he made up on suddenly.

In Kenya who were given bond of making a new constitution draft, apart from other factors that seen this issue of the great authority of the performance he was given to President.

If they agree with the prime minister to have more strength Honorable President Kibacha decided to understand the logic or even so as to reduce the strength of the president!

Those who gave him the president, through the opinion polls in the Kibuko ward, he woke up and started looking at different times, since that time Kibuko has been trying to do that which many Kenyans are supposed to do so that they are involved in the election of this Sunday.

Maybe Kibuko has been late to read at times when you know.
And in these countries of these countries, in order to ensure we have good administration and we will avoid fear of existence of ruling party, so as to ensure that political rights will not be allowed, then, the constitutional process of power is very important.

It is good to resolve the environment that made each one who gives every decision to understand that he has the constitutional change, but there is another reason that has a mistake, then the decision will be forced to explain themselves and maybe be accountable, including being taken to the law.

It is wrong for a constitution with making sure that you go with the environment where the minister is accused of stealing, there is no evidence that there is no reason to protect himself, then there is no evidence to protect himself, then there is no reason to ask ourselves to be found guilty, then there is no need to register myself, then there is no need to register myself, then there is no one to welcome him in prison and come out by other criminals.

Charles Gombe (center is a veteran politician who was born in 1689 year in France, is the philosopher who represented the issue of having three million American dollars.

According to Melela Kololo, the website has no need to separate the authority of these three institutions because it is important for the three months to be free and work for being independent and to be independent and to be independent.

Three hands of dollars are members of parliament (parliament), implementation (government) and the responsibility (court), there are those who need the argument that this three hands should have a close partnership.

Philosopher Rene Meza who is in charge of that argument, believes that he gets the authority of this three hands of US dollars to do his work without in the coming in.

That is important to enable the presence of good governance that have been caused by the basis of justice.
In our country we need to go (government) with the constitutional change, the parliament with constitutional changes and a free court of constitutional.

We need to court with the judges who will be appointed by President Magufuli that this three hands should be free and with responsibilities to be controlled by the interests of the country.

We also prepare a constitution with paying the capacity of the constitutional decisions.
The parliament is the representative of the citizens.

We should have a high court of constitutional change while the court has a responsibility to interpret the laws and all the decisions taken by the parliament.

The constitution of the constitution should be a high level that will address the requirements of the law and the decision of parliament to have the legal ability to pass the judgment by considering the laws of the country without the benefit of the government or parliament.

According to Ency Mwaluka, if the parliament will not have strength, there is a danger of the parliament to take the position of government and that is why the whole process of the division of the state of power with this three hands will die.

According to Melela Kololo, if the ministers who are the implementation of parliamentary decisions will be taken among the members of parliament, then there will be no longer with freedom, because the government with the implementation of implementation will be discussed by the parliament.

The president should be given a chance to elect the ministers for forgiveness from the parliament and even if the president will be appointed the minister who is also a member of parliament, then, they are saying they are forced to release his parliamentary seat and he will be given by another representative to the citizens.

It's not possible to serve the two people while one and a happy new year.
