
Thoughts of contraception is used to build a modern economy? (May 31, 2012

Thoughts in eternal peace is not true and it's just an explanation of what happened to their book called 'Jichunge.'

Journalists, Allan Kijazi and Barsheba I do not use it, because the days try to explain the current human being recently by following up on his origin when he was living in memory.

They are saying that several different types of behavior have the ability to make certain things among men and women have benefited from the desire of work they were facing, they have decided to fulfill those days.

They are saying that a man for example, today has a great ability to aim to target the things more than the woman because in life's life, the man was a teaser.
It doesn't come out to go to him in eternal peace, to leave the animal, he sees himself as a fools should leave the death of death.

On the other side, journalists are saying that women have a great ability to do a lot of things, while one different from men are saying that a woman can be when he comes with the child while listening to a phone while listening to the radio while listening to the radio while listening to the radio.

That the ability for a woman is to be careful during life history, because when the man went to succeed, the woman was surprised to consider the children.
Therefore, I had to find out his ability to consider his children taken by Nyainor, or when they are sent them to buy medicine, at the same time, listening to a little in the whole time, while the same time was listening keenly, therefore, there is a risk of danger.

My dear reader in America has come out in this example of looking at it up to the age of age and a Tanzanian in that human body, and my main argument has been that how many other countries show a step in improving the lives of their people, except it's only.
That, we are only leaders who are in power and the ones that are seen as they are making progress in development but many of them are continuing to live in a high speed while being used by the disease of hunger, disasters and investors.

We have talked about several times, and this is not true if the others are given, that this is true the foundation of our economy to be self-employed as they don't have the rich) that is able to meet the needs of the leaders and our nation?

That is why I asked in the past articles that you have shown a fine of shivered because it is an illustration (it is an example (it is an illustration and the thoughts that are building our economy, these are able to maintain themselves as possible.

He said that in the year 1990, our country has already witnessed privatization policies - the others that was known as Bodaboda, for all the public organizations and one of the reasons related to them and therefore makes a new thoughts, new technology, new system and markets.

But if we go back to the fact that in the year 1990, we got seen to make sure that we have managed to run the economy and they have been unable to sit down and they've been unable to be in the first position of my motion that rumors cannot run a country's economy in developed countries.

But secondly, we can try to fall out of a box so as to think that we are taking all the days therefore, therefore we have already been arrested these countries like Libya, Zimbabwe, and Rwanda.

The results of those restrictions are forced to see little analysts and there are countries that give any restrictions to ensure we are standing up, it is one of the countries that decided to use resources to improve the lives of citizens even in a difficult time of restrictions.

But when you look at Zimbabwe, that country has been forced to get restrictions, high leaders continued to cooperate with what is not known to them, even when the citizens started in hunger and it was unable to die for the basis of the economy.
That, these companies that Superdoll has been taking place in way to attract analysts and the colonialist. That they decided to put up those restrictions that we want.

Let us continue again from a box, then we should look for example maybe it is in 2020.
(I believe there is no one who did not want to give a spirit because this year it is far.
Why do I hear people that they have already planned for years to rule this country.
Think about the IMF, the World Bank, G8 and their colleagues are meeting under the sea, as he did President of Malampaka Ward and his ministers recently.

In areas they discuss how the environment was done in the world and the threat that appeared in the human rights and of generations to come, they must inform other human beings (more than half of all people in the world) who have been directed by their government.

The leaders of those leaders are doing so that they want to fall in any objection, they are saying that they want to rule Africa because the leaders of this continent have condemned the African Union for human rights of 1948.

Therefore, they are giving a thought that the countries that are developed have been able to get communication with African countries, especially the ones that are completely stopped and that they ensure they eliminate all economic, business, political, technology, community, his humanity does not lie for a period of 50 years.

And then they are ensuring these countries did not depend on oil or any kind from outside the country and it is trying to see how it will begin to see the real color of witchcraft starting from the village, villages to the State House.

It will continue.
