
The organization bought the phones that were killed by Ebola.

Geneva, Switzerland said the number of people who died from the danger of Ebola has reached 8,211 votes out of 747 people who have already been infected with the disease, this is according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
Many cases of Ebola disease have been reported in three East African countries which include Sierra Leone, Liberia.
Apart from the three countries, six people have been reported to bid farewell to the world in Mali, one in America and eight in the Nigeria countries which later announced that it does not have Ebola in October last year.
Spain and Senegal had one incident of infection every country but they saw after being treated.
A nurse, English who has been infected with the disease in Sierra Leone is continuing to get affordable in England.
Sierra Leone is the nation that led in having a lot of Ebola infections which by January 4 to 9,780 people had been infected with 2,2843 among them died.
Last week, 248 goals of new infections were thrown out by Sierra Leone.
According to the speed of infection, it has started to reduce in that country.
The organization has also said that in recent days the speed of infection of the disease in the country has reduced to a large extent.
By January 2, the nation had been built in 8,448 households of 157 of people who have been infected with 96 baskets that have lost their lives.
In the period of August and September, Liberia had a new record of more than 300 new infections more than 300 million shillings per week, but in a period of several weeks ago, there was a period of several weeks ago.
Bugando Referral Hospital was fouled inside the city of bananas, which was being affected by six cases were revealed after six days ago.
In Guinea, there is an average of Ebola disease started in December 2013 and by January 4, a total of 2,775 percent of infections have been reported with 1,781 tons annually.
On Wednesday, the WHO organization said it has reduced a lot.
However, WHO warned that those diseases have been spread in other districts and added that up to now 19 districts have been affected.
Last week, 74 matches were left out in that country while Iramba District has already been affected.
Ebola is one of the very dangerous virus and be distributed because of being faced with a person who does not lie to any body of the disease.
