The first step in fighting has been noted that it is not involved in criminal activities.
December 11, 2014.

There is no other way to show that the government of Tanzania has great meaning that it is crossing the acts of crimes that are caused by the great increase of elephant tusks in the country.
To start another operation in getting away in order to fight against corruption, still there will be more keen, because if the way we saw on anything (more than words) to confirm to the citizens that the two operation will follow up, to respect the rights of citizens and human rights.
This is true because up to now, we have not heard of the heads of the acts of breaking the rights of citizens and human rights, who others were quoted by video, who was quoted by any video including being expelled from their work.
That has not been yesterday because it is clear that our government has not been encouraged to avoid such acts of having a tough stand, therefore, they will not hesitate to promote other things that have been made and saying they have been shocked by the reports of the law.
It is not enough to continue to take the members at the national and international meeting to discuss the crimes if we don't like early this year while we know completely that we have not decided to deal with violence especially against those who destroy the elephants and our colleagues in order to get various challenges.
If it's true that our leaders we want to inform us all the first and even the whole world to be true that acts of killing of our animals from other corners that are facing them, are we must that by showing the actions that are affected by the truth, with no reason and without trying.
I request I wish you a few decisions, but I believe it is a must that if you want to reduce and eventually stop completely this actions so that we see our children and the children of our children should make us allow our country.
Evade malaria diseases which are in the national story (Ivory).

There is no other way for this issue and it is a must for stem cells that are there and we are using a lot of money, time and working tools to strengthen it.
There's no reason for the purpose of continuing to save these areas because there is no possibility of sells them in any place in the world without the same time, causing the increase of murder to others.
You cannot say that you need war crimes and it is happy to do business of those corners that time you have a lot of knowledge or when you wait for buyers or the appropriate time to sell or thousands of elephant tusks.
It does not tell you, because the corners of stem cells are the only way to give up both buyers and the business people to ensure that those products are found and to ensure that those products are not available and so as to unite people who are in the country.
It is good to remember that this few months ago we have witnessed thousands of stem cells that have been arrested in different parts of the world - especially China and among them a big percentage are needed in Tanzania.
Now, in Tanzania because it is available in Tanzania and these are not all over new years but the other is old and private I have a reason to believe that there is a sum that brings people from the people of the government.
Most of the Americans have done so, the Kenyans have done so much and recently the Chinese are self-criticism which were apprehended, the ones which were apprehended in us are making us problems?
The argument that if we want to protect themselves so that we find money to fight and spread, is the argument of getting married and it's not supposed to give them the truth, this is possible for the leaders?
Change the punishment for those involved in being involved.

There is a reason to make adjustments to the law on fighting corruption, to make sure that it gives a great punishment to the law to public officials who are participating in any way or the second, for all other people who are participating in this business.
