In the protests.
The first time since it was held.
The teacher of agriculture.
And who is an expert in agriculture, I explained to you like all of running their activities.
Therefore, he is a must to look at which period or not they will arrive.
But the?
How long time you have to get a chance to learn something and even in head, we will understand what we learn in the morning before the first move forward.
While they are doing the cleaning we are looking for cleaning after that of the teachers taking.
To go to the fact, and when they go back or because they are in class one, class seven and five minutes and how many seven minutes.
Since he finished a normal state, after that we are complaining of terms of fish, just after the studies they can sell children go back to zero, we shouldn't take care about what I heard.
Therefore for a little time you used for the purpose of running seven activities in the country and that is when they do everything to go together.
The Taarab is not seen.
I told me his bed sheets to get teachers and the one that teachers was very careful in getting the education by getting the poor.
The area that we have because it seems to be a small area.
A small area I start to give a lot of crops because the first step will go to the school.
Almighty God know what you are found?
The goal is to reduce the youth.
So many stakeholders because they are faced with the examinations that they do at the field or maize that cannot get shoes while in the day but later we are expecting to do good well as farming.
It's not those children to get food during the day because it is possible that it becomes a small area which has caused you to give their produce and this is why I thank the first that is because it is the reason for now.
The late Adam and cold drinks which is going on thus for water because of water and they can expand then, I will continue to make sure that students can get food so that we can be used so that we can get well but my colleagues will come out and they will do well but they will do well.
By J, class seven in education is now normal.
Therefore, it means that he will continue to educate themselves at their homes but in my school, it was sustainable and I believe that after time I will be enough food for a period of food because the education policy wants to buy food in the afternoon.
Women contribute to their work because we are using the strength of children in the areas we have in agriculture.
