The minister of availability of MSD is 89 percent.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children has said the real situation of availability of medicine in the medical camp in the country (MSD) is equivalent to 53 percent, because of the important medicines that were allocated, there are 71 types of land in court.

He also said the state of availability of vaccination in the country will benefit more than October 2nd this year after receiving a new cargo.
The secretary general of that ministry, Doctor Mpoki Ulisubisya has said that the day before yesterday when he was giving clarification about the reports that was given by the non-governmental institution who follow the health issues, Sikika, that MSD is facing a shortage of drugs and giving statistics that there are 173 percent of the type of paracetamol in the country.
Doctor Ulisubisya has said that the state of the availability of drugs will improve more in October this year especially because of the drugs to use long-term contracts and people have agreed to improve the availability of quick drugs while they come up according to the money that was found.
According to Doctor Ulisubisya has said that the ministry through MSD has already received 20,000 tons of the diggers that have been distributed to the stations for providing health services in the country.
Also, the contract between MSD and the producer of inside, 48,000 thousand shillings with the sniffing / 1000 shillings has been completed, where those drugs are expected to start being received from the first week of October 2016.
However, other drugs are needed more that are by using pain, that will be able to avoid sexual excitement, that is supposed to be taken to all regions of MSD, already they have already been taken to all regions of MSD ready to be distributed to all stations for providing health services in the country.
The acting director of MSD, Sonero has said that the government has paid 20 billion shillings until now, they still claims 142 billion shillings.
