
Lack of Ebola happened in South Africa.
And the beneficiaries of the Permanent Committee.

On March 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced the arrest of Ebola disease in Guinea, that is in the Western Region.
Rumors of the disease said that the virus were affected by one child of two years who had died in 2013, the disease later occurred in neighboring countries of Liberia and Sierra Leone.
On August 2014, the organization announced the disease to be international disaster while preparing the country with the ability to help those countries for equipment so as to deal with them and reach out of August 2014, the disease was reported in America, while there was only eight days later.
By December 22, WHO statistics showed that it has 7,533 people who have died due to the danger of the United Nations which have continued to be affected by that disease are Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
In the information, WHO agreed that the disease is the highest danger to have ever witnessed in recent days.
In central workers of those deaths, it's 216 employees of the health who had died, while the total vehicles that were reported are 19,374.
Earlier on the month of October, Lowa Mitego, who was a nurse of 44 years from Spain, was infected with the disease after completing the responsibility of protecting one person who had been infected with the disease from South Africa. That is the first reason of infection of that disease outside the African continent.
On October 20, it was announced that the nurse was not affected by the disease, that showed that she could have seen.
On the 19th of September, one person who was identified as Eric Duncan, who left his foreign country and heading to Texas, where after five days, he started showing symptoms of the disease after arriving at one hospital, but after the inspection, he was told that he had not had any infection of that disease.
However, his condition continued to come up, something that made him to be returned to the hospital on September 28, where he died in October.
The health officers have confirmed that he was suffering from that disease in October 30 when that incident was the first one in America.
According to the analysts of the disease affected by the disease that were affected due to the reports that was published by the Financial Institution, the effects of the disease were very big and which would have taken a long time.
The statistics that were given in the month of September were discovered that there were 893 beds in local countries, Sierra Leone and Guinea who contrary to 2,22 beds that were required.
