
Majaliwa gives an important question to the leaders of Africa.

It has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in September 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged the leaders of South Africa to ask they can contribute something to improve the lives of millions of residents of that continent.

He gave the question the other day before yesterday when speaking to the representatives of the international institutions who attended the launch of the report of the Institute of Investment and Investment of the African Community (MARI) that took place in Dar es Salaam city.
The Prime Minister who was the guest of honor at the launch, said the institution has helped grow investment through projects in various African countries by strengthening the systems of tax collection, registration of business and the availability of business licenses.
"Due to the work done by this institution, investment environment in many countries has improved and the African continent has become a partner to investors due to the partnership between the government of the concerned countries and the private sector in many African countries has improved than it was previously," he said.
While giving an example, the Prime Minister said more than 500 entrepreneurs from Tanzania were given training in partnership between the actor, government and the universities of East and South Africa (ACIB) so as to build their ability to make their businesses easily.
Further, he said through that training, those entrepreneurs were able to register and maintain their businesses, increase capital and to know how to maintain the information of those business.
Earlier, the co-chairman of that institution who is also the retired president of the third phase, Benjamin Mkapa said there is need for citizens to change such attitude of the private sector because it has a importance in the construction of the economy in any country.
"Many people feel that investors are bad luck and this is not true that we are supposed to build a environment of serving their capital and they are not supposed to see that they are enemies," said Mkapa.
He used that opportunity to thank the retired president of the fourth government, Jakaya Kikwete for his decision to accept to allow the institution of 'Views' at his headquarters in the country when it was born to do that in many countries taking their applications.
He urged different leaders to use the experience that was made by the institution in the improvement of the court system and the collection of licenses and payment of licenses for small entrepreneurs.
