NBC, had 150 billion shillings it was sold at 16 billion shillings.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

While the NBC Bank has been sold to investors from South Africa in the year 2000, at the value of 16 billion shillings, it had an amount of 151 billion shillings in its various accounts in the world, our citizens have noted.
That amount of money is apart from the value of buildings and other NBC property that were used at that time, and in that meaning, the government sent the bank to an amount of ten percent to an extent that it is supposed to be.
One of the senior lawyers of privatization policies in the bank was the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who this newspaper was asked to report that she was given reports of wanting to be sold to that bank.
Now, Mke Mwema have succeeded to get the last report of the financial situation of that bank while it was sold, it shows an amount of money that it will have in various banks in the world.
Under the procedures of banks, NBC had its money in accounts of other banks in foreign countries, popularly known by the name Noma, such as foreign banks have been taken as the NBC Bank.
This newspaper has been able to see reports, which together with other things, shows that NBC had money in Australia, Australia, England, France, France, France, Japan, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden, Sweden,
Other countries that NBC had money for Denmark, India, Italy, South Africa, Kenya, Uganda, Pakse, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

That bank has changed the name from the National Bank of Business (NBC) and that NBC (1997) after being interviewed in the year 1997, before being called NBC companies after being sold in the year 2000.
Some of the banks that NBC had an account include Australia Bank, Barclays Bank, Lettice Rutta, Midtjyland Soccer Bank, Dar es Salaam, Yekonia Bihagaze (SBC company, Bhebey Ndey and others.
When you go back, which at the end of that bank is among the special issues that were awarded the administration of the third phase government led by President Benjamin Mkapa.
The government changed the NBC for the explanation that it was not enough money to meet the banks's needs, claims that those who led the bank said they were not true.
This newspaper has been prepared to speak with some of the heads of NBC, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) and the treasury at work during that time and many have confirmed the existence of that amount of money and that the government was not required to sell it from that bank.
"It is true that NBC did not have enough money to its accounts in the country, but you ask you why it was there because the government had a huge amount of money without paying.

Therefore, the government is the one that led that situation to borrow, the NBC and the government was the solution to the government every day of financial problem but the medicine was not there from NBC and the government would have reduced four buildings of the bank to these foreign banks and the ones that were unable to come to the country.

"I remember that we are saying this so that we see the 'bank's building, which is the one that is used by NMB in Dar es Salaam city, we would be able to sell and be big in the big provinces where these new banks were able to have buildings.

For these days, banks have changed the urban areas where they are going to look for the areas they go and they are getting problems with those criminals we want to be in good state and they will decide it to sell it, "said one of the people who participated in close areas in the whole process of being involved in that bank.
Mke Mwema should be told that to legalize the bombs in the NBC and the selling of NBC, the government allowed the advice to the office of the National Audit Office which said the bank can be able to operate without being sold but later it went to be sold to NBC for the explanation that it does not have money.
The former executive director of NBC during the process of wanting them there, Donald Kamnada, is alleged to have fighting with the plan of wanting them here and it is said that the cause of being married to his position.

In his talks with Raia Mwema, who got to be the Mwalimu Nyerere International secretary, Samuel Dyamo, said that he got their thing on how he explained the importance of not selling NBC, the ideas which the teacher agree with it.
