
New technology of protecting its own record.
The contestants should benefit from 40 percent compared to the income they received earlier before the launch of this project which also provide training and advice.
By Faustine Ndungulile.
The farmers of Mount Meru will benefit from the modern project and a unique project to save all the news about the activities to grow.
Following the sponsorship of 7 million shillings from USAID, on April 2014, the company of a Cheketua 'program was increasing a computer program to the new name that produces those data about the farmers and enable them to follow the benefits or losses they are given.
The program itself that is going on to be on trials in the village of Meru, has been made to save all information of farmer that are related to its farming.
The program gets the name of the farmer, her picture, number of phone, an amount of his farm, plants in the area that he bought its livestock, money that he gives the traffic activities because of other cost.
The officer of the a Cheketua 'company, he from Mount Meru, Mister Martin Mmari, says that the data and the park are able to help the farmers to know if they get the benefits or loss.
"There are some of the farmer has invested and those of the money gets like the benefits and those of us may be for the farmer to take this data. Then they give advice about how to give them more benefits," he explained.
At the moment, the program that is going on to be on trials in the village of Meru, is controlling the agricultural information of more than 300 farmers.
The Cheketua 'company has requested 25 agents who have benefited from the modern practices of strengthening agriculture especially through the purpose of technology that will make the activities to grow.
These agents have been given aspects of registering farmers when they visited their farms.
Every farmer is registered by 500 shillings for a year.
News that are written by these agents have finally been taught in this private program.
Mister Fredrick Kimaro, who does the agricultural sector that had been involved in doing agriculture that had been involved in his one acre area in Mkonkole area, he says that she has touched me due to the traditional project is by getting profit by 40 percent.
When I was previously, I had received a little produce of blood but through the advice of bags of a Chisholm, that is very happy to see the produce at every end of time, "he clarified Mister Musaizi says that for now he can pay for children who are in the university and secondary schools without any problems such as previously.
In Muembe Makundi Ward, there are also in the Central Bank, you will thank another farmer, Mister Phillipe Corsaletti and says that she has reduced due to the agricultural training of bananas and maize that he uses.
"I have 3 acres of land which I got into the maize of the last season, I had 50 kilograms of maize every month, I usually uses bananas' worth of 35,000 with an average," said Mister Avit Nyambele.
Miss Jane Ntwa Mitego, that lives in the Kiroreli village, he said a small area of Tigo Pesa, is doing high production of bananas, bananas, spirits, and potatoes among other plants.
Jane Matinde said that he has reduced due to the agricultural training from the agents of a Cheketua 'company, he says, "the killing of a Cheketua' work has helped to improve the non-communicable diseases since I will be at the moment."
The General Manager of a Cheketua 'company, Mrs. Anne Kilango says that the data involved will be able to help the farmers in many ways including getting loans from different banks so as to promote their agriculture.
"For now, we aim to register 1665 farmers and give advice about how to get benefits due to agriculture together with uniting with banks and other organizations for sponsorship and loans," he said.
This project is faced with several challenges in its implementation, "it is only 2 percent of farmers who have come out to get loans with many farmers, though this is the way to expand their agriculture," said Mister Feruzi.
Local government is also giving information about the air situation that it encourages farmers and buyers of the agricultural produce and inform them about the prices of agricultural products in different areas across the country, thus selling their crops at a price of benefits.
