
Shame is a shame to the organization.
By Lucy Lameck.
This year the Malaysia Airline has already witnessed two accidents with one plane that doesn't return to, while the others were opened against the agreements that were going on between the Ukraine and Ukraine.
The Malaysia Airplane carrying out one hour after retiring from Kuala Lumpur to March 8, with 239 people.
However, the efforts to get that plane which were along with international efforts would have not succeeded.
That plane was expected to land in Beijing China with 227 passengers and 12 workers.
Following criminal state related to its disappearance, the plane has failed to be seen through the plane's journey, the countries that had gone into the process of looking for a period from 14 to 25 percent.
Several people including the pilots are reduced, so as to try to be identified, especially after both sides, followed up and revealed that the plane was not able to be seen anywhere.
This incident affected the passengers of passengers that were inside, while some of their fellow people from China were forced to get food especially because there was no hope of hope.
Malaysian Airplane in the east of Ukraine and killing all 298 passengers who were suspected to be among that incident had a militia who were supported by the government.
The plane broke down while in the air while its remains and bodies are going to be easily read in the Grazanian village.
The Ukraine fighters attacked the plane that defeated the field of Schuller who won the 12th anniversary in July 17 with 15 passengers and 15 workers.
The communication unit, has confirmed to receive communication from the Ukraine Air Limited company that it has lost the 30th international striker from Tamimu, which is 50 kilometers from the border of Russia and Ukraine.
The news agency for Moscow is unacceptable, said the plane was opened in east of Ukraine and confirmed that the remains were easily read.
Ministry of internal affairs have also confirmed that all the passengers and workers are claiming that they have died.
Citizens of Ukraine had explained to believe that the plane was closed down.
