The price of maize that is produced for all provinces we will work hard due to its importance being used as food, but also for the regions that have been faced with a lot of medicine, food and security and challenges facing the researchers and stability of research stations in the country and caused the results of the research to fail to reach the results.
Statistics show that the needs of those drugs here in the country is very delicious with not help us or but the ability of the country in the production of science and technology, the agricultural sector of science and technology, the agricultural sector of science and technology in the agricultural sector of science and technology which carries a reduction in production of production.
There are all one thing that one is a big problem.
They are required to be given a habit.
As it is increasing.
Another person who has a lot of condolences to one time and in this time, "Mayunga has said he will use two agriculture production at the production of those crops in order to ensure that we have forgotten the youth and other stakeholders to put development in order to start such as maize is a big subject.
Followed the tragedy.
This research can put two nights ago.
It is good?
He was cooperating with them.
When the commission followed in the field.
We have learned here, Christian Bella.
I would love you.
Now after providing better seeds, it is also so that you can be able to benefit from the wildlife shops and be able to beef up well.
Now how come out in large numbers, there are people who are involved not to research again, who are preventing themselves for example the African countries like this is free of its agents together with the private companies and agree with it completely because we are near.
Before the attorney general.
If I was need here in the country.
Here they are required to do that, I know we should know our colleagues in the private sector have been required to be done, you have companies of farmers so that we're in faith in order to show their problems.
That is generated so much, you can inform you and you cannot be.
On our way you're on how to take a person participating in the production.
Ahmad Iringa from the time you pass the commission that contributed several things to ensure that the new small sins of Tanzanians can arrive at a place like that are measurable.
First, we have contributed to the researchers and more.
There is a group of researchers from three.
To them the champions doing research.
Wash your wife.
But we were given.
Lack of doing research.
Two minutes for the purpose of doing research.
Keenly.
The procedure.
Third in which way.
Water are we supposed to know.
You can succeed that there must be water.
That can arise in the same time and be a researcher or at the drought time, then I am self-employed and go to the whole time, but we have already been able to produce up to eight tons in the world, but we have already been able to get up to eight tons or face in the world, where everyone can have only one hundred tons in the world.
