New hope have started.
May 24, 2012

On Monday, May 21, I have started my training tour in Holland, together with my fellow parliamentarians together with the secretary of the Parliamentary Committee on my fellow members, Nasir of Korogwe, Kafulila of Kigoma South and Sarah Cooke from Morogoro have come to me in this tour.

The goals of our training tour is about oil and gas issues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Holland, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Tanzania, have congratulated the number of members of parliament in this tour from two members who were seen to know the Minister, (not in the tour).

This panel that has been following a briefing on the oil and gas sector in Holland, have explained to how the licenses for oil and gas in Holland has been explained as the government of Holland has collected a total of 11 billion shillings (more than 22 trillion shillings) like revenue from the sector of oil and gas.

They are collecting 85 percent of the total revenue revenue from oil and gas, in the Gray area, which is the biggest in Europe.

From that income, 45 percent of the income that are collected from gas and oil companies (between more than 85 percent) and 40 percent from the value to 85 percent are tax and more than 40 percent.

From other areas if you do the Gray, Holland is collecting between 40 and 65 percent of the income and in all licenses, but the only one, this country has had shares in various oil and gas companies.

Here therefore there is no contracts that we were used to Tanzania (name withheld) System - Maelezo) that the concerned company in investment is the biggest contractors for the great benefits of the electronic system is that the country remains to continue being the owner of the resources.

However, in this systems, it should be this system of Tanzania or this one in Holland, the important things are transparency and accountability in the whole sector.

We met with Deputy Prime Minister, Mecky Maxime, when I have presented our sincere greetings to him that we would like to cooperate this between our country to continue permanent cooperation.

I explained to me about our big gas cooker that attacked them including a total of five wells that are under the English Premier League, one well for Statoil company and other small wells in Songosongo, Mkuranga and Nyamiyaga hospital, Kilwa district.

I talked about the Deputy Prime Minister about our intention of seeing Tanzania being one of the African countries whose wealth, it is benefiting from her citizens, "some of the youth leaders in Tanzania are determined to have new hope among our fellow youths.

He said that it is possible for African countries to be rich due to gas and oil along with the existence of good governance and democracy, it is possible for using good resources of the country.

"We do not want to repeat the mistakes of others (like Nigeria) which is losing billions of money in the oil sector, and even our mistakes themselves in the mining industry and if the mistakes will be done, then it be good for new mistakes not to repeat the past."
The Prime Minister has promised that it is ready to help the development of the small gas sector in Tanzania and especially on the development of human resources, those agenda were discussed more in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and agreed to be responsible for sponsorship to students from Tanzania for learning issues of oil and gas so that the country can have enough experts in that sector.

He warned that Tanzania used a gas revenue to produce infrastructure as well as the national debt for the interests of the future generations. He explained the intention of Holland to be the center of gas production in Europe.

Our tour is going on in accordance with the schedule and we are determined to learn from what we learned and we should learn in our new policy of gas in the country and in the general plan of gas (natural gas).

I have great hope that we will succeed as a nation despite the great secret of the thoughts that concern our citizens.
