Why is men who is wrong to eat your muscles.
Deodatha Makani, 2012

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
Lover Frank Mvungi.
Without doubt, it is not something like others and how to do you are there?
I was expecting a big one when I got a happy day after at least once you will start your things to claim that a man can have 364 days, how will you know that men have 364 days, how can it take him in this one day?
Even so, I see this day it is for those who are with it and who is supposed to accept us all the workers at the same day and others like this is not different from men and also honorable ambassadors and whom they will remember to Frank Mvungi this year if it is not the time to look for their votes with all his strength?
But maybe I am not being fair to at least in issues of sexual excitement but this is also when I think it is because you have a woman to do with this status so that they can be bad, or passport.
When I listen to the daughter of the boss, he asked me if the education has any benefits and the girls are preventing themselves more on the men's side and even to withdraw itself more, or men are not cowards.
Maybe they fear being unable and we are the reason you will enable you to be accountable and to use your muscles.
I remember a lot of my friend, a person who was sent here to look for work and a girl will get more than me if I don't know if I don't like me, or listen to each other on the road.
Then, do not want to start at least buying fish by selling them in the evening.
Then, if I was very bad, I was trying to marry off while I was sent in the shop by his boss at the end of the week the day before yesterday passed away from after missing his three times, I asked her colleague who had gone up to let me feel it.
"He hurts me, you don't know what I am born in parts!
When girls were shocked again, they did not slap back, I was surprised so much by their colleague who could not mention them and we had to ask you more.
What does it mean?
"It is not worried about the people she had gone to each day when he visited the book, she was sent even a gift but my colleague,!
"Because the truth is what she was engaged and is expecting to wed recently."
Those girls went to the farm and they beat him again. "
Let's see if he will be married again!
To true the lover I understood well.
"Don't know what our fellow girl was being disturbed by this way or I see what is proud to do?
"She allowed me just to what he did not want to be?
"Because I refuse to prevent it or a girl has the right to refuse.
"The man, relatives were annoyed so much and he is visiting him in mind but where!
"I am surprised what we don't like, same, but it does not mean that it is a must, they are also known as men think that they are going to you."
"It is not friends.
'No.
Other girls were going on laughing or apart from my words that they have got the two between them.
"Friends, but this is saying the truth is why we are complaining of men this way because it is their right to do love with any girl whom they do in peace?
"We look at, you are born with you!
Then the lover had to go to look for him, when I found himself, she does not want to meet someone else on her, she doesn't want him to go to police but he invented the police. "
For what we were born and friends? We are not supposed to mention all that happens, there is no longer a person who doesn't jump and then they were shocked when we were very happy and even when they were shocked when there was a lot of men close to what they did only.
"I love this child to be educated, you can't stop the men there."
In addition, he continued on the right of her sister was there but he said he does not know what to do the life of someone who have been used recently, I was forced to go back to his boss, but when I was forced to go back to his boss, he called me.
