
Professor Makulu has presented the constitutional assembly.

April 3, 2014.

The committee led me the interim chairperson of the special constitutional assembly yesterday has presented a report at the seminar that was organized by the delegates of that parliament, where it has been given various issues, including the existence of contestants and vice chairman not to take their positions after the appointment of candidates.
While presenting that report, the Chairperson of that committee, Professor Ibrahim Maquei Lueth, said that the committee has caused the presence of two recommendations so that one can be used as a memory of the side of Tanzania mainland and another in Zanzibar.
He said that committee has increased the regulations of elections of the chairman and the vice chairperson of the Special Parliamentary Committee, where he has set up the form of the candidate for those positions and asking for votes.
Other things that was on that draft are people with special needs to use special equipment so that they can be able to get easily by the chairman of the Special Parliamentary Committee and given an opportunity to say when they were at the parliament meeting hall.
Also, the regulations is proposing to members with special needs to be allowed to enter into the hall and their differences so that they can help the delegates. He said that the committee has agreed at the time of the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes when he presented the draft of delegates not to be allowed to ask for direction.
He added that the committee has qualified to be in operations of special parliamentary activities, where a delegate will not be satisfied with the decision by the chairperson of the special assembly on the issue that concerns the constitutional regulations, that the chairman also gave an appeal to the parliamentary committee and also his report to be given to the parliament within a period of five days.
It has also apologized for that parliamentary sessions to reach the number of delegates of that parliament to be a half time from Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar, whereby earlier it was a half of all the delegates.
In that report has been recommended by the parliament leaders by following the basis of the rights and without favoring any procedures, it will discuss and put a stand on any issue that will be discussed or that will be discussed with the parliament.
