
Our parliament and the corruption sign of parliamentary running in 22, 2012.

In his book called Africa - Alyawata, Orkesumet, a journalist Richard Dimwa, has explained a lot of African leaders for an example of a student who accompanied him to the village and moved out in the village and moved out of the village where he was chased away from school because of theft.

Therefore, that is how to Willy her life in a suit, shoes and a good thing.
There is a lot of many days only to end all the dreams of his life, this is the chapter of corruption in many African countries. Tanzania has a lot of Abraham.

The last meeting of parliament did you know how the false behavior can endanger the nation at a meeting before the ninth meeting of the parliament, the eighth meeting of the constitutional parliament, there were several accusations against members of parliament.
Some of the allegations have been discovered to be grateful for other accusations that are not covered without understanding the parliamentary decision.
But any member of parliament explained that those accusations were being supported through a special reason by passing the ministry of energy and minerals, but the budget did not have a threat to the minister and those deputies were supported by many members of parliament and therefore he didn't want to prevent it, therefore, the ministry failed in making false statements and then put keenly.

Members of parliament and citizens who arrived in a trap while members of parliament were called in the office of the ministry and not in bribery, members of parliament are going on fire inside the parliament and read the opinion polls of July 27 and 28, we will see how parliamentarians came out.
As they were called to give evidence to those that they said, they are continuing to give her eyes as a fox which was caught up with the chest and not knowing that in all over the world, even if the same day he gets to the history of having many people that are used.

Something that the citizens don't know that, the day of handing over the speech by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals which is the day that members of parliament showed their salaries being silent while teachers and doctors are complaining.

It's not only that, citizens are continuing to be avoided, instead of the decision by the speaker to talk about the basis of the foundation of people's business and the government or any organizations are there and there is no conflict between parliamentarians to continue with their businesses when they are holding their political position?

There is a big group of members of parliament which causes business and government institutions.
Further, other members of parliament are sitting on the parliamentary committees which are required to supervise the sector that they are doing business and they are members of parliament who are doing business and supply projects and TANESCO's members of parliament who are doing business with TANESCO and the other within the committee that is representing TANESCO.

There are members of parliament who are doing drug trafficking as the senior health committee that is holding the ministry of health, there are members of parliament who are members of parliament, but are delegates of public organizations and sitting on parliamentary committees and those organizations.

These are the primary issues that they were supposed to be listened to by the Parliamentary Committee on ethics and this is the issues that the parliament should not be able to prevent corruption that come from the conflict that came out of humor, but this is the issues that does not affect this debate despite the various efforts to bring this debate on the public.

The year 2007, 2008, 2009 with the year 2011 when I presented the private bill to make new laws for ethics and putting challenges of leadership through section 12 of the law of preventing, human rights and power of the year 1988, this section gives the parliament to pass the ethics of members of parliament (Constituent).
Since the year 2004 where this section was put on this law, there is no any efforts to implement this legal requirements by some of the ones that are supposed to implement this requirements are of the members of parliament.

When the most corrupt people have a must for you to be infected on corruption and false statements are cancer that are removing the ability of leaders to run their countries same as here in Tanzania, to say false is the ability for leaders to run their countries same as here in Tanzania, saying it is good for political culture to an extent that they are believed to do even when it's true.

The ones that don't say false about it is believed to have identified himself through her husband's followers who do not be silent because each person participated in the corruption they participated in corruption, which has been done by his person.

People with behaviors of corruption they want to see all other people saw them.
Therefore it comes back and foolishness of each other, so that the community does not like to speak, "all of us know" and politicians in this situation is to put good systems that must be self-wise and embezzlement as part of life.

Why should it be dependent on everything we say that all political leaders do not depend on their own property, why is the political leaders to talk like that is to intervene in their personal life?

He wants to do his businesses not to enter in politics because politics is supposed to be service.

An example of a young man in Uganda which is a model that represents many politicians, and even the ordinary citizens in Africa have been happy for a long time, even after his death, we are looking for a long time after falling for him.
Africa is continuing to shine at the threats of poverty, when I continued to be rich, false is very much more with corruption that was impressed about it.

We shouldn't know false on politics, we will continue to live with corruption forever.
