
JB is a red card of music.

When he talked about music what is being affected in a certain place, it makes it hard to make him, the head could not be found and if he is in a place where he can stay out of exciting?

It doesn't have a music music which is being played at that time, except that he is looking for a good environment for Ukara, B and B, all of us will be all the ones for all the musician who touching the soul of JB in the whole world is Don Williams.

"I would like to listen and play music, but it depends on that time I am like who is known as JB, what is the actor there is a type of music I don't have even so as Jacob," says JB.

He says that as a result of his work found himself, many types of music and increase the list of songs in his group, but this has not changed the normal person of a unique style.

"You do not see in platforms for music, entertainment centers and elsewhere, I believe they were affected, but that is JB and not Jacob, Jacob was going to the church and playing gospel songs," says JB.

JB is saying that he is a few friend, therefore, in a normal life is continuing to listen to gospel songs because that is how his faith is unable.

"I have written, most of the time I am listening to gospel songs, but because I would like to know another type of music I am listening to those who are teachings," says JB.

He says that apart from listening to gospel songs, he does not want to listen to the musicians like Jose Percent ", Ben Pol, Professor Jay Z, Twanga Pepeta 'and others in the past songs.

"I would like to thank music, my life has been dominated by listening or even dancing when I got the opportunity to be at home, the church even to the public," he says.

He says that in addition to being seen in entertainment centers and clubs of night, it does not mean that he is going to play music but they do so as to learn different issues.

"If you will remember before making my new film" group or or, "I was very happy," I was very happy, but my aim was to learn how I am doing so that I am able to live in that position well, "says JB.

Speaking about his new advent of the film, that actress said he is in the race to release a big job while insisting that his new film that brought together the model Jokate Mwegelo, will be released after six months.

"I do not have a lot of phones, everyone wants to see the film that he played for Jokate, but I cannot release it up to the fourth month in the year since I have a lot of work that needs the first market," he says.

Speaking about the reason of featuring Jokate got in the film that he was given by the name "and Twitter," says it is because of his shape which was seen that it could not get to that position.

"You know Jokate has a certain shape of us, where you can be able to make any position, most of the artists have written there, you can't confirm it again," he spoke.
- a man.
