
The arrest of a sharp teeth.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published in October, 2016.
The police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam, has succeeded to arrest the accused who has been mentioned to be a chronic person, Musa Katemba (36) a businessman, resident of UCL, Dar es Salaam being affected by pistols, one type of Brooklyn were found.

Speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the police commissioner of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro said that the suspect was also faced with two medals and 11 points together with a car model which is number plate T 660 and DR Congo, color of money.
He said after being questioned, that suspect admitted to be involved in events of robbery in various parts of the city of Dar es Salaam being using that vehicle for the purpose of carrying his colleagues.
Furthermore, he said the investigation is going on to identify the whole network and finally he will be presented in court after the investigation will be completed.
In another event, the police force has been able to arrest 20 bullets with the army weapons of the type of G3 in Chamazi, Mbagala, in Temeke Municipality on the first of October, this year.
Commander Sirro confirmed that the day before yesterday that police were forced to worry about three people who were seated on the Chamazi Stadium while they scored against him and brought down one black fund that was found with those shot.
He added that police have been observing those people without success, the efforts of searching for those people are going on with the investigation of those attacks is taking place so as to reveal that it was done.
In another step, the police through the road safety squad has collected a sum of 467,888 trillion shillings through road safety charges within five days.
He said that the number of vehicles that were arrested are approximately 10,006 buses including 4,787 buses, private vehicles, 49,243, together with having a total of 493 companies in the country.
