When the news maybe, you will do not know that things are good and this time we need to welcome her close to your ministry, and if we do you have talked about in the air, then you will have faith in the air and we do not have different places here where we are, as we are famous for.
Very important in developing sports here is the late God, there are players for your players here in a goal and time is not a team for young people in the country, to make sure there are youths who are taught the referees for a goal taking care here and the most popular decisions when he reached the station.
Sports Academy I want to thank you in the market that it encourages women inside a week after seen it's not arrived at his office and we will talk about the Almighty God in sports which is difficult here to do here.
Why is the players in this games we have been difficult.
When we talk about sports issues without any other, even if you are the witnesses who saw there is no longer and that's why we are getting in sports education and that is why we are getting in sports education and that is why even our country are in this school, the Almighty God continue to check or you want.
The appointment of the youth team is a must for you to look for the sports Chicharito while this is why if the players are very difficult, but I believe it is very difficult, but I believe it is very difficult, but I believe it is very good because I will be very happy because I will be happy with the people.
The late father of the mobile phone company, has led by the leader of the station that police congratulated the military police for allowing women in sports but to recognize that it will be heard in my past, the Almighty God rest the news before yesterday.
When the answer is the author.
.
Sports in sports is going on well to be mutilated with their studies.
Hayatou, as a student is a member of soccer.
I would like to see my studies for a female time, do not read maybe if I will get them.
Liverpool are different.
And here I hope.
Thank you?
Why is why investment in first sports is difficult?
If the country is still unknown.
Most of us will go on the side of the leaders.
Those who give great support even in soccer in the music industry.
The leaders have no integrity of each other.
You'll find the leaders of I was missing until when I was given.
What's the authority or a income that I will continue to help you what is a certain group for the purpose of sports.
It is depending on the lack of the father so that you ask you who is unable to help those teaching because our players continues to be below.
Another thing that the government has failed to be given priority.
In sports groups we know that sports does not want to for us down, so that we see why we are encouraging, but not having that the government is still behind.
We don't know that investment is still below and such as sports sheets even go to the competitions, we are still unable to go to the different competitions.
Very few sentences I want to know your password.
Then you will believe that you get in Abu Dhabi to pay the fee.
Look at two things that they make players to be difficult in the youth soccer?
Especially in games.
They don't know.
For these players, but secondly, we have the management.
When you come to the sponsorship, you don't know what here when it comes to the great problem of the government, together with sportspeople include the drugs that you want to invest in sports as others talk about.
And in the Chinese, I mentioned.
There is supposed to convince him for being mature because of doing so that West continues to invest in my country.
It is a youth that has not started using computers in the game and the amount is a curse from how to invest in its issues in the country, it is possible.
