
The official guest of Sitti Mtemvu have now chased the crown of Miss Tanzania 2014.

At the time the government through the Registration and Licensing Agency (RITA), saying that he will cut the birth certificate of Miss Tanzania 2014, Sitti Mtemvu, reports indicate that he cannot continue with that crown.

FEST has confirmed that the decision has been done to take place of Sitti Mtemvu that was caught in a special environment, a decision that is expected to be announced any time from now.

However, it has not been known as that step will be taken by the Arts Council of Tanzania (BASATA) or Sitti himself after it was revealed that the title will continue to put up the family of the member of parliament of Temeke, Abbas Mtemvu, who is his father.

Recent investigations has revealed that even the previous step of contesting for that crown was taken by Sitti and some of the family members were not involved in the member of parliament Mtevu, something that made him earlier on the participation of Miss Temeke.
FEST has been informed that the member of parliament Mtemvu has been forced to have a situation that is going on together with the presence of a wedding certificate of Sitti Mtemvu, together with being responsible for what he is doing because of more than 18 years.

On his part, RITA has said that it can remove the certificate of Temeke and took legal action was revealed that he gave false information at the time of submitting the request to sell the certificate.

The chief executive officer of RITA, Philip Saluna Mchome, has told Falcao in Thursday, October 31st, 2014, that for now, they have completed its investigation concerning the certificate, after emerging a result of reports of existence of two different certificates since it was born.

After emerging with the controversy, RITA started a special session of documents that made Sitti Mtemvu at the CHADEMA offices in Temeke so as to identify the legality of the certificate, before looking for the truth about the reports presented under the oath.

According to the law of the registration of births and deaths in the album of 108, the edition of 2002, it is an offense of criminal offenses to give birth.
