The squad is understood.
Responding to the questions.
We have lived in Kinondoni.
.
First, the period of benefits is what we have seen to pay as soon as a person like.
But when it is what he is doing?
Holy Rosary.
Who depends on who say but little comes back.
He asked for the donation they don't like to marry off, we have seen to benefit from Kinondoni as the other people are very disturbing and from America's embassy run away.
What does it mean?
Millions of them to help the father in Kinondoni for the purpose of helping analysts because the infrastructure of Kinondoni and the water tries to do what has done well, there is time for the youth, I know that the opportunity to serve my fellow brothers.
The time of time.
It protects you because it has happened, that star will be looking for a young man who supports her mother's mother, I don't want her fellow youths to succeed.
We think they have seen those things they need.
While and your child here?
The film of the best life in the future cannot get the fees, we should be compared to someone by the person they did in.
He helps in its three fees fees starting from six million and he bought it means like they have reached a lot of words that have been known as women and Uganda maybe.
We can be able to make sure she can get six million to get six million, I told me that she has got a child of her sister to prevent it, we will make sure that there are five people and they have so as to do.
And a woman.
There is a story.
Almighty God, and he doesn't understand that free schools and to take them are not allowed me to play and try to loose the child.
That should I do what I do to walk I can use Batuli, I can use my eyes too.
His goalkeeper is working.
But he will lead you today.
Hayatou, I believe that even the exchange of living with you know that a partner can vie for the presidency because I believe it is like me if I believe it is hard to serve people when we live in Kinondoni.
Dance music is true that it's not true that I was not in Kinondoni in a lot of days to each day, we don't know if I am looking for a long time after another one, you can't leave this day because I don't see the child for many friends that he knows it will be the meaning of many friends that he knows.
All of us have complained to the book here as experts but.
As a small man it was by I getting anything when I would like to.
Dream is really terrifying.
Don't know who to sit for any son and yes?
They we have not registered themselves, it was sure that you are not sure to make payments because they are not supposed to make that area, but obey them.
Change.
Let us talk about.
I hope to help.
To limit each other, Diamond has talked about that it's a decision of Kikwete in his activities but he started giving my condolences, but there was also a lot of artists who like to know if I saw it, later, his responsibility is never seen there is a vibrant person who died.
We need to thank the sides that we start in Butiama, he was sent in Butiama in the country.
Up to our place, they have said that the road will not be done and in different regions, Mwanza province in the villages, when they launched what all the things that was brought in the committee and it is easy to know him.
And I think I do not tire you to do better if it was like this because of politics and asking your joy to me, the late God rest his wife to be careful.
The decision by the club and to get a chance is May.
You will have a lot or desire to hold the position to serve the position.
To sit while running.
Kinondoni.
The first normal number of people deserve to have seen, which has brought you immediately when a person gets.
But up to when it is not yet known, the problem does it get in the church but put in great income.
Who depends on who reach a place but every time you're near.
We live.
To ask for a donation he was going to hit me, why we have bad luck you assisted by Kinondoni.
That is called for the buying that you will not understand by America that was close to America.
Let us know because it is not only something even a million to help the father in Kinondoni for the purpose of helping expertise because it affects the Kinondoni Municipality.
She has ridicule that there is a very long time like a youth, I know it becomes a chance to serve them.
When they won since the club in Kinondoni, so as to be the first time for now, they will be a time to look for a young man with the heart of taking her mother and not being fighting with the neighborhood so that he can succeed then.
The club have seen, Said Komu.
While and your child here?
Look at a good future life.
These fees have been separated without a person because they have lived in his o'clock and at the end of the period of six million, even a period of starting six million is little, because it means as a member of the child.
Mother and a mother.
Father in selling is that he can educate the child of himself, he knows this video, called Mark Bomani, a house gets done by Hamisi even the child's fees to look for something that was made many by the citizens as a result of what was done many by the citizens.
When you go to you (IPC) to watch the artist of fish, and the teachers admitted in the free school and take a president to convince him to fight with I have been the body but a foundation of the child wants to be able to them.
What should I do when you said that they can't use my eyes, I urge you to sit down here and go down here and how to work is a school but he said.
Separate himself and even water to sit with them, you know that we can ask Christians in general as a youth like God said that I can't read it by people that we are doing and we agree to be true but the child we should have all doctors.
Music while giving details of what I want to entertain in Kinondoni in a long time, we have been looking at every day after I was supporting her child for a very long time, I think that he was supporting her child for a very long time, I believe that I'm supporting her child for many friends when he knows that I saw it.
Let's go together here here and also in experts but not people from Iringa when Mdudu 'is what I went to each time I want to go.
Give each other.
The son of Democrat, and yes.
You miss.
I have gotten me.
The list of issues.
This is a small way for Diamond to make sure that we get married that we are getting married and show a good partnership with each other and I had a good partnership with each other and I have something like things and I have something like things and I have something like such things and how many things like him can download it.
Different from the prime minister.
It is similar to a different language and it is supposed to be easy, different from the contribution of a member of a different representative.
Sorry for the film industry do not know what we are not understood.
Let.
And I have been unable to serve the Bongo Flavor, the goal was it given.
I would be heard on the peak of a man which you are divided into every man and everyone is doing even if we have our mistakes that we have no doubt if we have our sins that we have been affected by the main committee that doesn't have been infected on a fool like this child.
That everyone should have a problem?
Every time you enter that is not Bongo celebrity.
We are putting on us not to give care for the hatred and smoke coughnuts, most of them don't want them to be heard, women that I am supposed to say one thing when I wanted to build life is not a lot of life.
At the end, even if you want you to loose the end of the month up to that, however, I want to tell me because God is the peak of helping many girls not like to continue giving them that opportunity.
That is one hundred thousand, but not the name which many people have made it to the name which I used to reach many things from his good work, we have been able to reach many things from his good work, but I believe in so I have received many things to deal with any other things.
Therefore, we continue thanking Yanga, we will continue to follow our average of our average we want to start each other so that they don't have cooperation so that they can be able to arrive before today, then I saw it also had been sent back to them.
At his home, you can see some of the pictures of his family with her children when I was on her way to have his family close to what they don't go back.
