If you were taxi, I was walking very happy so as to attract them when we go to Dar es Salaam, because there is a lot of paying for who in that film, we have been sentenced to people from who in that film, we have been sentenced to many people, even to know Evan, Mister Rajesh Mistry.
Bartomeu has been prepared to have a fashion card that we have been the God's card is growing up with modern vehicles, a big family of nine parts of the past.
To write a word.
He was found.
Secretary general.
Little of us.
The father returns.
To sue them is why I was with a fiancée became the capital city, we will look for another fiancée because it is because it's no reason.
I have not heard of getting injured.
Things like that if you get in the capital.
In matters of prayer, we need very much in the community.
It could cause a lot of noise so that we have written all things that it has written about, we saw there, where there is a young man, I would have written any time because they have benefited from any city so that we can pass it.
Whoever doesn't know many times, people like to eat with a big one with us, but most of five children have faith in God, but you don't see if you followed it, I don't like me if I had never seen as if you had reached it.
They have risen up and then make sure it is good.
And there are people when asked me, he wants there is no one who has been a servant for the team.
Why have you found?
The late God know Swahili here you play in the head because one of the end of the game, I wrote the name of the gold here in the world.
Five, when you have found a lot of evil deeds I think about it is to come from our very close people here in the country to learn and that every person of its players are doing so much and we can also have a very big problem, because if you get in a lot of time, as if they get the name of.
What's a human star?
More than ten thousand, the issue was like my young man, and that is the great adviser for the problems they don't know why our Swahili ideology is not aware because there are no other things that don't know what there are no other things.
Account is the part of my youth that I request, I am happy and there is an issue that he did not know that any conflict is going on well the things that goes well in superstitions has no meaning, "we are born with.
One of the elder of Mister or arrived, Tulia Ackson, how you have been abducted.
They were not found.
Without you not understand the rains of your love because your reasons look at using the number we look for.
You do not tell me what you have proposed that I have proposed that I would like to see if you've gone to follow up on their pain, but I said there is a lot of pain when I come to do so is Paul Rupia.
People are remember a question?
It came into the port.
The Almighty God again say that.
