
TP Mazembe ended only.
Only the nation fans will enter the free of the game at the National Stadium.
Dar es Salaam City, 'our land has been in our field, our fans, then we should be afraid that you are playing with the game as Yanga's slogan against TP Mazembe today at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam (10 o'clock this evening).
The game that will be aired live by Azam TV and South Africa, is important to the champions of Tanzania Mainland, Yanga to make sure they face against TP Mazembe so as to get well in group A in the Confederation Cup competition.
Yanga lost the first game by being beaten 1-0 by Mo Bejaia, Algeria has won 3-1 against Benfica club, the results that run the game having a competition of its kind.
The sweetness of the game will be in the field while Yanga's side, Haruna Niyonzima, Thaban Kamusoko and Deus Kaseke of the mid-fielder of TP Mazembe, Rhema Trust, Zlin Roida and Christian Bella.
The quality and the keenness of Yanga's side is that it will be a secret of finishing the ways of Kalaba who is praised by taking the last pass and even speed up at the field but if a child was left then Yanga can get pain.
The coach of Yanga, Hans Pluijm will be forced to have Mbuyu Twite as the control of TP Mazembe, Thomas Ulimwengu 'Jichunge.'
Yanga may not get the winger Simon Msuva suffering from malaria, but Coach Pluijm can kill Geofrey Mwashiuya or Deus Kaseke, while the position of Amissi Tambwe has won the position of Amissi Tambwe who was signed recently from FC Platinum of Zimbabwe.
Speaking about that game, Coach Pluijm said that despite losing some of the players from the different reasons, it was giving him fear because he has a tough squad which could have a good results.
Pluijm said I think about TP Mazembe because it has a good history in Africa's soccer, but there is no need to win them in their group. "The match will be difficult, but I am happy that my youth have great morale of doing well in our group."
We have done good exercises in Turkey, and I believe this exercise will give them good fruits, I have told my players to play keenly and to avoid the card and to ensure we get early goals. "
Pluijm insisted on his players on how to protest against him together while addressing leaders to allow fans to get free in the field, but he gave a warning that they use that opportunity to encourage fans who are not in the field so as to deal with them.
Yanga captain, Nadir Haroub 'Cannavaro', said there is no one they need in that game more than victory because they are in home every time, we do not want to make sure that we have won that game and I believe that fans will come out in large numbers to get support. "
Said JB.
The captain of TP Mazembe, goalkeeper Robert Kachumu said they have come up in the country to take three points and not otherwise.
"We want to confirm that TP Mazembe is the best teams in this region of East Africa, Central and South Africa by emerging with a win against Yanga although it is a good team," said Kidney.
TP Mazembe striker, Ulimwengu said that he will use the match of Yanga to remove its quality.
I am happy to meet with his home team and I promised just to work so that they do not know well, "said Ulimwengu.
