
They will not hesitate to fight with the police in Tanga.
Raqqa, Said and Bromwich,, The Citizen's Parish, @ mkito.
Tanga and four people have been killed in the fight against where to get that which took place in Mbango, in the city, where one police was killed in February last year in an event that were accused of terrorism.
In that event of February last year, police were forced to ask for donations from the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) to deal with the people who have flooded the area until they stopped the group that they did to have the fight against terrorism.
Yesterday's fight took place at the historic area when police have been running a operation to look for the criminals that did the killing of the Central Baker shop.
Those criminals missed the famous main bus station in the last month and killed four people, injured two people during 27 million shillings after succeeding to break the person.
Yesterday was the third day since the cries of shot it to be heard in Mapango, and later on a report reached in Tanga, there was a knee injury.
Police commander of the province, Leonard Paul, mentioned those who were killed in the fire attacks which took place in Mapango, in the gate of Nasibu Abdul, Abu u Mussa and foreign citizen who was identified by the name Idrisa Bergh.
Commander Leonard said apart from the control of those criminals, also the army has been able to arrest different equipment that are believed to be used in events of robbery.
He mentioned the equipment that were nabbed with various types of 195 phones, they've heard seven, death of four, one Ugandan and 17 points, the draw was affected by a draw of TDPF and two motorbikes.
He said when they were continuing with investigation, four people were arrested and they arrested their colleagues that they missed in the field and that is where the army got to sign up the area and succeeded four people and injured one.
He said in an extent of shot, two police were injured, I've now heard that it is Gogo, an assistant coach of the police in Tanga province and Borussia Charles.
The news that Citizen has given us that the senior officials of the police force from your headquarters here in the city since the occurrence of those killings, some of the residents of Kinondoni brought him Citizen that is the third day since they started seeing the police who were dressed in a draw with no draw.
Nasib Abdallah, who is the retired soldier of JWTina congratulated how the investigation took place and told those people.
