The government has been doing different efforts to improve the state of lives of citizens living in villages in the province of Pwani.
The degree is together with making sure that the chest is there in reaching the citizens at an affordable price.
In providing reliable electricity, citizens living in villages in Pwani province.
The government through the energy agency in this villages to implement the first phase of a special project of supplying electricity in the villages in the district.
This project that started to be implemented in the country of December this year and win one was planned to get in five and six districts in the province of Pwani.
The first that took place is to build infrastructure for distribution of electricity production in the new districts.
And Rufji.
A secondary school 'secondary school was previously used for the solar power generation equipment, after the increase of electricity use in that school and a village of Mwenge will not be used to get electricity.
In addition, we had been put into the first phase of a special project of distribution.
Electricity.
It is for a short period of short periods and I see it is.
At the end of every journey to have the Bible, it says that we are selling of electricity because you can be more than drugs in the villages to get more money to reduce infrastructure and since at least the month of that child.
The Ambassador of Same West is able to get better service in his season and I don't have no God is from different stations.
Male.
The construction of the national grid of national grid from the village of God that is in a distance of 5 kilometers to school that is causing a lot of entrepreneurship and the small port of that village.
The caution is used again for passengers and cargo going to the new Island and elsewhere.
But the meeting was funded by switching off the first city in the coast region has been completed.
In Kibaha, it's only to benefit from the project.
The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) since its start.
It placed the aim of reducing the environment of environment by educating the citizens especially living in the villages to use energy that are easy to produce.
The problem is that involves itself from the remains of trees and plants, that is Funga or guardians.
The gas energy is produced by blue copper and human beings are not allowed.
It is difficult.
The natural resources of generating these types of energy, it has been identified in rural areas in areas of farmers.
If the government and various stakeholders in the country to encourage the market and the use of energy in that region and the availability of distribution of its technology, Miss Leah Kihimbi made a great shape in taking technology.
To them both sides.
Almighty God bless TANZANIA.
Or by the name of a Swahili such as it was revealed that it has been a lot of agents that have been very successful in developing the energy of energy that are derived from that is expected to give them an example to the rural electrification agency.
The late God is not only because of the use of home, but also for the use of great institutions like that, one and Tanzania have been able to build a special machine for the secondary school in secondary schools there are Saint Makabane.
Almighty God rest a school to market or.
To make a school that we do not think about the construction of the projects in the district, welcome him but we were able to do that in the Islam school which is also a class of both sides, so that we can't see why we are in a class, therefore we can use it in other parts of the moment.
Most of the citizens to know that the remains of me just like smoke codile and we can see that wealth of making us know your normal is used.
REA will take a stern action to educate the citizens to use wood and charcoal a period we have results.
If you look for example the late God rest on the other side.
For the meaning of producing electricity by using their families living as usual, we were able to go through the project, the holy Rosary, twenty-four in Manyatta wants us to cooperate with the stakeholders in the private sector to build a lot of electricity like this year in Morogoro Province.
Now on the side of the body.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we will also be a person that we can be your Graduates.
By partnering with stakeholders of the domestic companies of small companies.
A land company.
Almighty God is a company in technology, there is a company like my companies that can enable these companies to use wood or coal that resulted from their own crops or Mabere Marando who is currently the things that those companies do not benefit them.
War can be Tambaza or it will be able.
Therefore we can reduce.
I was nurses and caring for our environment but we have also talked about the problems of the ones that go down and seen as dirty but we will remember that most of us are names and otherwise we are going on top of three eggs.
Or in many town, we have done efforts to use traditional stoves in what they are going on to the estates.
By using that loss, it is against the iron sheets that are affected but what coal is not only.
In meaning, if you have.
The Lord, you can you know that in the energy that will be sponsored by what is where coal is used, maybe the same percent is, which will be used.
And any percentage will be lost because his stove is clear because the three recommendations were because the loss of energy is big because in conjunction with these institutions that have been able to enable them to build a strategy of promoting traditional stoves in schools that have been successful.
