Three people have lost life and several others being injured in demonstrations in Ruvuma province.
.
Pressure the police force in that province to take action against the killing of citizens who continue in the province.
The violence that have happened after the demonstrators to prevent some of the government buildings being small, where police are forced to use bomb attacks against demonstrators where the police commander of Ruvuma province Mike Seo, has confirmed that three two people were trying to attack the police station and even though the writer is Gerson Msigwa from Ruvuma.
Previously it started in a period of three o'clock in the morning, the demonstrators they scored against the road heading to and then put my condolences to the head of Ruvuma province.
After getting tired of heading to the small state of Ruvuma province where my environmental environment entered the claims of opposing the killing of war.
We were looking at.
One is.
It is not a time I am not a time I remember a lot and heading to the head of the province and this is when he met police and even heading to violence and that is where the fight.
So, they are those to take place in the neighboring areas with the office of the head of province and state house Shamsa Ford, to also seek two people.
That between the police and the citizens hall, he continued in other areas have emerged following the existence of citizens, they will not be read when I have received.
Songea is recognized by a short message.
Citizens hope.
He gets a bouquet of flowers during a human being.
During the time of Prime Minister of Ruvuma Province, Said Fella, an account for journalists in his office in order to give a statement by the government concerning the violence that happened in the morning and explained that the source of these events is being pressured by the government to help deal with the government to help deal with the government through the internet.
It will do everything possible.
Looking for the ones that are believed to be running the killing of witchcraft.
That was to be supported by the police commander of the police force in that province to eliminate the commander saying that up to the evening up to August, this year and that an evaluation of the effects that arose is done in the streets yesterday.
This and lost life.
And later, one youth was suffering from a motorcycle after falling.
One of the motorbike got an accident.
Therefore, it is not good.
It doesn't have done?
But the source of sin?
It is a stimulation for close to them.
I have heard the front of the death when a difficult time stopped him and they have agreed to talk to now because it is being forced to participate at the meeting where every citizen will continue to participate in the meeting where every citizen will continue to participate in meeting which is also the provincial commissioner of Ruvuma province.
They have tried to travel to Mister?
And thinking of contraception and also promised to cooperate with three people have lost life in this incident that many injured have been rushed to the Provincial Hospital in Mbeya town to talk and four that have been reported to be good.
In they should come out in areas in the middle of the city of using which is popular in shops, there were many people and everyone has never been able to pay their businesses or their property to pay their businesses or their properties.
How do not lie?
