
The Sergeant of police got a shot in the police station in the evening.

Rashid Mkonga.

It is difficult to believe in!

The police who had a number of 48,000 thousand shillings decided to get married to the police force to ban a prey in the mouth, while leaving with numerous questions, although he was going on by family and dollars.

A suicide for the police apart from leaving different questions from a community that drain water has failed because of the deceased not leaving any message because of his life, he has remained in a short time from accordance with the law according to its age of 54 years.

"There is no one who didn't expect to be Officer if he could make this issue and we are in fear, we can't understand the reasons for this step that he took," said the other officers in that center who did not want to be mentioned his name because he is not the police force.

We were with him at night, we have done with him up to 6 o'clock at night, we did not know if he had a great secret inside his soul in Mbozi district.

It is said that the police who has left the widow of four children was the supervisor of the weapons and illustrations for the police force at a small police station which is in Mbozi district and Momba district and that night of the incident he entered into his work station and started falling on the mouth.

Previously when speaking about the incident through the phone before he was arriving at the scene of the police commander in Mbeya Province, Ahmed Msangi confirmed the incident of suicide for the police and said that the source of the death of the police is reduced.

Speaking on the phone from Mbeya City, police commander in that province, Ahmed Msangi said that he has got information of the death of that police which has happened last night.

Commander Msangi said that even though there are rumors that are there about that incident of death, but the police force is still making investigations to know the reasons for the soldiers who were in his work room.

"I don't have additional information about the death of these reports I have not given you, the police who had a position of Sergeant who was in his home, before heading to his home, before he went to her home," said Commander Msangi.

On his side, the Chairperson of the defense and security committee in Mbozi district, who is the acting head of that district Rosemary Senyamule said that the event has caused fear to the police force and the security committee of the district.

He said that the police has been found dead in one of the police stations while he shot dead in head and that some of the people explained that he placed a series of Plasmodium falciparum.

However, Senyamule said that the incident of taking part of the decision to fall into the community and that even if the late was self-criticism he was supposed to be taking that decision.

"" It is something sad, that is supposed to be taken by any person, it is a sin for God and it is not supposed to take any decisions to the family and the community that remained, we are not supposed to take decisions of such kind even if we are in problems, "he said.

However, some of the people who did not know their names explained that maybe that death was caused by the loss of weapons in that center which is explained to happen recently, an issue that has been aired by commander Msangi.

Commander Msangi insisted that the police force is investigating that incident and that the reports are not yet confirmed by the army.

On their part, some of the mourners claimed to be the incident is something that was not supposed to be done by someone who has a bail and security of peace and citizens of citizens.

"" It is something sad, we do not have the way, but the late took a decision that does not depend on its survival, "said Joseph Samson who is the prison officers of the prison forces in Mbozi district.

The late Koba has left the widow of two children where his body has been transported yesterday heading to Mpanda district, Katavi Region.
