2013 music of a new generation have a creativity.
December 31st, 2013.

The art of music in Tanzania has been growing up to a day after one of the cases of growth of music is the winners in every day that they have been getting in a different style with the aim of breaking the internal and international market.

There are those who succeeded to do well and to arrest the local and foreign market and to do important things and even make a conducive environment for employment for their colleagues.

But there are also those who participated in the field of here at home and there is no reason that they did more than depending on the reputation and popularity as therefore there are still continuing to fulfill their dreams in this profession of music but also they are still continuing to fulfill their dreams.

One of the music kind that has been used by many youths especially the youth is that of the new generation, popular as Bongo Fleva, because those music lovers have decided to agree with me that this music kind has been on trials for every youth who feels she can get in the music industry.

Recently, we have witnessed many people who are more than 50 years as they put in Karume on their own kind, all these results have happened and the truth there are those who succeeded in making Bongo Fleva music well by getting many fans and eventually getting a market.

In the past years, the musicians of Bongo Fleva were able to do a lot of exhibition including those of the launch of different album as it is now what is happening now in music of the new generation is musicians to do their songs.

This situation that is interpreted as a way to look for market and popularity, it is being done more by those musicians who are capable of involving the old people and especially those with great names.

For instance, it is true that the musicians who are similar to now in music of the new generation can't stop themselves and bring change but have found an only way of forcing a market to involve musicians with great names.

This is one of the symptoms of the new generation, it has no creativity as it is in another type of music such as music and others when there are musicians who meet Bongo Flavor music and now they have discovered that the music is not new and now they have decided to start their band so as to make music with good flavor.

This is a good decision that you are going on with time and especially in this century which has caused a large group of competition, there is another group of music musicians of the new generation who have been lost on the eyes and ears of the music stakeholders although they were beaten in those days.

Moreover, there are also those who have lost their creativity, it has come at the end and the remaining time is to get fans because they have the attraction to music lovers of that kind, and this is because every vehicle service on the songs are there are those of many years.

This issue has brought about the debate because there are Othman, who contested for example Bongo Flavor music is best than for now, who are saying this being the main reason for the most popular artists because the current artists can't do music without involving most popular artists.

A good example is one of the Christmas show that was held last week in one of the famous clubs in Dar es Salaam city, in that show there were artists of Bongo Fleva music and old.

What happened is that all the current musicians and those of Bongo Fleva all of them were received with great joy as well as the fans who had flooded the hall.
This means that the veteran musicians in Bongo Fleva have a great opportunity to understand more than the current problem, the big problem of the current musicians to understand the reputation and others to use that chance of directing girls like clothes.
These people have never seen themselves without knowing that there are many artists of such behaviors, they had already been successful and now they have a difficult life and the only thing is only history.
