
Parliament, president in a goalless draw, 2012

The discussion that was given by the signing of the law on constitutional changes in the year 2011 to the Law of Social Security Fund, and then the law will be presented to the parliament for a short time to change after a cry for a lot of criticism from the stakeholders that went into conflict inside and outside the parliament, our citizens have noted.
While the minister of state, office of the President-Parliament and coordination, William Lukuvi saying that it is responsibilities of parliament to change the law at any time, Prime Minister for Constitution and law, Tundu Lissu, says the leadership of parliament is supposed to carry the blame from those mistakes, the president is not supposed to be involved.
But outside the parliament, the acting chief justice of government law, Sarah Baranaba, says to return the law in parliament for amendments it is normal and if there are any problems, then it did not meet his office while insisting that the issue of making laws is the responsibility of the parliament.
However, apart from that, it has been noted that there has been a mistake even in the implementation of the bill of law of the Social Security Fund. During the debate of that bill, it has been recommended to make changes as well as an issue of proper benefits.
The section of the benefits of a person that had gone into conflict, caused some of the workers, including that conflict which is forcing the employee to be given his benefits immediately after he started working and stopping his contribution to the community fund.
It is alleged that after the members of parliament to give their recommendations, those recommendations will not be put in the final stages of that bill before being presented to the president because of being signed.
The blame to the leadership of parliament speaking about the issue, Lissu said the big problem is the leadership of parliament who has failed to supervise the requirements of the regulations, especially during the parliament to make laws.
"The problem after the previous steps, the bill is read for the second time when they started the first time and only 10 minutes, here the leadership of parliament has shown an action of allowing the debate of the bill to be read for the second time and that this is being done by save time.
"The effects are that the government is using that opportunity to bring in his things.
For example, in the social media services bill, the bringing up the renovations of more than 70 sections, the time it is not enough to do a good analysis and this is where they do not occur, "said Lissu.
However, when he was asked if those mistakes can be involved in office of the president where the president for approximately three times now has been signing up complaints among stakeholders, starting with the constitutional law, therefore he does not want them to work well and especially the leadership of the parliament is unable to give them enough time because the parliament of parliament is unable to give their work well and especially the leadership of the parliament.
When he was asked about his stand on the blame that have been directed to parliament that the action of the instrument to make laws were allocated by stakeholders just after President signing them is same as usual, it is not a little section, but not the whole law, "said Minister Lukuvi.
On their part, the attorney general, Judge Frederick Werema, by the secretary of parliament, Doctor Thomas Kashimba and secretary of parliament, Doctor Thomas Sankara said that they take precaution in order to answer that question very short while there is no problem.
But the acting chief justice of the law, Sarah says, "the issue of making laws is the process that is inside the parliament, after the discussion and recommendations that the parliament are brought to us for the purpose of verification and then we are moving to their country and they are taking them to the president because of being signed.
"I don't see if they could have any mistakes because parliament are tired and everything done," said Sarah and added, "the law can also be resolved since it was signed by the former member of parliament of Karatu, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, who had signed in section of the law that was not discussed in parliament.
Apart from that law, the other laws made to bring conflict, wisely, the Social Security Fund is on the constitutional changes, a point that forced President Kikwete to work with the delegation of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Dar es Salaam city and then the law will be returned to parliament for the purpose of amendments.
In the Law of Social Security Fund, Felican Mkude, that happened to more than 600 workers in eight mines in the country who claimed to be ready to stop work.
That condition of the interpreter translating to the member of parliament of Kisarawe District, Selemani Jafo to present the argument that he wanted to use in use.
In what they can be mentioned to be a continuation of opposing that law, the other stakeholders including the lawyers have also contributed great opposition.
The lawyer of the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC), Harold Sakali in the picture, was quoted by some of the media outlets opposing the amendments of that law because it encourages members of that fund to get rid of their votes when they need them.
I am just like the lawyer I see that, these changes will involve members of that fund, because every person has its needs and its responsibilities now is not good to sign someone when he is supposed to take advantage of him, "he said.
"Be identifying that, the government is alleged that many funds and funds are due to various loans which were given for example the construction of Dodoma University, Machinga 'together with the building of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Sengelema province, was quoted saying that the law passed by the parliament is repressive.
After the complaints, the Minister of Labor and Employment, Gaudensia Kabaka has decided to be responsible for amendments to that law and especially getting the benefits of the benefits (correct benefits) of stopping.
