I have written by Way, May 5th, 2016.

The government is unable to protect female students!

On April 28, 2016, it is a day that the Girls Secondary School located in Ilemela District, Mwanza province, did a graduation to bid farewell to form six students after a long journey of studies.
While reading messages to the guest of honor, the Deputy Head of the school, Mark Paul said since the establishment of this school in 1952, until now there is a lot of success made as an increase in students and their performance.
There is a success where there is a challenge where the situation is in the school of Bwiru Yassin. The Deputy Head in his life continued to say after seeing the safety of the school is small, the leadership of the school together with his board decided to take legal action.
The steps that were taken so as to put security in the area is to enter the contract with the security company of Mara Region Security Company Limited "which its officers are usually paid for donations which are usually paid by parents.
The action of the leadership of the school to look for security solution is grateful for the question and asking for you, these officers of the private company have enough training so as to deal with the crime that it is used as a result of science and technology?
It is possible that security guards have been unable to have enough training because if you have passed through the National Housing Corporation (JKT) or some of them are retirees of the security and security agencies like JWTZ, police, prisons, organizations among others.
We will not give a bad prices to be based in our nation but it should be remembered that Tanzania is not a island because of the speed of communication in the world, it has been the village and so that few countries can arise from us.
Night of April 14th, 2014, it is a day that approximately 276 female children in secondary school schools were abducted by the Boko Haram group of Chibok town, Borno region in Nigeria.
Between 276 girls that were abducted by 57 girls who have succeeded to escape and since that time up to now, it has been more than two years the rebels have continued to be the hands of terrorists who had international noise without forgetting the slogan of "Landscrona" "he said.
It is like a dream, but it knows that it is possible to have more than 200 children, who are in the country, then the government and international community including the United States have sent experts from ransom issues to fail.
Many secondary schools with form one to six students are usually five out of 15 to 18 students here, you can try to ask for this unique age, those students have been affected by your eyes.
Recently, the television station of CNN, from America has shown that girls that were abducted in Nigeria are still ongoing with good health and they would send himself to go back to their home, but who is sure if their daughters don't be faced with strength?
Who doesn't put it back to say that their daughters fell for a period of two years when they were abducted.
Who is to comfort parents who were affected, after falling on their children so that they agree to believe that their children have been sent to hunger and they are getting treatment quickly.
At the event of beating the school her daughters, which has taken place in Nigeria has been attacked from an education institution in various parts of the world. April 2, 2015 a group of Al-Shabaab broke out of 148 desks while about 79 students were injured.
On January 21st, 2016, the Taliban militants brought down the University of Bexhill, in Ireland and killing 22 people while many others were injured and those are a few events in many.
May 3, this year in the commemoration of the world media freedom day that took place nationally in Mwanza City, the executive director of Tanzania Media's Women Association (TAMWA), Eddie Sanga said that for now, female children in the country have been facing challenges of being raped.
The late Nelson Mandela has ever said, "the water will begin to provoke each person to be a person from female children," the government will be responsible for instance, I believe the responsibility of security of citizens and their properties is the police force.
Security and security which have carried the eyes of the life of a human being that basically you cannot buy, even if you could be a billionaire, if Donald Trump of the United States have no alternative.
"," if you cannot learn himself, you will never build a house because it will use your money for the decision of a fool, "this is words once said citizens of the United States, a lot of food, the investor and the author of those books.
It is a result of thinking that if the government has said that it does not have the ability to employ one police officers again with great training, due to the limited budget only, roads and affordable houses have not been built but their daughters were not safe.
It is a few days honorable members of parliament, ministers, heads, heads of provinces, directors and permanent secretaries to be paid salaries for primary school teachers but the schools that are in dangerous environment were given a reliable security.
I am saying the dangerous environment for the meaning that there are some of the schools here in eternal peace that were built without doubt, for example, for example the girls' Girls' Secondary School together with the construction and the city is growing by Lake Victoria which can be a solution to criminals as the terrorists who will fund the fund of internal and outside the country.
In the book '"Cindy, World" "the 80 page, there is an inexhaustible to the Airwing Ukonga cemetery, an inexhaustible one says," many people usually think before doing, but people do not recognize them. "
When the members of parliament are not knowing the truth as the madness of dealing with bad issues so as to increase the popularity of continuing to reduce the popularity of the female children, the disabled of albinism and the elderly who need to know it on night and in the afternoon.
