CAG to inspect the accounts.

It has been written by Raqqa, Pallidum.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The government has directed the office of the controller and auditor general of the government accounts.
"CAG has said that the inspection of human resources and money in the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) in order to reduce the rumors of the theft of money.

That was said by the minister in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye, when he toured the federation's office yesterday, being his first time since he was appointed as the minister.
"The law is requesting the registrar of sports and sports council (BMT) to inspect property and accounts thus I have directed the Chief Executive Officer of the government accounts so that he can do inspection of political property including human resources," said Nape.
Also, Nape said that the inspection is not done, it will be able to build a sharp concept that has built to some people that the money from the International Federation of International Football (FIFA) and those arising from sponsors are used badly.
Nape told the president of TFF, Jamal Malinzi to get a short message that employees have not paid salaries for three months, something, Malinzi also confessed and giving clarification.
"The workers claim that the salary of one month since July have been paid but the head coach of Taifa Stars team, Charles Mkwasa and his assistant Hemed Morindat.
In another step, Minister Nape spoke of the process of change in the old club of Simba and Yanga and said that it is unacceptable, but he will ban the procedures and laws to be followed.
"TFF we shouldn't wait until you are able to cook with yourself when you look at issues if you know it is clear, the law and procedures are followed so as to remove the smell of bribery and rights of the members who had the owners before they unable them," said Nape.
"A person falls well and he is expecting to sell him and then it does not sell again, it's impossible for you to go to the competition so that the rights and laws to be followed," he said.
Nape said that the government continues to follow keenly the process of the whole process so as to move forward where the law is abolished.
Moreover, Minister Nape said that they will partner with TFF to resolve the conflict between Stand United in order to save the development of soccer development and promised to speak with the sponsor of that team so as to continue controlling them for them.
He has also urged the Institute of preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) to be keen with elections in the provinces and the general elections of that federation that will take place in the year so as to eliminate all the loopholes of bribery so as to get better leaders.
