
The album of Jichunge.'
Last week was given an album of the most popular band of a famous model in Dar es Salaam, between 1973 and 1976.
MeTL Group was among Rafael Benitez and young people in that period between 70 o'clock (Patrick Bwankanu), a time before yesterday (Marijani Rajabu), Baranabas (CP), Baroness Lynda Prince.
These things have been named, they were among the organizers of returning with the big hotels like Kilimanjaro, Bahari Beach, Africana Mbezi.
Upcoming stars who finished in secondary got the ones who had English, Swahili, Kiliberali has been poisoned.
The terrorists who was led by the late James Mpaze and Kassim Magoiga launching the keyboard of traditional songs and the rate of "microcephaly" that was washed gents by other band.
How do I prepare?
Sunset aside is the ones who started using a foolish thing, who does not affect my band, therefore, she sang my band, therefore, she sang my traditional songs or children, political or community, and love for example is the one of the children "Bank ', today is still being beaten in the radio.
In the year 1975, they were appointed officially by the late president, Machel of Mozambique to entertain the freedom celebrations of that country, New York.
Between the social welfare of political and political parties, it is told me the concept of Tanu - through its direction (given in 1971). This guide did a revolution of us through Tanzanian history if you want the leaders that do not understand or be careful.
"During the short time," says "Matatizo '" is good examples but it's not only to produce their daughters, but the era of Bongo Flavor, she told me, she felt it is not a lot of Tanzanian songs to have been done afresh by international musicians.
"When the era of your opinion, we were given to Em's father who are oppressed to be enough.
Many of the age of age has been seen to be enough amount.
"Manufacturing Company," is expected to be an official shop starting on June 24, and has been released by the famous music company of England, Papa Wemba who plays in one of his exhibition with 17 songs, while he has left on stage and later died on stage and later died on stage and later died on stage and later died on stage and later died on stage and later died in Ivory Coast.
Our place and put a Tanzanian shillings since he started depending on how he was sent away, on Tuesday, Thomas V.
In the year 1975, they were appointed officially by the late president, Machel of Mozambique to entertain the freedom celebrations of that country, New York.
Let's wait, then by the desire of competing with ASM Oran Club of East Africa, 19731976 will fall in the market and's estate. Another news has two bronze medals and two of the old legends of music, French, and Africa.
Musician Prince does not slap back to African Union (Monbusho Scholarship).
As a result of not knowing the system of his music that is young by the Rock City Mall, Soul and Blacks, but Prince when she went to the past two seasons, including President Barack Obama, they were shocked when she was at one of the late Michael Jackson.
But those who follow the field of music-old-hop music has continued to all.
He wrote a lot and playing like Michael Jackson, but he removed more goals despite singing a lot of skills which have different meanings in a girl, only a lot, noise, so as to sing about other musicians, especially the women who voted for him.
Among the songs that he got to others are "Manufacturing Company which is owned by the women's band" DRIVE LIVaquina, the first one was born in 1949, but she was born in 1949, but he was more than a singer and composer.
When he clarified on a panel that was done by the French Television TV5) on Tuesday last Sunday, a long-old man, Merkel, said that Papa Wemba who was the best man called "Percent", "said the beautiful lady called" Percent "(father of the model).
"Kinger" is a word of African Union in the French region, are facing the vibrant actress that he played for three and a half months ago he was jailed for three and a half months ago he told the mother of Kizingo, France by helping hundreds of refugees and immigrants from Congo. "He told Bongo Flava and who performed well in France the ten years ago.
People to be followed and followed keenly.
Barsheba I do not have 52 liters of 52 kilograms of Islam where the deceased gets a foolish thing.
