In what is the results.
Therefore, this constitution does not be the proposal of voting.
Because of it.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
Remove those who need without any problems without problems of life, products have been given.
To get that right and that the ten commandments will help the law to enable access to well and why it doesn't know how it is God, but it's emphasized that every Tanzanian is needed because every Tanzanian is needed.
To go to the court to take water at the contestants headquarters because they can be able for minerals that I have taken and talked about in court a lot of direction as a party like a person, we see a person that can go to one bank directly and it has affected us on the article.
Currently, maybe it is the host, the best to pay more on water for disabled people and who know that he will record a constitution that will we go more until when the needs and the mistakes will go.
That will it the side of where and where?
I was told that on the sixty years of five, the proposed constitution is good and the proposed constitution is good because you enter the citizens to understand.
The late God rest his article before yesterday said a person with disabilities.
Ras Makunja has decided to be identified and to be careful against the actions of the desks including discrimination, so as to pray for violence on time.
Secret to get education by using special equipment's to participate in the representation and community activities.
The Almighty God rest the direction of infrastructure, I request that I will start going to go as if he wanted to use the transport agencies to use the language of reproductive health and even the love to get good health services easily and love that you love.
Yes, that is the article of five people with albinism is the meaning that the intention is with Nigeria and also other articles of this music with the end of the broader interests of their protests.
I was starting with that article all the five years when I spoke about every one with the first one is the first thing and it has also taught us that it is a right to each person with ten houses.
The plot is called Mchaga!
The victory to be elected and to be dealt with against those violating the end including the side should we vie for.
What does it mean?
First, for the first time the constitution has set up the basis of the mother to be.
That is not seekers.
And saying here is the government and the whole community is responsible, there are some of us to attack on discrimination, because of this beauty on health services in the community, there is a rumor that there is a rumor from a grandfather who has managed to be true.
Do not fulfill that will or do everything?
On the basis of.
A person because you read one thing, I want you to look for it because of her color or good.
Therefore, here.
