
BAVICHA come out and have been condemned.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The leaders of the Youth Council of the Party of Democracy and Development (BAVICHA), have made their defense in a long distance case, by being noted that, Tanzania there is no democratic country and its leaders, in a way to vote.

The accused in that case is the chairperson of BAVICHA, Pastor Peter Katunga, the secretary general of BAVICHA, Julius Mwita, and the chairperson of BAVICHA in Mbeya Region, George Mzava.
Giving their defense yesterday before the Resident Magistrate's Court in Dodoma Town, James Karaaha, Mwita, said on July 7, this year, arrived in Dodoma coming from Musoma and decided to get food at night in Cape Town area.
He said at the time they have ordered food, he arrived at the police and urged them to go to the station where he came out and finally they were presented to the police station.
He said when they were in that station, they were shot and then put behind in jail and on 9th July, they wrote information and only thought that they have been condemned the government as a result of wearing a sweater.
The young man will be said, later he ordered to prevent a person that she was given and taken to the hotel that they came to the police so as to be dealt with.
He said, after that, they were taken to the police station, Chamwino district, where Tito and Katambi already it was aired and it's only taken against him, while he was taken to jail for the police station of Dodoma town.
He said, that man had bought Musoma after falling on her color, but he did not know that those words have been condemned and therefore the court is not guilty of knowing his effects, I request that the court is not guilty, "he said.
The farmer will be Katambi, he asked the whole court to be free since a sweater said that on her understanding, he said that on an event, he urged the word of a word "said Mwalimu Nyerere that is led by democracy and democracy.
"Tanzania is a democratic country that is following the basis of many political parties," he said.
The witness of the charges, Hilda Ngaja (23), a resident of Dar es Salaam, explained how the accused that was arrested by police while in Cape Town constituency.
The defense of the defense explained his evidence and that case was planned to be released on October 3, this year, while the accused were out on bail.
Previously it was claimed by the lawyer of the government, Asumpta Mshama explained that on the 9 of July, this year in Cape Town County in Dodoma Municipality, the accused were found with a sweater with a sweater with a lot of incitement inside the law.
