
President Magufuli gives her new plane.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

President John Magufuli has launched two new government planes of 88 Q300 type while giving them those who were collecting the purchase of those airplanes, as he wanted the new board of Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (ATCL) not to chase them and employees who are found using that company.

In addition, he has announced that the government has started talks to buy two new planes, including that which will have the ability to carry 240 passengers.
On their part, the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication has requested those planes to be called "mystery" if the president has placed on that name because the government has not bought a new plane since 1978 where those planes have been involved in ATCL.
The launch that took place at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (TICTS) Dar es Salaam, was attended by various leaders of the government including the chief secretary Ambassador John Kijazi, the speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai, chief executive officer, George Masaju, permanent secretaries and ministers of various ministries.
President Magufuli said that many people have been following the purchase of those airplanes which are made in Canada and sometimes he talked to what he decided to do that issue because others have already been true and said those people will be the first to rise since they are used by other countries like America who are already 40 and also Ethiopia.
"Others complained so that we should stop using cash, now a person being rich by what is known as Cash Money," why is to be careful so that people can get benefits, there are financial funds including Cash Money, "said President Magufuli.
He said that the plane is good and if you want to build a modern economy, you must have a plane and if you want to have a reason to make them go to other countries so they can come from other countries to come in the country.
President Magufuli said that for a total of JKU plane from Dar es Salaam to Songea is using 2285 million shillings, but if the new plane uses one million shillings for the distance, while getting to 20 minutes it's only 20 minutes.
He said that the war is business people, therefore, they want to speed up the army officers so that they can also be accountable if they are done business to check all the environment and in all fields.
He said the fare is from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza is 5800,000 American Dollars but these are not coming from there and the benefits of those planes will arrive at the airport areas of all the environment in the country.
President also urged Tanzanians not to stop their things and if he does not want to be silent and to stop, while there were others who had to vote for them because the plane will be used by people from different ideology because it is the norm.
"It is a must we learn to be proud of especially to them, it is a must that you know by paying those planes you slowly, we have reduced the cost and we have a plan to buy two major planes and money," he said.
He explained that the airplanes are there that will have the ability to carry 160 people and more than 240 people, and that they ended the concerned discussions, they held them for a long time by saying the plane of 240 passengers will be used for the year 2021, but we follow up so as to get early and the money are there.
He said that those planes were bought using Dar es Salaam to America, China without land and will enable the tourists from their country and get directly in the country without going through other countries. He wanted the ministry to continue with the process of calling a company so that the presence of high prices since they buy money.
He said that two new planes were launched yesterday they are collecting from ATCL and urged them to stop working hard by making a good board of scholars when the Executive Director of ATCL was going on well and therefore the speed to play is over.
He explained that some of the things that do not be required to be together with lack of independent business system for all the time depending on the government, lack of sharp teeth, but they are still there and they are still there together.
He urged the board and ministries not to be afraid that they are not supposed to chase them, in fact, the truth is true and wanted the people who want to change and asked the workers who want to do so to surrender.
"I explained that minister does not be afraid of reducing the workers if we are reduced, 600 megawatts will not be able to go with our speed we want to go and go and go through speed we want others to go and go through speed we want to go and go up so that this organization can have even 10 days," he said.
He said that ATCL leadership will not use the agents to provide tickets but to consider the services that they will continue with while considering the draw of employees which he said they are giving birth to a long time and urged them to prepare well so that they buy the poor.
He requested for the board and management to protect the leader of the government to travel free even if he is him or the minister in that ministry or the board because there are time they need to do business.
Speaking about the improvement of the central railway, President Magufuli said that for now the construction of railway up to Mwanza and later up to Burundi the contract have been announced and the money are there.
He said that in the old railway, it has been found a loan from the World Bank and attacks have increased in the coming days in Dar es Salaam will have the electricity train because this is possible not in Europe even here in the country will be held.
Speaking about the purchase of those planes, the Minister of Works Transport and Communication Professor Makame Mbarawa said the last time for the government to buy a new plane was 1978, and the organization was using the leasing plane to cause debts.
Speaking about the reputation of those new planes, he said that it is among the future of the future generations to work hard and use little oil while they are involved in all fields in tarmac roads and tarmac roads.
He said those planes each one has the ability to carry out 16 tons and six passengers are popular in the business bridge and in the previous steps they have organized to provide services at 12 stadiums.
He mentioned those fields to be Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, Mwanza, Dodoma, Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Bukoba, Kigoma, Tabora, Mtwara and Comoros as they continue to increase other stadiums so that the plane can land.
He congratulated the president for the decision to buy those airplanes and to show that he is a leader with actions than words and they put those airplanes like the president he has touched me, "believe here,"
And the chief secretary general, Ambassador John Kijazi, said that the decision to buy the plane's plane was done by considering the qualifications of land and taking them into tarmac roads and be tarmac, using a long distance and therefore the cost of operation is small.
He said those planes have the ability to carry huge cargo and engines that are working thus strengthening the air travel network and cost of prices and strengthening the business and investment sector.
Ambassador Kijazi said that those airplanes are for government and it's not enough for it will enter the contract with the leasing project to the company and set up so that the company decided to enter in competition of that transport.
