President Kikwete is correct, but the precaution are important.
October 11, 2013.

In the real heart of us, I am among the Tanzanians who know the major issues of the development that were reached in this short time, since the government of President Jakaya Kikwete, got the power to lead this country in the year 2005.

It is among the most importantly, most of the few people that destroy President Kikwete for working on night and in the afternoon without getting enough time to rest, do not get enough time to sit with his family as the father of the family.

In general, President Kikwete has contested for all sectors touching on the life of a Tanzanian, with great strength, starting from roads, education and health, water, communication and so on.

My view and my mind, I commend so that I will be the last Tanzanian to agree with those who are claiming that this government has not done any problem because of the development of its people, even if there are many challenges in this country and there is no road that does not have any corner, but there is no road that doesn't have any kind of here.

The aim of this article is not to discuss about success or not to be successful in this government of President Kikwete, this article aims to discuss with the intention of refusing to agree with his statement at the end of last week while on his tour in Pwani province.

While in Rufiji, the news media in the country has quoted President Kikwete making a habit of some of the directors of his government, he would like to discuss the instructions they are given by their leaders, the debate that is accompanied with the sessions going on.

In that, President Kikwete has commanded us to prevent us because we need to make big progress in development like the country, we change.
I see our country "our country will understand so much to get development because everyone trying to discuss it, he wants to continue with the debate and at the sittings to meet, we cannot continue with this trend."

Up to here, President Kikwete was not correct, and I thank him by talking about it because one of the big problems that we get in the media industry, it is important inside our public offices, within the government's office of President Kikwete, the State House led more.

When I believe, if you know this situation that is in this government and the previous governments, he was doing so much President Kikwete, but in addition to understand what I have been connected to public at any place, until the day before yesterday, he was in his tour in Rufiji, Coast Province.

And it has talked about the occurrence of every issue that it was not satisfied by the sessions after the two companies requested thousands of small industries to be allowed, "modern farming has been changed at the land areas.

Those are the KEC Company Limited companies that went to 20,000 shillings, but it has not been identified even one acre of land and the one of Lakamatwa kwa makosa ya Mtungi 'and until now, the company had been given 4,000 hectares.

With the legal authority to provide the land to the "investors," those who want to invest in modern farming, is the authority of developing Mount Meru Reserve (Wanging'ombe), an instrument that is led by our fellow Tanzanian, Aloyce Masanja.

According to our news media, has quoted President Kikwete, the KEC Company Limited Company requested that amount of land for five years ago, President Kikwete has been quoted by those media saying that the company was surprised to hear the decision that the company had been unable to implement the legal instructions of the State House.

First, when I take this opportunity to give my condolences to my friend, Masanja said that without doubt after President Kikwete expressed his words at a public rally without doubt, if Masanja has asked for land to kill him, then I thank you and good health, God bless you.
My brothers, what happened to President Kikwete is the one that was done by an artist, an investor who has ever come here in the country for an aim to invest here in the country for an opportunity to invest, but even inside, President Kikwete knows that!
