
Kigamboni bridge to be aired today 16th April, citizens use it.
The residents of Dar es Salaam and its neighborhoods on Saturday of 16th April, have been given an opportunity to use it for the first time at the Kigamboni bridge, (in the picture) that is being comforted by officially opened by President John Pombe Magufuli on Tuesday this week.

According to the project manager, China Railway construction construction company, have implemented the project in partnership with China Railway Grounds, Criscent Bwambasita (KIA), to allow the residents and vehicles to pass through the bridge that will enable those residents and vehicles to be built.
As a gift, if the day before tomorrow we will allow vehicles to go to the field of Kurasini and Kigamboni on Saturday (today) just as part of our trials, including the use of the machines and all the machines that will be used in making various equipment after the start of the project, "he explained.
According to Radnedge, the Kigamboni bridge is the whole period more than all in the East African region which was made by using solar energy technology which will connect Dar es Salaam city and Kurasini area where the construction started on date February 2012.
There was a car together with the construction of high quality, this bridge has a total of six hundred and a half-inch width (25) in every corner, that bridge will allow vehicles with more than 30 tons more than 30 tons, from every time.
Khajida Kopa, the south of that bridge will join the road with a length of a car which led to the TAZARA railway, then joining the Kigamboni road, the bridge will join the roads of 15 kilometers which is partnering with the Kigamboni road in Dar es Salaam city.
He added that the completion of this bridge is for development because it is expected to attract employment opportunities in the development sector of Kigamboni city (Kigambini bridge), to make employment opportunities in the construction sector of residential areas as well as the services of the services that will enable a big increase in the number of new residents in that new town.
The completion of the bridge is a result of the bridge there will be a threat to the residents of Kigamboni and its suburbs if it is giving alternative ways to reach their homes, their businesses or various activities of the nation through roads.
Kigamboni and Kurasini areas are now heard by using two ferry of MV ferry and MV Kigamboni which among them have been able to be played for 1000 passengers and 78 vehicles for every journey.
The project has set aside for a partnership between the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and the government of the United Republic of Tanzania.
