South Africa has banned Nigeria economic, 08 / 15, 2016 by Good Citizen.

By BBC.

He gets a penalty in South Africa.

In Cape Town, South Africa.

South Africa is back in the leadership of the country with great economy in the African continent, two years after changing its economy and share experiences, according to the statistics of the World Health Organization (IMF).

Security has been done by using the current value of money taking him in South Africa because its currency of shillings has got strength against America's American Dollars which has risen up after losing to American dollars.

The managing director of BBC, Matthew Mtigumwe, says that the economy of those two countries can be dropped.

In the year 2014, Nigeria was improving its economy to include the sector that previously did not be of the phone sector, communication technology, sales, sales, on the internet, public organizations and production of the film.

Many countries do so at least every time after three years in order to get the real state of economy and its growth, but Nigeria had not done its amendments to include the new sector in the economy from the year 1990 and the South African economy for now, worth 296 billion American dollars.

This process of making accounts using the last year's number and the value of the concerned countries of this year makes Nigeria to be under South Africa.

But if you check up to know which country has a great economy in Africa, pictures have not yet met well in the economy of all the two nations was killed in the first quarter of this year.

Nigeria on a big part expects a sales of oil outside the country and the price of oil is growing up to foreign revenue in the country, and it is also going on under the economy of South Africa will not depend on the only sector.

While Nigeria was opening that country in the south of Africa two years ago, many started seeing it as a country that is continuing on the side of industries.
Lack of employment is still continuing to be a big problem in all the two countries.
