
The bank of farmers destroy the truth.
Last year, the government launched the agricultural development bank (TADB) with the aim of developing the agricultural sector in the country including the purpose of enabling the farmers economically in the country including the launch of that bank, it was a solution to farmers especially those with them claiming that they can increase the size of their agricultural areas after getting a loan from that bank.
The agricultural sector in the country is believed to employ more than 75 percent of most of them are in the villages while depending on agriculture to 100 percent of their daily lives, which was started with a special intention of developing agriculture and build farmers from agriculture for food and building business for business.
During the launch of that bank, the Retired President Jakaya Kikwete said the challenges facing farmers in the country are the ones that caused the government to start the bank so as to redeem the farmers in poverty so that they can be able to produce business and not for subsistence.
The government has given a capital of 60 billion shillings to start that bank while expecting to get a certificate, so as to give it the bank capital at a total of 800 billion shillings.
Statistics show that now farming has given 25 percent of the national income, while depending on the 35 percent of the products conducted outside the country.
It was explained that the start of that bank is aiming to remove major loopholes used as well in agriculture that is being left by business banks so as to stimulate the growth of the agricultural sector, by providing loans and other services for agriculture and farmers, which many of them don't have the ability to get banking services.
It is true that farmers need loans to affordable loans so that they can be able to make steps from they are and move forward, including giving a contribution to the nation's economy.
The intention of the government to start this bank is good but it has not yet reached out the normal farmers who is dependent on their nation.
CRDB Bank was launched in Dar es Salaam city and its headquarters are in Dar es Salaam city, therefore it is raising the farmer to travel from the village to Dar es Salaam so that he can get services from this bank.
Last week I met with one farmer from Tanga Province (rural), who I visited to know if he was understand about the presence of the agricultural development bank here in the country, the farmer who seems to know if the presence of this bank and has tried to ask for loan and action of getting the loan they are continuing well and that he has hope to get that loan.
This farmer says the biggest challenge to follow the loan from that bank is the one that made them to inspect the farmers to travel from the provinces and put it to Dar es Salaam where he was forced to travel more than 300 kilometers.
He says that after getting into the bank, he was explained the procedure for them to access loans and he is forced to have attached different documents of the farm and buildings so that he can attract buyers to go to the village to collect them.
He knew the process and the bank's procedure to submit it and conduct an evaluation so as to make sure the safety of their money before they talk to them so that they can be able to return to attract the others.
Like TADB has a true intention to save a farmer then it should be very fast to start branches in all regions here in the country.
