Kichuya at the celebrations.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published in October 2016.

Shiza Kichuya yesterday was the player of Simba after scoring a goal goal in the 86 minutes in the match against his boss, Yanga that took place at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

If you have refused the victory by the early goal in the 26th minute through Amisi Tambwe, Yanga has already defeated the celebrations going into the ball after Beki of Yanga soccer club, Ally Mustapha Barthez 'and not knowing.
Simba finished that match, after his captain, Jonas Mkude, released by the red card by the referee Martin Saanya.
Mkukuta, is alleged to have scored by Amissi Tambwe by accepting their goal that Tambwe has taken out of violence where Simba fans started selling things while others coming from the field that made police force to fly a bomb attacks so as to make those fans.
In that match, the veterans who were playing in every period where Yanga played well in the first half by Simba changed the second half.
Thabani Kamusoko and don't see Yanga the goal in the 13 minute but his head ball came up.
In that first half, Donald Ngoma will play a goal in the 37 minute, but his shot was blocked by a goalkeeper, Vincent Bossou from Simba.
The second half started with Yanga to make changes where he launched Kelvin De Bruyne, and his position was taken by Andrew Vincent and four minutes later, while a shot he thought with Yanga defenders that have ever attacked them in danger.
Simba made changes in the 62 minutes where he played with Novastus Lufunga and Brendan Rodgers who had their positions were taken by Juwes Wang and Fredrick Blacks, whereby it started with the goal against Yanga and lack of goals especially in the 77th minute.
The minutes also, Simba made other changes where he released Ibrahim Ajib by getting Mohamed Ibrahim. The results have enabled Simba to continue to sit on the top of the Premier League with 17 points followed by Stand United with 12 points while Azam is the fourth position with 10 points.
Yanga squad, Ally Mustafa 'Barthez', Juma Abdul, Mwinyi Haji, Kelvin Yaida, Vincent Bossou, Mbuyu Twite, Donald Ngoma and Deus Kaseke and Haruna Niyonzima.
Simba, Vincent Vincent Kigosi, Mohammed Hussein 'Tshabalala', by Novastus Lufunga, Jonas Mkude, Andrey Coutinho and Fredrick Blu, Ibrahim Ajib, Ibrahim Ajib, Ibrahim Ajib and Mwinyi Kazimoto.
