
Villagers ask Magufuli to help them.

It has been written by Katoma.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The residents of Nyansalwa Primary School in Tarime District, Mara Province have requested President John Magufuli to intervene in the conflict that is between them and North Mara Province (Acacia) so that they can get their rights.

Those residents have given their cry, while urging President Magufuli his promise to help them he made during the campaign last year.
Speaking on behalf of more than 1000 residents of that village, the representative of those citizens, Samuel Nasi said, during the election campaign last year, President Magufuli promised to address that issue because he had seen him.
"We believe our president is a person who will work in his promise and if he has promised them that time, now we request you to stop the cause of illegal immigrants when we continue with," he said.
Speaking about the conflict, he said the evaluation of their areas for the purpose of being paid for compensation by the mine, an evaluation that took place in the sixth phase of the year 2013.
In the six phase, the only phase only have been paid but others have been paid until today, he added that since the evaluation and their crops being paid, they don't know the fate of their payments for the remaining phase, despite getting their complaints in different levels.
"The other dangers that made the wall is together with our houses getting married and they are not supposed to live as a result of lack of improvements that was caused by the evaluation, because we were not supposed to continue our areas," he said.
He said the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo has ever moved out of the issue and formed a commission that had agreed with recommendations that were accepted by the citizens but after Professor Muhongo left the head of that district, Glynwood Hospital Luoga receiving those recommendations that was noted one of the previous recommendations that had been changed.
The section has been changed and how they will be paid instead of the previous which he has claimed that they could be paid all their crops together with trouble.
He said another thing that is seen is to see that they were allocated to another system instead of the previous one that had been used to pay for three first phase.
