
Vietnam adding restrictions to the elephant business.
Sei 29, 2016.

Vietnam may invest in business restrictions as a result of leading because it is a country that protects the local businesses.

That step was announced at the end of last week, being a few days before the start of the general meeting of the importance of the wildlife business continues in Cape Town, South Africa.

According to the World Health Insurance Fund (WM) Vietnam has been directed to stop the illegal forest products and make sure that the business is not spreading in the country.

Vietnam and China are believed to be countries with a big market of wildlife products and that action is the one that involves illegal trade of wildlife products, including the teeth of elephants.

"Because it is a big market for local teeth, an act of Vietnam failing to prevent that business by breaking all the ways of that business and to send to them all those involved with that business," said Wama, has said in his report.

The meeting which is believed to be big involves more than the participants from the world in the world, will target especially about the challenges of ending the illegal trade of the wildlife products especially the elephants, motorbike riders, a lot of weapons.

For example, in South Africa where the meeting is taking place, more than 100 people have been killed by poachers in this year only, the number of those who were killed in that country is estimated to be more than 700.

Although there is evidence of one way that the traditional market market is open in Vientiane, the government of that country has not made great efforts to arrest all those who sell those products through various boundaries.

"The implementation of the law in Vietnam shows that there's not happening to end the illegal fishing tools, it will help to save the lives of African countries, but it shows that it's not a priority of the government of Vietnam," Goshashy.

"Because it shows that one person gets a few days in the world, we do not have time to lose hope, we are supposed to take a very big step against Vietnam so as to make the illegal business."

The primary school, Wiwa has said that Vietnam is required to make new law on illegal forest products including putting a fine of four years to anyone who will be arrested in illegal immigrants.

The organizers of the meeting said last week that the issue of illegal drug trafficking is expected to be an important agenda in the meeting that is going on in Cape Town.

However, he said the meeting of COP16, there have been good development in the fight against illegal trade of the wildlife products since many countries have had good plans of fighting that business.

According to various reports, the value of illegal wildlife business in the world is estimated to be 19 billion American dollars (40 trillion Tanzanian shillings) and the number of elephants who depend on every day in Africa, is estimated to be 100 percent.

Reasons that destroy the increase in illegal trade of wildlife products in accordance with Wiwa is a reduction in the price of elephants' tusks worth 25000 American dollars and increase in needs of products arising from the natural resources of the wildlife.

Likewise, the issue of bribery in the borders and the aircraft, will stimulate the increase of the illegal business because many business people have been involving themselves together with animals.

I will end.
