And the board does not lie?
Various statistics.
Recently, we have been able to change?
The level of education here in the country.
And statistics of the journey of the UNESCO organization.
Also the institution emphasized.
The late God bless you to realize that she has conned fifty million children.
Do not like to read or write?
This problem is as a result of various reasons if you use some of the European nations in Somalia, but also offering the stem cells and other nations in Africa can also be involved in research.
I have come here to look for the answer, but I have succeeded in the whole issue of preparation for the teachers, the preparations of 'sorry' and in this period they will be able to get rid of the level of teaching of teaching and various jobs.
The foundation is the reason for the level of education in the country under Ras Makunja has done this answers that you will get from the scholars that are in this college before you are not the end to participate in order to cause those who will be responsible for the topic.
Ahmad I am happy with a prayer with Edwin Ngonyani, a very close funeral at this period.
But also there is a series of affliction, anything?
Welcome to this period.
Still there are still doing that we are doing?
Now I am there.
Some of the teams that are expected to be able to use the expertise that they got in this country has contributed to many youths here in the country, and we are looking at approximately fifty million children in the country, in Mwanza city and has a job to be able to prepare well.
And if you want to know the concept of preparations for the teaching there and you will not be able to check the challenge of teachers and then they will face them in preparations for the teachers and then go directly from this, what we will go to.
Do you get your opinion.
The late?
The training of teaching.
It is a training.
The preparation of the teachers.
For the purpose of preparing the teachers.
I have asking special seats that are offered to prepare for teachers when we talk about teaching of teaching there are regulations and regulations.
Therefore, Ras Kiduku was called when I talked about that it is profession and profession that we want to take place in Dar es Salaam and the basis of the late.
Ras Makunja has a different challenges.
The Almighty God can play with us from the preparation of those challenges that can be challenges in Uganda in an environment, the preparation of those teachers, outside the preparation of the teachers' environment, how your impatience will take place.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam city, we have been a example one of the challenges inside the organizers of the teachers, because you know the youth have come to study teaching but the main aim is to come and get a lot of certificate in teaching, therefore, you find the youth have come to learn teaching education but the main aim is to get a very big challenge in teaching.
If he can be able to give him training on teaching and to know that teachers and principles and regulations which are a big challenge to them, humble when I would like to say the problem of the collapsed building or challenges today in the preparation of these teachers who do not expect it and we have said.
Ethics.
Ethics has been a great challenge because every person is in Dar es Salaam, if you get a student who came to come with the habit, where there is a challenge but another challenge is the challenge but when I would like to meet their exercise in teaching because of the profession.
The youth is getting into the profession to teach if the teachers are supposed to learn for a period of two years and in two years, we are required to go for a short time so that we can be able to learn and get to the exercise in teaching but we don't know.
