
Sumaye, there is no good administration where there is a economy.
28th of 13, 2014.

Retired prime minister, Frederick Sumaye, has said that wherever he is where there is no need, even the good administration cannot be available there.

Speaking to the community of students from higher education colleges in Mwanza town, at the conference organized by the students of the Business College of Nyanza, Sumaye said the economy can also endanger the security of the country because it is very easy to cause conflicts in the community because they are difficult to cause conflicts in the community because they are doing hard life.

According to Sumaye, economic growth can cause the anger of all the citizens against their government or even between them, and especially when there is a big difference of life.

"The shortage of services that is being caused by poor economy, they do a few services that are available in bribery and protecting themselves and that is where there is a economy and even good administration is very difficult," said Sumaye.

Sumaye, who was the guest of honor at the meeting of COBambucha, said that in his topic he made to those students and the whole community of that university in his topic which is called the construction and the growth of the economy.

Previously, those students of CBE Mwanza were unable to talk about the topic on youth development and the problem of employment and even so, the retired prime minister decided to find a bit about the topic by giving more weight and to make the construction and misuse of the economy due to several reasons.

He said together with that the employment problem, and especially the employment for youths is the biggest agenda in many countries in the world, Tanzania including, but the problem is results (pacemakers) just after a big problem with the foundation of economy.

"It is good to talk about malaria diseases and its treatment instead of preventing fever disease due to malaria disease," said Sumaye and added, "because this university is a business, therefore its main aim is to be better and in developing the economy more than employment."

Speaking about the stable economy, Sumaye said the economy is an important thing that provides the real information of the concerned country and that the country with strong economy, usually have good development of their people and people do not have good life and to do their activities in the condition of believing in themselves.

"In the country with a stable economy, the government has a good ability to provide good services to the community at good standards, and because many people live in difficult environments with the concerned government cannot have the ability to provide important services to its people at the standards they are needed," said Sumaye.

According to Sumaye, for any country to be stable, it is a great pillar for the economic growth to be stable, a good level of business people between products which are outside and conducted outside, the value of money compared to the high costs in the world and so on.

"The criteria and the criteria for now is a very important things to the economy that is stable and the same way, otherwise, the economy of the country will be trusted and are supposed to invest without fear," insisted Sumaye.

As a result of that situation, Sumaye said that there should be a stable economy in any nation, it is a must for us to invest in the main pillars of local economy that is stable, which makes it one person or a family level in the country to afford its own services and better services closer to them.

"It is important here is to see that the fruits and stable economy will reach every one who does work harder, but the biggest part of the economy is very poor, but a big part of the citizens to get the services are not similar to them," he said.
