Congratulations president, ATCL has a certificate.

It has been written by.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

President of the fifth term President of the United Republic of Tanzania, John Magufuli yesterday officially launched two new planes with a capacity to carry 76 passengers each, being part of the implementation of his promises he made during the general elections last year and emerged the winner of that position.

Those birds with 8 machines that have been bought by the government in order to be used by the Tanzania Airports Authority (ATCL) after it has dropped by the ability of the institution, we join the president by fulfilling his promise in a short period since getting into power.
What is unacceptable, more is the reports of the benefits that are brought by those planes, including the ability to sell and land at different stadiums that are not tarmac, small use of oil and having more strength.
We would like to put emphasis on a directive that if they do not give President of ATCL board that they are working hard and should be able to serve this organization and those who are not faithful, the traitors.
The directive by the president of the ATCL board to work skillfully and success and to remove all the problems that the company seems to be productive because those who will be left behind where all of us do not want.
But also the launch of those two planes, has brought more hopes of buying two other planes with a capacity to carry passengers out of 160 and 240 megawatts, those hope comes from the statement of President Magufuli that the money to buy those planes are there.
Like this, it doesn't be enough for those planes to be able to buy one passengers directly from our country, Russia, Germany, China and elsewhere, and also transporting passengers from those countries to our country without being forced to land other countries.
A large number of primary here is our visitors because of the tourists and the others to get a chance to come in one country directly and therefore ease the number of tourists and grow the business between our country and other nations in the world.
There are all signs of positive changes to promote our economy towards economic growth as to enhance security to the transport infrastructure like this aircraft which has dropped, but now it has been submitted to your joy by working hard.
