
The new coach, though we arrived ready to work.
By Thomas V.
The Dutch mid-fielder Kevin de Bruyne, arrived in Nairobi yesterday morning ready to give her a chance of getting married to AFC Leopards Soccer Club.
The former secretary general of that club George Almas has told the nation today that the coach who was invited to view today's match between Kenya and he will be officially launched tomorrow.
These reports have claimed to be only one week after AFC Leopards team announced that it was having an agreement of one year by the England coach, Tufani ', but the coach asked for him to sign him for another offer that he has been stopped from Spain before starting his official responsibilities with AFC Academy.
That action could destroy the fans of though they did not understand what's the leaders of the club were proud to be the coach who believes they have already started responsibilities immediately and therefore, the point of looking for elsewhere.
"We have decided to leave this newspaper after realizing that if they get very long, I will take a long time to start with us despite announcing a contract of one year by de Gaulle in Sudan," he said.
This new coach has agreed to a contract of one year with AFC Academy while there is a section of doughing according to the results that will be registered by the team under its supervision.
De Jomo, who was a question to the leaders of AFC Academy and General Secretary of CECAFA, Nicholas Kay, who is his long-term friend to be assisted by Juma Abdallah in the coaching position.
At the same time, the club's goalkeeper Patrick Matechi, has asked the fans of though we are supposed to be calm and to be calm and after they are forced to remove those violence last week, a situation that led to match between them and Thika United emerged victorious in the 54th minute.
By that period AFC Academy were under one goal and the love will fail to remove violence claiming to face their leaders who were watching that-finals as well as usual.
