
More action is easy to end.
And apologized.

Last week, a university student refused due to news headlines since he was given a sentence of two years in prison in spreading them through Facebook network.
That student is not the first to be faced with the charges, although the first one was sentenced to other citizens and also political leaders who have a case going on in court about the claims of incitement.
Although it is alleged that the judgment can help reduce the movements which is a threat in the country, it should be all of us, we know that there is a great responsibility that need to be implemented if we want to succeed in dealing with tribalism.
The movements of the incident is faced with political politics which is an important sign that the journey to solve the problem in the country is long.
At any time, the famous person when he dies, or even there is a tragedy that affects one of the big clubs in the country, it did not understand but there is no cause of real view among some of us.
This is also available at any time when someone should be appointed to fill in the great position in the office of the public service.
The existence of the law which will enable him to be sentenced and scored by those spreading them is one of the ways that are supposed to be implemented.
We have been with the national commission of protecting themselves and compatibility (NC) for more than five years now, but his contribution has not seen since the commission is supposed to be on the front line to bring unity between Kenyans so that they can be on the forefront to bring unity between Kenyans.
There have been a few cases in court concerning the incitement reports indicate that there is a matter or things that are still needed to deal with this situation.
The truth is that there is a case that is available in court is like the issue of water in the ocean as incitement that have been witnessed in social media and even in the estates it is a great amount.
Listen to me, there is a punishment to inciters of catalysts in public thoughts, but they will help solve the problem in achieving it.
Many research reports have been issued by various organizations that have reduced the reasons for the presence of conflicts between fifty years ago which sometimes resulted to the blood of the blood is a report that can be used to deal with the cause of the existence of hatred in the country.
Lack of supply equipment is equal to national resources and lack of equity funds in the employment of public service is among the reasons that have been mentioned to cause violence between various communities.
Instead of depending on the way to accumulating wealth, it will be wise to try to understand what they are doing so.
Recently, it is not saying that those using hatred are not allowed, but it is a must for a problem that is very high and needs to be faced with different ways from legal action.
All the relevant institutions are forced to cooperate closely with the citizens so as to understand what is taking them to their colleagues in tribe.
Each one of us should also be able to participate in the efforts of dealing with tribalism without caring about that position.
