It seems to have that problem even in our stations, we have talked about.
Again that is used or we can do?
India would like to be true that the biggest challenge which also I met before me, but something that we can make steps, the government is giving me when I said no even the time you pass, but we should have him.
If you want jokes, they will be able to ban, but this is the first decisions so that we can be able to do any person without any person, but at the moment it will be able to pay any person without any person, but at the moment it will be a good thing for these reasons why we can be able to make sure there should be a good thing.
I have been able to come up to the right is another one, our citizens even when these hours you want to see the process is going on with this things, he said that they are required to see for us leaders who are in power so that their big work will be sworn in today by the head of the district at three o'clock in the morning.
Back, more than four hours you go back for malaria if he does not want to say the process continues to stop stuttering on how to me with my director, there is my guy, my friend and Mercy for me because you want.
They have said they are participating in order to make sure it helps in making this project by depending on it.
A lot of so we can be unable to withstand the audience.
They are doing well that they can encourage us professionally by collecting a lot of money but on time.
Next year.
Right you are not seen in the citizens be able to contribute.
We are directed to look, we are making two six months to be only and.
If a lot of me, even if five years of himself, it gives him a lot of one month before we do not lose their opportunity, therefore we will help us to control this problem because we will have two hundred thousand shillings, this is because we will have two hundred thousand dollars, therefore, he will use it.
Ten and two until the third month we want to shoot out of sixty eight million shillings, we are still a lot of money even the government can also be sure of buying drugs until the month of seven.
Without getting any part of a piece?
Any part that you get to go and get drugs without depending on the other people depending on the government who are considering that, that is our big secret but the use of medicine and control of the medicine is needed.
If you pass through a third time, we should make sure that we help your news to be defeated after being beaten.
Every day being part of the program.
We look at the whole issue of lack of equal to them, they have done here and we are able to know that.
Caring about it.
.
It is that Ras Kiduku was told.
Among them being paid.
For the health insurance out of David, you have been able to be stable for the health services.
All in the country, most of the stem cells since the only quarter, but it will start.
Other money we will go to and know that they have been found.
Twenty percent.
According to all the statistics he usually has of the national fund in life which are being used.
But he refused to be afraid of maize and so on.
And it would enable you to be responsible among the servants of the department to an extent that maybe be benefit from the attempt.
The ones who are supposed to listen.
Benefit from.
The donations that are given and live.
It was a club.
Mwasabite said that it is true that we do not have a big offence that it has never happened in this country or in the world we should not make sure that you will be used to buy products and other people because we will look for the poor law to use abusive language in order to do so.
All of them have not said.
