
Google builds self-communicable diseases and sports of Benedict Liwenga.
September 11, 2012

The head of the convoy of the disabled sportsmen, Mister Johnson Mela has said that although we did not win any medals, but we got the education and knowledge due to this incident of two seasons, in London City.
The team of Tanzania was represented by the departments that participated in the doughing, (bulb) and after he was born in Dar es Salaam followed by his coach, all the disabled of the girl, John Mnyika and the secretary general of Parade of Tanzania, Iddi Mgaza.

"The London competitions this year have been announced and given a lot of awareness than in the previous years, these competitions were entertaining people who have affected the fields every day of sports. This has decided to wake up on the view of millions of human beings and stop the disabled people.

The disabled competition (Parwan) this year gave sportsmen and many viewers to continue all since they were started officially in the year 1960.
The word "Landscrona" is a union of "Kibana '(producing human beings or body) and" Olympic "which was started to be used officially during the Los Angeles games of the year 1984," (a suit), "(television) and" Tanzania "(Tanganyika and Zanzibar).
Since 1988, in the city of Seoul, South Korea has been done in hand with the Olympic Games by an increase in Italy that was built by 400 athletes from 23 countries (23 countries) and this year has reached 94 percent (104 countries).

This activity was started by the registrar of Jew, Professor Ludovic Utouh (not in the picture) to help restore the disabled situation especially those who sell his home in 1948.
"Competition in sports is looking for a bad behavior about disabilities and show the possibility of a high state," he said.
Mister Johnson Mela finished saying that more investment is required to help the disabled sportsmen and warned that the countries that performed well in London are those that performed well in London and England, America and China like these countries that are leading and succeed in the world due to the investment.
