
Politics of Coco beach at the State House.
The day before yesterday, the Member of Parliament for Singida East, Tundu Lissu has shared issues of showing that how the ministers of the fifth term government continues to work hard since they were sworn in to April 22 when they were sworn in to April 22 when their ministry and responsibilities were seen to be written on government newspaper.
Lissu said that the lawyers who face the President John Magufuli failed to advise him well in order to work in accordance with the law, after being unable to write the government's newspaper about the creation of ministries and responsibilities as required.
The issue is one of the three things that made him to be the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe to decide not to read the speech of the camp regarding the budget of the Prime Minister.
Mbowe said that it would have been losing a time to discuss the speech during the opening of the parliamentary debates about funds that are set aside in that ministry being surrounded by the party's activities not being done by who as one of the commissioners from the parliament concerned.
It is a heavy motion which were to be taken to him by the concerned parties and later on them get enough information before continuing with the parliamentary activities.
But the government explained that Mbowe was not well prepared in the law and that the minister starts to implement its responsibilities when he was sworn in by the president and not after the president asked the creation of those ministries and its responsibilities in the government's newspaper.
The answers came out questions because they are still a shortage.
As a minister starts to implement its responsibilities when he was sworn in, he spoke about those responsibilities that he will implement not being written on the government's newspaper so as to be officially open?
If the minister starts to implement its responsibilities after being sworn in by the president, that can be a basis for the creation of his ministry and its responsibilities not to be written on the government's newspaper because the creation of the ministry has not been put up on the government's newspaper so that it should be officially open.
For a short procedure, especially the beginning to implement the responsibilities or the creation of the ministry, and its responsibilities to be forced to be the first one?
Those and many others are things that brought up the debate, but it was not great because the members of parliament of the second side decided to boycott the sitting with him, they could have discovered that even if they were able to convince the government related to what they want.
The truth that those issues were put on the government's newspaper on day, Mbowe said that it appears in the questions about encouraging the law to leaders of the government in implementing their responsibilities, but some of the instructions that they came up and because of their differences being identified.
We think that political parties participated in elections, and the politics that are going on in the parliament are those of each other, where things are going, Kombo and focus on things that are going on well so that country can be able to go to the future of our fellows.
There is no doubt that the country does not have a direction or it should not enter into violence, all of them are criticized for the whole country to go to war, but it doesn't know more.
Therefore, in order to bring politics in primary issues, if this issue of not covered by ministries that made up of various responsibilities, could not make the government to implement its duties well, but they will make it a direction.
