
TBS did not have a lot of hand-hand-hand clothes but they are still getting even if they are not involved in the country?

The Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) has cautioned business people of local clothes to cooperate with the organization where they get the clothes that were banned because every time the accidents are not seen since TBS has made that call as a result of complaints by some small business people who wanted the organization to control those businessmen.

The complaints have been given after TBS started a operation of those clothes at the Tandika Primary School and Temeke Zafereo in Dar es Salaam city.

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Relations Officer of TBS, Roida Andengeye said that many times the organization has been carried out an inspection from the port but those of internal clothes are not seen.

Roida has explained to be surprised by the action of those clothes being seen in the streets when an inspection that happened in the port are not seen.

"We have been inspection from time to time, but we will not sell those clothes the same way that depends on it is an act of those clothes to be seen in the streets.

"Now these business people are required to take their cooperation, I request you to explain what they get to the clothes so that we can be able to listen to what we are in the concerned steps," he said.

Previously some of the small business people wanted the organization to prevent the actor's heads of those clothes in the country instead of preventing them.

One of the business people of those local clothes Ali Mohamed has urged TBS to be the first to enable the heads of those products and not traders.

"Although TBS are saying that these clothes have no quality and can baptize, but to me I see it, it is one of my business and it gives him a lot of income that makes me look at and let me do business?" Said the businessman.

He advised that organization to use wisdom in talking to speaking and discussing what should be done and not faithful.

Another businessman, Peter Msalika said the right to do business in the country did not happen.

He said he and his colleagues have been trying every business with the aim of improving poverty but they were given up by some of the government leaders.

Msalika said that it is good for the government to use alternative ways that wants people of this kind to business and not to stop their businesses to be sold for many years the way you missed the ban.

"The business of second-hand clothes have we been doing for a long time.

"Today we are blaming each other and small businesses should not accept when the same ones selling in which business we are waiting to be bullied," said Msepwa.
