Kikwete is true that the country is safe?
FDL against 1st, 2013.

During the commemoration of the heroes' day, President Jakaya Kikwete spoke to confirm to confirm that the country is safe and that anyone who is waiting for our borders then he will be paid if we will not have a lot of presidency in Kagera.

President Kikwete spoke and being seen by the news of his great statement, which seemed to target the newspaper of Malawi and Paul Kagame of Rwanda, was given priority to the newspaper headlines and the day before yesterday, he said that it is the way they said that it is the same way, especially in the light of different events that have caused the security agencies.

Security agencies and corruption.
It is difficult for the country to be safe especially if security and security officers are involved in crime and corruption, this is important to see that the country is safe, "we are required to see that the country is safe," we have proposed that finance "!

There are different events that want us to interview the truth and the keenness of this statement, events that shows that although we have no wonder because we have a bad behavior in the army and to speak like those with the fact that we have a very bad state to the security agencies that have been politically discriminated.

Mchaga answered Yesuu!
This is one of the scandal that depends on how security agencies have never been emphasized and because they remember the government has refused to investigate this scandal by the name "security of the nation." This one who also refused to investigate this scandal to the name "security of the nation.

I urge you to view this one that has given birth of old and Deonice Green Resources and those who remember the names of its involved are leaders of CCM and the government together with the efforts of getting oil in Uganda and after some time they sell oil in Uganda and after some time they sell oil in Uganda and after time they sell it, then we are told the country is safe!

The cries of drugs and drugs.
Recently, we had explained the way some of the government officials especially our army were admitted to be affected by drugs and others being involved in drug trafficking as it is not billions of shillings.

And all symptoms show that these concerned parties are not of high ranks, because there are those who have been affected by this scandal, there are some who have succeeded to be sold and to be taken out of those who were apprehended in the crime and those who succeeded to feel it is clear.
