
Mbowe gives a letter to him to be returned to the general elections.

Rashid Mkonga.

"We will arrive at the State House and we will lead the country, but we will not get a long time to revenge but we will focus on issues of our country, which have been accused for more than 50 years."

This is the statement by the chairman of the Democratic and Development Party, CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe that he made at the public meeting that was attended by hundreds of residents of Tukuyu, Rungwe District, Mbeya Region, yesterday evening.

Mbowe who is also the leader of the opposition in parliament and the Hai member of parliament, Kilimanjaro Province, said this on behalf of the leaders of the union of UKAWA urging the citizens of Rungwe district to come out to register themselves in the voters' book which he also said that has been caused by many mistakes.

He said that he has a great importance of UKAWA which stopped CCM from power in October this year and urged leaders who are in power to protect the Almighty God for allowing us to break up with their actions as usual.

"This is not a country to revenge but we are supposed to look for primary things to build all of us instead of losing any time to revenge for the few mistakes," insisted Mbowe.

He claimed that there is every sign of misunderstanding between the investor in the permanent book because the exercise was done by losing time without a primary reason, something that was supposed to be done every after four years.

He said that for a period of more than seven years, there was no any process of improving the exercise and continue with each other day so that there should be a reason to move forward the general elections, something that is not ready for them.

"We don't accept the going ahead of the general elections even in one day, we request the National Electoral Commission to work on, so that there should not be a citizen who has the right to register it," he said.

Furthermore, Mbowe urged them to support various leadership positions within the party to vie for their position with great intention instead of putting it more than the party not to put candidates for personal interests.

He said the leaders who added him are supposed to follow the constitution of that party and that anyone who will affect the constitution is not faced with the party because it is being built with good intentions of serving the Tanzanians.

He noted that the party does not have conflicts like it was spread between him and that if there was no first person to hold that party because he has used his money in the pocket to make it more than 20 years.

"I know if you're being infected with me, I would say that this party is my property, I have used my financial resources from his pocket and he enabled us to come out," he said and added.

"CHADEMA is same as the train that its passengers are patient, your passengers are supposed to be patient which concern it on the way these are those who use our party's constitution," he said.

Mbowe who was accompanied by four member of parliament of that party, Joseph Mbilinyi (Mbeya town), Andulile (Member of Parliament Arusha), Cesc Fabula (nominated) Mbeya Province have held a tour of Mbeya and visited the Rungwe District and Kyela district where the registration exercise is going on.
