

By Dennis Luena, Dar es Salaam City.
There are some of the names of women whom we have never happened to international standards due to their work.
Mathalan, Professor Anna Tibaijuka while leading the United Nations Development Program (UN) seminar, before the recently hit the scandal of receiving money from Tegeta Escrow account from the partner of IPTL, James Silas.
The other one is Doctor Asha-Rose Migiro was the deputy secretary general of the UN led by Ban Ki Moon.
While Doctor Rose Migiro and Professor Tibaijuka were left in implementing international responsibilities and going back home, he is another woman the Tanzanian who for now is in the international sector.
That woman is not another but is Amina Salum Ali, who is currently the ambassador of the African Union (AU) in America, if you read the biography of his responsibilities that he did to do in the government of the United Republic of Tanzania as a member of parliament and various positions in the government, you will discover that the position has already been done by bad luck.
His biography is long but though in short time it is that despite expected to represent Tanzania in America through his position that he was appointed in April, 2007, the responsibility is to continue to build a good partnership between the United States and the African continent.
Other responsibilities among the many Ambassador, Amina Salum who is a resident of Zanzibar and a scholar of the masters degree of business and marketing, is to improve economic activities between Africa and America and continued to strengthen peace and solidarity.
As a result of those few responsibilities, above and others, that is why last week he was awarded the international award of the leadership of 16GB, the United States of America in the year 2015.
The award for that award which is given every year in the Washington city, was also attended by the former President of Malawi, Joyce Fissoo.
The E group of Global said that for this year, the awards will focus more on the purpose of women in Africa.
"We are going to respect the contribution of women who at the moment have great impacts on the government's policies through political participation, economic development through entrepreneurship and strategies of development of business through the leadership of organizations," said the report of the A Institute.
The countries that was represented by that award are Angola, Guinea of going through it, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Senegal and Tanzania.
Among the previous winners of those awards are together with AU chairman, Doctor Darius Mans, and former President of Burkina Faso, Bottling Company Limited.
"We say you will not be able to make enough efforts to form any of the leadership of Africa and its success is used," he says.
The E Group Company says that the next year of Africa depends on wisdom of the current leaders together with more empowerment of women and youths, it says that it is using an award as a solution to show, to respect and celebrate those who are part of the own kind of future in Africa.
It is saying that his work is to remove its vision of Doctor Gloria B Hunter, who is the president and the chief executive officer who is also a peak of more than 45 years to grow the current relationship with empowering the community and enable other entrepreneurs.
Speaking after receiving that award, Ambassador Amina says his dream is one day to see Tanzania and Africa in general, it will take a big step in various fields and from where it is now.
I want to see you a big step from here where we are and continuing to move forward in the development of our African people.
"I believe it is just one day after those changes, I believe that and when we decided that it will be possible if we will partner," says Ambassador Amina.
And as the president, when he spoke during that event, he urged women to love them and leave each other.
"I request to continue to insist on love between us, some of the female women we have never happened.
"I want Tupendane Group and we should wait, because we do not have my fellow women despite fighting them and to see the president for a short time, I was able to build health centers that will help to give birth in a safe place but their are me deserted me," says President Kikwete.
