BOT met with Kenya.
Mlabu all, 2014.

The secret report that is claimed to be written by one of the police at the police station, Longido district, has appointed the district police commissioner (OCD) John Temu as the source of the officers that he wants to participate in actions that are going against the ethics of their work.
On the accusations that are facing some of the army officers of Namanga and Longido stations, we have met in the previous edition, the police commander said that the district police force is alleged to called a session of the high level officers (NCO) to discuss the way to fight against smuggling from Arusha up to Namanga to Kenya.
According to the secret report, that session took place on December 20, year 2012, between five o'clock in the morning up to eight o'clock in the morning up to eight o'clock in the afternoon and there were involved police with levels starting from Ethiopia.
Between smuggling which are mentioned to be a strategy by the police so as to go back to Kenya without following the procedure it is together with a situation that is needed in Tanzania that is said to have a big market in the neighboring country.
I am glad that every vehicle will receive four hundred thousand shillings to the traffic police and they are the officers not to receive six hundred thousand shillings if the police will not do so, then they will give you a chance so that he can be taxed, "explained the document.
The document continued a government of "we the police think that we cannot be involved in bribery actions and or else we will not pollute the phone from RPC) when he gave him that the vehicles will arise since he is Satoshi Nakalega.
Those allegations against those police shows that together with participating in the business of transporting illegal immigrants, also the police are alleged to have participated in dealing with smuggling that have not paid taxes by partnering with business people who are not faithful, to evade tax and tax tax.
"The six police reap from smuggling that had paid the tax of TRA from Kenya and fined them by using their vehicles so that they can be able to evade tax or income after succeeding to be connected to those things," you can be read this document.
In addition, the document was required that all police use their private vehicles to carry drugs of the type of inheritance to take them to Arusha and they are forced to see the business people that do the illegal business by selling them from Longido and Oldonyo Sambu.
The document is going back to explain that all actions are made in the blessings of the district police commander (OCD) Peter Temu from AID.
Police and thieves of the vehicles.

The document is continuing to remove the claims that seven police officers from Longido police station are partnering with the electronic system of vehicles from neighboring countries of Kenya by helping them to enter Tanzania.
Part of the document claims that the famous vehicles were destroyed, Kenya is brought to Longido district, at home for a number of number 49650 million / Sussex at 55,731 / C) where they are supposed to change the number of those vehicles. "
"Those vehicles usually put fake phones from international organizations like UN (UN), EAC (East African Community) and those of cooperatives or registration of other organizations and after that, they used to sell and sell the average of three vehicles every week."
While giving an example, that police is giving his colleagues that December 17 this year, that network made a type of Toyota Rhema Trust (VX) and took it to a home to D.
In addition, December 19 this year the year 2012 issued a total of 4 bed sheets and took place at home to the police number F5853 and C) where they stopped the number and put fake phones in Tanzania and then take place in Arusha town to look for the market.
It is alleged that the soldiers are also involved with drugs of the type of marijuana in their private vehicles from Oldonyo Sambu village, popularly known for agriculture of marijuana that is in Arumeru District up to Namanga and later admitted in Kenya.
From the side of Kenya, the police have placed itself a result of inheritance where Tanzania laws have benefited from that such as drugs and it has been banned in the country.
