The draft constitution is not true but it does not mean?
October, 31st, 2013.

There's no doubt that the first draft of the new constitution that was given by the commission of Judge Joseph Warioba is a big step to the people of Zanzibar and even so that the draft still did not take them to they do.
The proposal of the union's structure is controlling in the third government - Zanzibar, Tanganyika and third that will be the government of the Federation Cup, but the time now has been outdated, where many of the people of Zanzibar would not enjoy the proposal of the union of three governments.
Today if you are talking with many of the people of Zanzibar, especially the youth, all political parties and those who do not have parties, you say that they want to Zanzibar unable to make its full authority so that this will be found in the second draft of the constitution?
If you check the first draft, we will see that seven things that was to be done by the United Republic "that they do not know our union to be a union of the agreement.
Among those things are foreign affairs, security and security, freedom and security, the registration of political parties, financial institutions, and the banks in different sessions of the process of writing a new constitution, including those of the constitutional councils.
It is seen that the proposal did not agree with the Tanganyika leaders. Therefore, the second draft of the constitution will be able to meet the claims by the people of Zanzibar so that this situation will have been successful in order to get all the authority under the union of the agreement.
However, we cannot say that the work that was done by the Marsa of Constitution has no meaning, but on the side of Zanzibar, the new constitution is not clear that this issue of giving the United Republic itself, between political parties and among the citizens.
Therefore, the commission has a great opportunity in controlling the second draft of making it be a planned system that will give a permanent unity.
The system proposed is currently the third government is very important because it is important for the third government more than five people, but it is not same as the third term government they can be reduced in the second draft but the government of European Union has no government that supports all the government of the union but it has no commission. "
If you know more in the first draft, we will see that basically the government of the United Republic and the government of Zanzibar, this situation explains the saying that most of the people in Zanzibar could not be informed by the constitutional commission in making a draft that was presented to the citizens.
In this state of constitutional parliament, especially its representatives from Zanzibar, it has a great responsibility to ensure that full power is brought back to Zanzibar with a new constitution or not to talk about the new contract because the exercise of writing the constitution takes place, it is not a constitution. "
Therefore, we will see that we will see that the government of the union is that it will represent Tanzania - Tanzania, Tanganyika and Zanzibar at the international hall on this situation, it is clear that the government of the two countries will not be demolished because all the three presidents of the United Republic of Tanzania, Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
That procedure is contrary to the procedures of the unions that are free where the federation's government does not be sent to the government with great authority but it's not the commission headed by the country members of the federation and its president are not yet known but it was appointed by the countries that are in that federation.
