She was surprised and those who do.

It has been written by Mohamed Kiganja.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The captain of Simba, Jonas Mkude, has said that he was surprised by people who will get bad passengers for their team in the away matches and said that with the pace they started with this season, it will be difficult to lose their game even if it will be played outside Tanzania.

Simba is the head of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League with 17 points that they got into seven matches they played before yesterday's match against Mbeya City which the team played for the first time outside Dar es Salaam at the Sokoine Stadium since the start of this season.
Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, Mkunde, who was recognized by a red card which was released on the first of October first against their old rivals, Yanga, said that for the quality that were with them this season, any part they can play and get those results that they want.
"Simba of this season is not only to win in Dar es Salaam only and if people did not think everyone at our today's game (yesterday) and Mbeya City, those are not the team that has been highly commended, but we're going to play for them," said Mkunde.
That mid-fielder said the secret of playing for the efforts is due to the goals that they have set up this season which is to carry the championship of the league so as to get a chance to participate in the international competition in the coming days.
He said in addition to that the league of this season should be difficult, but on the level and results they got up until now, it has given hope of fulfilling the what they have committed under their Cameroon coach, Joseph Omog and his assistant Jackson Mayanja.
The changes of registration and the technical bench that was done by the club's leadership has shown a big difference between it was three seasons ago where the team completed the league in the third and fourth position and playing the championship of that league that involves 16 teams this season.
