They were a lot of leaders but later there is a conflict that will take place in Dar es Salaam, I felt it was there between the leaders and leaders we want to be the national party or being run by two people.
As it is a result of this situation as a result of that maybe or it has gone up according to the reasons that had not allowed the chicken to understand directly and go back for example, here in Mwanza, there are our problems that, Mwanza has mentioned the vice chairman which he had gone to read another leader.
The operating systems manager for these competitions like it has gone to study because we were not a few leaders but now there were different thoughts and previously, I stopped and it was not aware that I will follow it.
If you have written the sun and it was lucky to have a big problem in the cleanliness of the work.
To pay a lot and they are unable to do I think I don't think if he went to pay for that cost you know.
The operations of that center is the meaning of Ukawa was reported.
They have a lot.
People do not know what we are in Tanga, confirmed to arrive at the breast cancer competition in eternal peace.
The same logic, will you start to fail.
It has forgotten the late Almighty God for now.
We know that when a very difficult time to go back to the ones, because it is not true that the nation has started today even a long time when the nation has started today even a period for a trip to the government is only getting money from the government.
They can organize themselves with and encourage people that come out to help him run the procedures and such as well.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, we saw the players that are committed, I stopped you for the first example that even when we were going to go to the competition.
Their friendship, they ask you and Shukuru Kawambwa, we're going back to now after sponsors themselves they are looking for.
He is going to invest when his money gets.
Therefore, if you do not have a matter to support him from people, it's said that players were committed because, I remember how things are when we're going to go to one family and if we see you.
Watch the home for women, you will make sure you're doing at.
Another one I am told, he will be able to make chapati cook so that we can go after.
Sponsorship are still doing well and they decided to come out one after another.
Ras Kiduku was talking about this news for the form to participate in competitions or operations, but it depends on an example that was already in the day before yesterday or as we did not expect it because we are not a foundation of not being able to do because you are saying that we are looking for a long time to do well.
We have no grounds for now in Mwanza province, we are starting to build a factory where we got the area.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, there will be a present when Christian is after his edge here at the stadium that has never been able to sit and even more than two players and when we are doing a lot of someone to come and when we look at least now if you check up with God which is making it.
Or to close to these ten million at the manufacturing of that level and that is why he said, we agreed to look at when we go to research or continue.
Planning for the purpose of making that I believe that we are playing so because we do all the army like players like the party and if we see it, we don't see why we are happy because we are asked because we are asked because we are asked because we want to put him because we want to put up strength.
He went to research and asked me to read it when you want to put it at the field.
Sunday Ras Makunja has said many residents of some people do not want to ask but now in the implementation it's a little problem and there are some who succeeded to have reduced, then we have seen the shops that we have reduced, then it was before it started.
After the coming from the national team elections in Dodoma last year.
In the last month and two of the first month we sat on a meeting with religious leaders so as to stop.
When we ask for what is going on because after the election, we shall agree with some of the election leaders, we will put strategies that we can do so that we can be able to do this election because there are some teams that are not registered by some of the teams that have not been registered for the procedures of the national sports council.
Almighty God have no longer be able to enter into the elections it should be shown.
If it does not have been found or the party is still not registered to know the national elections in life.
For us to explain the desire to be in Dar es Salaam, we should see why the leaders of the team are able to do so, but we are happy to do so that we have already planned, we have already started one thing, it's not a beginning, "we have started one thing.
It has been planned and don't jump and we started with the aim.
To get different stakeholders in addition they had ever played then my grandfather was not knowing but you don't know how many people like to come as our leaders we have said to start soon without success then you tell you that we need leaders not to be.
We know what happens?
In the party, we find leaders because of the leaders of the team.
Yes, who came to build a few leaders but now in the first time, Yebo "fear there have caused a little misunderstanding because some people were unable to know, after being seen as a lot because he does not do or that is the resulted to the field.
To reach that step here, the others are complaining.
If the sim card did not use some of the contributes, it is still a must, then Bomani because it is a must for you to go after the procedures there are many people so as to get many people to reduce it.
Later, we were a very big challenge, it has said that approximately a few months it has maintained the problem and that the day was in every day on Sunday, I will bless you a very difficult case if it was done to the final stage where he would have mentioned the first match between the Coastal Union.
Ras Makunja has said that he doesn't know that?
We were playing in the past you are playing.
A team of thanks in a different way and our small businesses from Uganda took the first match against them.
The second match ended, what I want to do is that I can be able to send a problem until it depends on the fishing.
That he was very much up to one player was caused by hospital.
After that we sat against the players that were involved.
Those violence now when we talked about the running mate, we did the reason they started the league that we have made them support but after they are now, I had not seen because they had not registered themselves because they were not aware of the problem they don't have.
Those were involved in violence.
And when I start very delicious, we had to return to say stories we come and we put it well and now we are in the construction of the construction that we must be.
We like the ones that came together with the first by saying that I think we are not one God to know for free because I think starting next week he has been made a letter to the purpose of various stakeholders who don't want to use when it has broken.
We were saying that there is still fire that has been done in Inter.
How come the people who have already been built in some of the stones is like a half that has already been distributed, we have been put up, we have been distributed, so they can be more witches.
Therefore, we were given when I started taking alcohol without as it was now, we request all stakeholders to come out in a month when I won't mention money.
We need to see you so that we can also be similar to the construction, maybe the players are still looking at every day we are ready and therefore, we request the residents of Mwanza so that we can be able to uplift the field so that we can be able to uplift the fire.
He said after.
Sim card could not loose.
I love this time known as Ras Makunja is not that two times we focus on how it started again for the training program as well as well as our guardian, I believe that there was a long-year-term and three hundred thousand, but your friend had gone against us.
Every time when you go through the same time, there are women we have every reason.
You don't know that he deserves poverty, it is that we have managed to make it only in the competition of players.
In those schools we will see when you reached there, I know that we will get players who will be seen, we will look at all the players from I will go.
How does it mean to mean?
They are different.
In the streets to sell plots, there are teams that are playing.
We will listen to you and those with a court to teach them there that in our bonanza, we got twenty players who will be sent away from Freetown city.
Its the death.
We will put up a sign of analysts and the course after there.
We can do a bonanza every time.
We have took those children the availability of children has started using a total of plots that are not money.
We took that when we are doing the bonanza after there being a team for teachers.
They are supposed to do.
You can make changes earlier, the youth can be followed without even ten years of seven and twenty-twenty years depends on how the nation so, then we are able to see these children in the country.
Another one that was scored two years which attracts the information that?
I stopped him.
In the state which was there but the very big one here is we are required then stakeholders should come out.
Let me take the position of leadership.
When it was already there, there is a beginning that the cargo will be great and even when they are not on the night, instead they will not know if I will see it, it will have a chance to finish it, then I have been able to finish his studies.
It is still underway.
To do development, except one need to be false and that is why we tell you for now.
If we have not got the small money, forget.
Those players were involved in one day even today, if we say we are going to do a bonus of Manchester's players that we have completed the fare together with food and we are going to come out and now these people are ready to come out to come out.
Position of leadership.
You should not be satisfied that the best Mwanza region need people to unite people who do not have problems, there are some of the plan to build a union and approximately these hours it started when we ask you to come out in front and we ask you to come out in front.
For him, before if we shall be able to stop yourself.
But also.
To say that.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
They are drugs.
Mwanza is taking place.
Mbeya is something.
Alex Msama, I have written this weekend after they came out, there are many competitions getting little of going to check but even.
The right of a most respected person, his retired, without getting anything which is a wall, if you know that Europe have been the hub of a vibrant generation.
Now I don't say what has happened to him.
If you put in collaboration with asked me to do then we can't see me.
Most of the people who use their sister in their development, do not love the disease together now.
How can it also be able to say it is easy but I am saying this money because the past person is put in power from a long time.
And the conflict that is looking at these days you want to see me with strategies.
.
We have been infected by true that we do not inform us that they are very happy, it can do well because it's just the day before yesterday and I think these competitions are the first to take place the day before yesterday together with the team's participation.
Very good, but the competition is very big since we are requesting them to participate.
I look at a long time until Miss they have come up and they have come up to an extent that they are saying the cities of the region.
This participated in that event is the very big step of taking alcohol.
Treatment and something more is that.
