
Police continue to address the passengers' vehicles.
Police yesterday started dealing with all the vehicles of public transport that will participate in the Lamu Larger road following the fire attack, where Tanzania Breweries Limited was attacked by many people who were accused of Al-Shabaab.
That step was made after a meeting of the heads of security from the village of Tati and Lamu Island yesterday in Delhi. The meeting intended to expand the strategies to strengthen security in the area.
Commander of the police in Mkimbii Village, Ephreim Mwasamtold the nation today that there isn't any vehicle when they were using that road which will be allowed to service without being accompanied by security officers who entration.
We've officially started services in dealing with vehicles, especially the vehicles that will enable you to go to Gogo, in the area of Tsehai said, we have improved its security, "said Mister Kicheere.
Contrary to the previous day, where police who enario could destroy the buses, two vehicles of police were sent to protect several buses which are serving in the road of Mombasa-Lamu Island.
The passengers' vehicles of the first half of the two-fielder of TaSal Tanzania Limited, by Simba coach and one of Mchwaa will return to take a fast rate in the morning heading to Mombasa under the defense of administration officers (AP).
Those buses were going on at Kibaoni village, along with MEMKWA center, so as to destroy the Tanzanian buses and Simba coach, which brought the passengers that had received tickets from those areas.
"Those vehicles were unable to sing up to the Gadi police station in Twilumba Mlelwa and later they were unable to continue with their journey," said Southgate, who did not want to be mentioned.
"Other police vehicles have been completed in the second convoy of the buses that got to take place at ten o'clock in the morning.
He said that the passengers were chosen by the army officers (Kwelukilwa) which they are doing different areas of security between Lamu and Meek Mill.
At the same time, Mister Kiango said that the army planes were doing well in that area, especially in the forest areas from Simba's goal, in the border of Boni Yayi and Lamu Island up to Kenya and Somalia.
