
The free medical check for cancer is the governor about the responsibilities of the assistant.
By Farouk Jivani.
Residents of Fadhiri has been encouraged to come out in large numbers to benefit from free medical services being inspected the existence of cancer disease.
Speaking at Shabiby bus in Elhaj said the secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mister Samuel Mwaura, urged women for men to take this unique opportunity, to make sure that they have got that service quickly so as to know their condition about cancer disease which has become a threat to AIDS.
He added that, it is a great importance for every resident of Taliban militants, he thanked me for knowing his level of cancer disease early so as to be treated too instead of wait and listen to a level that is supposed to be treated.
For a period of one month, the service aims at six thousand women out of 15-49 men and 3,300 men, more than four hundred thousand people are being built for one year.
Another health officer in charge of Mesa Ward, Itonya urged the men especially more than 40 years to come out in that service and be supported by his fellow doctor Simon Semalenga who said that this was the time of people who do not have the ability to pay that service in the hospital to get that service.
By Dotto Mwaibale, a message of the parliament of Mkwajuni, he said that he has criticized the governor of that he from the governor, Salim Mwageni has warned his assistant authority more than a work tour.
This is after the deputy commissioner Fatuma Mwassa,, was given the responsibility of managing the issues of security for all of them, he said that he has done the changes that took place in the ministers' council.
Speaking to the nation today outside that parliament, the representative of Muembe Makundi Ward, Omar Mwaulanga said that, that step is same as the governor owned up politics.
Moreover, he also pointed out that, that responsibility is supposed to be the secretary of the he said, Martin Mwesa, and not the governor.
"It is a big offence for the governor to give its assistant responsibility especially considering that there is a person who was chosen to make that responsibility," said Mister Mwaulanga.
