
20 December 2012

The water problem of Songea is a nuisance that is going on to consider the residents of that town.

By Kassim Mambogo.


Of anything that is happening in the world, a big percentage of his life is run using water, therefore, it is important for a matter which does not have a debate.
If there is a problem of access to clean and safe water can cause a lot of problems in the community, including illegal diseases and water which is available on problems that concern them and be in Karume.

The government has been emphasizing that all communities to maintain the environment including water sources which are the main backbone of water which makes a human being to run its life.

The problem of availability of water and destruction of water sources, Songea Municipality, Ruvuma province, has been done by few people where right now it has been a great nuisance to the availability of that important energy.

The shortage of water in that municipality is a problem that has been going to save the residents of Songea as a result of water sources which they have been using that energy to start producing water in plenty.

A lot of areas in that town are now having clean water services by 69 percent of the needs where water project is an average of 970,089 percent per day, while the real needs of 9700 million shillings per day.

The Engineer for planning and construction, Jaffary Michael said the authority of clean water and environmental cleanliness (SUZA) in Songea Municipality is expecting nine sources of water which are stable, that are in Mount Kilimanjaro, to produce water for the purpose of users.

He says that the huge shortage of water in those sources has been done, especially the drought period where water being found is 31 percent per day, an issue that causes the presence of clean water from people's homes or various institutions.

He explains that the water sources that are in the moment have the ability to meet the needs of the residents of the municipality until the end of this year, and after that other sources are required to be built so as to evade the problem at the moment.

"Up to now the division of the construction of new water infrastructure has been done by presented to the ministry of water, but the availability of money from the development partners (WSCA) are still up until today," he says.

He shows that a clean water network is in a small area of Songea Municipality, where there is 56 percent area and still a 44 percent have no water network.

He also explains that the problem of shortage of water is as a large extent and destruction of water sources located in Matogoro district, due to reading the fire forest and human activities that are not qualified in the water catchment areas.

That situation takes a huge amount of water that can be available from water sources which are in the mountains in the country together with the water from River Luena and later is pumped by the special discount.

The shortage of water has continued to affect the standards of clean and clean water services, thus the customers who are access to a pipeline and living in big water catchment areas, they cannot get that energy as required as a result of the distribution of water distribution services in the relevant region.

Other areas with a high level like Makanya, Songea, Songea town, Majengo and Itagigi so that they have been faced with that problem once again.

He says that until now, a pipeline that is admitted in the clean water system has a total of 287 kilometers worth 75 million shillings and that the network of the pipeline is in an average of 56 percent in the area of the municipality.

On the side of the water network, it has a total of 37 kilometers, six ponds have been built for treating water.

He says that the customers who get access to that system is 1,010 out of 1500 students who were built for water project in June 2013 by using solar energy together with the laboratory that is used in dealing with those water and inspect them before reaching the users.

The other challenge that their energy and clean water authorities in Songea Municipality is that the government institutions are not involved in their water sources at a time when this situation causes the authority to claim the debt of 206,000,000 shillings.

As a result of that problem, the ability of the authority to increase the activities of operations and renovations has reduced, thus causing the workers, it was taken by various stakeholders claiming from the authority to a big amount of money.

In addition to other things that were taken in the efforts to solve this problem of availability of water, the authority has been able to build a small dam with the ability to save water worth 1200 million shillings.

In addition to other things that were taken in the efforts of solving this problem currently, and some of the challenges that are there are that the authority by using the collection of collection of solar energy has been able to build a small dam with the ability to save low-driven water at a cost of 157 million shillings.

However, that dam is small, compared to the plan that is in building a dam with the ability to save water from 1200 million dollars which will cost 1,704 million dollars.
