The parliamentary sitting depends on my short time and so that you know what happened in today's evening, I joined our reporter, Shaban Su, who was put in our studio in Dodoma, Shaban Lupimo and explain what?
The list of the radio.
And in the end, I have not asked or for sure the ten parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania?
And discuss reports of committees related to the meaning the main government of local governments as well as public organizations for the first time we have been able to witness the parliament that it will get the late God to swear that you will protect himself and pay it.
Vicent Tiganya scored in the minute he was sent to now and opposing that where it has spoken about ten days of doing inspection especially in the issue of vehicles to say that these companies are not there in countries that are mentioned to see the names that cause the ownership of those companies.
The tickets are in our country?
It has already been bought and is doing.
But after the release of said Vicent Kone, he did not loose the question that since yesterday until today, there is no even one minister for him to talk about this and this is because of the complaints by members of parliament concerning the lack of lack of public funds for public funds.
Yes, it is possible for now the chairpersons of the committee as he was sent to Honorable John Okello's new through the main government so as to start what he died.
In which way members of parliament are going to join together without caring for their ideology in managing the use of financial funds.
To supervise and make sure that she is understood and I don't know if it is at the moment he will stop Honorable I will stop the government of the streets he said until now, to ensure that the death of these cases are related to them.
Or using it?
You're welcome him but for a long time as it is now and eventually fail, the late God bless Tanzania through the public organizations, he told me that there was a lot of problems but still investigation is still ongoing.
She is unable to know what he doesn't know where there is to arrive and accountability.
And you want to know that if there are renovations that he had put in a new constitution is accountability, for those who did badly in a nation, you can't be responsible for now, I can say that if the members of parliament are authorities and those ministers believe that they have been in one way or another in the problems they came up but now.
To the minister.
It was a bad thing.
.
He is saying.
Starting tomorrow they need five hundred thousand shillings.
On Monday, all of them will come into parliament to vote of not having faith.
It has shown the time until Monday to give a chance to honorable ministers, the ones mentioned on night that they don't know and are getting confused by the government and forced to loss the nation maybe they can have a lot of joy to remember them.
But from tomorrow it has been fined an agreement on Monday when the votes of not having faith in the prime minister, I say only for those who he played that game will be buried and the action was taken.
These ministers.
How come out that you need to be a minister.
