JK wants UDSM to return their status.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

It has been released, October 25th, 2016.

The head of the University of Dar es Salaam, retired President Jakaya Kikwete has urged the University (UDSM) to win his status of continuing being a leader in the provision of better education, which will help the nation to have experts with help solve the various challenges facing the community.

Speaking during the commemoration of 55 years of the University of Dar es Salaam, yesterday, Kikwete said that the university's step is clear that he has lived and passed from one step of the growth and development of the other, therefore it should be a springboard of development to educate the graduates of bringing change in the country.
Kikwete, who was appointed recently to be the head of the university, said that despite the university giving a huge contribution to the country including the leaders of the country, the experts who have been of great help in making the policies of the country, is to give graduates which have a employment market.
"I urge the achievements that I have been getting more than 55 years, go back to be the center of providing better education at the University of Dar es Salaam to lead the others to follow the benefits," said President Kikwete who is also among the graduates that participated in that college in 1970.
He called for the management of the university to ensure they are coming with new development issues to rebuild the university and not new things to demolish good development issues that will be held in that college in the past.
Speaking about his leadership as the head of the university, he said just after being appointed to be the head of the university what he did is to meet with different local stakeholders and outside the university to know the problems facing the university and how to solve those challenges.
He said despite being only a lot of challenges, including the lack of drugs for students, what he did is meeting with President John Magufuli to explain those challenges which need the government support and that is why the president went to launch the foundation stone in that school. He promised to cooperate with the University of Dar es Salaam to address various challenges facing that university.
"I will use my ability to ensure we are reducing the problems for the benefit of this college," explained Kikwete.
The deputy head of the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor Rwekaza Mukundala mentioned the challenges facing the university to include, limited budget which has caused the amount of construction and renovation of the university and to stop the research activities.
He also said that the university is being faced by a shortage of laboratory, office and the project shortage of students and houses for workers and another challenge that he mentioned is a shortage of lecturers and experience in various professions.
We also thank the government and various ministries to continue to address those challenges, some of the big residential houses are crowded with together with laboratory, we are grateful for the decision by the government to decide to build the concept of producing 4,000 students, "said Professor Sigalla.
Professor Tembela, from the University of Lagos, Nigeria who is the one who contributed a special public meeting of the University in a topic that spoke to African education institutions, he advised African universities to improve education that go with the needs of the nation and the African continent.
