Students from Ihanga village, Nyakato Primary School.

It has been written by Angela Kizigha, Bukoba.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The government of Japan has said that it is ready to teach schools which have been charged with an earthquake which occurred in September 10, this year in Kagera province and caused 17 deaths and several injured.

While Japan has explained that, the government of Tanzania had gone to them to various close schools including secondary schools in the village, students of secondary schools in Ighombwe Village and Nyakato Primary School in Bukoba district so as to continue with their studies while getting a huge renovation of their school buildings that have been destroyed badly.
The Ambassador of Japan in the country, Masaharu Yoshiba told the prime minister, Kassim Majaliwa when he met him in Dar es Salaam city for talks about the disaster that Japan is ready to renovate the school which has been used by an earthquake.
Also Ambassador Al Suwaidi has asked to be given a list of emergency needs including tents, medicine and medical equipment for the purpose of helping the victims of the earthquake. On his part, the Prime Minister has thanked the government of Japan for the step and to present a list of spoiled votes together with special needs.
Moreover, the Minister of State, Office of the President, Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene, said that the students of those schools which at the moment can't be able to sit in other neighboring schools including the main aim that is owned by the parents which have enough opportunities so that they can continue with their studies.
He said the teachers in those schools will be given a report early this week to know that they will also go to teach in time while waiting for the construction to be completed.
Simbachawene said other two ministers, Jenista Mhagama (the office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Youth, Employment and Disabled) together with the Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, participated in removing the damaged infrastructure in those schools.
Also government institutions are participating in the land college, the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) and the prison forces.
Up to the earthquake which is coming out in secondary schools, there were 778 students, in Nyakato Primary School, apart from more than 1000 students, the regional report explains that more than 14 billion shillings are needed to build houses.
