CCM has expressed fears, Magufuli that.
Jide 22, 2015.

There is fear that is still ongoing in CCM, the fear that has tried to stop earlier since if things do not meet inside this three months soon before the general elections, then the whole party is seen after the announcement of their presidential candidate, Doctor John Pombe Magufuli.
Most of the normal environment that John Magufuli could help reduce the injuries of announcing the intention of joining the party by helping the coming of different groups, the truth is that the injuries he has announced will not be huge, and when this year 2015 can be able to access it easily.
Magufuli was expecting that he would like to come up with certain popularity within the party to an extent that even people who were not found themselves don't have no problem but to support him, but some of them have found those statements and support them, but they will make sure they get done again.
And there is no one who support him so much, in CCM as the main suspect in the process of announcing the intentions of the member of parliament of Monduli, and the former Prime Minister Edward Lowassa, was expected to support Magufuli and therefore he is expected to support Magufuli by Lowassa being the only person who can compete with him before the view of the community.
Lowassa found that he has touched a lot in the scandal of Richmond and gave him so much at that time, but you cannot compare the one of the best five or their performance was not yet known because of the best five, it did not see if it was not a solution.
The need for now has turned to be fear from fear arising from a question, how will it be if Lowassa will decide whether to return to CCM, but Lowassa would decide to inform CCM, "said Lowassa to return their card as a sign of refusing to get them and be from the action of the executive committee of CCM led by" my friend "Edward Lowassa got his name.
These citizens don't be forced to be treated because they were forced to prevent him, sadness, pain, flute and other other bloggers, and those of Lowassa will continue to join CCM party members who want them to join the group members of CCM who want them to follow it?
But also you can be able to see this fear in another way, one of the things that have happened after Magufuli was surprised by President Magufuli is not ready to elect him and that Magufuli is not ready to elect him and that Magufuli is not ready to elect him.
The truth is that CCM's actions are not enough to believe in him and if the truth, CCM party believes that if you will see him as CCM wants you to see him, but if you see him, if you see him, a problem that has already been caused by numerous saga and this is not true then they could not pollute the party.
