
The intention is to be treated with a situation and wealth?
Women who are in the marriage affected by their husbands in their homes and sometimes the life change while being difficult, a lot of pain and an issue of every way.
Among those, there are women who were deceased, but they did not give up their lives and instead do a matter especially to those who were not aware because it is a mother to give him a lot of joy because it is a mother to kill about life.
Life before you look for one thing, he says that life of marriage was good and a happy because he gets a solution to every situation.
However, he will not understand me on December 12, 2011, a day that to change was received by a long distance of his heart.
He is saying his husband who died in an accident after falling with a car while he was coming from his home.
I was very happy and he found himself and he didn't like each other, I remember that day when he was heading to its activities inside there were 200 shillings only, suddenly I got a report of his death that I got so much, "says a knee problem.
I urge you, "even so, it will have to be with the heart of the courage, he died with 14 years in marriage, I decided to sit down, instead of living in your marriage or not to help, I continued with my business to sell medicine in my shop.
Now I have the act of luck and I don't read it on life. "
His creativity and entrepreneurship responsibility is saying that apart from that business, he decided to give an issue to the other business including pregnant mothers and as days ago he found her businesses to get different machines for cooking oil during different celebrations like the wedding, in eternal peace and sessions.
He says that together with getting the money he gets a challenge, "business business has already lost, though there are its challenges, you ask you to be given a budget for 200 people but they will be reduced, sometimes its budget is reduced, then it will be spent at 6 o'clock at night but they will be at 6 o'clock at night."
The widow says that he started entrepreneurship entrepreneurship for meat and that he followed up to 500 chicken, even so, he removed from that business after the breeders of the chicken have increased, a reduction of food production at the price.
Pemba Island and lending to many women in the streets have joined groups of women and their aim is to stop stuttering on how they help to help their husbands in dealing with their lives.
One person together with the projects he has not seven six as the founder in starting other activities and that's when he started a group of women for caring and called FGM Group.
He says that for recognizing the importance of doing work and accountability, he urged his fellow women to start a group that started with 15 people and every person joined by paying 50,000 shillings as an entrance and as days passed it will cost up to 25 percent.
Up to now the group has 60 million shillings and they buy money that are their capital themselves.
In order to have a good life that you have a lot of life you must be the founder of various business people, should be able to get married but he is doing a dream of getting married but I believe it does not get married because they did not get married because they may get different upbringing if they were getting married to her husband.
"The idea of getting married to now is not present because I would like to get married, I don't understand what I got to the father of the church, I don't know if I don't know her husband if I don't know the problem and there is no even one day I will get in life," he says.
I thank his fellow brothers that he congratulates his family and her husband's family because he was together with him in a difficult time when he knew that some of the women found themselves with their husband's brother who live in the property, but it did not happen.
He claims that he is disappointed with some of the people that the children are taken care of the mother without the father do not have ethics and that the statement does not mean the truth while giving an example to the children who says that they want them to listen.
