The church building a 10 hospital in the country.

It has been written by John Gwao.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The church of Agape and citizens should be expected to build 10 hospitals in the country, four of appeal in different provinces with the aim of helping the government to ensure it gives better health services to the citizens.

Speaking to journalists in Kibaha town at the end of the week, the Archbishop of the Church, Martin Bongole said that for now they are continuing to look for plots and areas to start the construction in collaboration with sponsors from America.
Bishop Bongole said that the aim of building those hospitals is to cooperate with the government to end the challenges they face the citizens in the important services including health services.
"Apart from the church providing social services, it will also provide social services such as health, economy and housing, so that the beneficiaries are able to get better service to the needs," said Bishop Bowman.
He said that his church will ensure the church support the President John Magufuli for starting various projects so as to make Tanzania a new is headed by the leader who is the father of God.
"Our expectations is to start big projects in the country and to make Tanzania a country with industries and the economy is like the president said that we want to reach the middle economy and the construction will be done include the port of land and sea travel," said Bishop Bowman.
Bishop Bhana, who is also the Deputy Archbishop of East African Community in the church, said that for now Tanzania has been trusted and given a special certificate to 1,068 countries in the world with integrity and conduct their work.
He said that for now, they are in the process of communicating with various ministries for the purpose of getting permits in order to do the legal activities.
He said the arrest of land for the purpose of investment and that until now they have approximately 142,500 fans in different areas in the country, which is together with Dodoma where it will be taken to the referral hospital, "he said.
And the Chairperson of the church in Pwani province, Bishop Sedrick Ndonde Meena, said that they have organized to start preparations for the construction that is expected to start at the end of this year, including houses for workers and social services.
Bishop Meena said that apart from the social services, they will ensure that they enable them to enable economic people especially those who live in difficult environments.
He said on the education side they will ensure that they are building schools from the previous level up to higher education, the aim being to ensure good education for children.
He said that services will be given without caring about the person who is served.
