
The whole issue is needed, discipline.
The whole issue of value has assured the farmer to sell the products that were added value to the great benefits instead of a huge price and that is, discipline and increase income.
But a small farmer will face a lot of challenges as a poverty of income, this is due to the use of technology that was called and sometimes to look for a support which can be able to produce a small area and get crops for the family of a family.
The farmer has other problems like diseases, money to buy food, oil, oil, oil and other expenses, therefore the small farmer does not give up and believe that he is poor and poverty, therefore, having a bad use of money for a good program.
As a result of having a little income and because of using a little income, the small farmer is usually given the loan by using an amount of money and interest, which the farmer is required to pay for an amount of finances and interest, which the farmer is required to pay for the amount of money.
In the whole period of increase in farmers in groups that have a capacity to start, and continue the plan to set free and borrowing, they have a sustainable health insurance system, medical services, equipment, and treatment services.
Also, it is easy to agree with the media houses that they can give loans to the agricultural Bank have a specific plan to lend groups.
Groups with the plan to put and borrow, even if it is of service providers like the medical services, to rise, pay for transporting the farm and process on behalf of the farmers to get loans to serve their businesses easily.
The important thing to groups to put and borrow to avoid problems that are facing the other parties is to have constitution that are blocking the leaders without considering themselves and place them in the whole language, to know what is done in the plan to set and borrow.
It is important that the group is ensuring that the money that was put quickly so that leaders can't have a lot of money that can be able to misuse the funds for the group because farmers have the ability to increase their produce at a short time.
Because the farmers will have a great income, maybe after 3 years, the plan to set and borrow will be improved and become small-scale farmers (microfinance institutions), farmers will need banks so that they can get a lot of services and more than financial services and to continue to give them the opportunity to expand and increase their businesses.
