Ilala to break the school.
Jide 17, 2013.

The leadership of Ilala Municipal Council, is alleged to have a plan to break the buildings of Uhuru Secondary School in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam city, so as to deal with other things, the area has been required to be an investor for the entrance building for the business of business, our citizens has been told.

His Worship the Mayor of Ilala Municipality, Jerry Silaa, has been named behind the program, but the full report about that plan is said to be open after the concerned authorities gave the project.

However, the acting director of that municipality, Mwendaharaka Maganga, told the newspaper that he does not have any information related to the program. "The office does not have information that will not be informed," said Maganga, when he was asked if he has given reports of getting married to Uhuru Primary School in order to be given an investor.

A report from that school and which have been confirmed by some of the government officials in that area, the county level and ward, have confessed the existence of that plan, while being left open by Mayor Jerry Slaa, that he is going for that whole plan.

One of those directors, who however asked for his name to be seen in the newspaper, "said Mrs," even we were told you like you (our reporter), you have heard, but if you are true, we must have the first report from the concerned authorities. "

The investigation that was done by Good Citizen for several weeks now has revealed that lack of dealing with one of the directors of the national level in many development plans that are being implemented by the Municipal Council of Ilala.

"There is a scandal that fell in the end of the 16 floor building in Mkonga area where even the security officers themselves supporting the buildings in the Kisitu area after realizing that he is not supposed to be dealt with anything," says one of the directors of the area of Uhuru Primary School and added.

"Even when we take a good information that friends do not depend on, the things you have witnessed, the procedures are affecting the school, but up to us, we need to sit and later on how many things we be done."

One councilor in 4 wards of Ilala Municipality, in showing that the plan is to understand the newspaper by saying that, "the school will not be informed, but its implementation will be constructed in the floor of the leadership of Nyamiyaga hospital (Iddi Nyami and the former director of Ilala) and the mayor of Ilala.

When he was asked by his Excellency the Mayor of Ilala, Jerry Silaa, said that we are doing any project in that area that you are saying, they will give an official report after the cause of the concerned authority. "

Recently, the Minister of State, Office of Prime Minister (Tamisemi), Hawa Ndilowe, when closing the sports competition to primary schools in the country that took place in Kibaha town, he ordered all directors in the country to ensure that all open areas are not sold for investment for investment.

The girls' school was started in 1932, during the colonial administration of England, having four students, later in 1934, the school had 60 students, before 1935 the school had been transferred to Northern Northern B Primary School.

After Tanganyika got its freedom on Wednesday, the Northern Kichemuchemu area has changed the name of being called Uhuru, and therefore the school has to change the name of being called Uhuru primary school.

Up to now, the area between the Shaurimoyo road and the Uhuru road, which the leadership of Ilala Municipality is alleged to have a special building of the investor who will be forced to break all the buildings including Uhuru primary school, Uhuru Mixed Primary School which also has special classrooms for students with disability of various types of girls together with Benjamin Mkapa in form one to 6 schools.
