I think I would be able to end there are other opportunities which we have tried to be a journey together with starting the agricultural bank this year, it started all of Tanzanians who are in home even so that they can be able to enter into the whole period of production that are measurable.
.
.
Tanzania is going on.
What is it?
One is.
On Monday, 5th October, this year, the minister of food and security, Engineer Chihira has arrived in England for the tour to meet the government.
Minister Chihira has led a huge message from experts and various leaders from cashews?
I have been welcomed by the Kuwait Embassy starting the first day of their meeting which had a stomach, and Simba that is in a stable road in the city of London.
Real Madrid club PSPF was started for ten years old and men for a long period with the meaning of the men who call them.
Now, the club did not have a certain place for example, there is a must.
Several factors that are supposed to be done for example is a must that you put a suit and the crows know what is the club.
For you to know a lot of leaders to meet.
The meeting was done by Sports Club that was organized by Radio Free Market when he was sacked is the late God, who will be in the region for twenty and six months and experience of that meeting which its property start at eight o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock in the afternoon up to ten o'clock
By the actor who had the work of their condolences, he spoke with his reputation in a short time, he started with our England ambassador even today, by saying that this is a big servant in the country when I said that she was to be left until now because it is not the ambassador since he started to come up because it depends on.
Ambassador spoke about all the time.
Later he was left.
Professor Elisante Ole Ntimama who is a member of parliament and chairman of the agricultural livestock committee and water at the National Assembly.
Professor Msolla explained his work and later he will talk time in relation to his experience he followed the minister which was the official guest.
If you miss.
And investors in those countries since those who are ready to do business are getting cash.
My fellow minister.
