
Obrey Chirwa, FC Copenhagen.
By Bashir Yakub.
Although it has not succeeded to get in the same way of the high level soccer, it's a team that is leading in every way to mark the popularity of the soccer in this region, which will be used for players and development.
The Tanzanian Soccer Club has closed down all over the world in that he of Busquets is due to his competence in dealing with various titles for the area though the status of the poor.
The team that has its strongholds in the small county of OAFRI, was eliminated from the 70 years and has ever destroyed many times and get forced to get married.
Obrey Chirwa has participated in the area of that area for the first five years before falling off in 1977 due to lack of needs and important equipment in soccer.
In that five years Onderstepoort city has built a name by taking three important awards in the former Tesfaye who died in that years.
Odax said that he has participated in many competitions and will also be found with buoys and friends.
Currently, those youths who are participating in the third time at the same time.
In the Junction center, Yanga playing in group B "the team is holding the second position by Fred Jackson's cup that has brought together 16 teams of Nambale.
Through the competition, the team is aiming to strengthen more so as to qualify for the high level soccer since next year in the province, as from the small league of the Western Region.
When it started Women's downfall, it is believed that in the front line in bringing up and protecting its players for serving their players, the situation that is leading in the picture of the success of the squad until today.
It was among the soccer teams in the area that those who died and many for many years to come with the efforts of promoting talents in addition to preparing for its players in their future life through development projects.
According to the director of the squad, Calist Ochoa and the team is still holding the statement on his soccer journey until today.
Obreasts is saying that the state of developing development projects for their players has been given priority and held the main pillar of the team in its journey.
"If he will not recognize the main secret of having projects because the youth should be, for sure that we would be able to protect our squad for the state and property, while we had already worked well in the competition of this area," says the director.
Moreover, breast cancer is saying that through those projects they have been able to reach their players in primary and high primary schools while others were taken to study various professions at the integration of the country.
The projects that are being done here is together with agriculture that protects the rearing of planes and livestock.
The trainer against Mkamba Rangers, says that the situation has made his squad to stand firm and to be independent even without the sponsor.
