The late God bless you, you know the truth I cannot go down here, I want to go to his home.
I am very happy about when I was able to go back home next week to go to you and I advise that we are safe then we do not have a word.
Just after the clothes I am trying to find out of God, we can draw at four or a month of eight, you're getting a lot and I have all the mother and then the two are going?
The late May I will welcome her fellow musicians when he was going to form one of the form one in the first half, which is equivalent to this year and a spirit what is going to be in form one because we are continuing to grow.
The late God bless the youth that we should narrate to you the late God to go back but it is just the same, but you are still waiting for the news he is still underway.
She has no problem with me, he will know what I have released for the first time, the late God bless you, while we went to now, Nassari was going back and when I told him, "he told him that he told me.
So if you are from us again, but it is not only one that will be enough for a class one again, let me listen to the Almighty God, therefore, it's still the truth, but you can't say God is still the late.
If you play with her as it is the same as he represented the month of four that he is doing a Swahili examinations that I told him, he had already been able to live in Nairobi after he was sent by Hanscana.
Almighty God bless you for his time the late God bless you but I think comes from January next month but I am happy or the examinations.
The Almighty God communicate with you, the late God bless me that I am a whole.
Hitler did not try to inform us that I became the whole when I'm with me I am just like me I'm in a way and also you're getting a chance to see many who have managed to come and be the one or I will go to the end when I get.
You come when I'll come to come to you and when you think it?
When you visited him.
I have been asked, I want you to understand again, the Almighty God is working on how the time he wants to go to the late.
When I ask you, we're getting in Dar es Salaam, I was at work hard.
With us that we are not trying to marry off the virus and not you are not supposed to go to the late God.
It's a very few hours for now, I have an end where these days I found, I think where it was the late?
Do I have been sent by the headlines for now because it is the late.
Up to when the same time you come tomorrow, I went to a teaser?
He went to the grave of the late Sajuki. He went to Christmas holidays up to ten o'clock.
Up to tomorrow you will come tomorrow, the late God rest his right is called Mboma.
The late God is Mbazi Manase 36, the late Marijani Rajabu.
Your child is at home or at home where he is in home where I was in the new year on one of his wife.
Almighty God gave birth to the late.
And the cupboard, the late God is yesterday.
He got a boy.
And he is going on well the Lord, though I don't know your name well, and other youths whom they were playing for a small way, Lilian a youth.
