Therefore for the freedom of looking for and giving information.
The issue that does God create?
First, all the challenges that I feel is in my production, for example you know there is an incident.
What does he told us?
Are coming to the scene of an event, have been forced to write what's forces.
You can you know there is another story of giving them to the citizens and what is seen it?
And you can't write another time now, it becomes a problem with politicians who tried to carry vegetables he was going to go together there or another thing that you have written with you, something that has written the contract but together with these challenges, Latifah Abdallah wants to continue with their profession.
He believes there is a day maybe the media will be there.
A lawyer, incidents of value in the whites are the news that bureaucracy, the ability to arrive at the scene for example one time, I succeeded to go to Kilosa.
I have reached where I want to have heard from the citizens now you want to go to one institution because they get a report when I arrived.
And when I ask me, it's not like that when it came when you came to the manager, he was told the citizens and when he went to him, he did not go back to one question which was normal to end the day of judgment of the media in the world which is celebrated every year in the world.
Black patches that they sat for May third one hundred and one hundred thousand, and to see it is a must for a special day for celebrating the day.
In those statements explained that they wanted to see all the countries in the world especially Africa with the freedom of journalists and the existence of many media houses that they are in.
These statements are similar to each other in the day that you get journalists from the world of the world.
A good reporter from the United Kingdom has been killed, hatred in his newspaper office one hundred and nine hundred thousand.
At the same time the union of nations will release a statement.
And wanting to start at that time every day by third from both countries will be preparing the commemoration of the media freedom day.
The union of nations in the time of the declaration is the ban on issues of journalists.
Some of the concerned countries want to support ten efforts of rumors of the media because by doing so the use of the development of the country.
Tanzania is among the countries that needs freedom to the media.
Sim card ends this day.
Nationally this commemoration took place in Morogoro town on the burial of the funeral.
A big issue that is taking place is to be done on performance by the sea in various countries but also they are looking for you for a way the country has been able to investigate and also those who died their lives while at work, it is not aware that those who died in work.
We look at each other one of the journalists from Africa especially the newspapers in which they were fighting for difficulty in the countries of Namibia.
I don't see the previous years when Zimbabwe of Malawi and himself had not arrived in Africa.
Now if you check.
The environment.
That has been born to be able to ask for you and special days to inform the government that he had not been unable to do so.
For a year the day before yesterday, I arrived here in the country, and the chairman had local tourists getting married by Pharrell Williams, and an eye for him.
When we saw for journalists' Neonatal Sepsis'.
He will not lie on the hands of police.
There's been a challenge in the media and journalists themselves whereby on a large extent it has been postponed for the efforts of information to the public.
The freedom of the press.
