I had requested the Lord in a very difficult place tomorrow where Yanga team will go back to play the training.
They are playing this Sunday in Spain at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, our reporter has a report.
A question to be in the quarter-finals in the Kagame Cup competition and all the teams are expected to get into that step including Simba Azam FC and the opening of the opening of the Football Federation in the country, have thanked the step.
The finals of the first semi-finals starts on Monday by bringing together you the national team of Uganda and Rwanda and the second game will be between Yanga and training from Zanzibar.
I will have been forced to visit the exercises for the training team at Old Trafford stadium before meeting with Yanga.
Mohammed Morocco, the coach of the training team he will talk about that game.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I think I think I think a good match that you play with African water, why many lovers in the country will have narrated it hard to us.
Up to now, we are prepared well so as to win in the game.
More good level we are doing?
The captain of that team Hawa Bayumi said despite being in the verification of the next month of Ramadhan but the sure of getting in the semi-finals.
We have already organized so much because all of them will be in his office and to give him a victory because there's no match.
Tourism has closed down there that oil was tomorrow to play with Yanga, there's no one that will help them to Muslims, therefore we become a clothes.
The training commission has banned the quarter finals after a draw.
My journey is ready to live in a tennis field one by one I will go to an emergency stadium where Yanga is doing.
In the bid, I met and the team is ending this exercise but the coach so that the artist prepared himself the opportunity to speak with him about the game against training and he said the training is not to be taken.
During the training.
Here is in prayers so as to view them?
The game will be his answers since the training.
The technical bench in the past tournament, but we have planned to win in Kenya to get in the semi-finals did not have a lot of hatred in Dar es Salaam and even different from that was just a knee injury and lost its two games and lost only.
The separation of the sports in Dar es Salaam.
