Be bad in sports.
Sep 18, 2013.

The Tanzania Premier League has started competing with hooligans. In the first four weeks of that league, two bad events that have happened in different stadiums in the country.

The first event took place last month in Dar es Salaam at the National Stadium where soccer fans found with the shot, a penalty that has carried players from Coastal Union of Tanga.

Fans who stopped stones as the Coastal Union has been made as Yanga team and claimed that they did so due to being satisfied with the draw that their team got in that match.

Coastal Union had been given a penalty in the last minute of that game and those fans were annoyed so much by the fact that their team got a draw in a match that was supposed to win.

However, basically the players of Coastal Union did not have any offense and it is not that they had given that penalty through a penalty by attacking and injured the players are bad and should not depend on games.

Last weekend, the incident happened again in Mbeya Province before the match between Yanga and Mbeya City that was at home ground, fans alleged to have the team host the players and Yanga leaders.

And for more than one year now, I've decided to witness events of fans giving abusive language to players and leaders of different teams in the match which I've witnessed.

Last year, I went to ipe tears when I met Simba's fans who got abusive language from the former captain of the team together with the national team (Taifa Stars), Juma Kaseja, from the mistakes that he made in the fight against Mtibwa.

Those fans who came to come up to test for the players of the players at the Jamhuri Stadium and started stealing their lives and without forgetting the parents and his family.

Her player was surprised just on the time we were on the way to go back to Dar, there is a group of fans associated with a team and asked Mwanajaj.

If you ask for soccer stakeholders, they see that it is normal things, I say this is not the normal things this year is bad and you do not have a chance or not in soccer.

Bad luck in soccer is not a new issue and in accordance with the existing records, it started on the charts at the 14th century where the former coach of England, Edward II has ever banned that game to be played.

Therefore, I have written this, I believe that here is not a new thing.

While Coastal Union was identified by fans, there isn't any leader of Yanga who had denied that incident.

I thank you that Mbeya City leaders have shown maturity in a high level by considering that event in Mbeya.

And the issue of Coastal Union came to TFF, there is no any punishment given to the fans or club for the explanation that the incident happened outside the stadium and the supervisor of that match he did not have been reported.

The photos that was built here is that if the incident happened outside the stadium, there is no problem, but I believe this concept is dangerous.

In a hurry to see in sports, these are few incidences before, after the time of the match itself.

It does not mean that if they have happened outside the stadium or inside the stadium and the foreign teams are usually given security guards when they go to people's countries.

This is because the behavior of their behavior, these conmen like each other in the areas where there are no enough security so that they can be able to do their differences and taken against them.

Tanzania is unacceptable, and the big international companies from television due to a large number of fans going to view their ball in the match between Yanga and Mbeya City, more than 20,000 fans were attended.

These fans will come at the field if conmen will continue to do, she will not like to endanger his life and his family to view the ball that may be aired on television?

The number of Yanga has a value of more than 400 million shillings that they had been given by their sponsor, beer of Kilimanjaro.

On the destruction it means that sponsors are one of the ones that there is no reason to enter the cost of things well in Tanzania because in the end they will be used only.

The foundation is for all the clubs in general, to condemn and show a tough stand on the acts of brotherhood and conmen in the games.

If possible, if our colleagues who continue, will be made to be made in the list of people who are known by bad luck and that list will be announced publicly.
