
The brutal killings took place in eternal peace, a young man which was not involved in its body organs, is to be called 'Jichunge.'

Rashid Mkonga.

And, Mujahideen.

It is something sad and to bring light, which happened in the family of Mzee Jackson Lyanivana.

This incident by an indication that happened on Friday at 11 o'clock in the evening where the late was called by one of the women who sell alcohol into the most alcohol club in the world known by the name "therefore, Jimmy Lin a short time later the deceased had died while his body has died.

The body of the late was found in the vehicle written by Jichunge.'

The son of the late who identified himself as Mzee Jackson Chove said that, at 11 o'clock in the evening he met with her child known by the name Maria whereby a short time later the late who is his first grandson.

Mzee Gunar said that when his fiancée was greeted by his son immediately he arrived a woman who sell her as a player known as' Sura Sirambi 'known by a name of his fellow musician who defeated the late and went with him in the floor of what he gets.

He said that he left the and getting into the same platform that is in Kilakala Primary school where he joined the other people in the drinking and drinking alcohol without knowing what is happening in the second floor which had been affected by the room they had paid them.

"I did not know what is happening in the second minute I met with my fellow elders we go through the mouth, later he arrived for people to explain that there is a person who was hurt inside and standing out of the body without knowing what he wrote in that country," said Mzee Mwashiuya.

He said that they want to check on that room and to see football and blood is depending on it and that because she was found, they were not able to serve well the body of the deceased at that time.

Speaking about the incident, the Chairperson of the Ipinda area, has been approved by the neighborhood, when the incident entered into the room, he entered into the room and the body that was carried out of hunger where he met with a blood problem with the body of the deceased being faced with great injuries.

He said that he gave a report to the chief executive officer of Criscent Bwambale who left together with one of the elders of the defense and security committee of the estate, Bwambale who left the police station and gave a report of the incident by the police arrived at that area to inspect the body of Mzee Mwashiuya.

On his part, the father of the deceased, Richard Temba said that he arrived at the scene for a short time after listening to the rumors that was being involved in the same way he said that his child was the first child among his six children.

He said that just after the killing of those killings that his youth was participating in a love with a woman that affects the alcohol of Islam where it is also alleged that the woman had another man who had also associated with joy.

The biological father of the late said that they participated in inspecting the body of the deceased in the District Hospital of the district ended up and discovered a huge loss of being faced with a sharp object in the neighborhood to toe.

He said the burial of his youth took place at the Isere cemetery in Mbozi district, around nine o'clock in the afternoon.

Moreover, following the killings, the defense committee of the two local government institutions to discuss the incident and reached the decision of closing the political club in the world due to being seen that the area has been a source of crime.

Speaking about the killing of the club, the Deputy Chairperson of the National Park, Danford Kamoga said that the committee on security and security of the neighborhood came out and finally discovered that the club apart from selling drug trafficking is a mixture of drug abuse and lack of drug abuse.

He said that the area has also been popular by their own pen, whereby the club is projected to take place until night, an issue that has become a nuisance to residents of those areas, while the owner of the area Bwiru, Jimmy Mwarija is expected to control the criminal acts happening in his club.

The police force in Mbeya province has confirmed the occurrence of the incident and what causes the investigation to arrest the murderers, so as to take them in the hands of law.

I will end.
