Here is where?
He was doing normal activities.
Selling yourself.
The farm is normal, he had a great joy when he had a picture if he had seen me to make him if his preparations were shocked when I would be read more on that day.
Taking us as a institution of Mandela who is the star of Bongo research, said that no parents have education especially for a budget.
They had also take them that their daughters Wasagaji, are blocking food about the success of various people who use the mother's success, therefore we have been given a lot of education that we have been given, "we have been given a picture of higher education that we have been working hard to land.
If in addition to that they do not meet here, I don't know what so as to get education I believe I am difficult for Tanzanians for our efforts and it will be a solution of the modern generation and the day after tomorrow they will enable you to start the institution.
The level of education.
For children's children.
Where in which way I want you to help us to help his female children.
In the research that we have done in Morogoro province, there were children last week being finished class seven and they are unable to continue with primary education.
And reasons that were made to visit the field is depending on.
The male system that is in our community is doing a child should not wait and also you can get a child that has different problems such as all the players or living with a loss of one fee.
The war that will be in that female child cannot continue.
To continue his life, let me say that so that we can be able to start front of female children and education this Sunday.
Good example is the first child.
If he can be able to succeed well, I give you a normal way for this teeth.
For these ten people that we need to help them.
Most of your lovely all are in school, we have different activities.
This new advent of this new advent of the disease is still a primary school and only one to help.
After the same time.
Kova, we see that the child of a girl.
Accessing its knowledge of education it has been a challenge.
The research that I done in this year when I arrived this year when I decided to put it.
Last night, the institutions that have been signed, Kajala Masanja, on the ten thousand year, but the institution started its work is the only one thousand year whereby we started with primary schools in Morogoro town together with primary schools, we have made a gift of people like the best ten in the world.
For what we can, since we find children then we get a two sides.
By how to look at the sleeping position from the left we are.
