
To play for our education it is a big sin, we will fall into 11 o'clock.

The Swahili people are saying that she's grandson.

Announcing the strike being at the peak of the past, there are a lot of things to save this "many things," again with the strength of the dollar, some types of sexually transmitted diseases are not wrong.

The strike of teachers and the government's action to use the court to use that strike is the process of playing for our education and if you will have Swahili and regrets.

To play for education it is a great sin because we are doing good education because we are at the best education because we will enable our children to be unable and to plan for class seven without even knowing their names?

When we was taught with better teachers who registered their work and put in all the heart of our teachers, they are teaching them in good environment.

There were houses for teachers, classrooms and other desks, we had books and other equipment for teaching and teaching it was the work of more than to our community and we love our teachers, that they don't like as their children.

The government of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere gave priority to education, today many are following the education it is a last thing of this year, it is dangerous to someone who decided to buy his own milk and leaving his children that give birth to hunger!

There is no any country in the world that can continue without its youths to get better education and for development, it's the need for children in the best education of education.
On that meaning, the teachers anywhere in the world are people feared to be independent and they are set aside the environment of enabling them to promote the nation.
In Tanzania we want to do contrary to although our president says the government is supposed to use the teachers, but the truth that is contrary to our teachers is contrary to our teachers, but their houses, classrooms, books, toilets and sometimes the transport and students of students.

It is impossible that the government does not have money to buy desks, books, building classrooms, houses for teachers, building toilets, to give them students and increase their teachers.

The government does not tell me what one of that list are fulfilling things?
A story that the government does not have ability to be enough to each Tanzanian.
We want to be that the government does not have the ability to increase their salaries but all the schools have the desks, we should realize that the government does not have the ability to increase teachers' salaries but all the schools have houses for teachers, including classrooms and enough books.

There is a message that surrounds the social media, if you know "is very important to the teachers otherwise, the class will be aired by the government," the first person has started to be implemented and even with a mind, in matters, we will realize that we are heading to play for our education and its results, we should repent.

There are those who will be able to sell this message for teachers to start working on cold drinks and there is no one who reads a private school, because if a child reading personal schools from nursery up to the university, this message is not very delicious.

The big problem we have is that those who stop the act of children outside the country, those who their children are not involved in our schools here in the country, that is the ones who decided to fulfill our education.

They do not have a problem if the teachers will decide to perform well.

When teachers were announcing the strike, there are one teachers who did not want it to be told the newspaper he told me, "the truth is that teachers we see in our education standards," the truth is that teachers we see in the class seven results, without knowing how to read or write.

The labor court has given out the judgment and asked to force teachers to go back to work. It is clear that there is no one who is happy about the teachers to fail, but also cheering the court to guide the teachers to go back to work without discussions so as to build in it.

Teachers to obey the court, but they do not work with the heart and this is a great danger to the education of our children.

The cold is bad than an open strike that wisdom and wisdom being followed, the strike ends with teachers to go back to work as usual.

Heavy rainfall were used to resolve the strike of doctors and up to today, there are complaints that services in our government hospitals are not good because those doctors don't be dealt with, can't work hard, those leaders are not involved in our hospitals, they are the ones that are being affected outside the country.

Although there are not good for the development of the nation, but when they visit their homes it is not good for the development of our nation and we will continue to return behind because the big number of public servants do work hard and not for love and patriotic heart.

It is not true that our government does not have money to pay a good salary of teachers, doctors and other public servants, we have many ways of living in Tanzania, teachers live in Tanzania, doctors live in Tanzania, youths live in Tanzania.

We are witnessing the veteran children that are going to study outside the country, a plane that will be forced to rest or do business outside the country and those funds they get where they are oppressed, here in Tanzania.

We have started a district and political provinces without the presence of important needs in order to convince the start of those administration areas.
I would be able to have an intention to pay for our education, we had begun to address problems of teachers before using a lot of money in this big project of starting the district and new provinces.

We have the council of great ministers without primary reasons, this council is used to use many money which could be used in the salaries of teachers, doctors and other government workers and to attract many things to be done with great success.

Most of we expected to listen to President Kikwete, saying that because the government does not have money and teachers who claim that they can get the ability to teach our children, then the government has reduced its plan to start the district and new provinces so that the government is increasing its size of the ministers and other provinces that will be used to pay the salaries for teachers.

Instead, the president says the government does not have money thus the teachers want to leave it, it is a must to return to them and can't teach these! That will take place to play for our children's education.

The current needs is not to start the district and provinces for example Karagwe district has failed once in the district of Karagwe and Kyerwa district, but these did not have the needs of many people in Karagwe district.
The needs of those people are water, hospitals, the market for their produce, teachers, classrooms, roads, roads and electricity in Karagwe, many houses in Karagwe district have been operated on because of rains, many schools in Karagwe district have been operated on.

To make all the problems facing them and informing them but to start a new district which will need billions to start, it's delaying the people to make steps for development.

If we are going to our nation, if we love our children, there is importance of a quick needs to meet the teachers and discuss with them on their claims.
Without doing that teachers do not teach them.

That is why they have started selling this message that I heard on the social media networks and he will also go to school and teach other things contrary to the law.

Its results will enter the streets to claim their right to be taught.
However, it is not good for those children to read it, as a result of problems going to school, they are standing on the buses, they are waiting of hunger and they do not have toilets in school.

At home we witnessed the field they had already used the corruption song, bribery, and land grabbing, at the same time, are witnessing other children being taken to luxurious houses in school and learning from luxurious houses.

These are a human being and all that they are seen, therefore it is not a must you are not seen by the person who is pumped by our community which was dug with the idea.

This article is called for the government to stop this system of using the Bible to be responsible for teachers to go back to work.

Also, it is also for free advice that to use the court as an agent of switching off their daughters, who don't know that there is no place of praying for their rights, who will decide to enter on the road and this one happening, there will be no basis for the purpose of looking for human rights or thinking that they are run by opposition parties.

There is coordinated with the government of power with his habit of putting an eye on many things, the truth is that we are played in education of our children as we are going to our nation.
