
Mizambale has thrown out "Lugua 'committee.
Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited does not tire us!
Dodoma has a small parliamentary committee that was set up to investigate the scandal of Lugumi Enterprises LTD and the police force have started working, while continuing to implement different responsibilities for the terms of reference to the Citizen has been told.
Lugome has qualified in the conflict after it was revealed that he followed the electronic machines of taking each other at 14 centers, different from a big contract with the police force in the year 2011 that is believed to be sold at 108 stations.
Despite failing to get those machines, that company was paid 99 percent of all the money in that project that cost 37 billion shillings.
The news from inside the committee that was formed by the Executive Committee of the Government (PAC), explained that the delay of work is a special program that will give loopholes and Lugumi Enterprises, said that it will be doing a surprise visit, so as to eliminate the possibility of the company to get the news early.
"You know it is a must that committee should be responsible together with other needs for the purpose of starting work so that until now it has not been given anything related to the parliament because it has been prepared for everything," said one of the members of parliament who talked to the Citizen on a condition of his name to be avoided.
"These people do not work with him that there are small equipment that are being supported at the police stations so that the small committee continues to stop the investigation but even if them will not be able to work because it will be joined by the national network."
However, the Deputy Secretary of the Parliament, John Joel told this newspaper yesterday that the problem is not money.
"The committee will start its investigation in Dodoma province when it finished here is that it will continue other areas.
In his speech, Joel insisted that the responsibility of the committee is to visit the areas that were scored by the machine, so as to know if the truth is or not.
Some of the terms of reference to the committee with nine representatives, was forced to look at the fact that Lugiko said taxes in the money that was paid due to the possibility of the contribution and therefore making it to prepare a high cost.
"You know this issue is dangerous for us we were given for our terms, but currently the small committee is supposed to use different areas to verify those machines," said one of the leaders of that committee who asked for his name to be found.
"The small committee will follow up on this issue according to his responsibilities which he has decided to implement it, it will complete the report to the speaker.
Mnyika have said that all will be the same but the committee will have implemented our responsibilities, "the committee that was formed on April 23, has also completed it into three major committee that will be divided into different parts of work.
Those reports indicate that if the machines that will be supported at the stations, that it has no help because a small committee will put an act of buying and distributing them while also known that it cannot work.
"It is a must that we interview because the purchase will be set and remember these machines come from terrorism, now how can it be used for six months, but there is no reason for the meaning that were given," said another representative.
He explained that the small committee will also reduce some of the things not to be given explanations by the police force, which was called in PAC, to answer various topics that were called by the instructions of the implementation of the agreement presented by the police.
The chairperson of PAC, Aurier has been asked about that issue, he said for now he cannot say anything because all activities they be made by the small committee.
