I give me a lot to TDPF.
Seasons Hotel, 2014.

This week, the defense force of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) has attained 50 years since its establishment in a difficult environment, from being the police force to be a very big step.
In the 50 years, JWTZ has managed to be among the few institutions that were present in the country which are being faced by all the community in general.
JWTZ is a force which has become part of the rainy season starting from all times of problem and happy, at the national celebration, it has been entertaining people in times of war has given him a win.
In a very unique way, we have my fellow citizens, we would like to thank the institution in general, but also using a few whose contribution will not be shaken.
First, it is in the first round of the first general of the defense and security forces, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who is the one who decided to make sure that it's instead of being the police force to be the police force.
Instead of having the armed police and threats that it should be a police force and freedom! Without having the correct thoughts of the commander in general, our force would have been used by the qualifications to be on the age.
We also would like to thank the General Zekirer, Colonel, Kashimba, who were the top leaders of JWTZ, when it was started, these are the commander of the commander in order to ensure the army is growing at the international standards.
Thanks, Brigadier General, Hashim Mbamba, who his work in South Africa was forced to Tanzania a great honor among our neighboring countries including the entire African countries because of the work they did in the country.
Thanks to the trainer, David Musoja, Mwita Gogo, Ernest Mwita Saro, John Lukuwi, John Lukuwi, John Mboma, Robert Mboma, Robert Mboma and others who made victory during the Kagera war.
There are thousands of those who lost their lives in various events in the country to go together for the benefit of our benefit and because the open reasons we cannot be able to mention them in this small soul.
It should be known that Mwema should destroy the contribution of all police officers to their husbands, which they have decided to register themselves from their blood for the purpose of making Tanzania be a safe place of living.
We believe that this is the beginning of 50 years that are used to come out of TDPF, more than more stories.
Hasheem Mkwara to pick a victory, to end!
