
It is an important agriculture in Tanzania for farmers.

It has been written by Arnold Kagaruki, Moshi.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) has said that for the nation to be able to benefit from the plan of President John Magufuli of Tanzania for industry, it is a must that farmers to focus on farming which consider the quality of standards, a situation that will bring productivity and strengthen the economy.

That report has been issued yesterday by the acting director of TBS Doctor Egid Mubofu, while opening a training for cooking oil and flowers that took place at the Kilimanjaro Provincial Commissioner office hall.
The training were organized in partnership with the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (UNDP), world development projects in the East African countries and the University of Lands.
Akwilapo said that the aim of the training is to see the way TBS can help its stakeholders, especially farmers, coffee and flowers so as to maintain agriculture that consider the standards, with the aim of improving the production and improve the business so as to improve the economy of the country.
He said that the whole concept of industries for industries is not possible as the production of productivity will be left behind, whereby he urged the farmers to have sustainable production that affect the quality of quality standards that is affecting the environment.
Mwasabite said that if farmers will focus on farming farming which consider the quality of quality and good environment, it will help to increase the production of natural resources in the industries that are going on here in the country, a situation that will stimulate the growth of many industries.
The coordinator of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) here in the country, Mackey Makoko, said that the training will also have to build capacity of clean water and flowers, to see the importance of production of sustainable agriculture and a productivity in the environment.
The partner of those training, who is a coffee farmer from Mtambani Primary School in Kinyagutwa, Izel Jola has said that since he started selling farming, which consider the quality of standards, production has increased and has got good prices in the market due to the quality of their products.
