Name.
It has been found.
Blocking the political parties you know that political parties are like.
They decided who came to him in politics within a day.
Now in this draft, it shows that one of the sin?
That was surprised at the time of registration of political parties.
It is a must.
Bye, on the foundation of gender.
Now, we see that I see that is very big because now parties like to know the election day of one party since the chapter of a woman in all levels of leadership, but maybe it's not the leader.
That concept of preventing women in the outskirts and them are the biggest pillar in improving and also for us, it has become a good thing that we have seen.
We are happy.
A bonus that we have been able to look for now is to be looked upon in this issue of land.
If I look at this, it has touched me issues of the whole number in the constitution that is recommended to be in a third chapter.
The constitution of the proposed constitution, article 10, is saying that every woman will have the right to get involved in developing and managing the community and regulations of what a man will be.
Currently, we are looking for sure to indicate that it will be sent to make sure that it will help reduce land conflicts that has come out of many places as a result of a woman found there was a woman.
Own.
The very important part of the reason is the first in a huge victory.
And the word that brings us more research, the activists of gender equality and the rights of women have been working on it.
And we are saying that there have been many efforts of lictions of the law of inheritance.
In the law especially the law of inheritance where many women are known as email, have been used for a huge level, causing many women entrepreneurs to be the heart of widows but even women in some of Tanzanian society, the ones who live in Dar es Salaam. the parents have died from each other.
How do I think this?
For the basis of you to go to that, to change you?
You're blocking all laws.
And all angels that are oppressive to women in that country to a big level is true that it will bring a huge difference of land ownership between women and men but it is also need to help women to be able to participate fully.
In the economic development of the country, the research of our colleagues in OXFAM was shows.
It is five percent.
Some of the citizens of the women of Tanzanians that own and because there is a system of owning land through a family but also even at the official system due to that women are being offered by the government in all local governments, look at the basis of equality between women and men.
The Khajida Kopa, the father to look at this section one that has also been mentioned in the proposed constitution with five joy and a sigh of money without a solution, I will attract many women of children because women're going to go to.
Now five hours and its human rights are the responsibility of the community and the authorities of the country and the authorities of the country.
That says that article fifty am talking about her child including getting better environment for living and education.
This will help them to help reduce the street children which we have witnessed at a great extent, leaving this foundation and that it will be respected as required as required.
I think there has been an answer as law that will be supported through the constitution that will put the basis of the constitution that will be very fast, the presence of a friendly law which will implement this basis and that the implementation of the implementation is the first.
At least children have been allowed to have these problems.
And we know that there is a problem of children who were.
You know if we say that children in the field there are no doubt that you come from.
The children are born with the father and the son of that way if the constitution is able to make sure that we get the parents and as well as encouraging the government to provide services to those children who have not allowed the law that will protect the law that will protect them.
Most of the most importantly, if you go to be remembered that there is a foundation of ready and then there is laws that will be paid for several years and we will do it.
Broad range of laws that we will inform you for the government to give donations to those children who do not want you will be used for a large extent of children who were in the field but even in our homes, they are getting a lot of affliction from parents and guardians and as well as children living in difficult environments.
For they have done difficult conditions especially when we went to the hospital before a period of this week's journey starting from now, then we get opportunities.
To check some of the sections that were presented to the special constitutional parliament concerning the two sides, the two of the women are now on the side of women.
The chairman of the organizing committee Andrew Chenge, presented to a special parliament of this constitution to listen to him is maybe without being involved in the interests of women.
The late?
