
Mwema, good citizens are not only news even to pay taxes of 15th, 2012.

The TRUMARK company has told this newspaper that has received the award of the taxpayer identification and the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), after emerging the first winner in the tax tax group from Manzese area, Kinondoni Municipality, Dar es Salaam, in the year 2012.

That award for the Good Citizen company, was faced by the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Said Meck Sadiki, last week at the peak of the sixth day of the taxpayer identification, that took place at Mlimani City Hall, in a ceremony that the Vice President of the United Republic, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal was the official guest.

In those special celebrations that are being organized by TRA, every year with the purpose of recognizing its head stakeholders, because of them being the best employer, who in their business was paid taxes without being approved, the Immigration Department, Ubungo region, before officially moving to the Kinondoni Municipality, Ubungo region near the youth Hosea Ndagala.

Apart from the Vice President, the event was attended by several representatives from countries of East African Community, because of Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, and Burundi, various government leaders led by the Minister of Finance, Doctor.
William Mgimwa, chairman of the Board of TRA, Bernard Mchomvu, said the commissioner general of TRA, Harry Kitogo and senior workers of that authority.

The NMB Bank was announced as the total winner for Wimbledon winner in the country, and therefore he was given the award of the best taxpayer in Tanzania.

Speaking at that event, Doctor Bilal has urged TRA to increase efforts in control of civil servants who are not faithful and that increase bribery actions and sabotaging the government revenue.

"I urge you to ensure the area of revenue collection is being built by bribery, and also using any strategies that will help the control of procedures of the citizens and the government to bring better life to the community, so they do not supposed to be satisfied or to be engaged to the community," insisted Doctor Bilal.

On his part, the Minister of Finance, Doctor Mgimwa, said together with other things, that the government is doing the review of the tax law of the year 1974 and the appeal that was started in the year 2004 with the aim of improving them by improving tax exemptions and protect their income to the nation.

Moreover, he said the government is prepared to make improvements in Dar es Salaam port with the aim of making it be modern in the provision of its services and increase the revenue collected from the port.

"We want to raise us and tax exemptions have productive and be productive to the development of the nation, instead of having a huge burden to the government that doesn't have productivity," said Doctor.
Mgimwa.

And the General Commissioner of TRA, Kitilya Mpolo, noted that it's easy to have an increase in tax collection, whereby statistics show that the year 2008 / 2009 the collections of 338 billion shillings, during the year 2012 collection has reached an average of 75 billion shillings per month.

On the side of Zanzibar, the commissioner said statistics show that the year 2008 / 2009 the collections of 45 billion shillings during this year 2012, the collection has reached 89 billion shillings per month.

Speaking about the victory of the award for the taxpayer identification number of Manzese High School, Executive Director (CEO) of Addis Ababa company, Boaz has said apart from showing joy by fans, he said that the award has shown that they are good citizens so that they deal with their actions they get inside the community living.

He urged all servants from their union to be on the front line to pay taxes in the government, saying that that is the only way to build the country, and to bring development to the nation and its people.

"We are our salvation, this is an act that so that you can be a good citizen that it is a must for us to be good, therefore, it is good for our country's good governance including our country's good work in the country.

"As we like, in our information keenly, the news that was prepared to cross the name of great honor, that is the same way, we so as to our responsibility to the nation like this issue of paying taxes," says Moses and added.
"Therefore, my call for instance, without caring about it is business people, farmers or not, we should be on the front line to pay taxes so that we go through our country."

The chairman of TRA Board, Mchaga answered that at that event, in front of Doctor Bilal when he said that many tax exemptions have been given by the government, and especially during the age of rice, sugar and sugar products has emerged billions of shillings.
