
Laws to control the fake police?
The new regulations that aim to control the fake police who have been trying to control their believers so that they can be supported.
Those regulations may be dealt with by using the preachers who started blogging in the economy and not forgetting gospel.
The Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (SACA) last week announced the arrest of the elderly who want the listeners to radio or viewers in television to send money 'money' so as to be careful.
This CAF step is known as a miracle or the request should be given free because this kind is going against the teachings of the Bible. In the holy book of the Bible, we have never been told that Jesus will marry off the Bible.
Along with OMR, the head of law Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
According to the regulations caused by their studies and Professor Idriss Kiango, the main aim will be required to return the audience.
All of them are sick.
Churches, also will be given reports of revenue and use of money.
Likewise, the chest will be able to appreciate their property and even put aside sponsors from the abroad.
However, some of the leaders have showed up and claimed to be careful, his talent from God that does not require their studies.
The last weekend, the Bishop of the church of Jesus represent the Blacks group, Edward Mwaura said that preaching, is equal to the legs or musicians.
According to Bishop Mwaura, focus on yourself is hard to call him from God who do not need me.
The Deputy President, William Ruto, speaking at the Bexhill area, Mombasa during the weekend, said that those laws will be surveyed to ensure that freedom of worship.
The church's status it has dropped due to the increase of fake policemen who want to get married so as to fulfill the mistake of hunger and they have been getting a lot of millions of money by serving their believers.
For instance, some of the pastor of inside here in the country have asked their believers to give money so that they can be able to check if their names have been written in the eternal peace book.
Some of them have also claimed that they have the ability to treat big diseases like cancer and AIDS but later it is revealed that they were conning students.
Some of the people have been looking for Maxwell due to the claims that they have received a call after he survived, the police were involved in crime.
Different from what we are told in the Bible that Jesus continues with poor eyesight, the rich of these days thank the rich that give a great sacrifice.
The arrest have shown their responsibilities of urging good ethics among the youth and even rebuke evil acts like corruption and abuses against women, among others.
