
Mandela will help you know.
October 24, 2014.

Retired president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela together with the retired president of the third phase in the country, Benjamin Mkapa, has given various donations to the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Institute (know).
Apart from those leaders, some other leaders through the government which are leading or they are leading in helping them.
For example, the donation made by Nelson Mandela, retired president of South Africa for Mwalimu Nyerere Institute is 1 (South Africa) / =) which is equivalent to American dollars (USD 5500) as reported in the newspaper of Mke Mwema.
This donation was brought by the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere who is the chairperson of the founder of Mwalimu Nyerere Institute when he visited South Africa, October 1997, with the aim of announcing the work and goals of the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute.
In his trip, Mwalimu Nyerere also received a donation of USD 50,000 people from South Africa.
About the donations which the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute has received from the government of Tanzania together with the year 1995, the retired president of the second phase, Ali Hassan gave two stadiums (number 60 and 61) at the Sokoine road when they met with Shaaban Robert.
Because of the conditions of improving the fields, the fourth phase of the fourth government of President Jakaya Kikwete has given a total of 2217 / 1 / 168 that is between the field of Sokoine / Morogoro / 09 / 09 / = to be an alternative system instead of the two stadiums.
About the donations of cash money in March, the year 2002, the retired president of the third phase, Benjamin Mkapa has contributed to 106,000,000 Tanzanian shillings which was organized at the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute which was organized at the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute which was organized at the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute which was held on March 25, in the year 1999 and Mwanza.
In all the two event, the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, visited Honorable Mkapa officially launched the Institute of Social Development Goals (National Development Goals) in Mwanza March 26th, 1999.
In the year 2006, the fourth government of Jakaya Kikwete through the prime minister, Edward Lowassa gave a donation of 106,000,000 Tanzanian shillings to Mwalimu Nyerere Institute.
President Jakaya Kikwete, President of the fourth term, urged the institution for accepting to launch the Julius Nyerere International Institute for the cost that was given by the Mwalimu Nyerere Institute from Mzee Nelson Mandela, Benjamin Mkapa, Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Jakaya Kikwete.
74 Tanzanian shillings from the government of the fifth term and IV are together with a plot from the fifth phase government.
Gallidum and the senior officer of Mwalimu Nyerere Institute.
