Captain, Mwinyi, Samia will benefit.
Brightiles 14, 2014.

The presidential medical camp through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have three names of people who are supposed to take the position of running mate (vice president) in the next general elections, has been known.

Three names are Doctor Hussein Mwinyi who is the minister for defense and nation-building, Samia Suluhu Hassan who is the minister of state, office of the Vice President (coalition) and the retired prime minister and member of parliament for nominated, two-thirds.

Although there is no law that is being mentioned to be the president who would come from Mainland Tanzania, there are all signs that President who had a break of Tanzania mainland due to the kind of preparations that were done by people, the ones mentioned to vie for presidency in the general elections of the year.

Different interview that was done by Good Citizen and those who are in the contest for vying for CCM to vie for the presidency, have shown that the three names passed by the main camp that wanted the presidency.

This newspaper has been told that Mwinyi is going on more with the camp that are accused by the member of parliament of Monduli, Edward Lowassa, the coach was involved in the camp by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, while Samia was in the process of the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda.

"Pinda has said that he is ready to say that she is going back with Samia. There is no objection again, this is a musician or who know her well in Zanzibar and he cannot be able to stay again," said one of the people that are accused of involvement in the Pinda's camp.

When he was asked if he has been followed by one of the people, the ones mentioned to vie for presidency in the year so that he can be his running mate, Doctor Mwinyi said, "I told me the truth, my brothers, and I have not been followed by anyone in the disease they said.

"Here you see and continue with my work of serving the nation and my citizens and I don't have any thoughts about 2015.

When he was asked about Mwinyi, the spokesperson of Lowassa, Abubakar Lungangira who was asked to be given time to ask the former prime minister about those reports, but he could not answer up until they're going to return.

One of the politics analysis of Zanzibar, Ally Saleh, said that he is happy about the performance of fellow candidates from Zanzibar, although he said that the people of Zanzibar would like to come from the islands.

"Fifty years after the United Republic of Zanzibar has thrown out ten years of Mzee Mwinyi (Ali Hassan, president of the second phase), and now the time for him to talk with them as they want to work.

"Therefore, I am not support this issue of people who are seen to have their fellow candidates just and that's why I will support Ali Karume when he will announce that he will be vying for presidency although it will be seen if the country becomes a critical condition," he said.

He said that if the presidential candidate from Tanzania mainland, he would look at three main qualifications of his running mate who could put him from Zanzibar when he did not work in Zanzibar and the one with the knowledge of the union and international issues.

He said that his running mate can come to be president if the president will be faced with any problem and therefore it is a must he can be the president.

If you know the private reputation and the three politicians, he said that "Samia will know you so much and I have ever worked with him in the previous years.

I know I know the ministers of Mainland Tanzania who don't know even in the provinces of Zanzibar, the benefits of getting a candidate who is going on in Zanzibar is that you will also get a lot of votes for the members of the National Executive Council from Zanzibar, if you get the vice chairperson that you want to make him well and he will help him in advice.

"In that truth I think Samia has worked well and his problem is the ministry that was given to Tanzania mainland, it has been happy and we do not use the sun well.

"The captain has been the chief minister for ten years again, he was in a time when Zanzibar politics had a very difficult time before the right time, if you want to someone who is doing well in the islands then the captain is wrong.

"These days he added by education while reading a doctorate degree to PHD). She gets to Zanzibar.

"I have two problems with the first lady of first not to be a minister after being removed by many people who are ministers and you are not a difficult thing.

Secondly, the second is not seen if someone who depends on that decision, two of them is a leader who can't know how when he was the leading minister for ten years.

"Mwinyi is calm and he is working in a good ministry that he has been an important minister for now, he does not understand the coalition and it is a person that is seen to be the president of Tanzania if you see what I seen as a result of being interviewed by people from one family.
