The punishment for all the community.
We will also do that, even this is that river has caused a lot of each other and I don't know what we don't know.
This is complaining.
So who is the one who was supposed to be?
Being bad, more than one of what happens it is going on.
We need to be given.
You will have shown your long time but you know that you are not a business person in that area.
You thank Mister Djinnit soon after some time when she told him being his area and you know that it's still a person who did, I request him to answer his band which there is no longer people.
I finished you, we request that every reason for your business in the fight is still with strength and we do not know how you are with the father of this disease with water buying their water because I am doing, but I found this person, something, I was doing a load when you know what was a load.
At the moment you want a load to know what is following the burden for a load if you said I can say that.
Now look at a lot of food that you are in the constitution that he has contributed to the constitution that she had gone to women pregnant women, to come out on the road, he will be one of them to go to the road to endanger their lives and the issue of road safety.
Spongers that take time to let me know that Dodoma is required to be accountable if you're getting small pieces of the war here, it is the road for their efforts, I don't see him in the continent or not getting off here in the country.
Tanzanians who have their efforts are waiting for after a period of one week.
The scandal that brought together rice without depending on various entertainment.
One director has the responsibility of those who are inspiring.
When we get to him today, her sister has told me that you have not noticed that.
Therefore,
Because if the child is a procedure for example, like this one, we had a surprise of one thing and there are some people, Mister been forced to wait for the contestants from Mujahideen, it is claimed that.
I was a house.
