
The report about the work of the National Stadium.

Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and Taifa Stars coach Kim Poulsen has agreed to break the contract in an agreement that is the secret of both sides.
That decision has been announced today (February 27 this year) in Dar es Salaam city together with the TFF president, Jamal Malinzi and coach Poulsen to front of the journalists.
President Malinzi on behalf of TFF has given thanks to coach Kim Poulsen to cooperate with the contribution that he gave to Tanzania starting from the youth football.
And Kim has thanked UPAM's cooperation which they gave him for a period of three years in the country from May 2011 when he was appointed as the coach of the national youth team, and later Taifa Stars.
Speaking about the new technical bench of Taifa Stars, President Malinzi has said that it is expected to be announced recently by coach from outside Tanzania.
He has said that on the side of the match against Namibia that will be played on March 5 this year, its Windhoek, Stars will be led by the acting director of technical, Salum Madadi is being assisted by coach Hafidh Badru from Zanzibar.
In another step, Coach Madadi has removed five players of Yanga in the squad that was mentioned previously so that they can get an opportunity to serve their team in two African Champions League against Al-Shabaab of Egypt.
Those players are Athuman Idd, David Fani, Deogratius Munishi, Frank Domayo applauding and Mrisho Ngasa who is also a goalkeeper who was removed from that squad after getting a disaster.
Their positions have been destroyed by the players Abdi Banda (Coastal Union), Yussuf Himid (Azam), Juma Luizio, (Mtibwa Sugar), Said Gadi, (Azam) and Shabani Kado (Coastal Union).
Taifa Stars will go into the camp the day after tomorrow (March 1 this year) at the Ackyshine hotel in Dar es Salaam city, and will leave on March 3 this year at the South African Airways and return to the country on March 7th this year at 811 o'clock in the afternoon.
