
There was walking on 01 / 16, 2012.

Some of the chairpersons of the board of directors of the government hospitals are alleged to intervene and wanted to prevent doctors to participate in the reception of the chairman of the Community of doctors in the country, Doctor Stephen Ulyankulu, who was in treatment outside the country, Almighty God, has been told.
Those chairpersons killed doctors in those hospitals under them not to participate in those preparations, although some do not obey those instructions.
It is alleged that the previous plans of the preparation was giving an opportunity to Doctor.
There was a special area where they could not give a speech.
Our news sources explained that the great plan of preparations to take a lot after alleged to be some of the chairpersons of the board of directors of the government hospitals in the country to provide and even try to prevent Doctor Chegeni's get an opportunity to talk time when they go back to the country.
"There were preparations for taking them to speak, the chairpersons of all the hospitals and not Muhimbili, to ban the meetings by doctors anywhere in the country even so, those instructions can be implemented by 100 percent.
"There are feelings of some people that because these chairpersons are also appointed by the president, there is a probability that the instructions are supported from the high level," said one of the doctors who met with Raia Mwema.
However, the people who had tried and Doctor Chris Brown is explaining that for now the doctor is doing talks with her colleagues so as to get a briefing of what happened in the country during a period that he was not there, although there was also a report from some of his family members that, the media have received some words that he woke up after arriving from South Africa.
"But if you do not know the chairperson for a long time was on treatment, he doesn't know that what was going on in the country, therefore it is the right time to get stability so that he can know what is going on in the country," explained our news source.
Doctor Raqqa, who is the accused of being the head of doctors, came back to the country on August 12, this year, from South Africa where he was being treated, after falling, being beaten and being shot dead in Mabogini village in Dar es Salaam city.
After arriving at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere International Airport, there was a section of his fellow doctors, together with a group of activists, he also arrived at the field to follow up on the incident so as to report to different media stations in the country.
The incident that was held in June 27, this year, different people have been involved in that incident which is currently ongoing in a case against one of the suspects.
Speaking soon after arriving, they met him to the press.
"I thank you to inform me, I thank my fellow doctors, brothers, my brothers and I help them to get treatment until today I go back, I was walking."
On his side, the secretary of the community of doctors in Tanzania, Doctor Edwin Ngonyani age, was quoted by some of the press at the field saying.
"Come back to Doctor Ulbrahim and the plans of Almighty God, this is a confirmation that here in the country there is no modern equipment and drugs.
"Doctors have been encouraged by this has given us the strength despite threats that we will continue to fight for our rights, this is a long time."
