From the age of religion?
APR of 23rd, 2014 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

It is clear that the debate of the new constitution, especially the section of the union of the union, is heading to take the nation in trouble, despite the symptoms of the special constitutional parliament that they can end up because some of the delegates of that parliament have no faith that "the wind was bad.

Even so, as a day you will continue to go to the way the situation is ongoing and there is bad, it is due to the symptoms of racial segregation in line with the dangerous efforts to place taxes in the fire by using religion in politics.

But do not knowing words, I urge you to listen to my blame to President Jakaya Kikwete and his party (CCM) together with the worried that there was the possibility of getting a new constitution, he allowed the fact that maybe the possibility of getting a new constitution is bad, and therefore they saw the possibility of getting a new constitution, "said there was no reason for having a new constitution.

Things are required to go well despite the efforts of here and there in CCM, making the issue of a new constitution to be bigger than the national political parties, some of the politicians in CCM were unable to meet with President Kikwete instead of congratulating them that they want to go to the State House drinking time.

The first symptoms of that the fate of the new constitution is to be in doubt that participated in the first draft of the new constitution, under Judge Joseph Warioba to put in public the first draft of the new constitution, whereby the proposal of the structure of a new constitution, including the efforts of the process of the process.

But God is not Athumani or John, together with fighting the referendum here and there, finally, President Kikwete announced the names of the delegates needed from different community groups, but before that party, already President Kikwete was not yet to be the chairperson of CCM party in a normal environment, but it has not been possible for the presence of a difference between the Kikwete of CCM and Kikwete.

Starting from there, it was known as "participate in the bottles" (the Geneva Convention of the Democratic Republic of Congo) was opened.

Just after the session of the Special Constitutional Assembly to start, a sign that the situation in front can be safe and they take place every day after the small traders use the charges of voting (that is the voting process).
But as soon, CCM showed themselves to invest their great strength in the issue of government structure as a result of the issue, the issue has lasted approximately every section of a new constitution, and by bad luck, the debate of the union of unity continues to cause unity and solidarity of our nation.

Although your language is not a new issue to the parliamentary debates, the situation has continued to be bad in the special assembly of constitutional parliament, we have explained that some of the delegates accused their colleagues in parliament, there were no faith that "when they come back to the issue that brought together in Dodoma."

Once they will start claiming that if the new constitution will not have two governments, the army will qualify for power and he has started claiming that it is not another but President Kikwete in his speech at the opening of the constitutional parliament, a few weeks ago.

But when President Kikwete mentioned the issue in the political platform (parliament), one of his promises he decided to give that issue in the political parties and take place in the house of the service in this region I have talked to William Lukuvi.
