The conflict of the fields are following the work.
Sei 22, 2016.

The dispute between the fields has started in the fight between the Capital Development Authority (CDA) and some of the residents of Rahaleo Primary School here in this city, despite being operated on, their names have not been seen in the list of who's supposed to get plots.

Those names which have been buried in the Ipinda county office last week has resulted from CDA the leadership of CDA by giving a few names compared to the number of people who are in that area.

The location in which the conflict between the wall is (C) that is in the two streets of Sulaiman Polonia Airport which CDA) did the verification of information through its testing project in the year 2013.

In that evaluation, 414 people were determined by citizens being directed to promote those areas until when their names are when they were written in the ward offices.

According to those citizens, since an evaluation takes place more than two years ago, these names were written on September 10 this year while there are several factors that include the small number of names and among those involved was revealed to lack the residents of the concerned area.

"In Kunzugu Ward, 124 houses was found during an evaluation but in names that tried to return some of their names, not have increased by unknown people," said one of the residents of that area.

Those citizens claim that even the provision of a number that took place in the year 2010, was caused by REA which is caused by CDA staff in the office of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART) after the citizens will be given money to be given the number of their houses.

However, some of those citizens have been involved in the issue of their names of the list, and their action of providing cooperation in the country after being taxed.

The investigation that was done by Good Citizen has revealed that after conflicts, the citizens have also started looking for their rights to get plots by taking different actions which include 108 names, the fate of 108 names which have not been seen and follow keenly what the members of the committee were following more than one positions and others lack completely.

Ubongo Ward's councilor, Dotto GNP, confirmed the existence of a tension in his ward and added that during the general elections of the general election last year, citizens complained that the time of the general elections of last year, the citizens complained not to present their areas where after the election was forced to convene the session that brought together religious leaders, famous people, including religious leaders and politics.

The reports show that after testing, there are areas that were left out for schools, sports grounds, open areas and markets which are in the area of C and markets which were left open because of sports but the citizens in the area wanted them to pay as CDA.

According to the councilor, before the testing of 414 people took place, after testing, 299 points followed, 115 were found, 115 will be forced to give a letter to a few people.

They said they had agreed to be in the same area which has been operated on, the residents of Sulley Mwitasi together with traffic police have been looked into so that people should be looked into so that people should be taken to people to write, "mother Joel" or "father Nuru," he said.
