
The elephant's teeth.

By Mwajacho Juma, Zanzibar.
The police force in Zanzibar, needs to look for one officer of the port.
Who is accused of being involved with the transportation of elephants through the port.
Malindi, in the islands.

Apart from looking for that officer, also the army has started questioned.
Some of the people and doing investigation about the incident.
Those involved.

Speaking to the press yesterday, the commissioner of police.
Zanzibar, Mussa Ali Mussa, said two people are being held until now.
That port's officer without releasing his name is doing a search.

He said the work of downloading the cargo and counting the teeth.
It is complete where what is happening is to make sure.
The real meaning of the teeth that were arrested.

"Into 1,021 computers with the elephants' teeth.
The one that is in the sacks of 2,2815 kilograms of these teeth.
If you go back to go out of the country, "said Commissioner Mussa.

He is not there.
Therefore, he said that two people have been set free.
One asking the other one with a load but up to yesterday, the involved in that load had not been arrested.

"Two people are holding one, one is involved with the company.
You need to change this disease of England Premier League (CO), we are continuing to do.
Investigation in order to know if they are registered in Zanzibar.
Or outside the owners, "he said.

He added that, there have been huge controversy on the documents.
Should be used to transporting that load which was reserved for the area.
Ditopile, and later being transported to a car until inside the port of Zanzibar.
"Is there?
Several issues have come out about the documents of the transportation of this load.
We will put it open after the investigation is completed, "said Commissioner Mussa.
He said in large numbers of that load, you have not heard of Africa.
East Africa where that is the third event in Zanzibar.
They were arrested, the uses of elephants' tusks at the International Airport of Zanzibar and the second event.
It happened in the year 2012 at the port of Malindi.
