
Veteran politicians, follow keenly the source of the union IV are 1608, 2012.

In the third place of this article last week, we saw the American efforts of wanting the president of Tanganyika and Zanzibar Islands, after that leader decided to convince the union between Tanganyika and Zanzibar Islands, after that leader decided to unite his country and Tanganyika.
Following that step, April 22, there were arrested in Zanzibar with the union of a union that was organized in Tanganyika, ready for the right time he was received with Karume with his own pen, has Abdullah Kassim Him and others.
The teacher took one hour and then come back to Dar es Salaam the day before yesterday with the agreement that was not correct, popularly known as "the union certificate," which is the main foundation of the union and of any constitution of the union.
Following the next day, April 23, there were seen as usual, the American ambassador to Tanganyika, William Antichrist, was sent in Washington saying that.
"(A), there is a probability that if the Chinese force of the camp (Abdulrahman) has decided to start the fight for weapons so as to prevent a dance group from the United Republic of Tanzania.
Why is the reason of building the East African Confederation that caused the last steps but it's why Nyerere entered with United Nations and Zanzibar instead?
The arrest of things started in Nairobi during the last talks about the East African Confederation Cup (EAGI), on April 10 and 11, there were believed that the Federation of the three countries carried soldiers to the United States and England of wanting them to deal with those countries within a source of one of illegal immigrants.
If the federation was born with countries of the northern region (Zambia), the South African Community (Zimbabwe) and Nyasinde (Malawi) in the basis of claiming that they are required to form the World Cup competition, Nyasinde, at the end of the process of claiming the freedom of those countries.
In addition, the government of Kenya on its part, did not support the idea of the union that deals with them in Kenya and Zanzibar with Sultan Kipingo, which is a source of Islam and were arrested within one source.
The same way, the Tanganyika Government's proposal has been prepared for another session of the heads of three East African countries "to talk about Zanzibar" and the future of the federation was born recently, that Kenyatta was quoted later saying he was not ready to vote at Nyerere.
Ambassador Ombeni Sefue to report in Washington, "the deterioration of the state in the islands, with a lot of Babu and if they are required to protect Zanzibar's security and also to prevent Zanzibar to get to the control of the Chinese."
He continued to report, the structure that was accepted, basically it is a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar in order for the relationship between the England government and Ireland in the northern region. "
While showing the truth about the union that was expected, the ambassador of Fly 540 Kenya, said that, "the project (plan) is not true, and its danger is obvious that the main issue that comes here is clear.

It is to get an African solution to a African problem with a political problem (what is what he sang on.

About the situation in the islands of Zanzibar, you will inform you that, "we are in a few days in the coming days, the situation will also be critical and in the islands of Zanzibar Islands, but the ratio (in the islands) is to increase in doubt in the report that, a grandfather's camp does not have modern weapons."
He continued, "the Tanganyika Government explains the importance of the British Government of giving support if the United Republic of Zanzibar will be requested by the government of Zanzibar and Tanganyika leaders, but we believe that they will be used to be used outside Tanganyika according to the agreement between the Tanganyika and Nigeria."
It is that, after the Tanganyika Law Society (Tanganyika.
28, there were injured, Nyerere called the England army to come up for a rebellion and hostility seen that the Nigeria's army come to strengthen security.
In addition, he continued to inform us that, "we have proposed that American forces to be responsible in a stern warning, we have discussed with the African ambassador in Dar es Salaam city and asked him to also help African Union, to reduce words that can bring feelings of cold drinks and to be emphasized and that these are African efforts and the decision is to be done by the people of Zanzibar.
And the Minister of United States, DealRusimbi, sent away from his embassy in Dar es Salaam city the report of "give advice quickly as Zanzibar and Tanganyika need equipment in dealing with rebellion, gun, bombs, gifts, and so on."
On that day, it is not allowed to read another report in Washington, saying.
"Kibamba, (head of protocol), has called me now, to present a private request of Nyerere and dowry, he urged the American government to fail to speak anything about Tanganyika - Zanzibar.
The union was officially launched by April 22, there were already been contaminated by people in the two countries, on April 25, 2014, in order to be the international agreement that is not implemented in accordance with the laws of those countries.
On the 26th of April, the world was not kept on top of Tanganyika and Zanzibar to join together with April 27 with great joy, he sent the Washington news.
"I don't have any doubt that, Tanganyika is expecting the government of if they go to Zanzibar, it is supposed to be taken inside the stomach, as the Lake Region that doesn't be approved by the western countries so that he can attract them and control the situation in the islands."
But two days before the union, the United States ambassador in Zanzibar, Frank Domonica Meena, was happy to make sure that the state in Zanzibar was safe and therefore, there was no reason for England to send the army to send an army so that we can rule.
On the kind of the union of the union on behalf of the United Republic of Tanzania, Carl Hovind, has sent a statement in Washington saying, "together with those reports to sign the Federation of two countries that will continue being free, but the union of government authorities of the United Republic of Tanzania that killed the status of these countries like free."
That day of the union, there was a rumor that Ali Mahfoudh, his army (in the islands), was prepared to do Revolution, but it is said that politicians have thrown out and said, "better than 3,000 people for the interests of the people of Zanzibar and are at the western countries.
On the 29th of April, we gave the opinions and how Nyerere could be able to defend his new council of the United Republic of "technical" by suction of people of Zanzibar, "said Doctor" Tumumie the day he made the government of a union of two million pounds because of Zanzibar development, and other donations will be presented from the United Kingdom and Germany. "
Following the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union (URT), Nyerere was given the position of the president, Karume, the first vice president of the president, Ban Ki-Kawawa, the second Vice President, and Babu Tale and the Vice President of the economy.
Karume was as he had remained with the position of the president of Zanzibar, although later that position was changed to be the prime minister of the government, to remove the concept of two ambassadors inside one country, but when a short period later, it was brought back to be called president again.
The readers will inform you, this is a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar or the United Republic of Tanzania?
The real name of this union, as it was founded by not correct, it is the United Republic of Zanzibar and Zanzibar, "it created the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar" the president did not have a union of Tanzania up to six months later.
In the month of August, there was the government announced the competition to select the new name of the United Republic of the United Republic, which will enable him to join together and should be known as' Machinga 'when he promised to be the winner.
In that competition, approximately 34 people from within and out of more than 40 countries including Russia, England, Los Angeles and Australia participated, "the name of the winner is still a big secret of the government, despite that some people have come out and claimed that they were given that name.
If you return to our primary question, do you have a union of voluntary or blood?
In his opinion, the editor of the "Ambassador of East African Community" (9705) in Nairobi city, 93921, during the union was with these members of Zanzibar, who will be put aside, or (it is) a way for people with revolutionary people, should put it (relocating to Tanganyika. "
With the newspaper of the "Ambassador Seif of June, there were injured and warned.
"It has been said that in Zanzibar, the President (Nyerere) has written a half of the work of a girl in the country, but it does not affect the unborn child.
Frank Domayo applauding the former President of the United States in Zanzibar (in the picture), in an interview with the popular writer, Amnesty International, in the 6th August, he confessed that, cold drinks is accused of promoting the union, "he said.
"Nyerere was forced to take a step about the problem of Zanzibar. I don't know if that was his own kind, or we tell you (in the western countries) but I understood the situation in the islands was not for its benefits to us.
We thank the Tanzanians since the United Republic of Tanzania to be reached 48 years ago, the revolutionary administration in Zanzibar has improved or it has no doubt and that the girl has been destroyed, and that the girl has been taxed.
Miigo, we have helped me, if you look at the use of those drugs, what will we expect to do anything inside the new constitution as they are expected to look at this rainy season?
If the concept of cold drinks is the real source of the United Republic of Tanzania, and because the war does not happen again, it is not good for now and it is also a right time for us to reduce the brain and cost of the stomach, "it told me.
For sure, this last question is critical and his answer can be available through a new constitution alone, but our leaders have said much and warned them.
"FICE of faith," United Republic of Tanzania is enough for now, is the turn for citizens to say through the process of new constitution we should leave the citizens to speak.
