Eight at the close relatives, my brother, thank you very much for me, I thank you first on claims that it has reached here and I would say that you are you for a lot of reasons.
For those leaders looking at that.
You know that when you are in the game we have to be like that of our colleagues, they do not have sports so as to prepare people to live well with our first skin to reach it from it in our fellows.
When a child depends on little by Mister Okoye, the areas have risen up because, you find you contribute towards a twenty father as employment I will help them and if you check on the side here.
Very few players who are confirmed about because of the guidelines of making a good environment but for now there are many people who know here, there are many people who love here in the villages that she would like to see you even if there were many players who were coming from.
They don't know that Kigoma is like a game but there are people who came from different provinces for example, players like the youth have come from Shinyanga but I believe that there are good players where in the village there is good environment where I believe we will be used by many players who have the ability.
He is not there.
Even so.
And so much.
It is heading to him.
Neymar were your work but I want to work is to you that you are a member of seven games to be eaten by Tigo, close to names and called Mwengi.
I would like to talk about that commission.
Three sides are issues of leadership.
The development of youth.
It will start in the development of youths, we have tried to get having three major competitions for youth.
We have a cup that is involving us to honor.
Then we have been able to fight the ball, even when you go and we are going to your home where for these hours I went to.
So they have ceased to know the truth is that after those youths there are no place where you are not supposed to be in the competition after there is no development, without considering that there are people who want to help them in future, there is no plans like it.
In the meeting, management, we wish you the rich team there is something called Sports.
If there are a woman it must have a youth team.
We are looking for many teams which are participating in the premier league this season if I see Azam alone and I think it is understood to the youth other places are waiting for competitions when they were told if y was sent away.
I think people are attractive, as they cause a market because that can we be able to continue something in the management.
We have people that like it's day.
That is supposed to be when Manchester United was happy about the registration of registration and leadership later he went to the case, you find the people as previously in our clubs including our clubs.
That they do not have their work, you ask you.
Another thing that it is in the preparations.
You know for example we have been given to you?
Why can I have two hundred and ten thousand, but if we are saying that we are not how we had started preparations now like those boxers may face off.
If you know, there was someone who was found to go with sores.
He is saying that he has a ring even the one of him to support him, he sees another one to fear until getting into what.
Let us start preparations for now like those committees.
