
Police in Dar es Salaam get the network of "TOKIU".

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

Police in the special region of Dar es Salaam has done an operation in middle areas and at the outskirts of Dar es Salaam city and arrested eight suspects of different crimes including those who were on the criminal crime network in Dar es Salaam, Salum Mtwele (34) popular.
"Flash disk".

Mtwele was presented at the Ilala District Court at the end of the week, to answer the charges of joining the attempt to use the weapons and revealed some of all two eyes, Said Mrisho.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the police commander of the region, Commissioner of Police Simon Sirro said other suspects are alleged to break a house and stealing from the others being determined by 148 shots, 298 shillings and 95 percent.
He said those suspects have been arrested in different times in Mbagala areas, Buguruni, Southampton, Gongo la Mboto, Tandika, Ukonga, Ukonga, Kunduchi, Keko, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe, Kawe,
"The suspects were determined by various mistakes including breaking houses on night and stealing a 10 popular radio in the country, smoking and sell oil, selling and drinking alcohol, looking for words, carelessness and downloading easily," said Commander Sirro.
In another event, two people who are believed to have been arrested were arrested with a weapon of Mark IV which had its own.
Those suspects were arrested on October 10, this year at the Vingunguti area with a motorcycle that had a motorcycle number plate T 717 AWK which is in the attempt to make an incident of robbery in industries area.
He said the special unit of dealing with robbery, had been observing them by those suspects after seeing that they started fighting for the police towards the police and that's when the police responded immediately and went to two sides to hold that weapon, having five bullets while being shot.
He said that the previous reports have noted that those suspects have been reserved because of investigation, they had organized to attack the Vingunguti area, he said the suspects were rushed to Muhimbili National Hospital for treatment which was bad due to a bullet.
He said that the investigation of that incident is going on.
