
ICC has denied the charges against President Uhuru, William Ruto, continuing with the case.
After the President Uhuru Kenyatta to be removed from the charges against the International Criminal Court (ICC), only will target the case against the Deputy William Ruto, composer and the journalist Joshua Nasari, which was planned to be repeated in the next year.
The side of the charges that is led by Miss Fatna Bowman.
Later reports will be expected to explain the court through their lawyers and believe that the evidence made is not enough to prove who were involved in the violence after the 2007 election.
In the sessions that were prepared in this year, the claims that witnesses should be associated with the prosecution's side so as to give evidence against the accused that emerged victorious in the time of being faced with a case of those two.
Through his lawyers, Mister Ruto has claimed that, one witness of the nine people who have risen from the case he did so that he had given money from the charges of the charges.
According to Lawyer Kelley Muntari, a witness P-Fi will go up to Nairobi signing an oath of oath that, he did not want again to be involved in that case after being told that they should be given money for house tax and other personal use.
"On the email letter written on August 30th, 2013 to officers of ICC who are in Kenya, the wife of the witness asked the money for housing and other expenditure, the unit of managing the interest of victims and witnesses given the answer that there was a directive from what to be money again," said Mrs Fissoo.
However, the witness denied the claims of Miss Akitanda, and said that his decision to get out of a case is not due to that, they were tested for money.
"That communication has said openly that, it is not me that I was not involved, I want them to speak on behalf of any person.
"I was grateful for the consent of the oath of oaths for a few days after listening to one of the behavior of the court," he told the court.
In the first interview, the registrar of court Mister Herman Kapesti explained that, witnesses are given money even though it is not a permit.
Mister Habel said, it is normal for any court to fund its witnesses in one way or another so as to bring him in a period where they will be in collaboration in the existing case.
"They are not pleased by the losses they are given when they are called to give priority before the court," he said.
According to, witnesses do not have a great importance to enable the advancement of rights through the rights and it doesn't be released though they help the court.
He said that the money that are offered, they were forced to help buy food, transport and even accommodation while required to travel to different places.
Mister Ruto has been complaining that, witnesses in that case were claimed to have a lot of money that they had promised and the charges they had promised and the murder of the charges they decided to give a false evidence so that they can benefit.
Some of the witnesses who previously have committed themselves in that case, they told the court that, the evidence gave birth was false because they wanted to receive money that were being raised for witnesses.
It is also this year where you get married, Mister Ruto, following the decision of the court that made him a chance to promote its government services while his case is going on.
That decision resulted from the request that was presented to the judges when he wanted to implement its legal responsibilities to the nation without informing them to continue with that case.
The economy through the request was presented by the judges through its lawyers who are led by Mister Karim Khan, Deputy President explained that he had the constitutional responsibilities to fulfill the promise he made to the Kenyans including strengthening the national security, economy and social rights in the country.
"The truth is that, Mister Museveni did when he got with two big responsibilities.
The first one is to the court where he is fighting for defending himself against the claims that were released against him and the second one is in the United Republic of Kenya, "he said.
The topic of that request was done by the amendments that were done by the court regulations during the union of members of ICC last year.
In those reforms, that was called upon by Kenya, the nations have agreed to rectify several areas so that the judges are to be able to allow the accused with great responsibilities in the government to be able to attend some of the sessions.
The government of Kenya being supported by the African Union (AU), sent a suspect especially the national leaders to attend all sessions in court is the same as sabotaging the concerned countries because leaders fail to implement their constitutional responsibilities.
On the charges he has shown the request, Mister Ruto, stated that the regulations have been changed to change the law of court which requires the witness to be the court when a case is continuing to be treated.
Miss Bongole said that the step of allow Mister Netanyahu not to present some of the sessions would have been discrimination on the accused who are not a non-governmental leaders.
However, the request for Miss Bony was forced to leave a appeal against that decision that was born by the judges.
In their decision, the judges that are led by Judge Chile in the session when witnesses have given their views to court, whereby the judgment will be provided in the whole period of sessions to decide the consent to be presented to the victims.
Mister Shonza also was required to attend five in the first meetings while the court is going back to holiday and also at any time when the court will continue to arrive in court.
That decision made the deputy president that the first national leader in the world have ever been able to use the regulations of ICC passed by the party members in the year 2013 to defend the court.
