
Memory of the journalist Freddy Manongi.
November 18th, 2012

There is no reason, Dudu Baya has given a red carpet.

There's no one who heard about the news of the death of a journalist and the Swahili presenter in London town, he left so shocked when she was shocked, let me see me.
No one you don't heard saying the bad word about the late Freddy Manongi who died yesterday morning here in England.
Me, we went to me, "TOKIU" - honor.
Freddy Manongi has a strong man to continue, it's not easy to do, but when I met me, "Coulter," who was with the popular presenter of English, Michael Kafando, who performed well with the famous presenter of English, Michael Parthiban Chandrasakaran.

The late Ras Makunja (like the live with journalists) had a lot of patience and the old rivals and their skills to listen and tell me when she didn't give me talk time and to tell me when she didn't talk a lot.
I am saying this because "the name" Mtoi has written many times about the topic and different events.
The last time made the death of Amy Wama who died in the month of July 2011.

Contrary to most of the qualifications, congratulations and congratulations, that are easy to see their colleagues in order to look for irregularities, skills, knowledge, talent and someone who talked about why it is unknown as required?

When I want to listen to his interview with the Bongo Flavor artist, Diamond, in the Jestina George, (IAGRI), don't like a reporter when he found a presenter, a lot of joy, congratulations and feelings.
At the last time we got in August, we wanted to see him about the spread of the player, Robin Van Persie, and Arsenal will go back to Manchester City as I met Frank Eucharist of London. She allowed me again to speak about the popular festival of Carnival of London. She allowed the last message on phone.
"Jichunge.'
Leave me, "I am very happy, then you go."
This is a really appropriate one who missed the hearts of the many when you are unable to communicate with him.
But in addition to the age of years, it was not easy to know the sun.
For instance, when it comes to me, even food or a person did not have any time to him then I had gone to work but I went to work or not to go to work.
He told his work he is doing, it was not easy to be found in the public or events or houses, while getting a long time when he was born where he was born where he was born.
For now, let's thank God to break a person like this good flavor, that is good, in Karume Memorial Stadium.
I give me the name!
May God rest his soul in peace.
Amina!
