
That will destroy the development of science.

It has been written by Anastazia Wambura?

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Apart from the economic problem, the will of politicians not depend on one percent of the National Revenue Authority to be used in research and creativity which is one of the reasons for failing to get scientists here in the country.

That has been noted by the deputy minister for health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Doctor Hamis Kigwangala when closing the three-day meeting of scientists which took place in Dar es Salaam city.
He said that the government understands the challenges that they face scientists as a challenge of money, the opportunity for developing themselves, a small economy and the political will.
"The source of problems that we have is understood that it's our economy to be small, but also the will of us politicians, because if you had decided to set aside one percent of GDP of the past, I have never been able to continue with a big amount, scientists from using our money," he said.
Doctor Kigwangala added that, "we will also be able to invest our money in doing research that are aiming to solve the challenges they have benefited from the funds to improve research, because Tanzania's goals will depend on science and solutions.
I wish you are told that we are forced to do a work during those scientists and we will continue supporting them by doing different efforts in the government, "he said.
Doctor Kigwangala said six recommendations that were taken at the meeting organized by the National Institute for Human Diseases (NIMR) will be worked because the government believes in planning the plans and make policies, which arose from evidence of research and important debates.
(NIMR) director general, Doctor Mharage Change, said the conference that brought together various participants, has come with several recommendations that are the introduction of a center to fight the diseases that are spread by a mosquito, strengthening the laboratory of non-communicable diseases.
He also said that the meeting which he has proposed that TFF's importance of having an effort to increase research and the launching of Tanzanians, and also being given correct education on how to use them, prepare themselves and food and how to be given.
