
Mrisho Ngassa entertaining people.
Brightiles 29, 2012

The Uganda soccer fans have been accused by the soccer club of Mrisho Khalfan Mrisho Ngassa of Tanzania Mainland in the African Cup competition of East and Central Africa Football Coaches Association that is going on in this town.

While speaking of the match between Sudan and Tanzania, fans were all over a lot, the player of Tanzania Mainland who was carrying a eight jersey number and said they don't know the day.
They met with Uganda when it will happen before the Simba striker of Dar es Salaam.

However, the journalists from Uganda, have told me Ngassa saying that she is the player who has shown a big level of his performance up to now in this tournament.

Ngassa was in the truth in front of Sudan, he made all the two goals that were scored by the striker John Bocco 'Adebayor, "of Azam FC.

When he started in large numbers of the left where he was talking with a speed and gave a good cross that is bad or good then it's only two that used well with Bocco.

Fans have praised Mrisho Ngassa that it is not a player whom she is thinking more to make for his fellow colleagues more than getting himself.

Ngassa is among the 10 players of Simba that play the competition of this year in the city, others in the city, others in the city, others in Zanzibar, Juma Kaseja (Zanzibar), Amir Muchi, (Mainland), Amir Kiemba (Mainland), Amir Kiemba (Mainland), Mwinyi Kazimoto (Mainland).
Ramadhani Singano 'Messi' (Mainland), Christopher Edward (Mainland) and Emanuel Okwi (Uganda).

Other teams in the mainland with the players here are Azam who have nine players who are Mwadini Ali (Zanzibar), Abdulahman Babu, (Zanzibar), Deogratius Munishi 'Dude' (Zanzibar), Salum Abubakar, "Sure ', (Mainland) and John Bocco' Adebayor '(Mainland).

Yanga has seven players, who are Nadir Haroub 'Cannavaro' (Zanzibar), Haruna Niyonzima (Rwanda), Hamis Kiiza (Uganda), while Mtibwa Sugar (Zanzibar), while Mtibwa Sugar (Zanzibar), while Mtibwa Sugar (Zanzibar) same as Coastal Union Suleiman Kassim "

President John Bocco is starting to contest for a fast rate.
John Bocco 'Adebayor', has arrived at the list of players who is competing for the top scorer in the African Cup of East and Central Africa Football Coaches Association following his two goals, Tanzania Mainland played 2-0 in the Group B Stadium, Nambara, Kampala, Uganda.

Bocco who plays for Kilimanjaro Stars, that is sponsored by Kilimanjaro Premium Lager is scored all the goals in the first half, now he is involved with the attackers from Burundi, Chris Brown, and Suleiman Jaffo, who every one has two goals.

Others who until each one has scored one goal is Yussuf Simai of Burundi, Mohamed Jichunge.'

Bocco has more opportunity of increasing goals in the matches of that group, especially for the game against Somalia that will be held on December first, because that is the most important team in Group B.

But Bocco will play with a level that he showed, he can be a surprise even in the front of Burundi in November 28th.

For now Bocco who plays for Azam FC of Dar es Salaam, is the only striker in the Mainland Premier League, after other attackers, Mbwana Samatta and Thomas Ulimwengu who play for TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) being held by their club.

Poulsen will still play in Ulimwengu, Samatta.
The coach of the national soccer team of Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Stars, Kim Poulsen has said that he still had a lot of attackers, Mbwana Ally Samatta and Thomas Emmanuel Ulimwengu of TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

He has said that if he will not join his squad, they will put him in a difficult time.

While speaking in this town, after the game against South Sudan, the East and Central Africa Football Cooper has won 2-0, Kim said efforts to ask TP Mazembe to make those players continue.

"I don't know that if you came to you, I will have to look for these players who are in, I know I have one striker, but I'll get the striker, I will be a striker, I will be striker, I will do it," he said.

"I cannot see another player from home for now, because someone must change his ability, you can't read it, therefore, I request God to come," he sees Kim and who sees Kim.

Stars that is sponsored by Kilimanjaro Premium Lager is started well for his campaign to contest for the FA Cup, after beating 2-0 goals in South Sudan at the Mandela Stadium, Nambara, Kampala, Uganda.

That win is the Stars in the second position in the Group B position behind Burundi leading in an average of goals.

To the half time, Stars were ahead by 2-0 goals, all that was scored by the Azam FC striker, John Bocco 'Adebayor', who lost well with Mrisho Khalfan Mrisho Ngassa.

Bocco won the first goal Bocco has ever been known by Mrisho Ngassa who came out from South Sudan's defender and broke it in the 14th minute.

Adebayor, of Chamazi stopped the profile of the fans of Tanzania in the 28 minute, followed by Mrisho Ngassa again from the left.

In general, Tanzania Mainland played well in the first half, being beaten more through the edge, on the right Simon Msuva, who had a lot of effects by left Ngassa who was a painful truth.

In addition to mainland to reign in the first half, but Sunnis with a surprise attacks with the reputation of the goalkeeper Juma Kaseja to who are in the two danger zone.

The second period of Stars continued to rule the game, but the protection of South Sudan did not recognize them.
The Stars squad yesterday was a result of Juma Kaseja, Erasto Nyoni, Amir Mafoto, Shomari, and Kevin De Costa, Salum Abubakar, Amri Kiemba, John Bocco and Shaaban Ndeki.

South Sudan, Eucharist LSman Ali, Moalimu, Abdallah, Karima Abdallah, Farha Abdallah, Hamdi Mohamed, Mohamed Masoud Rashid and Mohamed Osward and Mohamed Osama, Saed Sasi.

In the previous game, Burundi won 5-1, his goals were scored by Chris Brown in the 77th minute, Yussuf Himid after he is in the 84 and 90 minute, while Somalia was scored by Mohamed Junction.

The results indicate that Group B has continued to be difficult, because Burundi is leading in three three points with a lot of goals, Tanzania the second with three points, but South Sudan can get good results in the coming matches.
