
A hole is in the best hall of getting talents in the youth.
By Bashir Yakub.
As a large number of youths continuing to move ahead and stop for a result of lack of employment, the youth in that area have decided to give their strength to the football game.
As a result of continuing to improve on the fanaticism of the game all over the world, the youth feel this as the only position to strengthen their lives and what has said and good needs to participate in the net.
It is not true then for the young people of Jihadists, now do a new start from the Manchester United squad to get great speed and show intentions of club which is paid for great things.
It is a thought of wanting to succeed which without doubt, Mariamu or Mkunde, popularly known as Mama Nganga, who will start working together with launching this club's home.
"It was just a thought of seeing the youth with the work of doing instead of living without getting problems," he said.
And now the popularity of Manchester United has been increasing since this team for now has many fans who are coming out to cheer their club's record and that it was started in the year 2010.
Since that year, this squad has continued to improve on day after day, it will participate in the region of the region to pray for them so that Mama Nganga said that it has not been easy to grow this team up to where it is now.
"I started this club while having seven people's committee only, most of them did not have time due to the fact that there is no reason that was no benefits of this declaration," he said.
And the whole process that made this team in shambles is when some people who started together they decided to marry off the team and went to do other things.
"Mama Nganga had gone to the heart but he took the team as his manager starting in the year 2011 where for the first time he entered to the league that is known as the British league that he from the year 2012.
We were if we want to do well in different matches and even in the year 2012, we are now part of the bridge but our ability of continuing to invest in Ukawa has reached an end and we did not go ahead where many people broke the heart and decided to stop this team, "he said.
However, a long period of time may not have a landslide victory because last year, a team comes back again to participate in the English Premier League, where it succeeded to win all his matches and then it may rise up to the league of the Coastal region.
Despite this news being good but the problem of lack of money has come up again because there is no money to enable those teams to continue its own record in that league.
"The management of the club is not easy and according to many thoughts are expected to enable them to get in political issues, the truth is that I am not a politician and my intention is to promote talents," he said.
Last year, the club did a fundraising where a sum of 60 million shillings were selected to help Race of Manchester United.
This club that is use at Kipala Primary School Mixed Primary School as the home ground gives a cry for various prizes to help them because the team has goals to ensure the youth get employment.
As a result of lack of coach, this club has decided to look for John Karaoke services who is believed to give birth.
