The proposed constitution is expected to celebrate the most important articles with great interests according to some people and all the ones who come to arrive here, where we are saying that the proposed constitution is required to arrive here, we will benefit you like food and these will be first one.
Abusive constitution against seven.
It has done?
It has not registered.
A constitution of ten thousand Tanzanian shillings.
The constitution of the twins.
He has taken a limited form of while they won the constitution.
The release of the year without seven did not consider the community needs which are primary and seven needs to rule.
The constitution is not a constitution.
I ask you to love.
Economy is the economy.
Politics is not good.
The late?
Now you find the what you agree that if he sees it, he does not have a mistake.
There is a reason we got a lot of reasons for interests.
Everyone is going to with his cargo on constitutional changes as you know how many of them do not tell ourselves what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't have any opportunities for us.
And has given opportunities to the people of Zanzibar.
The ones associated with non-foundation that we need to have a high court, which is used by a high court.
I say this because.
We look at the second draft of internal affairs there were seven things.
Many Kenyans are twenty-one and two sides who had been on the constitution.
And I say?
From seven things of the draft of Judge Warioba up to reach ten things and six recommendations of Zanzibar people that these things have been increasing, we will be able to recognize those who were inside the parliament.
Now I can't inform us from outside these reasons, it is a member of Zanzibar, except that I believe there were very close communication with the names of those who were outside and they were outside the country, and therefore the aim is to ensure we are maintaining the union.
And it will be a great secret of the union of the commission of Judge Warioba once you missed to you for what is a union.
Ras Kiduku was told me.
They met at the time they are doing the analysis of different documents.
He is speaking.
The fate of Zanzibar after losing the coalition.
Six is going on finally so much.
That step is not good that the party if I will give them to the United Republic of Zanzibar.
This is a tennis star I gave you.
Third, but I want to tell me what is the child.
To consider things like this, also the requirements of the law on changes of the constitution.
I was wanting the commission to ensure that when they give recommendations that form the union, this period of the proposed constitution will continue to create education about what was written in the proposed constitution with the aim being to create a broad range of interests according to the aim of building us with us in terms of building us.
