But the?
In addition, I request me to follow me with one book that I have read the time I don't know when I don't know the question is a person who was told if Swahili there are other people to look at that there are other people to look at what he is told.
When the Shika Adabu Yako 'is waiting for a lot of environment for you to get to it, that he gave the first philosophy of the president of the African Continent to relocate but he took that it's not true that they were ten commandments of the house.
Look at here here in our country?
I think politicians and scholars and people who have a lot of strength in Ras Makunja has the authority in our nation.
Mchwaa will agree with us that they are supposed to know this community should not be taught in the foundation that the destruction of the environment is a very big problem that you are not supposed to be there below and leaving trees.
It took an event.
That is why they are saying that fighting for those judgment or a activist are required to be true.
Politicians until now are those who need to fight for the interests of being going to the statehouse, but I have never met?
Politicians talk about it.
He is President Kikwete once said that there is trees such as the madness of.
That is why he is telling him.
If I am able to use something that we have here in this world, they say that I'm shocked when I saw it in three and many things.
It's a question that you will take a break into power we will start a lot of things that I will be happy and even when we go to the parliament, I would like to inform us that if we go to parliament, we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we are doing so that we don't know what we love with the authority.
Also.
In many areas, so as to make sure that there is nothing at this issues of reading through you taking the same way.
He has said that he is going on to make sure that they control those things and that is why we are continuing to take place so that they can be done in great secret.
But in order.
Saying what happens a slogan or?
Sallam talked about my philosophy or pour it or we are talking on my hand with my year to make sure that anything done in protecting the environment we are standing on it was told the citizens soon so that citizens can be taken against them.
That is if no merit and a environment does not mean that you know there is one problem, I believe it should not be careful.
, the government answered your treatment there are people who are complaining.
They are going to go and take care before which is taking place, why are also different operation reached by.
Now if the government is successful.
As the support of money so as to be afraid, they live in a bad state, which has made a politician you are going to have a person going to live.
Now they are going to see that there is a politician who has gone to encourage him a lot, it is a must that so that the government is in power?
When he asked the lawyer he told them to be released, then you must say that this is one of you get out here, you will get you but if you are a Tanzanian that you need to get.
We don't know poor eyesight and her side, you have not been able to talk about the truth about what I have committed and drinking it.
And if you know the day if you look for us who are here below this, we have narrated how you can break up the number of trees that was posting on them and those things like it.
The condition that we are building for now.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, we were not ready to give something a father without something that are there where events that are there, whereby events of a good environment has been known as I want to tell you that it is found.
How many Tanzanians are there?
That is more than fifty million, there are being counted in which they were injured.
Today I would like to let me visit the class but there are others who want to be called or to be.
I use their use I met.
Dar es Salaam, therefore, the late God bless you, when I think that there is what I asked before the period, it has said that maybe it is a case of nine to a human being in Tabora province, I would like to look for anyone who is that in Tabora province.
They were heard, he was given the answer is so much by a foolish thing and it is still there.
That is the biggest reason why doesn't jump and he didn't end up to one until today.
I means they have started attacking him in the next five years and I see us are self-employed and how we can go.
It is not again to put as soon.
This is why I am saying that there is a situation where we are looking for the same way to do with the theft if it was and the reputation.
The Almighty God rest how we are not aware which do not have death.
There are part of trees with the reputation that I come to.
And also?
Others are keenly listening to Sheila Kakingo in an environment met again after the family that we had to be reached, there are things that we are supposed to go.
Exciting news have been seen while at the moment, Mister there is this mountain.
People see the mountain.
It is a human resources like the nation's property, but if the woman is happy that you will discover you, you will discover you, you will identify people know why Manchester United will reach a suit and allow them to reduce yourself when I saw it, I saw it in a true environment.
Yes, there is every time we met but I want to tell Tanzanians today who is the environment there in Mount Kilimanjaro will not help him.
Because the cement of Mount Kilimanjaro will be helped with his opponent which is far from the same way, can I do not go through my work so that they can get money so that they can get money in Dar es Salaam, you cannot believe that I don't know my contribution so that they can seek votes in Dar es Salaam or we believe that I think we can relocate it.
And if the ban Nasibu Abdul is a good thing when you come to Dar es Salaam and Mwanza with a star, you will find the subject that you have already lost the things that will be paid shortly, that is for men every person to consider for the series of men.
I was keen.
If it uses it will be planned then you will do that we have to know if we know you.
And a woman which resulted from a result of the word, these are the ones that are not found because the different bags will not be found because of political parties, you don't go to the park, there will be no thing that can be very expensive.
Today.
Yes, the cause of the desire to talk in the morning and those of them were seen to come to come to the whole areas in the country, but do not wait for your question and let me ask the ones that are produced by mosques.
Upcoming lady Rajabu.
To say the truth in a difficult state of life of many people do not know the benefits of forest products is the meaning that currently has a lot of attack by getting income.
Cooperation am saying.
So as to prevent the chest, he says that most of them don't know that the community still does not recognize that, because there are some of the lives and clothes of this season, you will realize that most of our issues are not very disturbing, I think that most of us know if I will stop your opinion when I get your opinion.
A sacrifice.
Thank you this is one of the crops.
In a day as a prayer?
Yes, Arsenal have decided to talk about that for now I will get many clothes, we see that we are coming from the province of Tabora.
Why should the crows know that we have been found in Mwanza Province, this is the list of Same District.
It is that those areas have reduced, that is why they are inspected.
Those inspected the areas where we have told us from which they are still doing?
There is a forest that don't know that a house so that the name is not supposed to see that even me comes?
It has a meaning that these words were found to do not praising himself and see if they are confirmed to look for Ukawa James but remember.
Before I not continue that you will also be a hundred of the nation, the national commission is also like the nation's commission as such as we consider the animals' animals, the ones that we have the ability to achieve the teachers because the honey because of those countries are still in the nations of those countries.
You ask you in eternal peace, what will get the end of his heart as a result of that milk from you.
But now in Tabora province also there is a must for us to have the second problem, the late does not say that this is one of the teachers to say that this is a problem but there is a problem but the province of Tabora, yet there is a problem but there is a problem here in Tabora province.
Right now?
The ones who are going are going to get their lives in the accident of Simba.
The way to get the juice system that we would like to now have got into the field of Dar es Salaam when we get their naked photos.
The Almighty God bless you, I would like to find solutions for what here is enough "where it is going to reach now in the international market.
You love the hands when they go with judgment?
Which is due to tobacco.
Almighty God, you believe that you find the now the poison that you are doing is a little name does not have a little word, it does not have a good word that does not have a reason that is why they said.
But now because the death of people have participated and eventually, they said that it is dangerous to a person to be followed, it is very much but now you can take it to the country in the international market should be the best.
Almighty God rest.
I can't know what we are going on my home in other parts of our faith, the late God is why I have said that the truth is still living with great areas.
The late I'm in the Mazizini, it's impossible for us to welcome him for the purpose of paying the poor (right) when I was, I have said those buildings are on the poor.
Now to improve the economy of the nation.
It is alleged that the Michungangira who was very happy to be self-communicable diseases has done that job because it is now and it is growing up.
Every time of money Stamina, there is no communication because he does not affect in order for many people in order for us to tell ourselves that I have agreed to pray for you so that we were able to forgive him so that we are ready to buy two thousand trees there.
There is the one I said that so as we launch it, there are two hundred thousand, which the sponsors were in that bank and there was at Mkora you to send a representative.
The Almighty God rest so that they are in the produce.
That is the same as it's the same and it's better which would like to be international, who are coming from the country and therefore, I will look for you to listen to them.
But if you are not understood.
The truth is a situation.
Because we can say that food is still there because the minister says that I am no other food to this food.
Now, it is a long time let us learn from paying and institutions this Sunday, but for another example, you will give you a solution to you.
But it's only when he was coming from the research that I want us to go to school during that period to live degree courses in the left wing.
And there is not another thing, I have read but there is something that has said that there is a time his evidence has said.
He also urged that he will also depend on.
He can be careful not to be like the leaves.
Now people were given a tender but one of the things that were found is not found and that those of the international standards were found and it was not supposed to get married but it was impossible until it was impossible until it was impossible.
Milk to end up since many trees have been seen in a lot of questions.
