Those people do not tire us with me deserted me.
I met them live and then I will go to the eighteen.
Am more at his home.
You know his meaning.
Which one do you know what is that you can stop using the drugs, I explained ten years and eight of their husbands?
I have found one of the officer for him has explained the only one on the ten and eight to look for us?
You will now be able to bring up things that are the Lord, you are telling him that 'Imebaki Story.'
When you go to the committee Story.'
I want when I get that, it does not have even read it.
The late God rest the first person to know which you are not only, then simmer for bad luck, the late God bless you, then we want them to see me when I want me.
The late God bless you, I've heard the God of God, your God is and he loves us.
That is not you know for now, even when you give him a day that night we are told someone like these people, the late God, then it seems to be assisted by my friend and you know that Mbeya is wrong.
At the moment, you see the other things to register his things, while talking to other servants, while speaking with other servants, when speaking was a difference, even when I met here, you know how it was annoyed but do not lie!
Yes, you can talk about the truth, the president I will come to speak about me, the late I do not forget yourself when you do not register myself when you do not loose your phone when I wish you.
Do not lie?
Again, the Almighty God rest my heart and I do not see a lot of questions, because the preparations should not be avoided, you ask you to ask me, you want you to ask you, you want it.
And Diana Edward when his own kind are not sworn in, the late does not know how his soul does not know before his sentence is still there.
The late?
Father who is coming up there and therefore get married here at this time we are available here at this time that is there to speak, me, I know it's meaning yesterday in public service.
Do you know what I'm in that?
For you want to ask questions and I have heard this and I am talking about wine or anything that we told her, the late God bless you and let me leave the commission as it comes to the late.
They have started a bit when I am very happy when I'll come to come from Ongea will be the same.
The late God rest.
What's the mockery, why is there that is nothing to see the late God bless you, that is why I explained things of these people you know Ongea will enable us to prevent it and I got these things to lead you.
The late God bless you to follow me in an entrepreneur, that is when I saw others while asking us to ask ourselves how to find you for the women the late?
Because I have been able to see you want to know anything related to you.
It's not true even if they have no person not to tell me what is very close to them, I believe I've heard this morning, I am happy like this newspaper, it was cinemas well in this morning.
