Its a check, not bribery!
Brightiles 22, 2012

Well, congratulations to the tomatoes and to be elected by the two boss, CCM, from the farmer has returned in the city.

Tomatoes, he has announced the war and they received bribery in his party, he says it's impossible for the voters to be shaken as compared to the party.

Although the money that can be avoided, can be taken to different ways including buying the tomatoes and the boss on the season of Allah, the truth is that bribery are bad, a curse from a bone in the life of the country.

Like this boss, he is expecting this fight to be silent, we should not expect to inform the teachers of bribery, urging them to protect themselves on agriculture and tomatoes and the tomatoes market.

But let we have told the new greetings from the village to be careful, the receiver on the bribery they have made them to choose leaders for bribery, he has called in line with him but his colleagues when he finished bribery they want to check.

Yes, the party did not depend on approximately twenty thousand, that is according to the law but the day before yesterday when Kizito, bribery were known as a result of the environment is not a law as it is against them.

You know that there is normal and especially about issues of protecting the candidates for various positions for political leadership or universities, leaflets that have been built and distributed to voters.

Pascal Malesa said it is a village to go with the biography of a candidate or presidential candidates with great expertise and strong winds, the main aim is to convince him to pick the candidate, standing in the concerned party.

That is how it was in Dodoma town at a general meeting of CCM which had already started recently, the candidates for leadership positions and especially the ones of the executive committee (NEC) of that party and all of them made leaflets.

Those candidates did not hesitate to give their nurses and wind power in the hands of voters, they believe they will be able to register their votes in order to give a strong winds and be aired on the air without a check of those who will fly it to the sky.

Then, if you give your message in line with the check of the candidate, you can buy your heart, although there is a stern warning and you thank the devil of more stories that you made.

There has been successful without justice, this process of giving leaflets that goes hand in hand with the check of the certificates they will not be taxed.

The Democratic Republic of KKKT, as it is the competition to prevent it's stand between the team's stand "the look of the death, then the team's team will be heard in Dodoma was great and with many fans.

In the whole of election, it was a chance to be sold by certain people that to be able to share experiences, "look at a large extent, help to prevent a strong winds to know this kind of creativity.
