These days there is a modern system of political, political and politics.
Jide 15, 2015.

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings
This look for me.
It is still in the first position for me, I don't know what others have said, but just let me tell you, the lover when you go to me, we should understand together, we build him, or even my lover.
Then I would like to tell you, after the scandal involving all party activities, we believe that if the boss will not turn back, even if he was not mentioned not to mention the top of the best five, therefore, the boss and the boss and the boss and the boss and the boss and the boss and his boss.
And when he entered into his condolences, but yet he was very attractive, while he is still with the face of the sun.
"My condolences to what we got the candidate, the things have never been safe and now it has maintained the economy by seeing them.
BB was shocked.
"That is the father who had joined us?
I wanted to run away because I know the explosion that will come up everything together with me, but when I have started to leave on the speed of buses that are not seen, I have heard the boss at a very big voice.
"Yet my son has a very mental son and those who are running on the road have been called and when they go to the whole world, there is a modern thing of politics especially when there's no wonder, we should know if you are no longer.
"You don't know the father?
"Let him listen to you, and don't put your habit, let me follow it, it is to make sure that I am getting well so that I am getting well, especially in our party which does not want them.
"Therefore, although they were announcing that he does not have a group of groups that will let him get married?
"It is very delicious.
BB comes with strength.
"That is the father usually, even this?
The meaning of what my son and how the song was played as we are forced to play. "
Boss he wanted to mix up but found her child coming here while stirring so as to resolve it.
What should I do again?
"That is a father, a man, a girl, I have destroyed many countries together with serving the youths who participated in your union, we want other countries of our country and we want other countries to talk about the language of a certain writer, which are we ready to consider among people with great hands."
His boss was touched by the words of his child.
"You know my son, you have started that nickname and I have continued with you, I have changed and I have not given you shortly, but do not just think that all the people are there."
"Now we will know that if you know all that you were put in one draw, one place, one policies?"
"There is a riddle of my son but you don't know why I am very happy and I see for our elections, we have forgotten the actual problem of what this is a executive, be clean, should I lead you well.
BB was arrested and again.
"Maybe."
Boss, showed the symptoms of terrorism again.
What can I know what?
The "Success is impressed by the social network and he has his things."
"I love you only."
"We will see the father but I personally I am not worried about one first one if you don't leave each other, but the citizens are not the contractors who are ready to be treated so that the project can get their journey and this time we want this president to get married.
"It is not that why we know their daughters in order to listen to them.
"Simwanza says that when he gets a car, a quent to you are very fast and to be tough to work, but should not hesitate to listen to us."
"Why do we represent."
BB is not saying the word "he really terrifying.
"Yes, we will follow it.
BB got it back to his father.
"You know the father comes with the story of the father of the nation, there are some time, we warned him that what is wrong, then he told him that there is wrong when I told him that everything is wrong, they do not tell them that there is wrong when I told him that there is no wonder, they do not lie!"
The boss he started showing that money has ended.
"You know my son, you have not seen in the world. There is no most respected here and you should know that I have the ability to advise you well."
"If he gets a father, but there are others who find themselves as you say you are himself and let me look for you because it is not all and to get to the citizens."
His boss.
"It is okay my son and even I am looking for another day, we have said that the youth have come from, who it has shown a bad way or we will be sentenced to our children?"
He struggled to use it.
