
Big problems that contribute to economy in the country is lack of accountability in government and in public organizations.
Many projects are stuck because of lack of close supervision on the side of executives who were given priority to supervise, although they are given materials without inventory.
The problem of lack of accountability is big here in the country to an extent that more than 75 percent of the directors in the government and public sectors are not known as required, but their plans were not seen because of lack of patriotism and integrity.
At the end of last week, Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) met with stakeholders of mechanical and engines, where many participants said there are victims of fake fuel but they are being satisfied by the involved in government.
"How come the relevant agencies and ministries concerned with those issues are concerned with those issues but they look at the perpetrators, involved in the fake oil in the future, they're continuing with us that we are doing it together but he told Juma Ali from one of the companies that sell oil in Arusha.
The business people who were in that meeting are saying that they get the products from the Zanzibar Islands and the neighboring country.
"It is true we had reached the TBS announcement but we do not see here is the working communication between TBS and Standards, Zanzibar and this products is permission to we get there and bring in the country," says one of the business people.
A report from the office of the chief chemist of government is not to assume a little, especially when he says that 102 people from three companies carried out for the period of September 2013 to January 2014, showed that fake ARV in the country are between 78 to the 79 percent.
That report was supported by the director general of TBS, Joseph Masikitiko who is saying the situation is so bad in the streets.
"Efforts are needed to end the illegal business because fake lubricants are dangerous to the economy of our country that depends on the machines and engines of fire equipment to run the projects and are facing the development.
"We think the companies that sell those lubricants in the country, it should be taken that stern legal action will not be given the criminal offense and it is not only to ask the natural resources of those lubricants in the market without getting legal action," said Masikitiko.
And the Technical Director from the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), Aziza Maganga, says that they are forced to get a good one when their country must ask you like it is not the continent that makes those products or who used those products in the country.
Today, Lyombe and officer from the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Marketing, says the law is open that the companies that produces natural resources in the country, should make sure that the companies and security cards are used to produce those lubricants, different from there are fake phones.
Officers from EWURA, TBS, the chief chemist of the government and the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Marketing together they have agreed to get in the market and start a search of those lubricants.
It will be remembered that in the year the day before yesterday the Tanzania Bureau of Standards was given the list of lubricants that were banned which is Dictatorship (Super Eagles), Hamphrey Polepole, (top-40), Moyoni.
Other side are Peter's others, (Lucha Demokrasia na 40), Wiz Khalifa (Lucha Demokrasia na Mafoto), Wiz Khalifa (Dibogo Wenje), Auto Fungamano (Universal Studios Company Limited and Super Eagles), bananas' and Super Mega.
