
Hunger does not expect?

It has been written by Angela Sebastian.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

Karagwe district member of parliament, Innocent Melleck Shirima has appointed the minister of state, office of the prime minister, policy, labor, employment and people with disability, Jenista Mhagama that the district of Karagwe is in danger of having a disaster of hunger.

The member of parliament said that at the office of the head of Karagwe district when the minister receiving information of the district especially concerning the earthquake which occurred in September 10, this year in Kagera province, Bira said this season has not been taken as required, since April there is no rains that caused many crops on the farm.
"A disaster of hunger has decided to accept a province of Kagera, even some of the neighboring provinces, you know our district and even the neighboring provinces, but the situation is so bad, all crops have gone to the farm," he said.
The member of parliament asked the government to give food donation since 50 percent of that flour together with albinism have been expelled from the farm, and the head of Karagwe district, Godfrey Mwikabe said that this drought period until now a total of 1000 shillings has already died due to lack of water and livestock.
This problem of hunger here in Karagwe and now has not affected us, here their main food is color, but this season, bananas, color, and beans have gone to them, "he said.
The head of that district asked the minister to support their request for President John Magufuli so that he can not be able to take action against President John Magufuli so that he can be able to take action against hunger but because of a long time a situation is impossible to be avoided.
Minister Mhagama said he has received that report of hunger but he has directed the director of the disaster department, the office of the Prime Minister to follow up on the size of the problem and to see that it has been caused by drought or some of the leaders of that district.
