I will play and he insisted on to release my level.
Brightiles 22, 2012

To the minister of forest and shivered.
They will face street children.
Tanzanian shillings

How is my lover, how is your situation?

It is still continuing with the use of love while claiming it is a problem of infrastructure but when it comes it will have electricity due to all the electricity is available in the day up to the day it doesn't have any interruptions that can I do or let me do what should they do?

But in addition to that, I have continued to be a whole while I look at the message of here by themselves and again this week we put a bit tricky subject.
I saw a story in the newspaper but they could be at home where she had gone down.

It's not the boss, the driver and his car to a certain country, which I will not mention his name and he had already explained that there was a certain kind of drugs that he would leave here he would have a very big price, that is very big so that they can do anything that is ready to do anything.

However, if we are not sure that his boss had his driver, that is how he said him, again with the very long time, but the day before yesterday we were surprised by anyone who got the news.

First, the boss said that he appears to go back without giving information, an issue that is not normal since his house will be able to expand the infrastructure because of this problem, the boss said they had a permanent registration to win one electricity directly.

The ones that spread me I believe that there is a rumor and it's true that his behavior has changed and even when the boss is surprised, there is no longer a day before yesterday or even if he is still looking for a house of solar eclipse.

Then when we are waiting for, we agreed to work on television so as to look for the news of the news.

Why we were shocked when he was shocked when his car has been parked in the police station and told the news that his car has been arrested there having a lot of skin diseases, she has already succeeded to see these news and his car is in the picture, his boss, his boss.

I urge you that the lover came as a Kimbari and scored a very strong man, then when he saw we are looking at a report of the information that deals with him he started getting married while looking for a knee injury.

"When I look at what meaning here is my enemies, they do every type of false charges to be demolished.
If you are not, I don't meet here to receive as a bomb attack, if you received all the type of dirty without informing them.

MB tried to put him.

"It is not so that my husband, we were looking at the news of the news, or we did not know that your information are dain."

"Why do you do not use when my enemies are spreading this news like pafu?

"We should know where my husband?

His boss at television station that television is the one with an offense.

Unfortunately, he had a stable phone because he gets the toes.

"Again our colleagues in a very few days, the vehicle is for the government, and the prime minister, for what you must be remembered and let me leave it?

In his boss when he was surprised when he saw best to market or to a surprise, but the boss, as usual he was unable to ure him, that is the lover as the lover of every day, then I see her experience.

"But the father did you want to know that our colleagues were affected."

The boss was so shocked.

What's the meaning of?

"I say that you know what you know.

The boss has tried a lot of love with BB, BB, a man and even before saying he had already noted that they were not enough, again from taxes, and his boss, Jomo Kenyatta.

"Has started, it has started."

'No father ask you as my father and I request for a certain answer, do you know what you want to the police instead of seeing your driver. "

His boss Jichunge.'

"

"Is the father but you have not yet answered my question.

"I will leave where?

BB is found.

This is the answer as I request for father and don't like to believe that father?
He has joined the corruption and criminals have been seen to see if my father was using the nation's status because with my thoughts, who invented our status is the one that supports our colleagues not who has captured. "

"Has started the tenth commandment?

'No father, that is why you want to remind me and I am happy that you are not involved.
