
The lives of young people.
Last month, they launched a video of their song Hands Up ', a song that has already been received well by fans especially on the internet.
Without doubt, it is a great success to the M-hop music group, Brock Utuers who are still a child in the entertainment of entertainment.
This boys group of five are among the age of 10-15 from the daily children's headquarters, Kayun, Yachoma (FGM), Ibrahim Kamenya (Mose), Ibrahim Are (Mose), Ibrahim Are (MKEWAWa).
Their new song Hinterland, popularly known as dance hall which is facing various ways of dancing, it is not a message, give birth to the songs of entertain and thank God.
Likewise, the message of this song is to give them the heart to continue well with fans especially considering the life of Uknga region and continue to play for God, but it is not a way I did in the Bible.
Also, this song is for the honor of the late actor, Junction, who died in last year. "This was a friend of this headquarters because he was looking for fees, one of the members of this group where this song was recorded one day after his death," he said.
These boys who have lived in this headquarters for more than eight years started by using their fellow children using a famous song, but the year 2008 after getting an opportunity to communicate with these musicians, that's when they discovered their ability to make songs, "said Anjeche.
For some time it is not time, these five started doing exercises and they started working with their first song Draw, in the year 2012, the song could make sure especially in that headquarters and to give them more heart to continue singing.
"Due to reasons that the boys were young, there is the journey to cater for their talents officially and to develop their talents officially started and to bring more information about the Bible of God and therefore enable them to remove these teachings in the real life," said Anjeche.
Desire to learn in pain, two from Baamar and a series of Empire, followed by their music and wanted to be involved with their personal interests.
Despite that it has taken a long time to record due to their high schedule, give you a chance to record their first album but by getting high quality, it did not be launched officially.
"Due to that they were young people in music, there were problems of the quality of songs of those songs and we talked about it is good and should not think about it," he explained her.
However, for now they have its eyes set on their next project that will involve their new song, Gogo 'Thriller', a song that used to do any kind of Pop music and the effects of God from Nigeria, and the ones that talked to God's blessings in their lives.
This group is representing the important hope for the lives of boys in poor neighborhoods in Kenya.
He says that through their music they want to change it's only five lives but in all the world.
