
Uganda to strengthen Lake Victoria.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published in October 17, 2016.
The Uganda government has said it will improve transport activities in Lake Victoria to ease and reduce transport activities between that country and Tanzania.

The minister of the country who deals with transportation, Aggrey Mlimuka said that recently when he met the Executive Director of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), Deusdedit Kakoko in Kampala city.
He said the government of that country has intended to increase the number of goods that pass through the Lake Region by 20 percent in a period of two years to strengthen services of the ship, railway infrastructure and port of Bells, together with building the new port of Bukore area in Kampala city.
This is an explanation from the top leadership so as to ease the transportation of people and goods and thus reducing the cost of doing business, "he said.
He said the implementation of those instructions are already started to work together with the government of Uganda, Tanzania and the agency of transportation of goods in the Central Region (CCM).
Kakoko who was in that country to market the port of Dar es Salaam, told the minister to be the central region of Dar es Salaam and Mwanza has been built by increasing passenger buses and cargo.
He also said that the government of Tanzania has caused money for building that railway at a modern level and that the steps made now is of tenders.
The railway will be completed, it will increase efficiency and the number of cargo in the central region and in the port of Dar es Salaam.
He urged the Uganda business people to use Dar es Salaam port because it is affordable from a meeting with the business people of the city of Kampala.
The director said that the Tanzanian roads is better and he talked about an example of Mutukula border into the Uganda which is tarmac.
The business people in accordance with the restrictions that were not involved in taxes in the central region so as to enable the success of cargo of goods, the message of TPA has also participated in the 24 international trade exhibition of Uganda where the authority aims to work with the services that will continue.
