
The opposition members of parliament "they started.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

One day after the members of parliament of the opposition camp in parliament to return to the ruling party to make laws, they have banned the HIV virus and their colleagues after their contributions to the law bill of the Public Service Access to the year 2016 from many colleagues.

The claim that the bill has no benefits to the nation, but it aims at removing freedom of getting information as outlined in article 18 (d) of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The members of parliament for Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA), Godbless Lema (Arusha town), Pauline Mrango (Momba), Peter Msigwa (Momba), Peter Msigwa (Misungwi), Peter Msigwa (Iringa), saying it has an aim of preventing media houses to work.
At different times, the members of parliament did not match with the bill saying it has no benefits to the nation, but it aims at removing freedom of getting information if it is used in article 18 (d) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, that says "every person has the right to be given information at article 18 (d) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, says" every person has the right to be given information at article 18 (d) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, says "every person has a right to get information on article 18 (d) of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, says" every person has the right to be given reports on article 18 (d) of the constitution that supports the bill.
In your large numbers, you will succeed to give this bill, but this bill has no new report of wanting the sun controlling in the media when we think there will be a lot of words here and for sure the salary of sin? "He said.
Geology was emerged and questioned the reasons for that bill to appeal in Zanzibar, while considering the issue of Lema, that the bill has no good intention of wanting the people open.
He went to further and claimed that the bill was prepared and claimed that the law is happening and that there is a day they hurt them and instead be part of the solution to various problems that have been directed to the government, with the responsibility of advise and to give recommendations that will complete the many effects of drugs.
In addition, Chenge, urged them to stop caring for the government that is in power, it gives them a lot of time for what you had a chicken '.
But Chenge, after being asked for guidelines, the member of parliament for Mkuranga, Abdallah Ulega (CCM), from the words that were used by Lema has decided to mislead the public about the truth of that bill, he wanted that member of parliament for Arusha town to stop complaining and instead destroy the motion and also it comes with it.
"Lema, let us continue to complain or get recommendations.
"A prayer for you will be in this article," said Chenge and requested them to stop inside the parliament.
That is when the Madaba Constituency member of parliament, Joseph Mhagama (CCM), when he came out and removed from the bill, saying they are requesting the rights of Tanzania and encourage us to remind them that the bill did not be opened in the air.
Urged them to read it well and they urged them to learn in another country in the world and to explain its importance that you will help the country and the citizens because it has an aim of increasing transparency and that if they will be remembered, the country will make progress in development.
In addition, he advised the bill to be careful so that the punishment to be found guilty of violating the law will be dealt with according to the weight of their mistakes, while insisting that they will be giving information about the effects of the government and security of the country, so that they will give information about the effects of the government and security of the country, so that they will give information that effects to the government and security of the country, so they will give information with effects to the government and security of the country.
The Member of Parliament of Buchosa County, Kasibu, Bilago, was depending on the punishment of punishment, saying that the bill will be resolved since the bill will be stopped, they will be taught, it is good and you were seen a possibility of preventing someone else on the meaning of the journalist or the editor.
He clarified that, following the instrument there are great effects as a result of the relevant agencies to employ many people, therefore it is good for the punishment to cause the mistake and not the institution.
In addition, he advised the time to ask for information that will be reduced from 30 days according to the needs of the reports, he builds up the argument that, many information can't be realized from time.
In the debate that continues again yesterday, members of parliament continued to give the bill, while some of the members of parliament of the opposition camp were seen to take a solution to what they claim is against the laws against the media.
Apart from the parliamentary committee and the government, other stakeholders who were mentioned to present their views in that bill has been satisfied with the great extent and those recommendations are together with the court, Tanganyika Law Society (TLS), Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF), United Republic of Tanzania (JUKATA), and the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC).
Other stakeholders are the improvement of the law, the ministry of law, law, and institutions of Southern Africa, Tanzania Branch of Tanzania (MISA) Truong Tan Sang and association of media owners of Tanzania (NECTA).
