
This DC confirmed that our problem is the small ability of the leaders on May 31, 2012.

I'm looking for my article last week about the problem of Tanzania I claimed that without doubt, he has no problem with the leaders and I did not know that my article will be given evidence and events in Kagera province where 19 teachers are alleged to have been injured in public concerning the directive by the District Commissioner, Colonel Peter Mnkeje.

In my article I issued this issue that, "if there is poverty that is there in Tanzania, it is poverty of not having people with ability to lead in accordance to the construction of a modern nation of people that are free and same as" it is a problem of leadership of leadership that has you come up to here. "

I continued to say this, "all the other things that we see today is only signs of corruption, carelessness, offices, difficulty, knowledge of public funds, misuse of public funds, bad use of public funds, misuse of public funds, bad use of public funds, abuse of positions and power.
"We have refused the leaders with the ability to lead." Some people can understand what I said that in Tanzania there is no doubt, that there is no need to bring better change to the truth and those who do or do every day we have no ability to help in building a modern nation.

The few people who do not have a chance to be able to change the nation and they have remained on the fact that the cries in the desert will end the same way and their actions have not allowed each other.

I used an example to Minister Lawrence Masha, as one of the people that will take each reputation of a leader who has no ability to lead Mister Sufiani said she is not a good friend, I cannot claim that she is not a good person, I cannot claim that.

First, I will stay with what I found is.

To me, the leadership is the gift of being able to convince another person, a group of people or a big community to agree and believe in order to implement the specific objectives they agree that the results of the implementation will be better and they can make people to do something to recognize that this end has its interests.

The interests which will attract those people to agree that they can be of many types, from property, condition, feelings and even the expectations of the benefits to later.

Yes, then you will see that near every time there are people who are leaders, that is people who we agreed to listen to him, we believe that we are ready to listen to you because we know the end of us or our community will get the benefits of some kind.

We should look for our involved in the Kagera region and testing due to the light of the light, to see why all who appear is the leaders have shown to be unable to complete the part of their leadership so as to deal with the problem present.
Teachers let me start with these teachers and basically in a big part of our community, the teachers are the first leaders whose child is not enough to stop looking for Maxwell.
Teachers have been the first people in many areas in the villages and they have been of great help in our community and I have been sure of being a big part of the lives of our people from urban and villages, teachers still have a great opportunity.
Therefore, the act of those found is dangerous and because it is being cursed by even so private (maybe the reason for my mental disabilities) I believe that I would have the ability to increase our science teachers for them being assaulted by the District Commissioner in front of children.
These teachers had a chance to give a lesson to these children about the issue of honor, rights, equality, law, and good governance and for them to accept to be defeated by the police or the Angels of their children forever.
That, their students will now be able to have feelings that if you are told, she is told to do that you should not recognize that, "my boss," then wrote.
They were a chance to convince him to convince him and other people to be teachers, and if they are not ready to be dealt with any person and if there is a person who wants to look like each other and here I think it is possible even the teachers do not know their rights in front of the law.
For them to accept when they were only one, our teachers have shown a big possibility of our leaders in the central level who time to time when they get married that you are not supposed to do or should not hesitate to do because it is against the law or procedures of work.
Those leaders who are at different levels of the central levels in the public service or private service have found themselves as right and given a letter, documents, or instructions which know it is bad to the nation.
They have agreed to because, the boss has ordered you, "there are people who have studied and I believe that a sober mind has no mental checkup.
Someone can come up with his explanation and explaining why they agreed.
The District Commissioner has said that the district commissioner has thanked this Head for that act and others have condemned all the strength and even so, the truth is what he did not have a servant (who now has been surprised) that it is the gift of God's gift, there are people who believe that they are the gift of God to Tanzania.
Leaders with the thoughts that, I am a minister, I can do this "or" I am a member of parliament I can make sure that I have forgotten the ideas of our leaders to make sure that you know "because of his position and power.

Those who had bought 50 billion shillings and who has reduced the theft of ITC.
That head of district is just an example of some leaders who think that because they are given bonds, they do not tell you, "this is the group of leaders with ideas and how it is the group that has been able to send a thing and then it is still known as' Neonatal Sepsis'.
We can go ahead, and give examples of leaders who have ever taken the law in their hands up to others killing a person, and his death is one of the districts that had a lot of person in public and he continued with his position.
The first week of this year in Moshi town, the head of road safety in that province is accused of supporting one young man by the girl, Jokate Mwegelo, for the five hours he had borrowed.
When he was asked to speak about that incident, the head of road safety, Mister Musomba was surprised by saying, "this is not the right because most of us do not stay here and therefore we do not have a right time because our students do not do well, no one would have been satisfied by the teachers because his students did not do well, no one would be treated with them?
When I say it is that the district commissioner of Bukoba will just be satisfied with the power and those who believe that the lictions of their thoughts is the gift of God for Tanzania and it is not true and are those who want to lead in use, "
The decision of dismissing him in the DC one of the decisions that have caused many people is the decision by the president listening to the DC Mnonga after being satisfied with the explanations of the two sides, I met me if I met with him but when I met with him and taking action once again?
It is possible for the Tanzanians to enable the protests of the teachers in the whole country?
Because I think about different leaders that cause their offices to break the rights of citizens and to use their power again, because of getting married and personal reasons, I failed to understand why this district commissioner caused the state to take action immediately?
The Central Bank have been stolen from 500 billion Tanzanian shillings, there is no one who was sacked from work and even the one who was chased away was chased away, already he has wrote a letter to resign as the government entered the "treatment".
I ask you, if the president has this ability to sack him (and without doubt that he didn't use it because it has been difficult to take action against various servants who are known to use their positions.
Why do others to be heard in court, but the head of their district was the judge and legal action?
Sputanza decided to be very much that he had not identified himself from work, but it asked me people living with their children who accept to be heard, (it doesn't have publicly) and they would have heard it because.
It's not true that the punishment for a person gets people because there is legal and there are prisoners whom they completed without their own body.
Even the human rights institution recognizes that the existence of 12 strokes because they themselves through their democratic system, "he said about the punishment for various mistakes that" a person has been unable to give a compensation to the community, a person to give compensation to the victims, they are warned or to serve for a sentence of outside. "
Therefore, the problem is not 154 counties, the problem is that they were defeated outside the law and that the order was made outside the law and a person who does not believe that he has the ability to give such a penalty even if it is the grandson of the colonialist.
Therefore, if a problem is not strokes and because it's impossible to have legal actions, then to have larvae on another side, but this is true, therefore, our greatest problem is correct but we see bad signs and we saw it is bad?
If we have seen that, we don't know that we should not tell our children, we should not inform our children and we should not tell ourselves what happened here is putting off the anger of the teachers only.
For other words, maybe if you will be approved, especially the theft of billions of money, they wanted to inspect them to the State House with thousands and maybe they can start chased the people instead of being welcomed to them as a member of parliament.
However, the problem is in the ability to lead.
