Mayanja would remember this season.

It has been written by Mohamed Kiganja.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

The assistant coach of Simba soccer club, Jackson Mayanja has remember the results of a draw were cast in last season and promised that he does not want to take place again.

The results of Simba in the last premier league were like yellow fever, planting trees and a draw or scored and it appears to win it is a few times.
Mayanja who led Simba close to a half this season, is remember well the results that made them to fall in the third position of Azam and Yanga, to fail to get a chance to participate in the international competition for four years.
That coach told this newspaper yesterday that a draw without scoring against JKT Ruvu in the last match had the intention of wanting to do well-coming matches and never they did not come out, like that their perennial rivals Yanga are claimed.
He said that as the technical bench they have been keen to ensure that the draw results will not be based again due to their strategies to announce the championship early before the last match.
"Last season we missed the championship from a draw and lost some of our matches, the truth this season we do not want this to continue coming out, after our game and JKT Ruvu we have been working on writing all the mistakes so that we can get victory in that match to come," said Mayanja.
That coach of Uganda said that he knows how the league of this season has had a great competition due to many teams preparing well and that's why they are depending on the results of being beaten and a draw in all their matches that are not only.
He said that the strategic plan for this season is to see Simba is ending the first round with the top leading the league, an issue that will be affordable to fulfill what they had to compensate it which is the championship of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League this season, 2016 / 17.
Simba is expected to get into the pitch in the next week by Ruvu Shooting at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, where there is the second position in the league's stand with four points equivalent to Azam FC that is in top with a good average of goals.
