
Probably, he refused to defense, put me.
And apologized.
The late Ras Makunja, who was a witness in Spain's case that broke down.
Petit, he refused to be a witness in the case of the Deputy President, William Ruto, at the International Criminal Court (ICC), Mister Fadhili Dononda, who was brutally murdered by being removed by the court.
The body of Mister Jews at the age of 41 years was found last week when you arrived at the Yakemikali ward, he disappeared from Nthepheya.
It is believed that one of the nine witnesses who attended the evidence that left Mister Netanyahu and the violence erupted after the 2007 election.
In a report from the journalists on Tuesday night, the registrar of court in ICC, Mister Herman Kapesti said, Mister Jews have been advised to be given to the security although he decided to return to Eliona.
"Although ICC has been able to give Mister Yeon security, including finding it up to a safe place, getting back to Elkana where it was reported that the tragedy happened," he said.
The spokesperson also denied the claims that the late had officers of the charges before his death.
It is alleged that when he is seen, Mister Jew, a short message on the short message, he went to Uganda and officers from the charges.
"Jews are not in the list of witnesses for the charges of charges, or he did not communicate with the officers of the charges when he died," said Mister Hab.
That registrar explained to volunteer to ICC to help in the investigation to identify the source of that death which has caused controversy.
Already Mister Ruto, through his lawyer Karim Khan, has said the witness was supposed to be his part in a case where he has been accused of being involved in violence after the general election in 2007.
Director of Public Servants Pension Fund (right), also ordered the department of criminal Investigation for us for investigations immediately concerning that incident.
Mister Byakanwa was accused together with the journalist Joshua Nasari, and the former chairperson of ODM Party, Henry Ky who later was removed from the charges.
The case is expected to continue being treated next week, where the prosecution's leader, Fatna Baamar that they're close to complete his witnesses.
Miss Bony has been complaining that if the witnesses who defected from Spain, the others were kidnapped by the others put up suddenly in order that nobody would recognize him against Mister Ruto.
Witnesses who died are those who were attended by the court to arrive in court after losing to them.
