
Everything is called Kili Challenge, Zanzibar?

It has been written by.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The first competition of women soccer for the national teams of East African countries are starting tomorrow in November, Uganda.

Tanzania in the competition will be represented by two teams, one of Tanzania Mainland, that is Kilimanjaro Queens and the one of Zanzibar, Zanzibar Queens will have every one will participate fully.
Those teams were in the last preparation before participating in the Uganda tournament, while the Kilimanjaro Queens will play a friendly match of friendly matches against Burundi so as to evade the strength of the game that took place at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba town, Kilimanjaro Queens will emerged with a win of 3-0 goals.
The East African Champions League will take place in Arusha City from tomorrow and will continue until September 20, where the champion will be found, when the champion will be found when our teams of Kilimanjaro Marathon together with their colleagues in Zanzibar and we have hope of the teams to do well.
Despite Tanzania not doing well in African countries in the women's soccer, but that team is leading in high quality in the East African countries.
We also congratulated the Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA) for starting that competition, because it has been eagerly awaited so as to enable our women's teams to participate.
This competition will also bring unity among the players of our women's teams in one of the efforts to strengthen the cooperation of East African countries. It is the appropriate time for the competition especially considering that Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has started the national league of women here in the country, which will start next month.
However, in the year TFF is required to run the women's league before the East African competitions, to be used to choose players who will make the national team that will participate in an issue of making those others.
All the best Kilimanjaro Marathon together with your colleagues in Zanzibar Queens will have the first competitions of East and Central Africa that will start tomorrow in Uganda.
