
The order of police to arrest people did not help a human being.
By Bashir Yakub.
The inspector general of police, David Kimaiyo has not seen him again, his order of beating them and killed suspects of robbery especially in areas that have no boundaries for livestock for a long time.
The police officer said that the police did not be able to fight with the terrorists who had set aside while the citizens who are not guilty, continuing to stop their livestock and killing of forests.
Without doubt, it shows that rising from a bad state of security to the head of the police force has dropped to the country and he feels it is a must to take any step to protect citizens.
But this action will be taken to killing suspects in the 21st century which is dangerous to you.
It is important for the government to know that because it has dropped by security now there are a lot of weapons that are in the hands of citizens who have contributed to them because it doesn't have enough security!
It is difficult to remember that there is a certain place and it does not understand that the country had been killed immediately because some of the terrorists who have a draw of police.
And even if they would have been found, it's not a right to have been killed immediately and that is why we have the law of law where they are going to be taken so that the law can be taken.
To give the police freedom to kill suspects is dangerous because many of them get very close to that step which is easy in dealing with criminal suspects.
The previous years old suspects have been killed in the police after being shot in mysterious circumstances, this is after being accused of being involved in crime.
They have been taken and later in future, they have been killed and we are still supposed to be true that those are criminals.
Most of us we know that in the operation of looking for suspects like these police want to change the organizations for defending human rights and religious leaders so that the rights are forced to participate, the Kenyans will have faith and that we will have faith.
It has been put open and the law is when the police bought his gun to a time when his life or another person being in danger of them being the same way, asking them to get married and when they missed him and the law to take its course.
If you put aside, annamatinde @ gmail.
