The constitutional process should be maintained in order to start afresh.
October 17, 2013.

Through the way is to know the way it is an old phrase, inside this saying, there is a fact that when a person gets a way and he knows that she has lost a way then it is his responsibility to help us.
A good thing has been lost in a way or only one elections to look for a way to get a correct way from there you want to go to someone who had gone through a way or even if he wanted to go through a person or even if he wanted to go it or even when he wanted to go it.
I don't know the right way then I was told to go again the way he cannot go again, even if he has a problem, I want to go down because she wants to go down because she wanted to go down since he started.

However, how will be if a person has lost on a way and he doesn't know that she's not easy to see that if a person does not tell him that if he would go down, or it was not married but he did not want him to be married but because he did not want him to be identified.

The process of the constitution is now lost.

This work with enough time in the past, I request that I request to repeat at this article as an answer that this process of writing a new constitution was captured and instead of this process, the truth is illegal and does not be recognized because the process is illegal and it is not legal because of dealing with them.

If the following are enough to make this process be sold immediately and it started afresh, instead of continuing and eventually getting a new constitution without legal constitution, because people have not put on a new constitution instead of "the legality of the new constitution.

The whole process is against the constitution of Big Results Now "this time my work he said in the previous constitution, the current constitution is not supposed to be written on article 7 of the current constitution and even if you want the law to manage the proposed constitution.
Passing the new constitution in large numbers to vote is to prepare for problems, one of the problems that come forward because of this process is the procedure that was put in the opinion polls then it was found more than 50 percent of the voters of Zanzibar and Tanzania mainland then the new constitution will be living.

Article 36 (2) of the review law of the constitution has said openly.
The results of the opinion polls will be decided so as to be supported by fifty percent of the total of all the remaining votes from Tanzania Mainland and fifty percent of the total of all the 58 votes from Tanzania mainland.
