It is true that the president is chosen by God but he did not meet.
Maximilian Arnold, 2015.

At the time you missed the answers of the general elections in order to know who will emerge the president of our nation for the fifth term, I agree with those who say that the president is chosen by God and that the president of Tanzania has been appointed by God, it is the whole truth.
I don't think there is a person to fight with this argument and to show the percentage of what he can emerge the winner, I don't see God of fighting and this argument that the president is chosen by God and the big number of our religious leaders and the ones who love the God of their old religion.
In all religion we are being taught that God had already started all and he knows it is now and that what you came to tomorrow, it gives him and take it at each other time, a human being infected with God, is affected by these teachings in all religion.
Therefore, it is not the aim of this article to fight with this argument, by what I wouldn't like to fight with this argument and then I wouldn't know that she is very difficult to realize that she is not less than any other than our colleagues in the developed countries, who have already contributed a habit of accepting their lives.
I am not less than you taken that I would like to inform me, so I can be careful, so that I can be careful, so that we can be accountable because we should not be accountable because we should not be accountable because we should not be accountable because we can be able to wait for anyone else.
I take a look for his ability, we should not look for a lot of patriotism and other things which are important to find the nation's nation, what is not true that she gets to do not like it and that is it must say that is it a must.
We are supposed to be taught that God is one of the way he did in peace and other people in their countries followed by God, she had been chosen by God, who had already been selected by God, who had many people more than Idd who had many people.
There is no doubt that God is the one who had chosen Mobutu called on the logic or that God is supposed to know the logic of that God is unable to know all of them and sell their properties as well as to sell their lives and sell freedom of his country!
On that logic, we can say that even if Hitler did not say that even if Hitler did not lead to God, to lead her people 'Hitler did not have good and bad luck.
