
Taha is also involved the small farmers of vegetables on the Furahisha Stadium in Kongwa province.

Rashid Mkonga.

Farmers of vegetables and fruits in Mbeya province are required to use it well at the Songwe International Airport to produce and transporting the quality of quality so that they can bring economically economically.

That statement has been made by the technical officer of a non-governmental organization that is involved with the expertise and training production of vegetables, fruits, flowers and other organs (TAHA) in Mbeya Province.
Ndaichako said that the farmers of vegetables, flowers and fruits in Mbeya province have a good opportunity for markets by using the Songwe International Airport to compete with the international markets to produce quality.

"We have land in Mbeya Region, it is a friend for all the crops, is used well for vegetables and fruits, it will be our economy economically," he said.

Ndaichako said that by valuing the plan of that organization in contributing to the development of vegetables and fruits in the country, the government has given a grant of 14 billion shillings in order to make efforts of farmers to buy and increase productivity.

He said the expectations from Taha is an increase in agriculture and the use of irrigation technology and agricultural technology, by using water distribution system by using football, "said the rules," which causes the farmer to produce productivity.

And the farmer of vegetables in Ihanga village, Mbarali District, Daniel Wiwa said that for a period of three months, he has managed to prepare tomatoes in using the expertise that observe the criteria for better preparations for the farm.

He said that he has been able to prepare for 75 million shillings at a cost of 25 million shillings and is expected to collect more than 8 million shillings and that those achievements are resulted from the quality seeds, preparations for the exercise, water, water and drug abuse.

Previously, while speaking at that commemoration, the administrative secretary of Mbarali District, Alfred Mzindakaya, he said that farmers of vegetables and fruits are supposed to consider the expertise from those officers and urged the officers at the stadium to meet farmers.

"We believe it is good for the councils that are in your areas, and you officers at the field you don't know, farmers, so that you use the challenges they meet with agriculture," he said.
