The opinion polls will arrive in Mbeya.
Jide 29, 2015.

The opinion polls, the parliamentary position on the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Mbeya province, have been completed as usual among its members and the second one in one region.
Some of the members, including the candidates who failed, complained that the existence of bribery in those opinion polls are on some of the candidates in their opinion polls to vie for the parliamentary position through that party.
However, they accused the government to identify that it has set up a system of the members of parliament that continues to send their ability to the members of parliament, therefore lack of a high level of election in political parties.
"The government is encouraging, it has set a bad system for the members of parliament, it is a lot of millions of members that complete their time, use them to buy votes, at the field is okay," he was heard a member who complained while waiting for the announcement of the results of Mbeya town region.
That member, who even so he refused to give his name, explained to some of the journalists that asked him to get details of his complaints, that results were not known even before voting.
Opinion polls in Mbeya Town region happened at the conference hall of the science and technology University (ACTL), where before the start of all the delegates left out of the university's administration and the members of the party and the members of the party.
The system of giving the benefits of members of parliament explained about some of the candidates who came out with this newspaper on condition of not being mentioned by their names claiming that they are supposed to take place through their party.
One of the candidates who died in the opinion polls, the Mbeya Town constituency complained saying that all signs show there was the use of bribery in the process of those opinion polls.
We are talking to CCM about bribery, but even with that, the secretary general is looking at a high level, while there are a lot of challenges, no ethics, "complained that candidate, in his interview with this newspaper.
Some of the party members including the candidates who failed in some of the regions did not agree with the results claimed that there was a probability of the election procedures given by the party at the headquarters, the aim being to carry some of the candidates.
The opinion polls show that they leave the injuries among some of the members who now think their fate in that party, among them, the senior members who joined with it in the recent years, heading to the general elections of this year, being proud of it.
Mwema should give reports of some of the party members of the party right now to work with leaders of some parties, especially the ACT Patriots, with the aim of moving to there after getting displeased with the process within their party and among them major allegations is caused by corruption.
Violation of the procedures.
Among the things that were written about more about the members is a violation of the election procedures as well as the leadership of the party at the national level, for instance, one of the candidates decided to oppose the process of the opinion polls in that constituency while the government violation of the election procedures.
That candidate, Abraham Msuha has claimed that the legal delegates of the meeting were dismissed from being abducted by 80 party members, who even their cards had no doubt.
He knows among the delegates who were arrested for political parties as well as the executive committee of the district, leaders from the ward in that province, including an entrepreneur and Msasu.
"You were put in more than 80 votes out, they also identified himself as leaders of the new ward, but even their cards are given you," said Msalika in his interview through the phone with our writer, so much, they have been used for a long time, people are coming out and insisted that the positions are not present. "
Msuha who is among the senior members of Mbeya Region, having a big work of strengthening the Mbozi district in a difficult environment explaining what that took place in those opinion polls to be dirty.
When you get a car, "you're very close to him, that is why I have refused the process, it is clear so that the party has put a good procedure of ethics for the top leaders," said Msepwa.
