
Security should be a gift of Christmas to citizens.
After Kenyans were able to use him in the field for several months now, it's during Christmas season and the new year.
Their families with the ability of the financial have already been in the region, outside the country or elsewhere, to go to travel.
Then the family that have no financial ability will be happy together with whoever does not affect so much and make sure they have passed this year.
According to the report, some of the luxurious hotel in the Coastal areas have reduced up to the field while more than 70 percent of visitors being Kenyans and others from the neighboring countries of Rwanda and Uganda.
Likewise, the tourists from foreign countries like England, Germany, Turkey and so on, they are also here in the country to be afraid despite the existence of security.
A big gift that Kenyans want to come from the government during Christmas celebrations to enhance security.
Security officers are continuing to ensure that spongers in all areas in the country.
Although it is the responsibility of every citizen to make sure that it is safe, the government is what has reduced the responsibility to confirm to the security.
If the government will be able to control security during this season of celebrations, faith of tourists visiting here in the country will come back again in the tourism sector in the year 2014 which had a big blow after the series of Ebola attacks in the West African countries.
Over 20 hotel in the Coastal areas were scored while thousands of Kenyans had lost their work due to lack of tourists.
Next year, the government is a must to ensure that the tourism sector which has been in a lot of millions of foreign funds, are being removed.
The tourism sector is not supposed to understand because it is one of the important pillar that will make this nation to reach the objectives of the year 2030.
Security laws that were planned for last week is supposed to be used as required so as to control the terrorists who have been implementing the attacks inside here in the country, I wish all over Christmas Kenyans.
