18 December 2012

It will resolve the attackers of Ruwa Mitego.

By Rehema Nchimbi.

Tanzania's good news agency for All Fund, has advised the government to stop the attackers especially farmers, big farmers and the small-scale farmers who use the course and the source of River Ruaha which is in Kilombero District, Morogoro Province.
That advice was given by the chairman of that organization, Bishop Charles Gadi, in a special request to pray for the rains that have happened recently in that river as a result of drought continues to affect the animals.

He said as a result of that situation, the groups of elephants and others have started attacking the neighboring villages in order to look for water so as to find those that drive out of banana.

He added that the government will be accountable if the farmers and pastoralists that have planned to return their activities in the sources of that river so that water can benefit from the Mtera dam.

"The farmer can grow anywhere but the animals do not like to go and therefore it is our responsibility of us to make sure that agriculture and livestock activities that are being done by human beings are unable to save these animals," said Bishop Goshashy.

He said that organization has decided to do special applications in the whole country so as to strengthen the community to be responsible in protecting the environment together with various animals from Ruaha.

Ruaha National Park head, Mister Stephano Kaombwe giving a hole, said a drought that happened in that river has been contributed by the agricultural activities that are being done by the river and its sources which are in Mpanda area, section and anywhere.

He said that as a result of that problem, some of the animals that live by depending on water like 12 strokes, have already started to sit down in that reserve together with other animals.

"Water reduces, that river is very dangerous, most of the animals get married, others are born with stem cells like Simba and leep when they go to a few water in River," he said.

He asked the government to ensure that the source of that river is used for animals that don't recognize them.

In another step, the Chairperson of his office in the office of Tembela, in Iringa Rural district, has been charged by the park, Mister Greyson Mwase, he said he has become a group of elephants and others entering the village to look for water and food.

On the end of November last year, the organization made a request like that in the provinces of Katavi and Kilimanjaro before going to Iringa province in Ruaha National Park.
