
In this scandal, RC, Arusha.
Jide 16, 2012

In the sixth page of this newspaper, we have done news related to the problem of payment of ghost workers to the workers of the Department of Health, Arusha Province.
That problem of payment of ghost workers is not in Arusha only, but it is a problem for the whole country in some of the ministries, departments and government institutions.
This is a long time problem which without doubt in him is worried that there are top leaders who are involved or benefit from continuing the existence of this problem.
The reason for making sure that the payment of tax payment involves some of the national level leaders, but one of them is how this problem takes a lasting solution.
We recognize that for now, the ministry of state, the office of Raqqa, public service management has started improving a new system of controlling this problem.
Despite recognizing those efforts and our intention of urging them to provide opportunity and cooperation in the system to be implemented, we insisted that it is good for religious leaders to be reduced, and especially those leaders in the system to approve the payment of salaries and those involved in the verification of those payments.
We also call on the head of Arusha Province, Magesa Mulongo, taking the appropriate measures to convene the investigation of these complaints on payment of ghost workers by involving the workers of the Department of Health, Arusha Province.
It is not easy to listen to some of the leaders in Arusha Province about this issue, already the explanation that was given to employees has been stopped by those workers themselves.
In another reason, in this case the defense and senior directors of Arusha province is not supporting the workers of the concerned department that despite the defense or explanations done by senior officials, but the servants have not been satisfied.
It is because that then we urge him to urge the Arusha Provincial Commissioner to form a free commission to investigate this issue so that eventually the truth of that incident.
