
The increase in tax has been claimed to be paid the industrial products.
It has been a normal issue in the government's budget of every year, to look at the price rate of products like beer, soda, and cigarette on the pretext that those products are not less, it's not a habit of increasing taxes of petrol, diesel and oil for lights as one way of increasing revenue for development activities.
That issue has been sold as a culture in efforts by the government to collect tax revenue from taxes, instead of using it "tax as an important source" to promote and grow the economy so that eventually the new levels of availability of government revenue to be taught more by making a broad range of revenue collection.
Taxes in those products have been increasing every year, such as this country does not have enough resources like minerals, gas, tourist attractions so they can be able to fill the position and to enable our industries to run at affordable prices.
Right now, the price of those products to the consumer have reached the end, according to the ability of procurement and income of Tanzanians especially by comparing the value of our shilling to local currency, especially American dollars which have been postponed until the year.
If the budget of the year 2016 / 17 it will cause the price of those products to be built again as the government is expected to increase taxes on the products being used to bring effects on the level of industries, which is the aim of the budget for the budget itself.
In building a country of industries that, close to 40 percent of the availability of taxes in industrial products, it will cause unnecessary prices to the consumer of those products, to increase production and reduction of sales of industrial products.
The reduction of sales of industrial products is causing many industries which at the moment they produce under the level of production that is in industries (430 kW), under more than the standards that are now.
That situation will make many industries be emphasized and the high cost of production and eventually will be forced to test at a loss.
And the whole issue of building the economy of industries faced with the restrictions that are in the country for our ability to be facing.
Due to a deficit of the government revenue that are collected from more than 2 trillion shillings in the 2016 / 17 budget, I don't see it is by putting taxes on the products that I mentioned is supposed to increase.
The real collection of government revenue collected from taxes for a period of eight months, in July 2015 up to February 2016, they were beaten 2 trillion shillings and 9 trillion shillings.
The issue of expanding the scope of revenue sources that are collected from tax is a song for many years which has not been the author.
In addition to the good intention of wanting to grow the economy, increasing a lot of employment opportunities to the youth, to reduce poverty and access to industries in the country, to strengthen infrastructure and availability of reliable energy in the country and to attract more investment in the government sector in the year 2016 / 17. "
