These attacks in Gaza are terrorism.
May 30th, 2012

The world has witnessed what we can be taught in terrorism being done by "State Islamic and Drug Administration." Taifa Stars makes acts of terrorism against Palestinians and who basically the ones with their land.
But this issue of terrorism was a history that can be read even in the Bible.
For more than 2000 years, a group of Jews have been able to fight against the Roman Empire, that was called Salute 5, that was also a political group and religious leaders with great faith, this group wanted all Jews to follow all the instructions in accordance with the instructions of their religion.
Sunnis with a political fight against the Hispanic origin who were led by Mujahideen who's an aim of enabling his followers to fail to pay taxes, this issue has also been witnessed in removing the Bible to maintain the Bible.

The fate of Jews did not be known, but the new leader came out and promised to break the fight against the attackers, finally, after the violence that was held for fifty years, Saint were thrown out of Jerusalem and they were misled.

After being unable to go through the Blacks, which is more than one thousand, in addition to stem cells affected by women, children, children and the elderly, later men on them were believed to have found that incident that occurred last year after Jesus Christ.
Of Al Mana.
One hundred thousand in this happening took place with another terrorist group, these were called Assemblies of these were followers of the Kiango, that had its headquarters in Iran today, from Iran that had their leader called Hassan Wasswa alah, will go to East Africa where he did to do the killing of being paid.

The followers of this denomination was also known by smoking marijuana before they did not make a terrorist act with the name of Allah. Here we see the word "Asser" by English and even if the terror attack has been infected.

At 1200 of the terror attack of Shangwe who was brutally murdered after the Dojo Janja will destroy the stronghold from the headquarters of UTT-Kwerekwe roads and terrorism starts to spread even in various parts of the world.
We look at the overthrowing of France like another example that was caused by terrorism of dollars.
Normally, the revolution of France is being seen by checking the date of the teachers who were swelled to the forefront in line with the whole nation of France was in a difficult time after participating in several war with a lot of goods, a situation that led to citizens to start the revolution.
