
Whoever doesn't give him or at an accident.
A big followers of the government from Mount Kenya have already said that they are with the news that Beauts have won 81 million shillings from the European nations to fund the plot.
However, Mister Odinga said that the meeting is to ensure that the meeting is to resolve the government on a national discussion about very important issues that can baptize with an aim of looking for a lasting solution.
Mister Odinga has mentioned the deterioration of the security, to climb with a cost of life that has already raised us to the community and also tribalism and discrimination in presidential positions as part of issues that do not lie quickly.
He also says that it is a must for the Electoral Commission and the boundaries for the IEBC) that he could be emphasized on the other and then the commissioners from the commission started afresh, in that commission.
The ones that have been said by Dominica is seen to have a good intention in ensuring good administration and caring about the economy of the citizen.
But in details, the analysts have said that there is an issue to watch him in strategies of Plasmodium falciparum.
Why the opposition should come out and help the government to achieve its goals to the public, as possible that I wanted the government to fail to move down from office and the opposition to defend his citizen and then see if they see as a result of the answer to their problems.
"The opposition has understood that the left wing of Correa scored in search of his administration, then many Kenyans don't like to see if they sell their problems in the next general elections, many Kenyans will do well to inspect that opposition instead of bringing to them their responsibilities," he said.
He said that the opposition has shown the real situation of problems facing Kenyans, and the government is saying that those issues are good and good for the solution.
"As the government having fear of preparing a meeting that will have a lot of bitterness for the Kenyans, it gives you a happy to have a national debate and instead try to vote," said Mister Kaumba.
The other situation that has came out in the opposition in the opposition party is that, Correa scored by the authority of Busquets is involved in search of the administration from the opposition, the government will vote together in search for the administration from the opposition, the government will try to get helped in large numbers, "he said.
He added that the view aims at one of being unable to find government the important implementation of the constitutional process in the elections where the discovery of its contribution and that is expected to be President Uhuru Kenyatta will succeed in large numbers of 51 percent.
That situation is with the intention of ensuring that if President Kenyatta will fail to reach 51 percent, then the second phase will be organized by the opposition to get married and then take the leadership.
However, the Political Parties, Mister Peter Kaguta has said another fear where Cord has been seen to set aside the Mount Kenya community in their activities of taking the authority.
It has been noted that the left wing, Angel d has sent away the former leader of the illegal group of Chakwama, Mister Kihara Maina in his efforts to put the youth of Mount Kenya up to the opposition.
The government has been seen to explain the situation as a plot to revive the activities of that group which for two several times that caused robbery in every kind and handover which resulted to death of the followers of the group.
If that situation will come back again, then the youth and the parents of Mount Meru area will be buried and finally the government in elections.
In addition, another mistake is for the way it is prepared by the left wing, it seems openly that it is aiming to bring down the stronghold of the deputy president, Mister William Ruto, so as to try to bring down the organizers of Mister Kenyatta, in the next 2017 elections.
Mister Kaguo has said that the plot has already been taken by the opposition from the opposition in Kalege village, Maasais' Mujahideen (Kamara) who are together with Stamford Bridge, Emosquitoes and Meru (Gmwaijonga) and helped them to give them Diamond to win.
That opposition has been postponed through the registrar of governors of the Central Region, Alfred Khajida Kopa, who also joined the government on claims of sabotaging the contract and also corruption in the provision of contract registration.
"The opposition view is that while taking the opportunity to take advantage of the on the left wing, it will be able to prove that the claims of your two and the truth, then they will be able to attract the voters, Mister Ruto, and then join Cord," he said.
Mister Kaguo has said that the situation aims to bring down the government through bringing about feelings of people among the stronghold of the government.
While considering that, it is not true that the government has been stop stuttering in relation to the proposal of Novak Dictatorship in the national debate by fear that doing so is a bit when he was born with the citizens.
Considering that, Mister Kenyatta has announced that he will lead in 10 years and then give him its first 10 years, then the opposition is found guilty, do not loose hope in achieving the government's authority.
