When we get in Dar es Salaam, there will be a present, there is one things that he had.
He was a good position below now, he could not get out that is if you feel.
Very much, the woman had two children and he was a good position.
The late God is looking for their lives to the late God about their life, you know that the mother was doing, they would have been able to stand because he was speaking when he was speaking, he can stay in Dar es Salaam and maybe he can be shot.
Now he is using her very life like you said, Ally she told this children.
They denied them that they died on so that those criminals have died.
The bacteria are died.
Almighty God can remember that I saw him in a short message.
I saw him in the television, the late God was good and all his children had the female children.
And they were in a bad state because they were having people, "P has been shot but others are unable to see that there was a police force, I am happy to see that there was a police officer, I am pleased here to help you like you like you.
Give him a shot by those criminals for the past, where he got a period of one minutes if the two hours before they were.
The late Adam and that is what I saw him having farmers and yellow fever who originate from the scene.
Do you know what I don't know?
When a clothes was shocked when he was very attractive, but I remember there is one.
There is another neighbor?
Soul wants to be open at the late.
Maso said that he was in one room and they are giving up to now the children were doing so much for now.
You can talk about three children.
I have heard the ones who are not involved because without food without any thing of drinking alcohol or water they have no fear of fear, there are those who love them and I advise him to do it.
Very much, you can be great because previously there were one police while holding one child to convince the car to enable the vehicles to be able to raise.
For we, we request God to look for so that we can look for so that we can know that, I can't know that, I will ask you and so as to give questions like this day and we are supposed to be prepared because it was a big shock to the late.
How do you know even because?
Even there is a journalist where he was accused when he was shot, the late God was pregnant while they found himself when he was found at the same time said it was pregnant for how many months.
Seven months had he had pregnant in the past seven matches.
The late God, but he was born even I heard that he was a Muslim and he was able to prevent him from the religious state of the Lord God, that I heard was a employee of the Lord, the late God was a journalist.
The late God was a journalist who was working with people of death.
And you are looking for you, I think those criminals have been buried.
Or big police are saying or they were murdered is also a way.
For example, especially I cannot be very true because I have heard that there are two who were affected, they were shot dead and I have heard that I have gone to them but I am very happy but I have the news that are supposed to hear from the press here in the country.
How is it?
But happens and think about what they were affected.
Now.
Before you were written because I think it is many people who were tested in inside, but those robbers would have been unable to stand when they shouldn't accept when they were found or not being shot by police.
For Kenyans.
That's an issue, I would say only is for sure or for my knowledge, I thank me or I see that those had a great intention.
Reason if they were able to know that you are a Muslim and they are a Muslim where they can't know if it is true or it is a shame, what will we know if you are, the words we are just from open mouthed.
Or those who have been buried or we were not getting to know what they have planned to do in that area so that someone came from us here, I know what I have heard, even if there is no vehicle when I hear them that there is no vehicle when I've been shot dead in other cups.
The Almighty God can baptize and even there are bodies of vehicles now to be easily read the bodies that were buried and therefore, we are requesting them to know, but we are requesting them to know, but we are requesting them to look for them but we are also requesting them to know.
