Police in Mwanza debtors "asking them to win as stew of Kamanga ferry.
Jide 16, 2012

Despite receiving information of confirmation of faking government documents and the documents of the government from the department of investigation, the headquarters of Dar es Salaam, the police force in Mwanza province has been struggling in taking action against foreign citizen who is accused.
The Belgium citizen, in the country, diggers, presented a wedding certificate, number E. 8887 votes were built in Magu on October 10, in the year 1999 has signed a certificate of stealing from the Immigration Department, Mwanza province, while asking for him a certificate of looking at the bridge area claiming that it is a wife to the owner of the Kamanga ferry area, the late Kwelukilwa.
According to the documents, Mke Mwema have been seen, the introduction unit (Forte Dodge, Bureau of Department in Dar es Salaam city, confirmed that the signing of a government officer who signed in the wedding certificate is different from the real sign of the officer.
The letter from that unit with memories of Facebook / RB / 08 / 2013 of August 11, year 2011 followed by ACP Vogue Baamar, on behalf of the investigation is claimed to be an officer who stopped the marriage is different from the real sign.
The investigation that was done by Sergeant Samuel Mugenda using the modern technology equipment of VocationalTraining in a video by VFLWho Lives Forever, used to identify the difference of the system to create capital and prove that those agreements do not succeed.
According to the report of the police force, the year 2009, the first wife of the deceased will be avoided, Wienerschnitzel that would be presented to the police wanted to take investigations into the marriage documents because he believed to be a step that the army has extended the suspect.
Our news source inside that army has explained that since the announcement of that case, more than two years have passed and there is no symptoms of the army to be taken because of what is claimed to be "the mother has people from the government" who had arrived.
"I have been told the truth I don't know if there are action that will be taken together with evidence of getting the contract, and there is a letter told me to remind me of his case but it is just a head, you can go with water," explained our source.
Our investigation has shown that Ras Makunja wrote a letter on February 9, 2012, to follow up on that case that he reached two years ago to the provincial head office, so as to know the action taken against his suspect, however, this newspaper was not allowed to know if the letter found themselves.
Mwanza Regional Police Commander, Liberatus Barbosa, told this newspaper on the phone that his army would not be able to address that case for now because there is another case in the premier league that involve local dances.
He added that the issue has a lot of things similar to each other and that the army will take a step of the process of faking government after a case that is in the court ended.
The case at the court was opened and they feel hard to ask for him as the supervisor of inheritance of the late Sajuki, who claims to be her husband, and asked for him to be known as the director of Kamanga ferry.
But the immigration department of Mwanza province has ever postponed the commissioner of immigration in the headquarters, November 11, in the year 2008, after the case he has apologized for a certificate of you and asked the bridge, to advise that the mother should be allowed because he will have presented a certificate of injustice to the office.
"It's my recommendations that the National Parks.
In addition to advice and opinions from the office of the immigration officer of the province, the mother who previously was living in the country with a gift of a red card (the number + 2226) because of finishing his term that it has dropped by a donation of some of the government officers who are alleged to be compensated.
