
Makonda wants to sing about 'Machinga', for 14 days.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published on 28th October, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has given 14 days to the head of the district to ensure that they give them part of the working environment to all those who do business at the outskirts of the road.

He has also urged those who have already been given the areas to return to their areas and to remove their businesses at the periphery of roads.
Makonda made the statement yesterday when he was speaking to journalists in the city where he urged the business people not to use the statement of President John Magufuli because they have already been set aside the areas but they decided to return after that statement.
"Our president said that we are known here, we should be involved in special areas for the purpose of doing their businesses, the areas we have improved thus it is good to come back in their areas and those who don't have to come out in their areas and those who don't have to be given to the areas," he said.
He said that the presence of those business people in the road reserve area has caused a nuisance which is caused by a non-communicable diseases which causes freedom to football.
"We did not be tarmac so that you can make your products on the road, ones who live in every day I will give you more because you can stop yourself and we should never like using the strength they won," said Makonda.
He added that the existence of those involved has caused the Ilala Municipality to lose revenue because there have been some of the business people who are not supposed to send their products and evade paying tax.
"You have been able to pass cargo on non-correct ways, there are people they collect and take them to big business people and to give them an issue that makes those products to be sold without paying taxes," added Makonda.
Moreover, Makonda said that the city has a plan to set special areas that show the internal products and those coming from the country.
