
Forms of the National Identification Authority is expected to be released in Dar Jide 19.

The National Identification Authority (NIDA) has said it has started giving forms for the national identity cards to the residents of Dar es Salaam.
According to the NIDA report of this week, the exercise was officially started the day before yesterday and will end 15 days.
"After this step of the applicant from a computer system, it is expected to start a historical exercise in hand with the verification of information before the NIDA came back to the applicant from the applicant from the applicant," says the NIDA report.
It has been quoted the executive director of the National Identification Authority, Dickson Maimu has warned the report said the exercise has begun by the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner and the procedures will face the whole country so that all citizens of 18 years and more than to be signed and finally be given the national identity cards.
According to Yunde, the identity cards will have a lot of benefits to one citizen and the nation in general because it will have a broad range of expenditure in all sectors of political, economy and community.
He urged citizens to come out in large numbers to register themselves and to make sure that every citizen will have the primary illustrations that will be read, like the birth certificate, membership cards, primary education, secondary and university or passport.
At the moment the registration exercise is taking place every estate, where stations will be open from morning until evening, and coordinated together with NIDA and the leadership of local government up to the ward levels.
The registration and identifying people of Dar es Salaam involves all residents including citizens, visitors and refugees.
Up to now the response of the citizens has been huge following the registration exercise which began on June 22, this year, whereby, register a house for houses to register people who live in every village and put information in the exercise of the residents.
