
Sumaye Barsheba I will follow up and they will compete for the President Magufuli did not happen at the State House.

Retired prime minister, Fredrick Sumaye, has said that if Lowassa will succeed to get into power we'll get money from the country they will be refunded the statement yesterday when he addressed a campaign meeting at the Police Station in Nzega town, Tabora Province.

According to Sumaye, the funds that the CCM Government has been unable to return to be back because they are wealth of our fellows.

"Yesterday (the day before yesterday), I have heard Magufuli (presidential candidate of CCM), Doctor John Magufuli, saying that he will go to power he will enable Tanzania to build a farms for citizens that were abducted.

"First, I told Magufuli that the State House did not meet, but we will go into power we will make sure we have stolen the money from Europe or Switzerland to oppose them," said Sumaye.

Sumaye also spoke about the issue of bribery in the country and said that CCM would be able to hear any person to vie for the presidency because they have been unable to bring better life of IT.

"Magufuli says when he gets into power he did the act of bribery, if he has the ability for what he would not want to stop the act when he was the minister in the government under bribery?

"Magufuli says when he gets into power he will lead the economy, if it is true he has the ability to grow the economy because he is unable to send himself through the government of CCM which he is a minister?

"Magufuli has no problem, not to inspect him because he has participated to buy a bad bridge that has been built in Bagamoyo to Dar es Salaam," said Sumaye.

In his explanation, Sumaye spoke about the reports of CCM leaders who want to convince citizens to inform Lowassa on the pretext that the country will go in the war if it happened to Libya and other African countries.

Sumaye said there is no war that will comes their opponents as they go into power and that the war will receive as the government of CCM will not want to leave power.
