
The cause of the murder of the researchers is still underway.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya, Chamwino.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

The riddle of what has caused the murder of researchers in Iringa village, Chamwino district in Dodoma province, has been difficult to give them more due to the area being claimed to have experts that it has development activities with productivity.

Speaking in an interview with this newspaper about the state of economy and life in that district and Iringa ward, in general, the planning officer of Chamwino District Council Njekela said that the Chamwino district's income is 53,000 shillings for a year.
In addition, Lessly Nyari said the community is very careful in the whole issue of health, economically and the society is of the federation and the society is affecting it in the whole issue.
Also in that area where the killings have happened on the first of October, this year, there is no other research taking place more that had been done by those suspects who were killed together with their driver from the agricultural research station of Selina (MARI) in Arusha province.
Those who were killed by being carried out of weapons like swords and Mchuchuma is owned by Theresia Ngapa (43), Jaffari Matundu together with his explanations, until the end of the week of economic, political and religious leaders participated while many residents were still rushing into forest.
"The situation is still critical and many citizens have fallen from their houses, as the village must be stable and affect the whole development activities in the ward," explained the acting officer, officer said the situation is still a result of many houses, last, and not the fate of that issue.
Speaking about those killings, they can be reasons for lack of education and poor economy, the district planning officer, Lessly Nyari said education has been donated to various development issues in all villages in that district and that the community gets a chance to be involved in the issues of development.
Foreign projects are water through Batakanwa and internal projects are all projects in the together with the support of local government development (TIN), and the plan to save poor households (TASAF).
He said Iringa Municipality has approximately 21,313 people who have great economic activities including farming, livestock and small businesses, therefore the action that will be educated, but not because of the poor income or lack of development projects.
