
Muhongo has been involved in the theft of Escrow account.

Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, has been named as a close relationship with one of the two youths who were set free by the police force in this province on accusations of stealing from the office of the parliamentary committee reports of more than 300 billion shillings, which is in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).

That inspection was done by the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) through the prime minister, Ann Makinda, who was mentioned to have a close relationship with the suspect, speaker of parliament, Ann Makinda, who yesterday was his first day to lead the parliament since started on November 4th this year, claimed that it was not mentioned to be in the list of players who have the money, while he got a share of one million American dollars.

By Minister Muhongo having a close relationship with that youth, he is a member of parliament for Ubungo (CCM), John Mnyika.

Mnyika congratulated the Minister Muhongo, while contributing to the debate about the bill of law of the Marist of various laws of the year 2014, in parliament yesterday.

That bill was presented by the attorney general (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, to parliament, Friday last week.

"Honorable speaker, is important for your office to follow up. Because the suspect has a very close relationship with Professor Sospeter Muhongo, who is one of the suspects in the scandal we discuss," said Mnyika.

He added, "now I am saying this early so that it can not be able to reach the steps on the excuse of things that the court failed to mention them by names of police who make sure that action can be taken."

Mnyika said that they are heard on the IPTL issue for a long time has continued borders.

He said the reports on the wealth is that the police want to advise the speaker of parliament because they want it quickly to kill a suspect in court so as to explain the parliament that a leader had already been taken to court, therefore there is no reason to mention the name or his issue to be discussed.

Mnyika said that since the day they gave the police a report, up to today, they have been few unable to mention the name of the suspect, while asking for investigations.
However, he said on the side of the government when they are meeting with them in the stations, they have said that the player is known, being together with all the people who had been communicating with them.

"Honorable speaker, continues to dodge these things on the excuse of things that the police, and later the police were going to court, you want to welcome him here on the excuse of knowing your things in court, therefore, Honorable speaker and you're getting information inside your office maybe and your office is concerned," said Mnyika.
