
The human drugs in the country are in danger.

September 28, 2016.

Industries for human resources that are in the country are in danger of lack of cooperation between its owners and the government, thus causing the drop in the medicine market that is within 30 to 20 percent.
Acting Director of the Research Institute of REPOA), Doctor Lucas Katoma, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was giving an evaluation of research that was done by the center to check the way to revive the medicine sector, to identify its challenges, a solution.
"Research has revealed that drug sector needs big investment and local industries being little, that is why they are unable to produce drugs in large numbers to international quality.
"The government is supposed to intervene in partnership with radio and other countries are so as to produce drugs in large numbers to provide employment to the local government," said Doctor Katanga.
In that research, there are stakeholders in the medicine sector including the High Court (MSD), producers, users, Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) said that of the lack of close partnership between the government and the concerned sector, a situation that has contributed to industries which has dropped every year.
He said in the year 2006, the level of internal drugs that were in the market is 30 percent up to the year 2013, drugs that were in the internal market is less than 20 percent.
That shortage just came after the government put grants to some of the drugs from outside the previous years being produced in the country.
"Through this research, we have noted that in the year 2006 to 90 percent of treating malaria drugs were bought using the main medical camp from local producers.
"Starting in the year 2007, it got a donation of coalition drugs that were put aside from the country thus the internal industries were unable to withstand the competition because they did not have grants," he said.
Another challenge is a huge problem of electricity generated from time to time whereby many factories of drugs have been getting losses while others failed to produce a step that has caused drugs to get out in large numbers because the countries that are produced there are no electricity problem.
"Also, research has revealed another challenge is a long-term challenge about the availability of drugs from TFDA, this sequence is taking two years and we continue to reduce time of registration and testing of products so that it can be able to run it in time," said Doctor Katanga.
Research also have proposed that MSD to give priority by taking many drugs from local producers, to pay them in time, business policies, tax and loans for it to give priority to natural resources that are making drugs.
