Yesterday it is read.
He shared with us.
One day after the government of the province.
The government to give heavy instructions the authority of the port's management to play down including urging stakeholders who stand at the port.
Farmers at the port to make sure that they work on all the seven days of the week, "Masau boasted.
In the city where they have praised the month of the government on claims that it will help there to security and get married.
Those businessmen have explained that captain that they were using a lot of money to save vehicles in the port and even the days of Saturday and Sunday.
Days where the port's offices will not give any services that causes the vehicles to be sold at a high price and therefore a prestigious tournament for the vehicles.
Moreover, they requested the nurses and some of the procedures that they used to contribute to the presence of bribery actions, and the theft to get vehicles not in the port together with reducing the tax payment and they have said that it is an obstacle to many citizens to fail to buy vehicles but the actions they have done well.
Because the government will lead employees from Monday until Friday.
But on Saturday and Sunday the cargo were found.
Now, they are questioning the citizen to do when they are sick.
You know you are paying taxes, the citizens who did not lose their money does not make the work but the citizens living in tax if you think it is dangerous to the other side.
He was playing for a lot of joy to be the first reason for the true things on Sunday, it does not be known since the day before yesterday was a good position because the day before yesterday was good for what happened, there is my brothers who are finished asking for the price.
Let me look for him.
The truth was inside your music and everything is supposed to do everything but until it needs to sit down there.
I decided to be released that it was being done to know Pope if I think we would like a lot of weaknesses, there's no radio, there's no longer.
But the government we have said that it is the government of the United Republic?
But the question is that a person receiving your car at the port becomes bureaucracy at the port's headquarters in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the minister of Harrison Mwakyembe and data, William Mgimwa for money and minute Abdallah Kigoda and the market.
Together with the deputy minister of energy and minerals, George Simbachawene has directed the port authorities in the country to ensure that all the port are doing all the days of this day, to give them the cost that are not a must for conservation of goods.
I think this topic again.
Citizens.
