
The killing of an albino and a grandfather's killing.
MTVs, 2015.

At this time we think about how to be able to fight with our brothers with skin disability (albino) it is good to know where they come from.
This of the albino killings have been built on the concept of witchcraft being built through the concept of witchcraft.
The albino killings is among the great shameful things to the nation if a shame will enable you to be sold in the world a joke in the world at the Indian Ocean, where it came out with his cup of shivered.
There are those who came up since the first day of those news was announced, and said openly, that the Loliondo land is an indication that the Loliondo land is wrong, then the Loliondo land is in the public with his own dream.
I remember them should be used much and will be used a lot of information on how we are warned that we are following Babu, but there are many who affected phones and send a message to say that we are in fighting with Babu Tale and one of those people, is a senior leader in the ruling party.
And here is one of my articles to our citizens, we are there to fight with the Cozumel Island.
"Contribute to ideas in the community is a good thing and other ideas which can attract others, but it is good and wisdom was given even if there are some who want to deal with those thoughts.
Amaso is a big word with any meaning that is understandable and to bring that logic or in our world, many times, with talking to pretending to be doing a lot of things and the ones that we did is that it will help them, even if it will help them.
It is these things that do not have a plain truth and many times that do not been discovered, they have been cheated "and made it to God, therefore, you can't confirm this.
And if we expect it is not true that we have been patients who look for anything so that we find solutions to our disease. "By sponsors," the treatment of our diseases are facing.
Yes, there are patients who follow through.
And not, I have heard the "Babu, at the Loliondo Town, if I am told," I would like to see a man or a dream and talk to God just after time and all that is implemented if you see it is the instructions of the Almighty God. "
I have done the pastoral work since 1967 in several areas in the country until the year 1989, when I was chased away from that area and I had an impromptu work here to I was told, in the year 2002.
"I started changing the vision and hearing of God since the year 1991 Eliapenda has told me that I want to live in this area, because God wanted me to give me a special work which at the time I did not know," (our salvation).
Alike, he will get words but put aside, that, "Babu, at Loliondo town is an indication that they shouldn't affect the word" Masau boasted.
These times, where many people have been faced with a lot of poverty, ignorance, and diseases, the ones that involve the end of the last day.
