The late God rest his home at the same child, we are searching for you since we are in the province of Shinyanga and the national councilors have never been successful here, the child does not have a good job because I am not happy and we believe that your responsibility is good.
You are doing luxurious houses near my brothers, I believe that film is giving me.
I thank you for recognizing that, they are registered Kitambi a is.
He cared for the meaning of the disease.
Bye, I think to support him.
For the whole world is Mayunga.
Because it is true we have not succeeded in improvements by a big percentage in the first, the name itself with the reality and the team.
Having that people it has paid the players looking at your national team.
Any teacher is now those who will be seen?
Now the good way and at this time we would like to be from the national competitions.
And maybe that would I have decided to be involved with the league cup that will involve clubs of the bridge.
So as to be able to get players with real ability and not the players that are going, they had the opportunity of maybe their parents or relationship with some of the leaders.
And another thing that you know is.
The national team.
Which are underway.
This United States is claimed?
The bodies of the week J.
Body from.
And maybe it was not born like how they have been forced to international at times.
That is because.
The first players are required to have patriotism.
Other things are the following that you have a lot of patriotism so that they are forced to send himself and other things like.
And because we don't say that he was looking for us that it is the competition of UMISSETA the national cup and other groups here and there was no longer a national team that has the ability to be paid for now, he is telling us for the improvements it is preparing for a week.
Or two weeks is going to play with the national team for example Kenya, Burundi, other citizens that has been encouraged to get victory and fail to get victory and even some of the leaders see that we have not succeeded in the right way, we have succeeded in the previous way we have succeeded.
Why when we go back to this way we had to succeed if we go to the national cup and other groups is the one who wanted and if he would have no need to go well without being close to the government.
If you have forgotten that superstition had gone into preparations for the hands of a long time, you can't complete the OGP plan, you cannot come up the government to give your policies for your policies, you can have proposed that we can get that national stadium more than this, I am sending.
And maybe, let me say for players?
Hayatou, we are playing in the ball and what he accepted, that the ability of our players is that one, except it's a service.
If you visit United stand you can be assisted by Simba and if you check the services they receive Simba different times and he is a state of the state when they get a service if Simba will work.
Head coach we should agree that you cannot be like to see how to improve service to our players and how to care.
By doing so, we can talk a lot and I request it ends there we are continuing.
