
Loss of not knowing what you need in.
Benson Chonya from the yellow card, @ mkito.
Most of the people who succeeded to know what they want to do in life, even so they were able to fight with the face, they were running on the veins, forest resources and stars, but continued with the journey because they found the sun.
How do you know my colleague who has met with dirty water on your success of success and you go back to the place where it does not have water and then he removed the water.
Without doubt, you will inform you in my explanation and if you think I'm talking about challenges that many people do not face.
These lives of two types of articles, the first side has people who have peace in my heart and peace in the body, but in other types of life, there are some people who have faith with no time but they do not have a long time.
In that group the is the one with a lot of people, you know why there is a big number of people with a normal life as usual.
We should learn anything through the follow.
In the past years, there were one person whose life was poor, every day he saw it's better, when the poor condition is to say that they can be able to deal with challenges of life but the situation used to be critical.
One day he got the news about that in his area, we are living with one expert from different countries who want to see the specialist, so that poor people can get wealth, because they believed the sentiments were affected by the expert.
After going to the specialist, the expert from the situation that had the poor, and therefore the expert was wrecking your head to know the need of the poor.
Therefore, after seeing him, I know you need a ring on luck and wealth without doubt, what is why I have been suffering for a long time without getting any interruptions, while he continued to explain to him that the problem will end in 10 days from one day if they will go to fulfill the conditions.
The expert asked the poor, "do not think that you will be able to fulfill those conditions?
Then, the expert told me that I know that you have a family, therefore I want to be able to release it for the first child.
However, the expert said because in the beginning, he was ready to make sure that you are doing so.
Poor followed keenly you did not get the answer to that time, but as the minutes will continue to go to his life, he does not have a good thing to do when he gets to her child.
Then the expert together with the poor that they decided to do these things that I decided and see that it is the solution to come out of poverty.
At the end of a day, the child died on the death of an entrepreneur, while every resident he invented the mouth, as the door of the buses that you wait for passengers.
But after the ten days you have been reached after doing any changes, the poor did not see any changes which he had promised and the poor expert asked the expert why I don't see any changes of heading to the wealth, the expert told them that he should not have patience because all the good things do not do quickly.
Because the surgeon who had conned people decided to return those areas and came out to school without being known as the poor and the end of the day when he found themselves wealth, who had a need of killing her child who is looking for him.
The view of this story what makes us want to make sure that many people in our state are poor, we are not important to make sure that everything we are doing, we see that everything we are doing, therefore many people have emerged and that everything we are doing.
