
Minister encourages students with special needs.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The minister of state in the office of the president, regional administration and local government (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene has given seven days to the directors of special education to hand over the statistics of students with special needs in the country because of being late in a period of two months since the previous order.

He gave that order to the assistant director of special education, Tamisemi, Kassim Kaumba recently during the opening of a two-day meeting that will involve primary education officials, officers, and special education officials of all councils in the country that took place in Morogoro.
Minister Simbachawene has ordered to be given information on statistics of students with special needs in schools including, 31 schools, after the directors failed to give him a period of two months since he ordered them to be given for a long time.
"It is very close to two months since when I saw it, but until today (the day before yesterday), I have not got a lot even though the directors is in my office, it doesn't have him," he said.
That minister said that the problem of lack of statistics of students with special needs has caused some of the schools lack of financial funds, therefore, causing the teachers to be treated for the purpose of getting money to serve those students.
He also urged the local government authorities to identify teachers of special education and to urge them to teach students with disabilities at the concerned school and urged the teachers to invest in education profession including the field of special education.
Minister Simbachawene urged those directors to supervise keenly the use of higher education funds because of the verification of statistics of education issues including statistics of students so as to evade the problem of ghost students.
The assistant director of special education, Tamisemi, Kassim Kaumba, said up to now the students of special education in primary schools are 3711,055 teachers, they are more than 3,000 schools where the needs are more than 700 million shillings.
