
What is the one to be blamed for poor life of Zanzibar?
Sep 19, 2012

The signing of the two years now since Zanzibar should have the national government of Zanzibar and the people of Zanzibar have agreed that this argument of having a government of partnership is the ones that came to the end of the year 1957 when they started a political system of many parties in the islands.

There are still hement fans who want to return to Zanzibar where he wanted to return.

Although it's true he is a victory but there are allegations that this was a win that was washed gered by theft of votes, if those accusations are true then it is very important to see that it has already reduced violence after the results of the election was announced.

A question that comes out is if what happened is the results of a few people or it's a habit that CCM cannot continue separation and I believe that things can be different in the next general elections of 2015.

The history has shown how many conflicts among them erupted of political tensions among the people of Zanzibar and the citizens that they can also be even one thing and that Zanzibar can't succeed to be one thing and that they will continue to move up until the end of the world.

God knows the people of Zanzibar they woke up and wanted them about the situation that they found with and they don't remember their future generations.
They decided that the whole issue in Zanzibar must be able to get a solution to the whole of Zanzibar, a solution that will come out and communicate with people of Zanzibar.

They did not hesitate to happen there but also they wanted the people of Zanzibar to have the ability to decide the future of them because through the process that will make citizens not accept to be keen and make sure that the solution will be legal and will make sure that the solution will be legal and will make sure that the solution will be legal.

The danger of one group of the community to unite with the power alone is that those in the group and of them have finally been permanent secretaries and therefore there are only permanent secretaries and therefore there was a danger of starting a new type of values.

Names of the whole nation of Kiziguto, looking for solutions to political problems in their country from the CCM side, he is the retired president of Amani Abeid Karume together with Hassan Nassor, and from the opposition side the secretary general of CUF, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad.

There are some also contributed to the efforts of being found guilty of those political parties in the islands of Zanzibar and they have committed themselves but there is no doubt that will be written by, their names should emerge with their courage to return to their party ideology and to put him in their country.

They said they are successful to make sure that those are a lot of miracle and all of them were the ability to send one child Mrs. consent.

The creation of that government made many Tanzanians to use a lot of time without a lot of time, maybe if they reach the other problems since this period of two years you could have been able to remove many things and satisfy many of the citizens and residents of the islands.

Consent were started in one problem so that Marx has improved, called the Zanzibar Electoral Commission and among the citizens, and even among the citizens, it is clear that without the benefit of the people of Zanzibar concerning the future of their country.

According to the current system of removing the union of Zanzibar and Tanganyika, Zanzibar does not have strength of fulfilling all the problems affecting the people of Zanzibar.

In that reason, there is a need that there is a need for the government's efforts in the government of the national union and the coalition government in implementing those problems.

What is needed especially for the government of the United Republic to do justice and give strength to the government of Zanzibar so that it can bring development without waiting for a new constitution or the agreement of the United Republic and those administrative secretaries will enable the government of Zanzibar to take an emergency action of reviewing the economic and social responsibility.

In this context, I don't see the reason for example why the government of the United Nations "are important in the development of economic and natural gas as well as education issues such as oil and natural gas.

It is also important that Zanzibar doesn't have administrative efforts to bring reforms that are required to help the people of Zanzibar and their children to get education and training that will enable them to build them again in their country.

The truth is not knowing that until now the national government of the national Union has not succeeded to retire from meeting the needs of its citizens by giving them better services that will be available today in Zanzibar, you can't think that for this time the government of the country did not have any plans to stop the problems facing the people of Zanzibar.

Likewise, it should be remembered that the people of Zanzibar affected by the international community did not be given any responsibility of helping to implement the problems although they have shown an intention to help them.

To continue with the process of giving this new constitution, he doesn't show that the government can change his administration activities or be keen on how life continues, so much hard life today in Zanzibar.

The big number of the youths of the whole youth in Zanzibar do not have faith in any issue because they need to be given training on different professions and they need to be used in different professions and they should be allowed so that Zanzibar can benefit from the part of employees even in the tourism sector that now has many people who are not people of Zanzibar.

To say the truth we have witnessed this today in Zanzibar, is that the people of Zanzibar themselves are high and employment because many employment opportunities are being taken by the visitors.
Employers should inform those visitors because they are the education, skills and experience of work to win the hosts.

Therefore, the national government's government is supposed to take an emergency action of providing training to young men and female students by building training institutions with low standards, so as to enable the people the participants in the employment market in their country.

Another thing that is needed is for all Tanzanians to support their government when it is giving its legal claims to the government of the union. During the time has come to now and it has also come for the government of the United Republic of Zanzibar by using it and also it will continue to help Zanzibar with their needs.

And Zanzibar has a lot of needs since its economic and social problems are many and those problems will be successful if they are taken to the emergency action of those problems.

One thing is clear that on all the problems of those life, its symptoms show that the people of Zanzibar have not been removed from the heart and their government in partnership.
Still, they are still supposed that their government will take the action that will enable them to serve their citizens and control the corruption.
