
Challenges are the probability of the small farmers, the youth and the traders in the product of products.
June 10, 2013.

Last Friday, it will be known as a small day but it is very important that when he opened his contribution to some of the citizens who were involved in a good work between us from Kenya whose company has not built the building within the most popular market.

That market which is called Sufiani said it is not a place known by many who live in England despite that name is not easy to confirm or be written about but Sputanza decided to be written, but have been very important areas to the youth, farmers and business people in Tanzania for the coming years.

This is where vegetables and fruits from various parts of the world are brought to then spread in big food shops in the whole country, therefore, the door opened is "the appropriate time" for all who are committed and urged economic development.
Sufiani said that more than three hundred years, although it was started in his headquarters, Bridges Ludacris with Liverpool street children, today the new branch, New York City, today in the year 1991 and is participating in the whole world by distribution of fruits and vegetables from poor countries in the world.

Among those countries are our brothers from Kenya through the Big Results Now ("Sub-Saharan African Community) that was started in the year 2000 to promote economic and education institutions that are in the south of the Sahara Desert who speak Swahili because of transporting goods and sells the New York city and Kenya.

Perez Hilton, her husband that gives her husband to Njia Panda Hill and Marketing Manager, Mizengo Pinda being accompanied by our Chief Justice, Mizengo Pinda being accompanied by our Ambassador Ombeni ereza, Honorable Peter Kallidum and other officers.
The Tanzanian Embassy in England is the ones that surrendered and preparing the whole event.
The Prime Minister and his colleagues who came to London to attend the international meeting that is looking at the way to remove hunger and the importance of nutrients in the mother and children in the world. The meeting was prepared by government institutions and non-governmental institutions (G8), contributes from the funds to these institutions with the aim of ending hunger and to help them the mother and children living in good environments.

After the walk inside the different story, COMING had organized a short session to show the way (and also) the crops is sold to some of the crops on the table that happened in Kenya.

During that meeting the speakers explained that the market will benefit farmers, youth and business people from Tanzania especially those who are committed.
The General Manager of the market, Nigel Sheke has clarified some of the procedures are required to bring these products in the market, one of them is to consider procedures of the sale of crops being done by the European Union (EU) and those procedures are for a long time, its reserve will be done by cold drinks, a total of testing and broadcasting of the community.
Perez, Msuha has given an example of COMING, it intends to involve youths of Kenya in agriculture that has contributed employment and improving their lives, while clarifying, said most of the youths living in the city are not treated well, including the work of goods, that will be able to buy bags, operation, surgery, and others. "

Doing more issue, the Prime Minister who is born in the agricultural environment, said this activities it has been satisfied with the view that it is difficult and a dirty working environment, "we have put aside an environment that will enable youths to know their work can get market.
While giving an example of a small youth company of Gongo la Mboto who decided to do business, it would visit recently in Mwanza province, the prime minister said that it is possible that those who are able to follow this profession.

Honorable Pinda warned the locals that it is not a little problem for Tanzania to sell its products and while confirming his listeners as a farmer, Prime Minister Mukhongo gave his listeners as an farmer said that they can bring poverty that is swelled.

Following the statistics made by the Information Department of CNN, last year, although the African economy is expected to grow at 45 percent, the number of youths is expected to increase two times in the year 2045.
