
After stopping the unborn child for the nine months, finally the day for the day now is the first child to get close to the birth.
After a result of problems, disruptions and mistreatment to come from a penalty of pregnancy, this is another period even when a short period of time, but in a short time, but a short period of pregnancy.
It is a period that seems to be afraid of many people, to an extent that those who have never done pregnancy can be able to arrive in the market and ask how the Tanzanian can't be heard.
It's not only those women, who have never been looking for pregnant but also men are listening to those types or others who have ever heard of their own eyes as well as lack of mothers who came through that situation.
It is because the three father came out to try to taste the way, which their wives and other women in the world meet it during getting pregnant and that during giving birth.
Finally, the exercise took place, there are those father when they witness themselves about their breast cancer we'll see the need of time to time to go for a small need and without getting them at night.
But also, those men have agreed to taste the pain of removing pregnancy, he went to far through the attempt to like the situation where they meet the women they get.
The directors of globalization, Bribiaga, Steve Kilindo, and Ranaut have been carrying a lot of fake phones with a light weight "the same, 225 equivalent to 158 hours each one for a period of one month.
When they agree on wearing a suit of those fake phones heading to the England's day in England, which this year was in the Sunday of March 15, they thought the pain and a pain when they face with women during pregnancy.
But their fans through their blog, "338,667 that performed well," he told them that they have not reached the peak of the problem who receive pregnant women.
They requested them to use the electronic machines that is usually paid in the factors that make the same environment and the one that got a woman during giving birth.
After the second exercise, now they have refused to carry out your stomach, to do what they get to the pregnant women, so it's "a child," then this machine will enable you to know the pain of giving birth.
Timamu, 45, from Uhuru One, the father of two children, Mister Engees Okoye, who is one of the age of five and today with one child and his wife Way, was taken a picture during "give birth" and he was able to do with pain in bitterness.
He wrote on his blog, "therefore, so as to reach the peak of bitterness, we put the electricity machine that makes the environment or fake condition as part of the reality of giving birth.
This involves a high speed in the water so as to make sure that the solar eclipse comes from a special issue that allows them to marry off their hands, legs and then connected to the electricity system.
"After the previous process that affordable prices will increase up until when you have no ability to control your body and you can deal with them or stop the strength of the ability," he says.
When in the end after the exercise, you do not know if there is no wonder so that they are still living, because of a lot of exercise is seen to be a soul, he says.
That torch will go down is the whole problem of being involved in pain and on pain until the end.
In the event's season (44) found himself looking on yourself.
Jomo, who is one year old child and his wife Graca Machel, talked about the period he performed with, "I saw like I had gotten tired with a lot of joy and then I feel very happy."
