
500 million shillings.
By Francis Dande.
The Voluntary Program of Telela Mboto (SCA) requires approximately 500 million shillings every year so as to enable them to serve its members by giving loans without getting married.
Moreover, the Chairman of the party, Mister Richard Mwaikenda while urging the party members of that party to prove that the intention of enabling the party's executive committee to ask for a loan of 500 million shillings so as to be able to implement its responsibilities in the period of the financial budget of the year 2014 / 2015.
As a result of a shortage of members, Thatcher Solo, has been requesting a loan of 300 million shillings every year so as to enable them to reach its goals of giving them more than 2000 members.
However, according to Mister Tati, those money will not be enough due to the increase in life and big competition that is currently in the education sector.
And so as to improve the amount of money they got every month, Mister Tconfirmed that his party has plans to win the leasing house which is in Eastleigh neighborhood in Nairobi city.
He said the efforts of the party to sell the Eastleigh houses have not succeeded because many investors showed skills of buying themselves from a bad security situation in Eastleigh neighborhood.
We were the buyer of Eastleigh houses and even if it has lost 10 percent of the cost of those houses in July last year but later later spoke with the contract and he was asked to March this year, "said Mister.
He said that as a result of it has dropped by the security situation in Eastleigh neighborhood that have reduced that party at least 400,000 shillings per month as tax despite having the ability to save that party between 70,070,00 shillings per month.
This party which most of its members are to work for mobile communication companies, Vodacom Tanzania and Tanzania Post and Phone Company (PMK) is faced with challenges not insufficient.
Some of the challenges include a lot of challenges that their parents and from members who left claimed to be paid their money, the problem has made that party to meet the lack of enough money to give its members loans.
