Who does it mark this factory?
Jon 09 / 2014.

The presidential campaigns have started. There are many candidates who have begun to arrive in and especially those through the ruling party of CCM.
Others have began between the elderly and youths of the elders want to move and lead in Tanzania, youths and they think that they are at their time.
This private thing is that president should be a young man or an old man, I believe it is a question to each Tanzanian who is keen, what I believe is a question to each Tanzanian who are coming out and to win the factory of Frederick de Janeiro, a factory for controlling the mosquito bite of the mosquito.
That factory has been built in people's homes and in the cause of the river if smoke affect the health of citizens, but it has a great defense among the ministers but one of these ministers can win this factory for peace without fighting blood?

It's one among these, can the promote the state of Zanzibar but maybe it is more transparency, it is one among these and wisdom of maintaining the union and make sure Zanzibar is dominated by rights and peace?
Others are close to each other and fall down, but the truth is still there where in Zanzibar, it is not safe for our big president.
It's one among these, the ones that was understand among them is the meaning of investment, then calm, and disadvantages?
It does not want them to say that it is not a person standing, but with a broader understanding and the patriotic heart? It is difficult to believe it's capital or money for paying taxes but it is difficult to explain anything and to find him for him, without doing it.
One who gives investment, is a must to be an investor otherwise that they should not be identified by bribing the investors so that he will not accept the investment because one person gets pregnant in globalization, is a must to have great thoughts and to see more than their own issues.
Someone who was caught in eternal peace, region, will be discussed in Zanzibar and religion to't understand anything about it.
And among these, the ones that said has the ability to form one of the ministers without blood pressure, a group, company, religious leaders or by thanking someone because he helped him in the campaign?
He made a new council of ministers by following the reputation of a person and his ability to do work, the cabinet of ministers with different positions and this is the minister of industry claimed that when the prime minister put first interests of the investor before checking the interests of citizens.
"For a long time now the government has been proud of your behavior of incitement, it gives students and citizens to go to the Almighty God because your property is not our property, your property is your life?
"The government depends on very close to you, the name is a savior! Do not save who! From who?
"Our country's great party and our Almighty God have put a clean policy and it is open and it is clear that the Holy Quran continue with all strength and poverty, this policy has given a great relief so that you do not understand the policies on investment, spirits, and issues such?
"The investor is a very important person more than any person in this country.
"Your complaints show how you are very safe, you will be dealt with so as to solve problems that arise in your school?
"If the students and their teachers have been attractive, it is the madness of coughing as well as smoke coughing, due to the smoke codile and why it does not want the teachers to wed for the criteria because they have not seen?
"If students and teachers have been affected from their health as a result of eating their fish, that of them is why they are carelessness, because it is a must for the fish, because it is a must for us to do so much here in the world.
"If you affect the skin, we should tell you to use water from there while there is no alternative way and said that those who live in that river are in danger of being affected, that environment is incitement.
