I hope that my lover Wastara is not close to the third phase and the last time I met with him very much by the delay of the first half this week, we have not talk time in Wednesday morning and our topics today we will talk about basketball under the sky.
Little I have not been good, if there is true that is true in the past, you know that here is very close to the secretary general, he will have a lot about the wife of the former artist and he too.
Also when we came to there, he claimed that he knows the examinations maybe buying Kikuli, has met and we will let us sell it later to give a stick if it will not get anything without losing a long time.
.
They love that.
The forehead what concern do you have said that phone has its own source and to focus on the young man so that it will be able to fall down.
If the father are not praising God, what is our thing, we are happy to be.
I think there are many things.
His host.
The late God is a true person who has told me for that.
This competition is ongoing.
Tax?
Everything to see that college they are in the same life, right now it has been the other side of God and let me feel.
Ambassador Seif.
A computer.
Hayatou, will follow up if we say that a Swahili that occurred in basketball game as we as the one was previously there are three reasons which we can have.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we should be a one that is like that.
Yes, it's true that players together with leaders present are the late God is one of the most important reason is that some of the leaders who came in here at the center.
We are going to when maybe the ten in the party, the nation in the provinces.
When you live in ten years every person comes with his thoughts.
Many people do not know that, making the games be run in the situation as now they have to get out in the environment, but another person who do not want to realize that I will get a lot of work, but another person they do not want to know what he was doing so that I had to get what he used.
