
Those who play in the port for natural gas.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

The electricity agency of WMA (WMA) has emphasized that the effects of natural gas in homes using the port through their sales stations while showing the people who play in the port with the aim of getting profit that they will be demolished.

The director of business services of WMA, Deogratias H. said the existence of the exhibition in those stations will enable the customers to verify the capacity of those diseases before buying.
He said that of natural gas that is used in homes is required to be stopped by following the regulations of tests announced in the government's newspaper with 222 this year.
Those regulations are to supervise the selling of gas and the distribution of the energy that are playing in the port with the aim of getting profit, they will be dealt with under section 345 of the disease of cancer screening and 340 as it was done to review the year 2002.
He said the main responsibility of the agency is to protect the consumer through the use of correct tests and to evade the effects that are brought by misuse of tests in the business sector.
He said that as a result of their duties to control regulations of products, gas is among the products associated with the agents they do the verification of the weight of the weight.
According to the director, an agreement that was admitted by considering the correct tests is that you are supposed to be well on the mouth, and put off the side of an extent of an amount of gas weight by showing the weight of an entrepreneur without gas and with it.
"The great benefits that the customer will get to verify his gas cooker before buying it is a correct amount of gas that is in the lake according to an amount of money that he has made, he also insisted that an agreement has been released from the correct amount of herbal medicines or not by illegal immigrants in the streets," he said.
He said the agent of tests is taking different steps in controlling the theft done by some of the business people who are not faithful together with making a surprise inspection from time to time to identify the market that is used in that business as it is seen in accordance to the crime law.
