
DED Bunda District broke down here.

It has been written by Abijan, Singida.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The administrative secretary of Singida province, Doctor Angelina Lutambi has directed the executive director of Manyoni District Council, Charles Susi to give a lasting solution to all the problems facing the residents of the disabled and elderly camp of TPDC in that district.

Doctor Rutambi gave the directive the other day during the occasion to hand over various prizes made by President John Magufuli to the residents of the camp to celebrate Idd El Hajj which is 75 kilograms of sugar, 10 kilograms of rice, 10 kilograms of rice, 10 kilograms of beans, tomatoes and cold drinks.
That administrative secretary was forced to give that directive, following the complaints on various problems facing the disabled and those elders, including fingers.
In addition, he ordered the parents who were living in that camp but they woke up to their children at the camp, to give them all strength and to be handed their children so that they can't get their basic right to get education and other needs.
The residents of the 65 camp, including the children who had been directed by their parents, claimed that they have been a lot of long time to them, she claimed even though they have ever received their complaints to those involved until now there is no solution that is available.
While speaking on behalf of his colleagues, Cleanliness (68), told the administrative secretary that many residents of that camp are elders who have their blood is little, therefore the action of their children is little, therefore, the action of their children is little, therefore, the act of them is continuing to make sure they are committed and spiritual formation.
Daniel Chongolo said that the camp is also being faced with a shortage of drugs for treating breast cancer and also their houses are scruffy due to a long time.
They said they have fear of donations and various prizes to be taken to the camp, will be used by some of the workers of that center, who have a habit of benefit themselves.
"For example today, our President Magufuli has given us the rice of 1206 in Idd, we will just like 30 kilograms, that remain will not see tennis star," he claimed that the head decided to take a look at this, "he claimed to have gone out by all those with his colleagues.
The executive director of the council promised to address those problems quickly and he will put aside gas of gas instead of wood and food.
