
19th December 2012

The case of Ponda's case emerges with a senior physician when he was arrested and seen in court, the disease broke the death of case.

By Rehema Nchimbi.

The case against Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda and his colleagues yesterday has brought a new shortage in Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Dar es Salaam.
Dar es Salaam, after being arrested, they were arrested and agreed with the equipment's equipment in the court.
The person that introduced himself by the name Mister Rajabu Rutengwe (30), a resident of Kerege, Bagamoyo District, Tanga province, was arrested in the court's stand with the equipment while being elected for a special device and security people.

The court has started a procedure of making all people arriving at the court when they read the case of Sheikh Issa Ponda by using special security equipment.

Yesterday when the security people continue with the inspection of inspection, at 2 o'clock in the morning, it reached the turn of Mister Zuberi who after being involved in that scandal while the device is at least.

After they have security who want to hear the conflict, they asked Mister Zuberi to put him from the bag but he is needed to answer and fail to give what is understood.

As a result of that situation, he was supposed to open the defender when he was found with the air equipment including the ivory.

When he was questioned about the things he said, he said that he is the specialist doctor in Kerege, Tanga province where those things have been cheated by the business person by the name Miss Senkveld '(35).

While the doctor is continuing to be interviewed, that businessman who had fled to the toilets of that court is that they are security to arrest him.

Miss Pulkena said that when he was questioned, he had asked the physician in the court to help him in his case of without mentioning what is related to those claims.

The government lawyer, Mister Tumaini Kweka, has explained that the court in front of Judge Victoria I led to that, he has got information from Razkazon, prisons that the accused Sheikh Issa Ponda was found and he could not want to arrive in court.

That lawyer, Mister Juma Nassoro, who was not there in court after getting it's free therefore Mister Kweka, asked for him to be on the other to be heard of that case.

As a result of those reasons, the resident magistrate is disappointed, he postponed that case until December 31st this year.
