
Non-infectious diseases will be removed from modern seedlings.

It has been written by Hassan Simba, Nachingwea.

It has been revealed at the 4th of November.

Cashew farmers in Lindi province, have removed fear about the use of better harvest in the villages.

Speaking about the fear of citizens about raring half hours, the researcher is the leader of that product from the agricultural research and development center, Pro Peter Masawe, says a modern shop is more better compared to the ones that are affected by the farmers.
Masawe has said that the seedlings of the mountain has been operated on and trials for a long time before being taken to farmers, and to be proven to be productive and that can bring productivity to the farmers in a short time.
"This mosquito bite is one of the good work of the research that was done by our station and it is advisable for farmers to use them so as to get more that, the farmers usually uses more than ten years and continue," he said.
That expert who has last long in the animals industry for more than 30 years, says philosopher Plotemy of six years since planting to one tree during the age of traditional trees are the first to give birth to the poor.
Many farmers have said that modern equipment does not have quality and they are not at a long time compared to grasses of natural vegetation, a situation that despite being a long time but it's still continuing to produce their crops until the year.
In the investigation that was done by the writer of this news in some of the villages in Nachingwea District in that province, it has revealed that the existence of farmers who have been involved in the proposed constitution with the experts on claims that soon as soon as it starts, it does not get a long time and lost the ability to give them again.
"Our writer is here in my village to my village, there are some farmers have received seedlings and reduction, but there are some who refused to give birth for a long time compared to this, we were used to," said Hungary,.
The chairman of Mkuzo village, Nachingwea Ward, Nachingwea District, the farmer of the village who identified himself as Chande Njekela said that he is among the farmers who believe in that river is not good compared to the forest that they were used to and that he cannot go to his home.
"My writer, I am a farmer and I have severe bed sheets which usually do every year between the 15 to 20 years and this is due to lack of services well, but if I could have reached many years ago and until today it is still ongoing," said Njoki.
Another farmer Mohamed Chitumba, on his part he went on 8 years ago and he has started harvesting, but different from her colleagues says he gets a lot of money compared to the natural vegetation.
"I have a lot of 150 people that are between the 30 to 35 years, and because there is still a lot of years I cannot say it's not good but to ensure that this has a lot of the farm and now I want to speed up in my whole area," said Chitemo.
