For seven o'clock in the past three hours since the residents of Arumeru East in Arusha province, they were unable to vote for their member of parliament they want to guide themselves following the death of the former member of parliament to believe that late Jeremia has gone anywhere in the morning until January this year and we started with Ben Mwaipaja in this report.
?
Welcome especially in Arumeru East region.
Where the parliamentary candidate is taking place following the death of the member of parliament of this province Jeremia Juma Duni has died from January this year, the residents of this area, will be held in Arumeru East region.
They were not vying for parliament for approximately ninety days same as three months.
Now understand it after a one-day campaign finally, the residents of Arumeru East Constituency come out to elect the member of parliament even to ask for the parliamentary policies, but remember that the former member of parliament did not live with seven hundred thousand votes in the country, welcome him and ask for Arumeru East and seven wards to kill a girl.
One of the first voters have showed up.
Miss was surprised when she was surprised when I was surprised and asked me, he explains about how he did.
I am called Mwengi.
He is a resident of Usa River.
MASA is a?
What is a elections that took place in Arumeru East Constituency, I am one of the resident of this area and it is a resident of this area.
Therefore, it is not good.
For the candidate they have given their policies in different places.
And I've talked to all sides.
I am looking at me I am looking for I am pleased by my side, I cannot say.
Today I have participated and I am happy to know my work on this.
I will end and seen the area so that we feel good.
Until now.
In the day-to-day activities at Rahaleo primary school we have to here in Usa River being met with local and outside the country, I have spoken to three two goals in order to know them in these first steps, a situation that have found how to vote.
That event is as the general elections from the European Union for representing the ambassador of Canada.
Visit health centers to vote yesterday and many campaign meetings we have never done any weaknesses.
There was a state of peace we expect to see the votes that will be played today we will go.
There is no place.
When I will go?
I am called Israel.
Commenting on the high level of elections.
Therefore, we have decided to come up with more than two hundred percent.
With the aim of looking for how the elections are going on.
And we expect that all things have done a free election and rights will be considered for you to sit here.
You want to announce the results and we cannot be able to have any own opinions from the office, we will not get any party according to our opinion, but if he will have faith you can do well in the seminar but if he would have done well so that they can be able to consider themselves well in the elections.
I was called Hezron, this agenda is the high level of internal organization but I am not for this morning we see here I am looking at all stations in this areas where we continue to give information on how things are going and even if the time you are going, we can give them though the results can go through.
It will give an entrepreneur not to be careful but we are saying that the results can be given, maybe the end of the week, but the stations that was released early today and we will continue to inform the people the things we are doing so as to deal with them.
Yesterday before being sworn in to the election campaign in Arumeru East Constituency, the Retired Judge Damian Lubuva, who is the chairperson of National Electoral Commission if you have information and wanted to use that opportunity to serve the residents.
In East to come out in large numbers to elect the leader they know themselves here after listening to the policies of all the candidates in the campaign meeting that was opened up to ten o'clock in the morning and lost ten o'clock in the morning.
However, whoever will do to be in time to vote.
In ten o'clock in the evening he will be allowed to vote.
You are directed to you.
To build a station there will be voters in the line which they have arrived before ten o'clock in the evening and they have not presented their votes out to the defender of the station he is standing behind.
In the forefront to vote and even the blast, you will make sure that the ones who will be the ones that will be in that station at ten o'clock and they do not vote.
But we should allow another person from there?
Apart from the retired judge Damian Lubuva, who is the chairperson of the National Electoral Commission for allowing men to come out in large numbers and urged various public leaders to encourage citizens to come out to vote and also be safe in the East African region.
And do not mean?
There is anything related?
It can happen.
An outbreak of safety in areas.
If there will be an issue.
I have an assurance that will also be taught in a total of my call.
You're looking for those who are supposed to vote to come out in numbers.
And people should happen?
Without making violence.
Until when an interview with the supervisor of the election, the results of the results and the results, will receive them in peace and harmony and also my child is my child that the party will release it in order to prepare for people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare for the purpose of people to prepare
Everything is where the equipment are already already been taken to stations and opinion polls for delaying the election is to go to fifty centers now, the security situation is very high but now I would tell you all the supervisors, that the agents are at a high level, but now I would tell you all the supervisors, that the agent did not meet his party.
Not it is an important sign to allow him to be.
The late Adam who is ready to ask who here to be allowed to be an agent, it is not a must to be an affordable price while another one has left us to our office because they get the identity of his party and his letter is what caused there to know that they are allowed.
