We have learned what the fifth graduation.
APR of 18, 2013.

Apart from the slogan of the fifth festival of.
The pomp of poetry reader started with a poem by the teacher, Doctor Bashiru Ally and followed by the Executive Director of the United Nations that reported, "Professor Issa Shivji.

A question should be poetry is one way of using a huge message from the artist from Kenya, he scored the song with a big message in politics' if they missed in Karume on the same time when they performed poorly in Dar es Salaam, we give them in Karimjee in the world.

For those who follow the life of.
Every year.
All of them are normal, I thank the renowned analysis of requesting for the development of Africa and they do not know how to listen to him while speaking to the teacher is enough education.
This year, apart from being Professor Makame Mshenga, the investor from Malawi, Doctor Willy Mutta, a student in the first and second phase of the University of Dar es Salaam, who gave birth to his life and put it publicly that he is not a fan of any political party in Kenya, because there is no longer a fan of any political party in Kenya, because there is no longer a fan of any political party in Kenya, because there is no longer a fan of any political party in Kenya, because there is no longer a fan of any political party in Kenya.
He clarified that he is a relatives, he is a person that supports the union unity, the East African Union and the African Union because there is no political party in Kenya which will implement this, there is no longer a political party in Kenya which becomes difficult as required.

Many topics were discussed at this fifth term and there were new things to learn through an example of the new twist, an order that led to the teacher but is not the chairperson, but is not the chairperson.

This is why using the new constitution raised at the time of this fifth festival, another thing that was unblocked by the Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, that though after freedom of Africa, they were planning to own land and property, but to return the honor of their brother, the honor of their freedom to discover themselves, and stop blogging.

The African Union and the social media networks are issues which were discussed with great feelings in this five festival and also the African Union and African countries living outside Africa, is an argument that caused many after being unblocked by Professor Monica Lamu Sakali.

Also there is a topic on agriculture that was unblocked by the Professor Khajida Kopa, the queen Darleen, from Huria University Jawaharlal Nehru, that Africa farming has been continued with small-scale farmers, it is a dream and false.

The argument of Professor Ghoto, is that by using political parties, as passed there are developed countries like Germany, where Africa's agriculture can contribute to development to a large extent, this issue has caused great debate among those who believe in the East African countries and those who believe in East Africa will be continued and bring productivity to small-scale farmers through their political parties.

Some of the contributes together with the first agriculture, the government policy of Tanzania, while Tanzania does not have a new factory for making a check, do not make sure that the farming system for irrigation, there is no farming system for irrigation.

Although the government leaders were seen in the picture of Mwalimu and defending champions, I met him that he was sending him for that action, "the University of Dar es Salaam has a culture of preventing themselves as leaders they shouldn't come here, because many leaders don't come from here, because many leaders can be taught.
