Nape does not want to learn from India.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has said there is need to learn from India in order to know how they produce their culture for the benefit of the current and future generations.

In addition, he said the government has a plan to go through the culture policy so that it can protect our culture in the country and to be able to be a chance.
Nnauye said that in Dar es Salaam city when he launched the cultural festival of India that is known as "I'm in Tanzania," with the meaning of information Tanzania which will be aired in eight provinces in the country so as to explain the culture of that country.
That festival will be aired in the provinces of Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Zanzibar, Mwanza, Mbeya, Tanga, Morogoro and Dodoma and even in universities in Dodoma and the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM).
He said that today's world, you can break the involved in the hearts of people and through the culture of the country and the country that can do many opportunities especially politics, economy and even community development.
"Today's world has a lot of things, we cannot say that Tanzania changes so as to have a culture as it is in India but the biggest thing is to learn how they were able to protect their culture," said Nape.
He said after the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, visited the country in Tanzania three months ago, he noted that Husseini is not a friend but also its brothers, therefore there is a way to open doors and be together.
About the traditional music, he said that the government is controlling the culture of culture in order to protect the culture in the country and by going through different groups of India, therefore, and Tanzania will take its groups in the country so as to give entertainment.
The Ambassador of India in the country Nasib Abdul Razaq Badru said that the festival is one of the partnership that is there between Tanzania and India which has been built on the foundation of exchange experiences on different types of love between the citizens of those countries.
He said in that festival, six culture groups from that country will be there in the country because of showing the culture of India in different areas.
