
He was accompanied by signing an album for one month.
He started music last year and he has already released one album remaining.
Meeting with artist Wanjala (Benichou ', who may go in historical books for being the first musician to make and record a whole album for one month especially considering that he is also a student at the University.
This argument is due to the vision of a dream in high school, where he claims to get a message to promote gospel after communicating with the soul of God.
However, what attracts more than Benichou who is an effort to increase the message of the message of this music he insisted that you had already joined people with intentions to benefit from financial.
He explains about his dream of getting his name among the names that are involved in the gospel music industry.
An album will be completed in one month, without doubt that it is a new record.
The answer Mrs I received this album in July last year during the academic year of July last year when I would like to complete my dream of finishing his album for one month and when I succeeded to complete at the right time.
What can I do this quickly?
Answer, I had not been enough money therefore, so as to reduce the time to sit, I don't have no problem but to use that time to end my work.
Give him a light on that album.
The answer of that album has six songs being together with the world, which is its first time through this song I urge God to give me my heart so that I wish God to change my heart so that I thank God to give me my heart so that I will give me my heart so that I'll get my heart.
It is sure that those songs have high quality?
The answer is without doubt like that I have explained my interest, is that people to get the real information from the gospel singer and those who do not affect so much.
It is a dream of anyone who had a musicians who are used to introduce himself, and we are expecting her collaboration with who?
The answer, now I am very happy to partner with gospel artists such as Joseph Kimwaga who known to music, Rose Muhando, Bahati, Willy Paul and Dakar, since these are some of the musicians who have been in line with my music video.
If you are a politician, the most important things that are going on in music here in the country.
The answer to the music industry is faced with corruption and therefore the government and the partners are supposed to communicate with this problem and it is also a problem of making sure that your music is good and your name is not good and your name is good and your name is not recognized by your name.
How are your new project?
The answer is Nasim and other initiatives are expected to launch his new video next month.
In the university is confused?
Answer Mrs Nasiri ', Aniva band', at the Ranaldo and Technology Institute of Health and Technology - Rhema Trust, where I expected to complete their studies next year.
