
Judge Warioba, Mengi, has stopped the status of the government on May 30th, 2012.

Last week, to think about why our ethics, as a nation, it doesn't have a fast rate, I explained that the current phase of the leadership has tried to make the citizens to believe that the old phase has new, CCM and its government are better than it was in the past.
I explained openly that I am denied the incident, and I insisted that CCM and his government is that of yesterday and today, the previous years has not been successful.
Today, I would like to save a bit about that debate, especially after getting a challenge and challenges from my dear reader.
After looking at that I wrote, my dear reader who said he is four years old and is a member of CCM for many years, he did not use me because he did not agree with me in the statement I have made that CCM and his government, is that of yesterday and today.
He is saying that today's CCM is bigger than yesterday's best, that the best CCM was at Mwalimu Nyerere Hall, CCM with a little affordable from Ali Hassan Mwinyi, and that CCM gets more than the Mkapa Bridge and the current President Jakaya Kikwete.
He added that the challenges through afresh the newspapers of two months ago and by himself, things that are reported to the management of the CCM, within the government and in the society, the community that are being unable to loose our direction as a nation, and that shows the coming of other bad things.
I was trying to bring back my thoughts, and if it is not true that issues of corruption of CCM and his government strengthen the newspapers for more than the year now, I would believe that what is why my dear reader said.
I did not know what these things that happened to my dear reader which happened in a period of two months ago but I will try to see me, I was trying to see that there are those there.
If you put EPA and inspect the front line, there are several events that happened recently, shows that we have been able to take a bad step, and if I got to say there, it's like what we are in Auto-Shabaab.

Some of the things can be seen about it is small, but the truth is that it is good and a big way is big and that's why we have left many questions and questions that have no answers.
The first one is about the former prime minister, Joseph Warioba, this one made press conference today, Tuesday last week, asked him that he has been doing peace because of continuing with rumors in the country that he will be presented in court recently on allegations of embezzlement.
He told the journalists that two people are very close to the government they read it at different times and gave him different statements about one thing.
First told the plans that it was organized by the government to take them to court on allegations of embezzlement of money (and a small amount of money is mentioned - 5 million dollars) of the gold mines of Mwananchi Gold.
Secondly, he asked him and told his plans that when he did not know, but at the time the rumor is ongoing and considering that however, Mramba, Yona and Mgonja started as a rumor, he has every reason to lack peace.
Without doubt the environment is the ones that brought me in the extent of deciding to convene the press conference, and explained that his intention is clean and that it is ready to go to court himself.
This issue is complaining a lot of questions, it could make two governments lawyers to resolve it at different times with two reports that are likely in the fact, the truth is, "the whole game to be played or by good Samaritans who went to warned them by good Samaritans.
These are questions that every one of us can have his own answer, but to me, I am happy that someone is honest until when I was given, otherwise, the evidence of the court.
And all of us know that they are integrity, the old leader with the courage to come out in public to rebuke various things that are being done by CCM and his government, and by doing so they're close to his fellow elders inside that party.
Maybe I wish to remove one example, Judge Warioba also stated that the leadership of the country is so cunning and to give examples of growing the country by corruption and failing to address the conflict of CUF and CCM.
That statement raised the elder of his fellow artist in the CCM, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, who stopped the press in the country to pray for Judge Warioba as they use words that are not in the ears like "she has failed," said the number of CCM "!
In addition, those with good deeds will remember that Judge Warioba followed his speech by another elder of CCM, Pius Msekwa in the scandal that led to Nape Nnauye the scandal that there is no need to speak about it at a long time.
Furthermore, Judge Warioba has been a painful truth on the corruption in the country and to the government leaders that are responsible in order to resolve the evil deeds that had brought him to court, it aims at asking for peace and arrest him so that finally the election of the year 2010.
But apart from the issue of Warioba, there is another famous businessman in the city, Reginald Mengi, this year at the end of last year, was quoted by the press saying that he has warned that there is a young minister that has proposed to address the issue of corruption that could destroy the government.
After the statement of Reginald Mengi, the minister for internal affairs, Lawrence Masha, came out and gave him a seven-day businessman to present his evidence and otherwise the law will take its course.
But up to now, seven days have already been closed but it's more than one month, there is no step that was taken by the government against him as Minister Masha J.
In this issue, as is the name of Judge Warioba, it depends on a lot of questions that have no answers. It is true that it's true that it was discussing the plan to choose a good business?
How I wish you, he was able to get information inside the sittings of the sittings that are secret and that it did all of us - I decided to go to work?
On my view, it is heading to this issue that it has been released soon despite of all of all, all of us know that they are making the government's position to be in doubt and he has talked about the strategy at 7 days to present his evidence otherwise he will know!
And then these things are left, recently,!
Up to now the public is not knowing the truth, and the biggest challenge to the government through the government depends on claims of 7 days to the citizens, and later on time, its honor is reduced, therefore its respect is reduced as it's impossible to address the issue of corruption.
I think about that incident of Mengi, and that of Judge Warioba, because the truth is that her (Mengi) has been a painful truth to the corruption that are close to the government, even if it is for different goals.
No one doesn't know that his media stations have been on the front line in war against corruption in the country, and because of the reason, as it is in Judge Warioba, it has built big enemies inside CCM and inside his government.
So, there is a matter that happened in Reginald Mengi who is surrounded by the artist, the one who came from Judge Warioba so as to arrest him to stop the fight against corruption in the country?
Private, I commend and believe that he is "the chief artist" what happened in this year's game "to try to cross the war against corruption and they have shown the time for the performance of the government.
I don't know the end of "the general game" is short, but I will not be removed from the opposition parties, Nuno,, and even in the end, and even inside the government.
These examples are enough for me to inform us that most of the bad things comes when in 2010, if you're getting married, then you can be easily read by the eyes and thinking that is to read.
I don't have sure that two others are similar to the my dear reader in a period of two months ago but there are many other things to encourage the citizens not to vote for CHADEMA, because it is a political party.
It's not only that, the religious institutions seem to CHADEMA that it is criticized for free the government of CCM led by President Jakaya Kikwete during a great progress!
The incident.
So, it is possible that the group will be part of "Famy" that the prime minister did speaking with the aim of blocking the open sores, who were dressed in the issue of corruption, because CHADEMA has been a painful truth to CCM and his government to the country.
Such as well, being silent for the government and CCM against that statement from religious institutions, it was not participating in our country to be fast in religion because it comes from the Christian community to announce that it will perform a whole country to encourage the citizens not to vote for CCM, big government will you vote?
If the fear of the country to enter into the pace on religion is not enough to do when we get a good goal when our nation has been built through the Citizen newspaper, in Mbeya Town, in the village of January 15, reported that CCM's campaigns will be run in Kisuma town, where Nyala and not allowed me!
Certainly, we are meditating the effects of the event in Mbeya and the other issues I have explained, you will not agree with my dear reader that now things are backed by the country more than 15 years ago.
Therefore, if there is a time we need to have a national council of integrity and integrity of the Council of Eliona.
