The council organizing a policy on cooperation.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

The National Housing Corporation (NEEC) has said that it is organizing a new policy on economic empowerment, where it has invited stakeholders to give opinions with the aim of getting policies which will meet the requirements of all groups in the community.

While opening a meeting of the report on the report of the policy on economic empowerment of the year 2004, the National Executive Council of People Economic Empowerment Council, Executive Secretary of that council, Beng'i Issa, has invited stakeholders to give recommendations that will help in preparing the new policies instead of the current policy of 2004.
We need to have a new policy that consider the opinions of the citizens, thus the opinions of stakeholders is important so we shall begin and opinions of the delegates of this meeting, "said Issa opening the meeting in Dar es Salaam city today.
Delegates are discussing the evaluation report on the policies of economic empowerment of the year 2004 which has been organized by the concerned experts who have met with citizens and various institutions in 12 provinces including Njombe, Ruvuma, Mbeya, Manyara, Arusha, Geita, Tanga, Mwanza, Kigoma, and Dodoma.
The executive secretary explained that the current policy marking a huge success in various sectors including roads, communication, energy, infrastructure, skills and knowledge, investment, and added that new policies will be keen on improving issues related to the gender issues.
He said the intention of having a new policy is to help all citizens to participate in the national economy and to speed up development activities.
The planning officer of the Forest Agency of Tanzania, Bihagaze (Misungwi), said science and culture of Tanzania are blocking the right to own wealth as well as the government to put effort in this issue.
"We have seen all the political parties contribute to women through groups like ICT and we are expecting a new policy to remove more knowledge of enabling the woman are safe," said Manonga.
The facilitator of the meeting who is the senior geologist at the office of the president, public service management and good administration, Elias Maguri, said during collecting opinions on many citizens have said they were affected by the current policy.
"Citizens want policies and systems of law to be able to make corrections so as to expand the opportunities of getting development," said Luvanda.
Experts used that opportunity to advise the villages to prevent their land and get documents so as to use their land in development activities.
