Mchaga!
The road to protect the president along the river has continued to rise up every time for now, it is citizens to sleep since they face the floods.
The defense and security committee yesterday evening at the village of Somanga area to look at the effects.
So as to go back again in the neighboring country, the ones that is believed to believe that we're near our livestock, Lawrence, all the water so that the village says your problems here even though the floods is saying.
He is knowing that the message have passed since there are floods, in general, it can be farms which are the stronghold in the park together with those houses for farmers.
And start to leave safely I saw no one.
Separate himself in that area where there is a person receiving money.
It has been discovered, I cannot see a child who is born with someone who will be reminded to give sure information to our leaders so that the government can take legal action against the reports that are not correct.
Each one was carrying the phone that you don't know the procedure of giving information about what he was playing immediately and the member of parliament had been buried and when they are told, they don't know that, after three, I don't know how many people had been unable to cross.
Here we are looking at your ten commandments in which there is no even we have to say that your people are safe.
This reporter of the defense and security committee in Butiama, Angelina Mabula gave the old order to citizens that live near the Mtwara Province floods, to avoid problems.
Actions will be given by the government people to go down in those areas and go to the other areas which are safe and I said but its implementation will continue to say inside this week, children have come from.
After this week, we are not on Tuesday inside this week, children have already been seen if there is someone who will remain with his wife if it's her husband like being approved as usual, it will arise.
We have used these houses, I made these houses to know if you know some of the citizens of the whole village because they have a fight to the end of the citizens living in that river.
There have been saying that maybe when they are living in some.
Stakeholders.
There are other things?
What does it mean?
Prophet Kaumba, Butiama.
