
Recently, it is also a strike of refusing to be a bomb.
Maximilian Arnold, 2012

To the minister of Mwenge and Ndeki.
The lover Frank Kibiki who has gotten tired with my lover, what this news came up until I asked me when I was surprised and told me when I was surprised and told me when I was surprised when I saw the boss or his boss, when I was forced to tell me what I will be on a Bajaj ticket up to the village without going back.
However, I succeeded to wake up early and made him to write his boss, although there is a bad luck, when I gave them back to table I was able to give him there and even the boss was surprised.
"We don't know why why it is running if it is wrong if he is affecting the fire?
"Yesterday I had been set aside in mind the father's expectations.
"A lot of girls don't know how I don't know where I advise you to hear the shoes that you will hear.
For your case, "Lo, her lover, when I got married, I had managed to marry a lot of relief for strength, but you know why I had gone to him until yesterday evening, the boss was proud to prevent it up to the door and yet the boss was capable of preventing themselves by the door.
That is, MB us to listen.
"Mister Misango, and told them that they go for a mother of a young man to support him, but if I know what I feel like, I don't see what I get married and I don't know what I feel like, I don't know what I feel like me, and I know me, work ahead of him.
"But the boss was looking at the talks preparing for the door and opened up when we had to vie for him by pretending to be the referee up floors, but his boss was shocked.
"We know what you are doing here?
"When I see the father, you know that when you came in the shoes they were shocked and" the boss was looking at his shoes, that is my luck there was my friend.
"It's good so much, I would like to see you do a cleanup in this country, I would like to see me, I do not have a clean suit, when I read it, I am happy about what to have a clean flour, clean vehicles, and all drivers are married.
Now and Honorable are competing with a lot of pain, while each one goes to clean up with a dirty friend, I remember that if I get married I would like to ask each other and after being stabbed with a gun and after being stabbed with a bullet.
Therefore, the side of these infections will be done, they are doing away with him and accusing her and accusing who is where I was unable to understand the news of the newspapers.
I cannot follow up and check the truth until at the end, then you will give you the truth about the things that we can decide on well.
Now, the council will put a bomb attacks from controlling the waste but after putting them so that they shouldn't accept to remove all the waste in the reserve up to the area which they were found to bring water and even so that the areas they were found can be safe and they are not safe.
But today he mentioned another person who is true that he can't understand that he is his boss since the era of that school, therefore they must make them to supply education in the villages while they are students.
And his boss, he is using this opportunity to kill him and he is a person with number one ethics.
Even if others are married, he is happy to have been shown by a very big one, I remember his phone yesterday, and so many other things I will not depend on, "I believe it is not a matter of ethics. I don't depend on ethics from you.
"It is same but this ethics will not be found if the leadership is ready to die in the class." The boss he started annoyed if they are annoyed instead of their opponents to place blood each other.
"It is not true that Honorable I have been saying in class, I don't know your impatient, every time the ruling party is looking for forgiveness, considering that there is not a matter of ethics again.
The ones that the ones that appreciate your brain of a scholar here in Tanzania does not have products, "the guest of honor is disgracing.
"It is not a scholar, a scholar, Tanzania does not have products as the father of the nation he wants to prevent those who have at their disposal.
It is a service of consumers and let us inform the mouth, it has no heart.
"It is a person who is just one person who is supposed to be taken."
No 'no, it's education and you will continue to cooperate in using every position on the education part of making your schools, while you want us to see all of us, but now it is transplantation for all Tanzanians. "
"Lo my friend, I see you have been infected by the old man truly."
I don't know the old man, I know that in talking to you, I don't have a lot of time because they get married, but I think you're getting married but I think it is different from each other, but I think it is difficult to ask them, but then I think it is a habit of looking for this disease, all others are hypocrisy.
They agree with the ethics without the deal.
