
Flaviana Matata looking at each other.
Dar es Salaam, "I thank you for your children to study in our country, when our children are living with drugs, we want to list drugs, but we want to take the list of drugs and we will be avoided if we get to the action," he said.
It is a section of a message that is following the book of the rules of "servant of my country."
The book that got into courtship at the end of last year, is the one that ordered the fees of fees, Elizabeth Mramba and on the world of the rules.
The words which were discussed at night can cause the name that has been buried and anything which do you get inside.
Himself believes that the debate can help in use drugs and the government to take action against him, "I was not another way to take my special report because we thank me in order to make the rules and thank me.
Apart from his book, the work and broadcasting work which were in another position to be close to the community.
While at the hall of Mlimani and radio, Elizabeth was heard on programs that they are blocking the news of information and analysis of the newspapers.
First of Elizabeth Tembela, when he used to study the profession of writing news, believe that, that is a lot, that can put her close to his community.
He says that the love will leave including the head of Mvomero District, Betty Mkwasa has done him to get the desire of getting that profession.
Elizabeth claims that for the reason he would like to work together, he was a writer in different activities when he went to school.
"There is a time I wrote up until my book, the news reporters and understand that I have touched me, I have touched me from what I was used by me," he says.
His dreams have started a copy of a public service in the public and a public service at the University of Dar es Salaam (IMC).
"I was very happy when I was born, I would like to start studies of profession and we don't like to give him that message to resolve it, it's like a way.
Others sell each other to come out to school, sell your eyes, "watch it because he gave 200 megawatts and read the book.
It is very big which is being used for the age of 10,000 and I expected now is being found more than the big challenge that she does not like to ask for the successful success inside books.
You make parents to teach children living in Abu Dhabi.
I now is in the first time when I started communication and is called "Mkomagu led the youths who are international.
My name is yours, what does it mean to me read this name, they wanted not to be unable to do, he does not work hard. "
It is an expert who decided to start his contribution in collaboration with the company to help give advice from the institution and the company to communicate with ELN Company Limited together with all the things that concern the video, "he says.
The news analysis is saying that Tanzania has not taken out the events that are going on including being beaten by the media.
In addition to that situation, they have good steps to explain their responsibilities which will be obtained, removing the benefits of the women they want to women in order to deal with them.
When you agree or not, our new and they will not accept it his silence.
It gives work hard to development instead of being given.
When I was economic, they had the courage to borrow money and to return to them, we must have the hearts of it, "he says.
