
This is democracy which is growing rapidly, 2012

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has denied the decision that the parliamentary candidates, parliamentary and councilors will be put in opinion polls and every member instead of a former procedure that had a few members to participate through the capital city of constituencies.
That, a new procedure gives a chance to every member of the party to vote in his branch and therefore it is difficult for the candidates to have risen up members in all branches in the concerned region.
In line with that decision, CCM has also made a decision to increase the representation of women in the Parliament and the council of representatives, so that the number of women in the media should be 50 percent of the members of parliament or all the representatives that are chosen.
We are taking this opportunity to congratulate that decision that was done by the executive council of CCM (NEC) because it is one of the ways of blocking the loopholes of bribery that was being used by some of the candidates to lure them, because they were few and they were found on one area.
The action of bringing together few members of CCM in one meeting of the province was giving an opportunity among the candidates to provide money easily and therefore it means of democracy to get good leaders and integrity.
The new procedure will also expand the democracy by involving many people in the opinion polls and therefore expand the opportunity of every member to elect the leader she is being represented by the councils of constituencies, where members who are greedy for funds easily.
But we are also taking this opportunity to explain the efforts of increasing the number of women members in the media to make laws by 50 percent of the members of parliament, representatives and councilors.
The foundation thing is to the government of the United Republic and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, receiving recommendations of CCM so as to improve the constitution of those two sides with its election laws as soon as possible, so that those changes can be used in the next general elections, we find good deeds for leaders.
We are taking this opportunity to advise the other political parties to have open procedures of expanding democracy by involving more members of the party and even members of parliament, representatives and councilors.
It is in this way we like the country we will have the right to be proud of especially in our systems of getting the representatives of the citizens and even leaders in various levels in the country.
