He said together with the challenges facing the Africa continent as the Ambassador of Zanzibar to improve education in Africa, they have the ability to improve education by partnering so as to reach the objectives of promoting our writer in Ngorongoro to prepare for a report.
The Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal arriving at the meeting hall in Dar es Salaam ready for the opening of a union meeting with the heads of secondary schools in Africa that involved citizens of being schools from seven countries.
Deputy president has appointed those heads to be self-employed to deal with the challenges facing the African continent so as to achieve their goals.
Here is it?
I have from outside playing.
The African continent is facing a huge shortage of teachers for example which involves fifty percent and six percent of all the needs of the teachers in the country.
And there is still a employment problem for teachers.
What are we supposed to work so as to reach better education.
Development of science and technology.
If it is used as required it will help in the provision of education.
I believe that through a full meeting, from the resolutions, we want to help in improving the education level in our country and more in that country, the is the awards for African continent.
For now, you will get a group that has been sentenced to listen.
First in the case although he was given.
And the chairperson of that meeting Hoja, said Africans will join so as to look for better service in the whole and future generation, where one of the participants of this meeting were given one day from Kenya, he said the meetings are important so as to exchange ideas and experience in teaching.
Almighty God rest what to see what time in the past, it seems to have a result of wood that was built through Africans now, and if you are seen, this are click here and Africans themselves as a goal.
And this is a child to see our slogan which is doing more about looking for better education for African African countries.
It is helping as Uganda to discuss and discuss as heads of the field, when we go to Dar es Salaam, we've put a prey in the Indian Ocean recently.
Since there's no major bombs or carry the seventh general meeting that is expected to set up strategies of improving education in Africa and the most importantly they have.
