
A chosen committee of parliament should be able to have a broader scope of approximately 15 people, 2012.

I don't say the regulations of the parliament are saying that there is a chosen committee of the parliament to consider the creation of members of parliament themselves and even if the proposed constitution is supposed to expand the scope and involving other people outside parliament?

If the regulations of parliament did not allow this system to expand the scope of his chosen committee, then there is need for these regulations to be resolved so as to bring in this issue.
The experience have shown that the chosen committee of parliament were made up with members of parliament themselves, they will have a lot of problems.

First of first, it is competing for a second, is to limit each other, and three, which is very big, it should stop stuttering on the speaker of the chosen commission while forcing the speaker to remain in the middle and make sure he knows each other on the side.

It is wrong to prevent the parliament, it is good to show that the speaker wants to appreciate each member of parliament and protect him this is his work as the speaker, but it is also his work to identify the mistakes of members of parliament and advise them to inform them, to inform them.

It is clear that in doing so, others will be happy and others will leave them because someone cannot be loved by all people, and he cannot be heard by all people and the efforts of wanting to be loved by many people, and they can't be avoided, they are forced to sit down or be shaken or be forced to sell their friendship.

These problems that I was removed from there, can't help us as in building our nation.
It is not a must to give examples about this matter because we live in Tanzania.
We have witnessed the chosen committee of Mwakyembe and his results. Until today, there are people who are complaining that any committee was caused by people who were unsatisfied by the committee of Mwakyembe, complaints that were sent by people who were not heard.

But also, these committees were chosen as a different system and that of the moment, the speaker wanted the freedom to give his decision without stopping me when I was listening to the decision by Speaker Samuel Sitta on the scandal of Adam Malima and Reginald Mengi, following the decision by Speaker Samuel Sitta on the scandal of Father Samuel Sitta on the scandal of Adam Malima and other people outside parliament.

My brother, you have narrated that one thing that she was chased by a Tanzanian who had gone to Nigeria to work in urging development of the community in the villages and that is good because those people want to fight, he advised the people to help them, he advised them to help them.

When they arrived at the front of chief, before the case, Chief requested him to be his wife, to be able to help him in the case to quarrel over the river.
It's true that he explained a lot about that river saying that she is inheritance of her husband, and he has been enjoying in that river to allow people to allow water to allow some use for irrigation farming.

After listening keenly, Chief Justice without listening to her second lawyer, he decided that river was the first lady's lawyer and that he was not aware because he didn't know her because he didn't know her because he didn't know that river could not be heard.

The answer to the late Sajuki said that the first lady wrote a question about who for the first time when the first time you read the first lady's lawyer, and now he has said that the first lady does not understand what I said is correct. "

Chief man went to make sure that everyone is the first lady's lawyer, but he did not eliminate the problem of who the owner especially in that river.

The allegations of members listening keenly or if we are given to now that the secretary general of energy and minerals has denied those allegations, this is an issue that touched the whole nation's interests saying that there is no one who lost the end.

That is why we continues to expand the scope of a chosen committee of parliament and people who do not have conflict of interests, they do the job to help the speaker to give his decision without considering ourselves.

That the secretary general has got a stern warning from the speaker, how to help him?
We did not hesitate to hear the judgment of the speaker who advised the president to make her to be the secretary general of energy and minerals, Eliasa Kalege.

On the other side, it is a must that the Secretary General of Energy and Minerals believed that the committee which we are told to hand with him is a chosen committee for members of parliament and when those members were accusing.

There are still a lot of issues that will need the creation of a chosen committee of parliament.
Without knowing the new system of creating these committees, we cannot move ahead, Zitto Kabwe has proposed the parliament to sign a chosen committee to investigate some violence outside the country, if the chosen committee will be made, it is important to consider the scope, this issue of theft of money is very important because it involves every Tanzanian.
