
12 November 2013.

Police officers who were killed by Zainul Mzige.

Now they do not tire us to be found with death, phone.
Rehema Magala and Isaya.
A teaser sin.

The police force in the country.
Nine suspects are waiting to welcome him, who has left Salgo and steal different things.
The member of the commission of constitutional changes who is also a member of the National Executive Council.
On the left.
The NCCR-Revolution, Dombeni with Benedict Liwenga.

Speaking to the press.
The press in Dar es Salaam, are yesterday, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor.
Emmanuel Nchimbi has shown the arrest of those suspects, it has been contributed by the arrest of those suspects.
The partnership was given by the family of Doctor Mvungi.

He said.
Those have been arrested in Dar es Salaam, in different times where previously he was arrested.
Six but names are.
They were at the end of the same way you missed the investigation.

Commander Sirro.
Police special unit of Dar es Salaam, Commissioner Suleiman Kova, who was also there.
In that meeting, they've heard that those suspects are Msigwa Zito (30), "he said.
Leaflets with Hamadi Ally, the famous name.

Others are all.
Zakaria Raphael (a driver of a motorcycle), Mlenda Salay, Juma Hamis (the group photo).
By Dotto Mwaibale, Paul Jews have no one with one name of the first name in Brazil.
All of them are the residents of Dar es Salaam.

"These suspects were found.
And swords, Kigoda together with Mchaga, has been proven to be used in that incident, it will also be used by a phone of a long time.
Mvungi, "he said.

Commissioner Kova said.
In the previous interview with the suspects, they confessed to be involved in that incident.
It has been completed by 80 percent.

"All suspects have died.
Therefore, we completed the investigation so that they can be able to go to court immediately, "he said.
.

Doctor Mvungi has been attacked.
Injured and people have been thought that the robbers were found on the night of November 3.
This is at his home in Kibamba, Dar es Salaam.

Right now Doctor.
He is continuing with treatment at the Mazimbu Hospital in South Africa.
His condition is continuing to improve.

Speaking about the issue of arrest the illegal immigrants, by sending him.
He said that the plan is to put one police officer every corner, in the country.
He would like to cooperate with the community in a place and to identify those people.
