My journey in Goma, it is surprised a priority to the youth.
Sei, 26, 2013.

I'm talking about the state of war in Goma town, I will discuss or explain about other issues I met in Goma, within the country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). I will not speak about several issues and even destruction of what I want to find him in this article.
When I was caught up to Goma, when I was received by the DRC daughter called Goma (MAGM), she told me that she had a desire to see me, he has played 74 days from his lover.
Gikombaa is the former host for the two days when I was in Goma town, his great responsibility was to inform us with one family and Goma, because she had to live in Kigoma, for a short time.
Swahili language is hard so much and you can be able to do an additional job and understand because the real meaning of some of the Swahili words at the same way, sell their Swahili compared to the people of Goma, so many people see Swahili as the champions of talking to Swahili in the region.
Gikombaa is a good hotel called the VIP and is a good hotel in line with the environment of that town where the rebels are like 10 kilometers from that city of Goma, there is a wonder, there are big groups of people, that is very big and very poor.
What happens in that city is the some of the money and if you are poor, then it will continue being poor and if you are rich and there is no longer a person to kill him, including you failed to take action against the law.
While having a lot of money, it is like the government has the ability to do anything and be taken against the big number of police in Goma together with integrity and big bribery they want to serve the rich and rich can kill someone.
For poor citizens, he will go to give a rich person?

He told a person that he sees there, there is no one who is involved every person with his life and people are used to see the bodies and left again as a bad thing.

Goma is a city that is very rich, that is a lot of natural medicine for agriculture, that is together with the area being faced with war for a long time, but citizens are able to grow and promote their businesses.
Gmwaijonga has told me that in a large extent, many citizens from Rwanda especially living in that town of Goma, that is the district of Goma, that is a period of two countries, that is in DRC and Rwanda was closed down, and the citizens in the scenes.
For example, when you go at Rubavu grounds, I will see it is a very big city and attractive, different from Goma, but the Rubavu grounds were looking at me and asked me when I think how I think they get money?
He said that a lot of citizens at Rubavu grounds and every time they get money they are taking their money for the purpose of doing development activities he told me that, the highly furnished city have been built through a lot of money from Rubavu grounds.
He said the city of Goma is like an independent country that is independent in the country that is independent and communication with the capital city of Kinshasa which is in the south of Congo, therefore if the city could have peace, together with the rule of law, they don't like to see the war occurred in that area.
