
I have written by Way, May 5th, 2016.

The sugar of politics or politics in sugar?

Every nation has things in the community of food that have been touched by the whole country being affected by normal, the government does not make it a game in those things, it does not know that it will be tough and sometimes to be defeated in the purpose of punishment for citizens.
Sudan the former President of that country, Jaffar Nariadhara has been a huge demonstrations by the citizens of that country for increasing the price of water, while another country sugar is a big issue that causes the citizens against the government.
For us, Zanzibar are rice, but there was a time the government ended with rice, wheat flour and sugar, and every corner, the family had a special card to buy those products.
It was not said that it is a love of brotherhood or what is this kind of food together with the behavior of the government to the citizens of his arrest, then the Revolutionary Party is born, because it was a way to show the anger of the government.
Even in Tanzania Mainland there was a big offence of the public as a result of the policies of socialism and self-food as a result of many other products being faced with a problem and that is one of the main reason to ensure the beginning of the policy of socialism through the field of Zanzibar in the year 1992 and that year the country to enter in the system of many parties.
Previously, salt was very important products, but due to the growth and spread of culture and take place, sugar has been a product that is used by every Tanzanian community and no doubt of lack or reduction in the country, South and the lake.
The government says it knows the needs of the sugar country, but I don't know that or it is proud that or it is needed that the needs include the production that is being transported to the cities of our country, we are being transported to the cities of our country, our are communicating with.
Responding to a question on the spot in parliament, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa said the shortage that can be controlled for sugar sugar and that the government has already taken action to fill in the gap and I see now I don't know if he was knowing how the real situation is or it is against him.
And it is also easy for me and I started asking themselves if the government is doing so even the level that is involved in the internal industries, because the government started a order to ban the sugar industry, others believe it is wrong and the government is doing what does it mean.
The concept of preventing everything from outside is to be sold or not known as "Landscrona" is normal in the economy of the whole market is bad and it is not allowed, but it may be done by the country to protect its products or radio and its industries.
No doubt the author have attached with the real situation of the availability of products itself but also in competition to the quality of those products and not only to protect foreign products but the local industries have no ability to fill the gap and products of the low level.
On the importance of the need of this sugar market here in Tanzania, it is supposed to be controlled by big business people and the most rich people, while these business people want to contest and do such actions that will fund between them in contesting for the market.
This government I believe that the government found themselves so that if it knows it as if the sun came out and they were going into the solar energy and at the end of the digital change (Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency). I am surprised so much now when I saw the government it is enjoying this issue.
