
Magufuli is like he didn't know and the sector of sports.
Our faith, The Citizen of Jitegemee Jichunge.'
Mwanza.
Different from his predecessor, Jakaya Kikwete who was a great fan of soccer, participating in some of the matches including international players especially Taifa Stars or international players of Spain who they visited Tanzania, Doctor Magufuli did not accept it to happen there.
President Magufuli, has been showing to love the traditional song and a lot of music, and he once said he can sign her a song that was forced to play, although it is not many times.
For a period of six months, President Magufuli started his work by creating a council of ministers and strengthening the sector in special ministry which include the culture and art together with the news.
That was a lot of many as a good way or right to ensure that the sector in which for the recent years has been giving employment to the female and male youths who through art and their work have benefited.
By bad luck, the sector has also been left, being built by strong, without great amendments.
That ministry, under Nape Nnauye has continued to do his primary work which is difficult to explain that if they are required to grow the sector or not, because they are not seen or be done on the eyes.
Stakeholders of sports and culture issues in the country are explaining not to see great changes in that sector in the first six months of the leadership of President Magufuli and his executives.
Those stakeholders are explaining and even noted those mistakes that are facing the sector including running sports like the private sector and plans of enabling it to build the country's economy.
Stakeholders are questioning the contribution of Minister Nape especially to make sure artists benefit from their daughters, which have been warned for many years.
Apart from those feelings, sports stakeholders are worried about the law, regulations of games in the country, some of them have seen that it has been called and when they were not involved in hand with the primary changes that President Magufuli has been holding the late.
For example, the sports is supposed to be availed as a consent time when it is a big business that needs a lot of investment, it's a problem where a sports stakeholder, Issa Kitila says if they are errors that are not in use.
The coach of the Judo national team, Zito Hamis says there is no big thing that took place in 180 days to the leadership of President Magufuli in power and the sports sector can be proud of.
"There is no plan for sports development to be in the ministry, government departments and there is no action taken, there is no one that took action in developing sports from up to the ministry that is responsible for managing sports for my part I don't see change," says Zinsou.
The secretary general of the swimming association (TSA), Ramadhan Namkoveka said that if the patient is seen by the awareness of returning sports grounds in the leadership of Doctor Magufuli, but there is still no development plans that is sustainable in that sector, "he said.
He said President Magufuli has shown the priorities in tax collection and removing boils, but in sports he has not yet confirmed that despite the presence of many problems, while sports was sold to be the foundation of theft, bribery.
"Although it can be so much to take the president's success in sports, but in a period of six months, the games have not been given priority, more that the artists who died on a certain amount," he says.
The hip-hop veteran musician, Mada Maugo, Ndayisenga says he has not seen as President Magufuli has given a sports priority, although his directors, including Minister Nape are unable to improve those sectors.
Therefore, maybe now, the president would see the importance of giving awards to sportsmen that do the fight to combat if you allowed me even at the State House so as to give them the ones that are able to do well, "said Chikoka.
The secretary general of Yanga, Baraka Konisaga has said President has many priorities according to the situation in which he found the government, although Minister Nape Nnauye has shown an example in leading sports.
Another sports stakeholder, Kassim Kalen has landed in the English Premier League, he explains that at the moment there are preparations for the competitions that are expected to take place later in Brazil so that he does not see ministries with responsibility of managing the sector in order for those preparations and instead it has extended the ball to blame and sports parties.
He gives the advice to the concerned authorities to look at how it can change the system of misuse of the National Sports Council.
That step says will contribute to the existence of success and productivity in the sports industry in the country.
