

In the year 2014 on such as I was in Saudi Arabia for the purpose of attending to the Hajj pilgrimage, but I went to there I was a guest of the government of King Solomon at that time the late King Abdullah is called Abdulaziz Makame that the current assistant was his assistant.
I met with journalists from big and small stations from the African continent, Asia and Europe, apart from doing the pilgrimage service, the government of that country enabled us to visit many historical areas that it is difficult for them to prevent and follow up every step inside and outside the pilgrimage service.
One of the exercise made it is taking off by the attempt to look at the pilgrimage service when we saw and met with many things and even we are meeting with the Minister of Information and Culture wan.
That, at the occasion of giving thanks to the service of the year 2014, we advised the nine things to be amended.
One of the issues that we advised the government of that country is to look at the Tawaf area (KMU).
He resorted from seven times on the journey from the Arafa grounds to Muzdalifa Institute and the exercise of stealing stones in the area.
Jamila Akwara, I am sure that the government did not make our advice and that is why there have collapsed due to deaths.
It is possible that the deaths of switching off two times in the main mosque in prison and there in the Jamala area where some of them are supposed to buy a special number for three days nonstop.
Three that were built on one line is due to the changes of high leadership.
The death is the only way to arrive with God, therefore, it is not something with fear and doing a foolish thing.
To attend to the Almighty God, then I was surprised the deaths of deaths that happened at the Jamaissance Dam, I was speaking with my fellow journalist called Abdulaziz-Heinz Rummenigge, he explained all the tragedy happened.
The Haazu taking place on August, for the third time has been removed and caused all to leave a hotel at the same time.
Going to Mina (city of tents) and to sleep there, already there is a very few days seen in Arafa grounds.
Eight kilometers from the Mosque is hard to avoid deaths in Saudi Arabia, the head of prison and 14 kilometers to the Arafa grounds.
After winning the whole day at the Arafa grounds, all of them starts the journey to go to Muzdalifa Institute where there is a distance of nine kilometers, so that we can be able to pray for Western Town and it is where the major cause of preventing themselves towards one side starts and preventing others to walk on foot.
The others want to go up to the buses so that you can be able to reach Muzdalifa Institute, this congestion are very dangerous.
The great cost of the convoy of preventing themselves towards Muzdalifa Institute is not true that the day before yesterday evening, because this journey begins in the evening when the sun fell but even so, it was very difficult to arrive there, it usually do a hard work with danger.
A place here is causing them after praying in the western side and it is enough for 49 years and he is forced to leave the night.
Going back, it has and later going to do the second case at the head mosque in Los Angeles after they were present again, it is ready to wait for the exercise of spreading rumors that began the next day.
The exercise of misunderstanding is usually for three days, the first day every day after being beaten seven points in the first tower and preventing all the ones that are using the low level, with a very high level, with a lot of death in the east.
