The County Council of Tanga, Korogwe has been taught.
Dec 12, 2013.

The Parliamentary Committee on Local Government (T), has directed the ministry of state, the office of the prime minister, Regional Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI) together with the office of the Provincial Commissioner of Tanga, to form a committee to investigate the huge embezzlement of government funds in Korogwe district and the council of Tanga city.
That committee has also ordered for work immediately to the chairman of Korogwe district, Sadik Kallaghe because of the investigation on him and other servants will be completed.
The chairman of the parliamentary committee, Rajab Mbarouk, together with his committee, they gave those instructions last week when they visited and inspected several development projects in Korogwe district and Tanga city.
In their inspection, the delegates of the committee found the side of Korogwe district, several development projects that were taken under the standards and loss of money for more than the school, they found the council to enter the highest contracts so as to enable government revenue.
According to the chairperson of LAAC, chairman of Korogwe district, Sadik Kalaghe said that he entered the contract to collect tax tax (TIN) and one company without involving the director of the council and its lawyer, contrary to the law of the council and the ones for the purchase of public property.
In addition, the chairperson also claimed that they are alleged to have gone into the headlines for collecting taxes without involving the director of the council and the lawyer who in all the two contracts was not there.
"This means that the chairman has used his authority to power he was given to managing the funds of the council and its decision is going against the law of the council and that of the purchase of public property (PPRA)," explained Mbarouk.
He said that committee of parliament has also discovered a big challenge in the construction of three secondary classrooms and that is in Kwaluguru ward and have ordered those classrooms to be blamed because it endangers the safety of the users.
Moreover, the other accusations that are facing the chairperson is that the irrigation project in the small town of Mombo, which cost a council more than 70 million shillings, but up to now the project has not started.
"In this project it is alleged that the chairperson introduced himself on his committee instead of the citizens to elect their people and also their crops were not known because the project has not been started," he explained.
Mbarouk, who is a member of parliament for Ole Province (Zanzibar) through the Civic United Front (CUF), said another corruption in the construction of the market market which cost 500 million in the year 2008-2010, and even so, it is faced with the value of money used.
"It is impossible so much, the government funds are being used badly, for example, for example, the council has used seven million to build their toilets after getting married," he explained.
On the side of Tanga City, it is alleged that the city officers are responsible for a loss of 40 million shillings used to pay for compensation to the citizens of the whole village, but to pave way for the construction of the district hospital.
"We asked himself is why the government has given compensation to a huge amount of money and later the area to be given an investor again without paying any cost," said Mbarouk.
He continued, "therefore, as it is the job performance of the committee is standing by to advise the government, we have ordered the office of the head of Tanga province, and TAMISEMI to inspect all those issues so that the servants and those involved will be taken against them.
He said on the side of the chairman of Korogwe district council, they have ordered that chairperson to be discussed until when the investigation will be taken against him so as to eliminate the conflict between him to remove it.
On his side, the administrative secretary of Tanga Province, Benedict Liwenga, confirmed the existence of all those allegations and they have received the instructions of the LAAC Committee about creating a committee to investigate that corruption.
"It is true that there are those allegations of corruption in Korogwe district and Tanga city, we have received instructions from AC Milan, thus the process of creating that committee is ready," explained Ole Sendeka.
Ole Sendeka added that the committee will reduce together with other things, the participation of the servants who were involved in the corruption, but on the side of the chairman of Korogwe district, the issue will be dealt with by other authorities.
