
To inform you, this is being controlled on the forests, he will be remembered.
Wealth of forests in the country are in danger of its disappearance due to the unplanned settlements, human activities, politicians to use as the source of getting votes and lack of policies.
According to the news report of the year 2013 / 2013, it is estimated to have an average of 400,000 shillings every year because it is mentioned to be farming due to cooking oil, fire and the haphazard use of forests and other human activities.
According to the government's website, 31 percent of the forest is under conservation of various levels including the local government, local government.
These challenges have officially launched the climate change and said that, the state of the environment of the country is bad due to the reduction of destruction, 61 percent of its land is in danger of being the desert.
The Minister of State, Office of the Vice President (environment and union), January Makamba, says he has already announced the fight against environmental destruction including identifying strategies with the aim of making Tanzania mainland.
Mpina says the government has announced a national tree planting campaign and started the process of improving law to control the destruction and managing a tree planting exercise from the village levels, ward, villages, districts, districts and provinces.
Previously, presenting the estimated earnings and the use of the financial year 2016 / 17, Makamba says that every year the country is losing 372000 shillings equivalent to one million shillings of forests.
He explains that the situation is due to the huge expenditure of forest products, explaining that 90 percent of the energy that is used in the country arising from the forest and the city of Dar es Salaam alone, uses 200,000 dollars to 162 shillings per month.
Various environmental reports show that Tanzania is one of the African countries that are mentioned to have a big percentage of the destruction of the environment in the east of the continent.
Despite the government giving a statement, the forests sector has a lot of challenges including giving priority to the challenges facing the forests sector, that brought together forests, agriculture that was organized by the Social Security Fund (MKEWAWa).
In that meeting that was organized by EPOS project, with the aim of exchange experiences on the management of forests, Mkulabi and the changes in climate change that of the challenges that contribute to the destruction.
Kilombero District Officer, Joseph Mgana Msindai said despite fighting corruption, there is challenges that concern those efforts.
Mgana stated those challenges as an increase in people, shortage of land in the construction of housing, agriculture, an increase of livestock that were banned within the reserve for the reserve and a small budget for developing forests.
He says for three years starting from 2013 / 14, up to 2015 / 16, they have been building a budget of 9 million shillings which by bad luck have never been given even a five minutes.
He says the cost of starting a system of related management of forests until completion, is needed more than 20 million shillings, even if they would have got those problems it would have enough exercise.
"The government's budget given priority to some of the sectors including agriculture, health and water, have forgotten that the forests which essentially has reduced, you cannot get enough crops without caring for the forest and even the health cannot be better if the country is the desert," said Mgana Msindai.
Mgana Msindai said how they are used to deal with the challenges that, it is to encourage livestock that affect the size of the area, to make sure that every village has a plan of better use of land, managing on the roads of the villages.
"To make sure that during the implementation of various policies we consider professionals of the sector including livestock, agriculture and pastoralists," he says.
The Marketing Officer of Kondoa District, Emmanuel Kalobelo, says that despite their efforts to educate the villagers through Mkukuta, said that the government did not give credit to support the forests.
The coordinator says that for five years ago, they have been set aside for 12 million shillings, they have never been given, they are forced to go through it, probably not getting.
He explains that a difficult period of forests is an election, politicians use the loopholes of lack of agricultural areas and remove animals from the presence of an increase in people promised to give them the area.
"During the campaign politicians use those areas like their part of giving them the votes, by seeing the breeders not to fulfill their livestock in the reserve area and promised the farmers to give them an opportunity for agriculture," he says.
The lands officer of Same District, Kilimanjaro Province, Ally Samatta, says that the biggest challenge until now has not been given small laws and plans for management of their forests, although the activities of implementation are continuing with using the law.
Same has extended the 15th of 15 division between the fifth government, five years of the district and four councils of the district council needs to have reliable laws of preventing and strengthening the forest but lack of money has reduced.
He explains the activities of related management of forests have been completed after the Community Development Fund (Tasaf), this was due to the government to sit on the side and to release the sponsors projects in implementing the responsibilities of protecting the forests.
He says that for three consecutive years, the budget for the forest sector for the council is set aside 1 million shillings according to the needs, but the whole period is from 30 percent of money.
He explains that the communities that are living in forests have a probability of using it as a way to evade a lot of income due to lack of alternative ways.
"The money to complete a lot of plans including helping the citizens going to the forests to get extra income, so as to take advantage of forests because the forests have no reason to do its activities," says Teacher Kisongo.
Manyoni District Officer, Ally Mzingo says that they are meeting with in their responsibilities, to have a lot of forests that have already been harvested for the market.
He says that the situation is as a result of the infrastructure to reach the forests, it is poor and be careful during the rainy season.
"The village of Mtaanao gave a lot of conflicts, they are stranded from playing for three weeks, but there is no way to reach them, but that situation also gives the loopholes to cater for forests because of not heard there is no enough defense, therefore they get a chance to do," says Mzindakaya.
Mzingo says the small education in the community and agriculture is needed to contribute to a large extent of forest destruction while there is no portion which was built through the forests department to provide education to the public because the forest is a distance of 20 kilometers to be used for oil and cost of transport in general.
The forests officer from Sikonge district, Fredy Masanja has advised the government like the truth that it has reliable plans to deal with it has been able to add strength to the community to enable them to climb trees instead of giving seedlings and leaving them without management.
He says that many times the citizens are given seedlings and managed to direct the energy in agriculture that its success is seen more than trees that took many years to benefit, and the forest policies of the year 2002, so that the citizens should be able to understand, and the forest policies of the year 2002, so that citizens should be able to stop, and the forest policies of the year 2002, so that citizens should be able to stop, and the forest policies of the year 1998 in rural areas to the beneficiaries.
Daniel Lukas Sambayamoto, is saying that he does not know some of the recommendations that are together with the resources and resources of the villages to be responsible, to be able to control and working tools.
A community has been able to start the projects open a short time and be taught about better agriculture and better use of land, politicians be given education on the conservation of forests.
