After that, Ramadhan hope was there.
Hayatou, have talked about it?
CHADEMA and this afternoon.
In court for every person, the officer released his case in court, I think that the court is found with great strength and hope for the chicken.
There are this that we have been used below.
Most of the ones that we have until the court but those of property even if it is impossible for you to get married, this issues is not allowed to get married and they should be careful when I will get married, the relatives of her father and her father, what should I do to be prosecuted?
How will it be able to see that the court is where there is no boundaries because there are women that the work of love to travel is keenly and he doesn't know what he is doing?
What is a terrorist?
I love you like I see you.
For the resignation of the court I sat at meeting where in the same time you will find a small person that he needs to feel early, then it has not arrived here to follow up on different cases but he did not want it to go down here, but he did not want it to be just because he didn't know you.
Being below.
Change.
A non-governmental organization that will be able to come forward if you check our union because all were divided into the label of lawyers, launching the festival of the commission to give various people with diseases.
Nakalega.
The Godfrey Ndimbo during the morning.
Mwasabite said, but at the past, she has to say that the mother know who will lead people have lost only one college and we will get a lot about what is where he is with the police in those ministries, and therefore that the court is very difficult to say that the court is very high to say that the court is hard to say.
When we talk about what we are doing something, things and Brenda Kharono because there is no wonder many of the God, maybe we had to go down where I believe them.
Anything that we do we have?
First we look at great problems in one department what I think I think about your father to reduce it?
Another I think about I will offer service providers but also year.
I was on the purpose and we are looking at there, there are some of the equipment and discussions with names of lack of alcohol.
Who for a period of this year, will have to vote to you through my heart, it is something that did in order for the meaning of but there is no opposition.
You say it has changed the real life and what should be done in order to do with the delegates from here, therefore, but everything about the children well, because our leaders have been enough to be done.
Normal citizens are only later in this bridge to be very fast and also to give them ethics.
You can see this matter.
The truth is not there inside and on the left is ignorance or bad behavior which will be free and because the commander will look at a bad behavior.
Adam has said that for now, we are doing so that we pray for good ethics, therefore we consider the person with good behavior to give their condolences to that, I will find him and there and when a mother gave out the red card.
