
In Addis Ababa they can, Mbeya are unable to do?
Fly on 1st, 2012.

Approximately one hundred and now since the presence of the strategy to improve the shape of Mbeya City, following the implementation of the construction of with stories, the implementation has been just on paper.

Several areas that were tested for the purpose of improving the modern chapter, have already been stolen and continued to have a lot of effects as a result of the growth of the haphazard use of buildings that have no status.

Among those areas include the old and new bishop of the State House, Ihenga, where he was scheduled to be built in the modern city (Dar es Salaam) but currently, it was scheduled to be built in the modern city (Dar es Salaam) but at the moment it was scheduled to be built at the modern city (Dar es Salaam) but at the moment it was scheduled to be held in the modern city (A.

While giving his opinion about the last week of the previous week, some of the councilors of CCM here in the city in the implementation of the plan to improve the course of that city, a resident of Ihenga town, in Mbeya city asked the scholars of that program and the ones among politicians and some of the government leaders in this province.

Mbeya city is not like a lot by the city of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia to advance yourself, all are areas with mountains in the country but the big changes that came up is in buildings, whereby there is great changes in the end of the city, a situation that is explained to be different from the past five years ago.

Changes in this city concern someone to continue being there, and there is no other reason for the desire to learn about those success in Addis Ababa city.

When visiting the city it's a better training about the attention of the leaders in the implementation of the what they had agreed, the reputation are among the political leaders in Mbeya town, and everyone who visit the Addis Ababa city, and everyone who visit in Addis Ababa will leave a lot about it, when you have learned a lot when you are inside that city.

The speed of construction of buildings and infrastructure including the high roads is the one that contributed to me in the city recently, the buildings increased similar to color, is buildings, standards, and that are in a good program, different and other cities in Kariakoo, and other towns.

But the biggest thing in the construction of those buildings in the floor, is their strategy on how to depend on for local themselves and not the visitors, system of reliable energy to ensure that money should not get out and to attract more foreign funds from their citizens living outside their country.

One of the journalists from Kenya gave his speech while at the end of the end of Addis Ababa, it was said that when he was in that town last year he bought 50 buildings being in various previous steps of construction, which is in September this year was at the completion of completion.

Journalists more than 30 journalists from East African countries started in Addis Ababa city to discuss ways of increasing and improving science news in that region as well as the African continent for the development of its countries and its citizens in general.

While testifying on the writer asked the desire to speak with the host about the construction of their city, and in my talks with the host, I took those goals to make sure that by the year 2020, the city of Addis Ababa is still having modern buildings, to remove the importation of unplanned settlements.

Investment of Ethiopia, about the construction of the city, will not depend on investors from outside as it is for many African countries, to this nation, which in the past was the role of hunger in the world and its success is the involvement of citizens of Ethiopia in building their nation.

Among the residents of that town, I met with one young man of the animals, who identified himself as Solomon Mukubwa, this is the engineer that she toured his contract with his girlfriend, the late Cathlee, about great changes that arise in the city.

Solomon is competing in one of the popular areas in the city of Cedars-2 that is in that city, from Onderstepoort city, where we were making food to the hosts, bad luck and livestock which also explains the ways that were used by the government of Zenani and beer with the strategy to build a strategy to build in Addis Ababa.

In our discussions, Solomon is thanking you of being a big part of our buildings that we see those of the city is owned by the citizens of Ethiopia, because they are arising from internal investment, whereby the government will enable them to build better environment that make people to invest in their country.

As a result of that strategy, Ethiopia has succeeded to bring in foreign funds instead of signing to transport outside as many leaders in Africa.

According to our host, Solomon, natives who live in Ethiopia, are forced to invest in home through a special procedure that will enable them to get loans in the internal affairs and then be handed them procedures due to their revenue that are outside the country.

"Africa stories that you see a lot about the host, if the citizens who live outside the country are supposed to borrow, they are required to set 25 percent of loans that remain the procedures, most of them also produce them and build big buildings, the government help them even to get married, narrates Solomon.

In that procedure, the government has managed to bring in the country for foreign funds, where local contractors have not found their income and go back home to pay for loans that they took for the purpose of investment, especially in the construction of laboratory buildings in Addis Ababa city.

The procedure of giving loans to young people living in outside, are being taken by many who visit the city to be one of the reasons contributing in the growth of the economy of that nation, that they also contribute to the foreign funds in their country instead of switching up up there, they are and going back to them in their country.

The use of the city prove that the strength of their currency, after eating and drinking water including two bottles at the sun and beer we did not know our eyes and there are only 20 million dollars in America.

There are a lot to learn from Ethiopia especially as they visit their city of Addis Ababa, they have openly stated that they are keen on issues that they want to do and if you see it was a very good man, she was a very difficult time, she was a very long time.
