
Mwalimu Nyerere didn't know the Angels, but he got the ball.
October 21, 2012

I don't know that there is no Tanzanian who believes that the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, without mistakes in her life. Teacher's human being like other human beings were left to him, but his respect is not only by Tanzania only, but the whole world.
When a teacher is the late, but we are still continuing to listen! I think I think a question to ask ourselves what other people do a mistake and was accompanied by his grave, and others.
Mistakes, but you have not been asked because of their honor to continue with their love for people that continues to continue?
This is the purpose of discussing the presence of Zaire now, DRC did a mistake and everyone knows it until today, Patrice Lumumba, (the first Prime Minister of Congo, Kinshasa city, and he had a mistake of love for her heart and the one who does not put his country in front.
These two doing a mistake, it is a must they be handled by different eyes, Mzee Rashid Kawawa said that he did a mistake here and when each person gets an entrepreneur, she didn't serve our nation for his heart and even if there was a mistake, people who loved him in his heart and his good intention.
We have made mistakes of manslaughter, without bad luck and we have made mistakes of doing dirty and conspiracy, and the mistakes of doing badly or getting confused by the people with bad intentions, with the aim of looking for honor, positions and power.
Many times people are doing bad luck when they are in public service, they are continuing to live with humility and integrity even after retiring from.
All of them?
Karrima Carter as Mwalimu Nyerere, Mzee Kawawa and Mzee Ali Hassan Mwinyi, broke the administration of this country at the age of 65 while others interrogate that he made the teacher, being the president, and asking questions, he did not like the current constitution of our nation that does not give a great authority to the president.
Our constitution, article 33 up to 46, are speaking about the power of President Doctor Nyerere, he did against him, then I would have ever heard about what he was to break the constitution like to welcome Doctor Ulyankulu earlier, but I have never met anything about how he was a refugee from other refugees. Until today, Tanzania still should care for the refugees.
At the appropriate time he launched by Nduli, Iddi Amini, we were still the East African Community without considering it, had been rushing to Kenya.
Others are saying Nyerere, did not protest against sexual violence, then I wouldn't want them to get into this debate without knowing these contributes to the existence of the field of Arusha and politics of socialism and self-reliance because he continued to oppose the colonial history and slavery.
My advice to all those who use a teacher with their actions, then that is good for the development of our nation and our community, we continue with it, but what we think we should leave without any thing because he was a human being, he did not know what we want.
