
TBC is looking for 50 million shillings to an earthquake.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC) has done a fundraising for contributing to the victims of the earthquake in Kagera province and succeeded to collect donations of there and more than 50 million shillings and 11 kilograms of maize.

The fundraising took place yesterday in the city of Dar es Salaam at the Julius Nyerere International Conference (JNICC) and communication directly and the level of television and TBC1.
Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye has launched the fundraising and congratulated TBC for that decision that will help the availability of money to help the victims of the incident.
Tetteh Zigamba has happened on September 10 this year in Kagera province and caused the deaths of 17 people and injured several people.
"Thanks and congratulations to you by educating and implementing this issue of helping our colleagues, I have seen it only ends the report of the incident, but encourage the contribution to your listeners and Tanzanians in general," said Nape.
The Director of TBC, Doctor Ayubu Rioba has said that organization has seen the efforts of the government and the response of contraception is expected to contribute to the event and they will be able to prepare for the fundraising which is giving an opportunity for people to continue contributing.
Some of the students who gave the money there are two contract companies in Dar es Salaam city which were given 10 million shillings every company, Star Times magazine, 10 million shillings and the chairman of Simba Registration Committee, Zacharia Hans Poppe has contributed to two million shillings.
The representative of Star Times magazine, a citizen of China who loves Juma Sharobaro Records, after giving a contribution to the company spoke to a Swahili and said the money that is contributed, even if it is little, it is a need to contribute to anything that they have.
