Wealth of property.
Has God infected with passengers.
It is supposed to reduce that there is two hundred and three years which wants to get out of them.
Although there are our elders who have been getting different challenges of difficult things due to the age of such as diabetes, a life in Dar es Salaam, you will be able to confirm to you, maybe it comes to you.
Are there medicine?
If these diseases are not sure.
There was a human beings until the end of the emails together with the heart that we have in the state of medicine, we have the ability to recognize the origin of a human being and others recently, the government has given more than twenty billion Tanzanian shilling to help people with great female children, "you know what they did not need.
Tomorrow I am my friend who for other things, we are among them to go there because this group of elders but the aim is to try to look for food to the elderly Spencer also, the two sides are estimated to be two million shillings.
For the information of money and those who will also be used to know the performance and making plans.
Therefore, the writer is saying.
Expansion of the.
The great danger which he is getting out of many say that maybe I get married or it is a heart disease or to get not allowed.
Second one in the family.
They get the death since I conclude that, the condition of finding herself has the mental ability to get tired with the husband.
A question that many areas have not been understood well in that, the old person when he was attending, you can see if it is a must.
Without knowing this means, the old man for what is also in this situation because this age of my ability and the mind starts when you get inside you, the name of me is good and we have never benefited from the words like this which is good.
And sponsors the ministry of health.
It is a truth that is open?
There are some areas.
Our.
There is a big problem here.
And these hours for people were different from that hospital here in the country.
All the stakeholders that you would like to inform the youth, Judith Wambura.
Looking for example, there is a person from maybe you're blocking the threats from the villages.
For these drugs to claim and be able to know.
There in Serengeti maybe when he happens.
We know that there are our elders that, that is most of the verses and others not knowing where I have tried to look for the elderly in this period.
Ras Makunja, I would like to be receiving a lot of a very big amount if I have told me the condition of their condition is what you do not do.
Mister you do not have conned us to go to our colleagues in Singida to see for yourself the signs of blood in the stations I think the number of blood he did not like to see maybe if there is a need to get married because you can't ask you, so that someone can't know you.
The Lord Jesus also died by bad luck in everything, the late does not give an example like elephants' elephants and sell him, which is the second foundation to say.
What a finger to the declaration is that, that was revealed, it said that if it has taken a draw that is not looking for him.
In the real part of Diana, those who are in the government will give a Chech compared to our products compared to cheating and the levels of the low-level stations.
Recently, the elderly will leave everything like the concept.
I have lived in these greetings to try to do heavy things from Temeke, the late does not give a small statement to be taken to the behavior of many things when they have been saying and the first one I would like to arrive at the Temeke Hospital.
My question and there is little but at the time.
But those drugs like that competition of eating four people also think that they have discovered that they will be found since the communication policies earlier before continuing to build their ability to our workers are communicating with the local government because they have the first local governments as well as they have the first ones well.
About that case they feel extremely honored.
What is that there is no drugs right and the needs.
Those who has been sentenced after a black person they don't have today takes place.
They have written there that is what we have.
The budget has been confirmed, but the second is Juan Jesus which went to sleep at every day so that they are well able to give your condolences to each day so that they do not get your condolences and that Simba's challenges are other servants in the eyes and other words to come to the hospital.
Responding to the time.
Believe that the problem is not the one.
You can give you so that if you use it is badly on each one has opened each other.
Who was injured in cheating.
He made cheating to those killing the Christian shops so as to compensate your phone that is because she had lost ten percent.
First, before very disturbing of any service that you want to listen to those who were able to were able to come out of cheating.
You cannot change yesterday by the authority yet.
But he has revealed that we will go to the system so that we can also leave that which action will be taken.
For example the old man had gone to.
I get.
But when he reached there?
For example, what is to view recently in Mbeya has the ability to at least do people.
You thank me if you sign him if they will sign him that part who went to there are there that is everything but he has asked for money to be.
The advice and it is good because everything is in charge.
He will go one directly to be given this red card to be when I was happy when I was sworn in which is my good thing when I met me when I am not happy about that we should not forget yourself when we feel it was once again.
And he is saying that according to the government's side to take action against the government.
There is a day of an elder of the world even?
A in the country.
The ministry has been doing in the bid.
In the factory there are things that they have been taking place but I was growing at each other.
And through a good procedure, the late God can't like the ministry to go for every entrance.
We do not want to be in court so as to build an understanding and celebrations of the commemoration will start being used for improving your education environment and in a way without getting instructions where the celebrations took place where the law will come out and look at this good position of running those things who are in a legal procedure.
What is the job?
I commend him?
There is no managers who are asked to do exercises for you, when a person's doing is good and what does not show is one that it has been so much education from different years which I told him but he is stable, he is stable and he is stable.
He gives each other to work with my hand and at least I have been able to reduce the money, a very few hours you should know that between ten in the world, it is easy to get Azam pressure and also these diseases that have been found to be found at night like blood pressure, the heart can be found.
We talked to us that maybe and recently.
To provide free medical services.
The Ministry of Health in the community has been having the elders in the middle as the church.
I think that a reporter called agriculture that the police are when we visit they will start doing other than those who are not in accident people are supposed to avoid those who are not aware if they are not a lot to you.
It's like to hear them which he has been doing the fifth time we have in the race, we will take the ten and seven days which are every government directly or Kariakoo, and other religious stakeholders to know how they are not associated with.
He continued to help those the elderly that are very close to their brothers and they are also others who decided to sell each other than it's in the past years and I think well has government to reduce the environment in groups that were there but also for very close services and this has also been there since the province.
There are those services that are called so that the government has been looking at how to improve it.
We have witnessed some of them are complaining that nine governments were different from the past.
Now.
Let us know what?
Hayatou, some that complained to another time even one.
Something that is seen in charge of Bukumbi in Mwanza province during a look for musicians, it was noted that when the elderly took a responsibility to visit when I met and get food well because they want you to see you, a food you're getting free for free.
For free citizens when you want to get more than the other, you want to see more than the other is to know, I want to be extra, because I am using a fool will be made by the small tribes to make them go and go to the streets to know that he is raising.
And even if you do the late God bless you, there is God that is merciful, and warned that in Dar es Salaam, he was looking for the companies that is causing them to get income as a way he has not seen after.
But in every government at the oath of Evan, it had many livestock which had many livestock.
For the government it is producing well in the camp and we have a very good program, which is this news news for these things must buy.
I have got a message of one hundred thousand, one hundred thousand, I was born in order to do a good state of service provision to our community service, therefore, it has not been completed in order for you to do so, then it has not been completed in everything.
If it is a center for caring for our services as a center for teachers with disabilities, how to use at least the parts of the gold production, it cannot be good for you an example.
There is every time we wish for the work well, I thank the Almighty God who are ready to work and we should be able to work with us so that we can be able to meet those with disabilities the way to meet the lives.
