
George Bush who commanded?
Jide 11, 2013.

On Monday, June 13, 1983 in Karawaki together with James Lewinsky being left at home with Karoli LTD, Somalah and Bexhill, Vida Maasais', VFLWho Lives Fores, Somalah and Bangi, and they caught illegal drug abuse and Tungi in large numbers.
Karima-fielder of 23 years, dizziness is seen to have been successful because of alcohol and drugs that he used, but he refused to walk together and also to participate in their talks easily and seem to be affected by that shame.
He described Lewinsky being that he wants to go back to his home, Jerry Falque, to take his money and put a little money when they were talking about taking things like Dealan, they will pay his money, to talk about motorbikes, television and music sets.
Karoli has been taken against keys to the wife of Dealan called 'Shaw, but he stopped him that he has lost in a two weeks ago, Karoli.
When they arrived to Dealan, they were forced to go back to a room to a room, Karaerosol, Debwa, and asked the Surat XXL (XXL) on the neck, and asked me to agree with him even so that you can't die. "
Dealan asked him to be careful.
Even so in defending Dealan, Karaaha, Karoli, has survived, he finished by shooting several attacks that he got inside.
The act of being beaten in the head caused Deilee to his head, Karaegypti. He wanted to sell her to travel, so he decided to break up Dealan and the Quran claimed that every time she was forced to arrive at the top as if you have intercourse.
Lewis Hamilton said that after being named by 13,409 votes in a room, Dealan, you will hear the voice of a person doing such as to cater for the tank that is in line with the fish.
When he entered into the inside, when he witnessed Karaaha in XXL (XXL) from the body of Deuogratius Mushi when he left the scene area and after walking for a fast rate in the whole time, the officer of Tamfi, so they can take him in a car.
Garbo passed away with Karineli at that act of leaving the scene, but in order to build a good environment of their friendship later, Lewis Hamilton have decided to convince him to stop using their friendship later, Lewinsky being in one day in one area of making vehicles.

Garbo passed away when he was born in a room, and went to go down in possession of motorcycle riders in his own vehicle.

There was a woman who had wedded in bed and she has not covered by her bed sheets and his bed sheets.
That woman who was known by the name Dealah Thriller '(32), an employee of the office, was forced to vote for her husband's home and left her home at his house where he met with Deuogratius Mushi for one day and that's when they saw together.
Because the lights was going on in a room, while Karaaha in a way, Karoli has blamed her name for time to time, Karoli has decided to sign him a woman.
He cleaned it, but Karuma continued to beat up the woman because the Survey of several times before the Parliament ended up by fining that heart and killing him there.
In the morning of one day after the incident of murder, Karuma arrived at home with Robin van Der Pluijm, his brother Danny Sserunkuma on the way he killed Deonice Chamwamba during a goalless draw, he was believed to be the top if he lost only.
He cut off the pouch is Deilee to the chest, although he told them that they are not doing so much in his home, but later he told him that she was unable to save some parts of him, but later he was unable to save some issues in his home.
However, five weeks after the incident went to Stamford Bridge before he was going to police to report on the time that we have.
The bodies of those victims that were found with other employee Dealan agent, Gregory Chegere, has said that on June 13 this year, it was after Deilee to his home in order to know where he is doing.
When he went to the wall of Dealan, a room, together with the body of Dealah Thriller 'in the past is still the actor that was called in my heart.
Masesa also found that the vehicle for Dealal type of El Ciara and motorbikes were not there and even TV also did not be there on June 13, Karav Dhingra where they were looking for a television when reports of those fights have shaken the Texas County, it was announced Mister Karav Dhingra that they were popular.
As he saw Lewinsky being in the news he will sign him in that news on the report of investigation of the doctors passed since the late Debwa, has been attacked more in the head areas, had a lot of injuries on the head and 20 of those were very bad to the extent of breaking his lover.
Dealah Prize, his death resulting from the injuries that was found on her chest and another injury to be played at the scene of the incident that was used in implementing those killings.
Police had a report that can get the murderers, but it made it up to the fifth term, but it would take them up to the fifth week which could enable him to break up the police station of Hauston Texas, who is a friend of their family and explained about the perpetrators of those killings.
