
Manager Arsene Wenger fears that the case of 7 billion shillings.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

A third witness in the case involving 13 employees of Barclays Bank, Arusha branch and businessman Fredrick Uo (43), has repeated on behalf of the law and presented several documents of that bank used in the theft of more than seven billion shillings.

The witness gave an explanation on the previous day, he repeated today and asked the court to receive those documents while evidence in that case.
Uo, is the general manager of Barclays Bank, Arafa branch, has handed the names of American dollars and Tanzanian funds used to bring in financial transactions from the private companies and the National Social Security Authority (NCAA).
The lawyers were not worried about those documents.
Uo'clock has done so after being requested by the chief physician of the government, Pindani Nyalile when required to do so in front of the Resident Judge in the Court of Arusha / Arumeru, Deusdedit Kamugisha and claimed that the documents are also presented at the court of criminal Investigation, Arusha (RCO), last year.
He has said that the documents were presented at the RCO office, after being requested for a lot by that office and he had not been involved from its top leaders of that bank, that is in Dar es Salaam city and without any worries at using the banking system.
The witness has said that the bank's account had handed police and court there include Nicrox, with a number of 3107,433,57,433,7114671146092.
The other one is of Ephraimu Mwasanguti said 5711,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, Tumaini Njole. 53212,3212,338,905 billion shillings.
The manager handed over the account and the system for laying the cash money for Tanzanian money in those accounts, dummy check, VocationalTraining, the form of money and given the funds for the account.
He said that he did so, after being transferred to Moshi on July 8 this year and found the complaints by customers and Nicrox, and the tourism companies that their money in their accounts in DCB Bank have lost in and was told to hand over those things at different times.
13 employees of Barclays Bank, P-scale business people are accused of stealing from manslaughter, contributes to money and stealing a network of an amount of more than seven billion shillings in the year 2011 to 2012 at different times.
