CHADEMA to expand.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2015 with Raia Mwema, entertainment and games.

The general elections has ended, winners of Mbeya Region is clear that the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) will expand its speed.
However, the life of that party is saying it depends on how the government will lead the government that will lead to the next general elections of the year 2020.
CHADEMA has managed to lead in the councilor seat in the City Council of Mbeya and town of Tunduma, where now it will be the ruling party and not again the opposition party.
In addition to leading those councils, the opposition parties under the umbrella of Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) has succeeded in collecting the councilor seats in the areas that were in the past, or they did not wait for one seat or not for two positions.
Among those areas include the Mbozi district, Chunya District, Rungwe, Ileje district and Mbeya rural areas, especially in urban areas, opposition parties have won for the first time or have increased the councilor seat.
That step makes the towns such as Kyela, Tukuyu, Tunduma, Tunduma, Tunduma, Mbeya Town and others and be under the opposition side.
The challenge is.
In the period the members of parliament were on the opposition side, but from November, this year, the party will be the ruling party in Mbeya City Council and the city of Tunduma where it is in a total of winning many seats of the council and also those political parties to have a huge challenge in many towns in that province as a result of winning those areas.
The parliamentary secretary of Mbeya province, Boyd Faustin Mwakyusa giving out that victory to an eye of an eye on how they had opposed the trap of the development of their party and taking a precaution to talk about their victory because of the changes from the city of Mbeya City.
"It is like a trap, people should like to see if we will be able to run good council more than the ones who were present," says Mkomagu led his speech through the phone and Good Citizen.
That secretary reveals that it is needed peace and planning to complete the past projects and to supervise keenly the new projects, a step that will give the validity of continuing to rule that council after the next general elections in 2020, to enable their party to win the next general elections and form the government.
Some of the residents of Mbeya City who talked with this newspaper have explained their satisfaction with the parliamentary victory that gave them an opportunity to form the government of that city saying it is a chance for the opposition parties to show their ability.
Daimon has said that the only victory will not have a meaning if they will be unable to show a difference of leadership between them and the Revolutionary Party in leading the council of that city.
"The consent to buy, at their work, will be keen on the opposition system, now they are leaders, should inform people that they have the ability, to implement the ones they were fighting for," says Mwasamiru.
War emerges victorious.
We have been the official reports about the position of the mayor of Mbeya City, that conflict started even before the general elections, the strategies being implemented in the process of opinion polls in that party.
In the previous elections, the ones that have organized to vie for that position inside the Revolutionary Party, were prepared to contest for the opinion polls to get the councilor candidates, and the internal reports of the party showing that those politicians have discovered that they are supporting councilors with sharp teeth.
"The parliamentary candidate of CCM explained his votes inside the council of councilors just after the completion of the referendum process," says our source from Haniya, CCM.
The situation seems to have a little difference inside you, where in addition to the claims of his arrest early, some members were happy to win that position if they would have come in the council of councilors of that city, there is no one evidence to be used in making their votes.
The system of getting the mayor or chairman of the council is different from the time of getting the representatives, the local government officials are blaming each other from the councilors, the candidates failed and be voted for by their fellow councilors.
"The problem starts from the mayor's position, there are many of each person that loves us," says our source inside that party in Mbeya town.
