
Corruption, Natural Resources and Principe, 2012.

On the 26th of November, 2010, at seven o'clock at night, while the big number of Millennium Tower at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), there was a big cause of parking goods into the air force plane of Qatar (Qatar, Emerick Air Force).
The cargo that was found at that big night in that plane was not normal and the workers were very normal for 130 types of 130 grams of 14 types, due to a huge cargo that was built, all the cargo is recognized as part of the important resources of the nation.
According to the workers of that stadium, a lot of many citizens, the animals will be 130 in together with a cargo of fake meat that are believed to go through DOCH, Qatar.
According to the law of Tanzania, that cargo was seen in the country against the law because it was not a permit or not a non-governmental documents and who participated in implementing and eventually transporting the cargo.
Between the Selous National Park with a different kind of different types, they did not play four.
Twiga Stars was identified as a national sign, the laws of Tanzania are accused of a motorcycle that was killed or being transported to business outside the country.
A cargo of Violet, a bomb attacks is reported to be the number of many animals that were killed by ablaze.
The police force of Qatar arrived in November 24, the first seems to be a plane that was carrying the normal journey up to November 26th, night, at the field they met with cargo including animals.
More reports indicate that after the arrival of that plane, his fellow workers were forced to rest for two days at the Waja Spirings, Arusha town.
The leaders of that land grabbing, mentioned that it is two foreign citizen who have collaborated with all four people who had planned to drive out the animals that are worth more than 130 million shillings.
Among those leaders, one of the leaders is a citizen of Pakistan, Ahmed Kamnada, a resident of Arusha and another one is a woman, the citizen of Kenya, Jane Matinde, a employee in the Sinyati Enterprises LTD company that is living in the house of the stadium.
Mke Mwema have succeeded to get names of other concerned parties, but this will not say now because it was not able to communicate with them.
Mke Mwema should also be informed that other participants of the strategic plan involves four people, whose information can be collected from this newspaper for some time show that the ones who used the strategy to help those visitors and smuggling of animals will be aired.
Between them is one woman the resident of Dar es Salaam, who is causing a company to arrest and owning the wildlife that one woman in the department of defense of the Technical Department of CDACO that deals with all the activities of the field by the government servant in the agricultural department of livestock by one servant in the department of resources that are being taxed.
Those animals were allowed to be dealt with?
Rumors and the reports that were collected by our citizens show that the head of the wildlife transportation is Kamnada who has been doing that job by using a license to arrest the wildlife in the company of Dar es Salaam.
The reports indicate that the wildlife who were arrested were arrested in a bad state house and different places of the provinces of Arusha and Kilimanjaro and qualified in the house she is living in Barwan area, Arusha Municipality.
Reports indicate that the lady has been carrying different types of animals for a long time in that house which has been built for a long time, and that inside that house, there is a big possibility of protecting the animals.
Its from the house of that house, November 26th, last year, the night of three o'clock, three witch doctors were already sent away by Violet, a series of iron sheets that were aired live and Vientiane when they were transported to Geneva, Qatar.
In that stadium, those vehicles which were given by the animals came through the 5B bus which is normal is used as an emergency goal, up to the stadium, a work to appeal and started without permits from government authorities involved.
In the procedure, the animals were supposed to be stopped through the number 5A where there are officers of the departments that are being taxed for analysts and other non-governmental organizations where all permits have been unable to be discriminated against before being transported outside the country.
While the vehicles which were arrived, Jane Matinde, with great efforts, he had not prepared the report of that load (dye) because his company was legal to cater for 40 tons, instead, he used the medical equipment to cater for a company to serve the Sports Company to achieve that job.
"These a Bongo celebrities will be allowed to serve cargo of small planes, and by knowing that, the suspect did plans to make for the cargo equipment that was being transported to rise," explained our reporter.
In addition, the reports indicate that more that the government servant in the department of livestock was seen to know that the wildlife who did not have permits and those who were eliminated from the country, did not inspect the permits in transportation.
"As usual those cargo that are being transported to go out of the country, especially wild animals, must have all the correct data documents and the documents are required by the safety and other important issues are not allowed," explained our information regarding the incident.
Reports are saying that when those people completed that plan, one police arrived at the field and followed when he wanted to see the permits for transporting those animals, but the involved were telling him that "a load that is being transported with the government was being transported.
Our report giver, explains more that the efforts of the police to fulfill his responsibility stopped using the wall after being stopped by the management of livestock, who is a fellow officer in the government, who was participating in the exercise that "she does not have any job that can do it," he also said when she gets a modem.
While quoted the officer of our news analysis, he explained, "you are a spirit what does it mean?
It has worked on your work and recently, I urge you that I will stop the establishment of this work, but the police went to give a copy of those statements, but also the police went to move forward and there was no action made to prevent the program.
More news reports are saying that after the completion of the work of fighting with the wildlife, the involved will give them employees who participated in the cargo amount of 150,000 Tanzanian shillings so as to get out of that amount when they come up to the field there.
Recently, more than the issue reports are saying that police had opened the investigation case in order to select the suspects that were mentioned to be arraigned in court, but in the ongoing environment, the issue has been born for five months after the incident, there is no action taken.
The statement of the accused of the Rai newspaper this week was speaking with Kamerhe whose audience listened to the issue, but forced him to be involved and he added that he does not do that business.
"I am not involved with the issue that you want to tell you and I think it has put a great number without correct (they are not me)," he said and then given his phone.
On his part, Jane Matinde claimed that he is a servant in the Bongo Flavor company, thus all the issues you asked, his director and gave him a phone number that even so, it was revealed that it will not be used.
On his part, the Executive Director of TMF, Sports, Hance Temu, confirmed the equipment of his company to be used in that load and added that they did so after being faced by a Bongo celebrity and they were paid money worth 3,000 American dollars for that job.
He said Temu from the issue: "Yes, I remember police who came to question about our participation on the claims of not being tired of the animals, but we have explained to them that he will not allow me, but our equipment were allowed to go to our office of KIA when there is a solution for the payments to confirm."
Speaking about the incident, the Executive Director of Shangani company which is the brand manager of KIA, Marcus Van Kraehenbuehl has confirmed the claims by the killing of the wildlife and added that even so the management is not involved with the issue.
"Our work as' DPO is to protect the security of passengers and aircraft that are using this stadium for their journey, but we will not involve the transportation of goods that pass through that stadium it is the work of another authority," said Van Der Pluijm.
He added, "police have already started investigations and I think that we should stop doing their work and see their investigation will bring the answers while on our part, we will give them enough cooperation." The police commander of Kilimanjaro Province, Lukas Botha, and the investigation of that case was done by the police officers from the headquarters of the army.
"The incident is true but we are communicating with the headquarters of the police force in Dar es Salaam city and they were using a special team of the police force and for my knowledge they have started working in questioned the suspects," said the commander.
Mke Mwema did not succeed to get the director of criminal Investigation (DCI), Robert Manumba to explain the steps they took to the investigation of that incident.
The sale of resources of countries in the minerals sector and resources has been one of the big problems that Tanzania has signed together with great reasons stated that it is a result of government officials who were given authority to manage those resources on behalf of the citizens.
