
Food associated with an interpreter.
The wedding by scoring and drinking alcohol for several days is the old thing and is done by many religious leaders and even other groups of people for different reasons.
The believers of the Christian religion are usually entertaining the period of stealing or other days according to their faith.
Muslims use the holy month of Ramadhan as a must for religion and other political days (SMS).
People who play and stop eating and drinking alcohol, their food schedule has reduced, and on the side of Muslims, they usually have two capital city, food related to night and the same night.
Iftar which is similar to which the scorer is used to open a little time without getting food, it is good for a long time without eating food, it is good for them to be treated with the stomach.
Also, those foods to have reduced due to the sugar that are already in the food they were destroyed, potatoes, and cold drinks, juice, juice, juice, juice, juice, juice, spirits, and others in order to ensure that it is an example of red foods.
More than that, food shortages is a must that you have destroyed houses, these are phrases of foods like food, oil, oil, minerals, minerals, minerals, drinking water and drinking alcohol.
Therefore, the time before yesterday such as socialists, yams are infected with rice, meat, fish or cows.
Likewise, it is a must that the evening to have fruits and vegetables of enough diseases.
According to the regulations of eating best, one person is supposed to sell the small cups, three hours for three days in a day.
Also, food items are required to be built for sugar, salt and many oil for people to use fuel from plants and at a little amount.
The cold drinks, sunflower and the cause of the maize is among the best oil in the health of the consumer that are found here in Tanzania.
The cold drinks, tea which will be at a little amount at night, for instance, this is because food and drinks have been expelled and at the morning it makes a goal of losing many water at urine.
Religion in Islam are requesting the people who use dates, water or milk if they start paying taxes until the 70 percent of the traditional sugar industry shouldn't be stolen.
Someone taking the dates of the sugar type, we are warned and you are reduced by the stem and eventually is giving strength to a habit that allows him to be happy and listen to her mental checkup.
Dates also have faith of various types, including 25, 5 percent and 25 percent from 1 percent.
More than that, dates have 60 percent related to 39 percent, which will help to sucks to the stomach and to allow the consumer to get a great need for time to welcome them, bananas and Ugali, food and good food.
