
The development of the education sector in the recent years show that under the 655 percent of the students that did the form four exams in 2012 to get the level of zero by other words that they failed or failed.
Later it was made a commission that made changes and remove the system of planning to bridges, by getting into the average of an average of the GPA system which also benefited from that, this year was sacked.
In the current state, what is happening is the efforts of wanting to go back to the course and it will open up the education due to the mistakes that have already taken out, the action of being revealed that during the student's number of universities that were admitted are among those who were admitted are together with those who were admitted to zero.
Those environment show that they were filled the poor of cheating which is caused by the poor of bribery that will be produced in there is a group of people who were involved in cheating by one person to come to have a shortage of illegal immigrants.
It should be that because those who do or have been difficult to stop because that behavior becomes sustainable and it continues to return to the areas of work or different positions that they will have and therefore the community is ready and non-corruption leaders.
There are many and if it is taking place without favoring Tanzania, it may clear the world how it is led by some people who are for sure today, they would have been able to be in prison because of the break of the law.
That truth here is that we encourage us to separate himself from the education because that is wanted by these days and the scholars is "better education" and not "better education," scholars are boasting of certificates of universities even if they do not get any knowledge to improve the life of a human being.
Students are required so much to build a thing that is known as English, Clients, (FGM) even in the way of cheating, (CPA), a reduction of a private explanation of a historic person from education, religious, culture, sports and so on.
But the reports of cheating, stealing examinations, faking certificates, sexual abuse and money in employment is not new in Africa and wants to be a champion of crime of that kind, then he can learn from Nigeria.
Currently fever of upcoming poets who live in Tanzania as it did in Nigeria on the 38 years ago, its results are that despite Nigeria having more than 20 best universities and participatory at that country for a long time.
The research that was done in Nigeria in the year 2005 / 06) of the World Bank and the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) revealed that the education system is reduced by bribery due to bribery.
"Nigeria was a nation that was producing graduates of universities with international standards which were able to compete with other graduates in the world. Today, we are producing major graduates that are unable to build very easy hours," says Doctor Darius Mhawi.
Bribery and cheating in the education in Nigeria came up to a former speaker of the Parliament of representatives, when it was discovered that he has given out a certificate to indicate that he is a diploma in Toronto University in Canada.
