
20 years of many parties are holding more than of 16 percent.

Last week, 20 years since it returned to the system of many parties, it is not a normal period for someone who was born in 1992, now he has a right to vote in the general elections.
Previously, let me say that in the previous days, I put it open on how I was happy about it about our system of many parties, to an extent of reaching a position that in general, the issue of many parties for the development of the nation, has been more losses more than the benefits.

I was forced to see the news analysis of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere due to that he had a great opportunity in the political changes in the country.
Recently in continuing to listen, I asked, recently, Mwalimu Nyerere true that he thinks it is pregnant especially, they would have already started those opposition parties since the beginning of having great success?
I give you a request to get answers from the few people who know that they are not aware of the thoughts of the teacher, I say a few because the people who put it so much like the teacher is not more than actors or not to be careful.

To understand that who would have been able to start so, parties are very important due to that there was no famous people here in matters of reforms.

And maybe this is not there by bad luck.
When we pray to you as an example of what we want to do politics, the commission of Judge Francis Kiwanga speaking that 80 percent of citizens continue to continue with the system of one party.
It is possible that the percentage of that percent was not correct to that amount but still without knowing more than half a half time they continue with one party, including the regulations that says, we should stop involving Tanzanians who want to meet and stop using a few statement. "(LSE's).

For now to put aside the opinions of our readers and cooperate quickly and small percent in the great issue of political system was not a correct way, and maybe it was to welcome other great problems and maybe the political changes are done in speed that could reduce various effects.
A good example of the effects is to return to the month of October in the year 1990, before the Constitutional Review Commission I advise the CCM committee to advise the revolutionary party, under the former minister of law, Bakari Mighty One, and which as usual Tanzania, that report is not known by many leaders of the country.
In the last part of that report, the committee cautioned on the importance of great economic changes as I wish to quote it in the first part of "existence of a good economy and not the projects for leaders and its members to get a way to promote life."

The second part of the report about the importance of great economic changes said, "parties which will be started will have a good opportunity to have members who will run their party themselves without depending on the few sponsors or the second one is a very big problem.
If I start with the first time, it is very difficult to hear even about the capital city members of the party, so as to fulfill the foundation stone for being playing.
It is possible that all the fees of every year's fees are not given. It was heading to that the senior leaders of the country are the ones that continue this that the influx of parties so as to be proud of the sponsors that democracy have changed in Tanzania?

In the second time, we have witnessed other parties when we have witnessed other political parties because it's my great faith that it would have been surprising issue because he is retiring from CCM's chairmanship in August 1990 and if truly could not get the party the real meaning of the parties for a long time.
It's a teacher who mentioned the following, "it is not good for me without sure that you will grow," it is a must to have a stable foundation in any big thing like to build houses!
I have been able to read several times in the previous years, the chairman of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe, informed the ball that it is like the people of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Freeman Mbowe, requesting them to make sure that it is like the people who are in the state and property, in other language, "he said.
I urge us to say where most of them are not only people to support what many times by luck, this is the year 1995 when Augustine Mrema when he will break the presidency and got a lot of votes because it was not true because it was not easy for many to get the right picture that you missed him.
Announcing this, in the life 'book, the founder of CHADEMA, Mzee Edwin Mtei said that CHADEMA was given a message to speak to Mrema on the possibility of joining that party.
The conditions he was given by Mrema is that CHADEMA has not registered to be the presidential candidate but as the national chairperson of CHADEMA Party was ready to appoint Mrema as the presidential candidate but not the chairman because of the need of the constitutional meeting.
Now, him Mrema has decided to be given all the two positions and did not depend on power?
On his words, Mzee Mtei said that one big person in CCM told a few years later, since he announced that CHADEMA can be supported Mrema, she lost his faith, and Mtei said that he was suffering from him, where he was wrong for a big offence in life.
He continues to say that it was a views of many inside his party, which he wanted to respect but he says that he was supposed to have the strength to give them.

This act not to pay a picture on how CHADEMA was a fools should come up and due to how the NCCR party was able to sit down and Mrema moved to TLP and to make its requirements to be the presidential candidate and chairman, we must ensure that most of them broke up to a certain extent and the opposition.
No wonder, the year 2000, is like CHADEMA did not learn from 1995, the reason we saw the cooperation between CUF by supporting Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, on how it will today, those parties depend on each other after time, you cannot believe that they were just a grandfather who dies.
And the day before yesterday, Freeman Mbowe announced that we have learned from taking certain people to vie for some of the last minutes and bringing trouble later.
He placed it open the next week they did not want to be a few cents.

In this environment, it's not better if we thank the Almighty God, I believe that if CHADEMA would have shown the high speed from the past, the ones that concern many sponsors of the past, the ones that look for many sponsors of the past.
For sure that their journey has been a big offence of even the founders of the party like Mtei, the late Bob Entertainment and even Victor Wanyama who failed to contest for the parliamentary race in the regions.
Up to all the heads of these senior leaders they don't think this is an issue of citizens themselves to fail, because of the year 2005, CHADEMA organized him of Mbowe as the first presidential candidate of the Hai constituency where he was taken by CCM.

I think it was not bad luck that due to various problems that were involved in many parties, Nyerere explained that "the true opposition will benefit from CCM" but this was like getting into his previous position of wanting to make changes in quickly.
Remember, I have been forced to look at one big leader in CHADEMA who together with few colleagues, they have been able to do a good work in recent years and to give them great hope.
This is not another but it is Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa and until now he has been a member of CHADEMA for approximately 17 years but what gives him the way he made CCM and came to CHADEMA after the end of the referendum in Karatu town, 1995.
Recently after getting into that party if he would like that party will not make his expectations, he would have left again again or even in the great decision of CHADEMA to support Mrema and later Lipumba, he said Doctor Slaa was not true?

In a situation of the ability he made, Doctor Slaa, I see I was supposed to have his party after not relating to. I believe that party would have been huge steps until now.

For sure, I have got a great problem how Tanzania was seen in Africa like the country with political parties for a long time, but following the existence of many parties' system for 20 years ago, things should be proud of is very few!
You have been told that, who was on the front line even claiming that the political changes and the founder of NCCR, Mabere Marando, who was removed from his party and joined CHADEMA.
