State will return home in parliament.
October 17, 2013 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

After the meeting of Tuesday this week, between President Jakaya Kikwete and some of the leaders of the opposition parties in the country, the parliament will now be given an opportunity to discuss issues that need to be done on the bill of the Marsa of constitutional changes, Almighty God has told him.

According to those reports, President Kikwete first will sign that bill and then it will be sold to change by considering some of their opponents who include Professor Ibrahim Lipumba from CUF, Freeman Mbowe of CHADEMA and James Mbatia of NCCR-Revolution, apart from those opponents, the views of changes that will be presented in parliament.

The decision made during Tuesday between Professor Lipumba and President Kikwete, at the State House in Dar es Salaam, will finish the tension between one month between the government and the opposition parties concerning that bill.

That tension followed by his peak during the last meeting of parliament where some of the members of parliament of the opposition camp were seen in the debate of that bill from inside the parliament hall, where violence were taken out for the first time in the parliament of Tanzania.

Together with other things, the opposition complained about that they were abducted by the parliamentary committee, not being discussed in the sessions of the parliamentary committee, not being involved in the opinions from Zanzibar in the preparation of the bill and the consummation of the work of the commission of constitutional changes.

The sources of this newspaper, even so, he explained that talks between Kikwete and those opposition leaders went on well and it was dominated by strength of argument more than strength.

"You know what we are saying earlier that we are not going back to the state of breast and soda, and that is why we join us while we were not affected.

"We went to speak with the president because we want the constitution that will benefit us from the current and future generations. Tanzania is not CCM, CUF or CHADEMA, but one of the opposition leaders who talked with this newspaper before the start of that meeting.

Different from the pictures made by the State House during the first meeting between Kikwete and opposition leaders last year, pictures were issued yesterday, Tuesday night were made in a meeting with all leaders, including CCM members under the representative of the vice chairman of that party, Philip Mangula.

In his speech, he was nominated, this year, President Kikwete promised to meet with opposition leaders so as to discuss about the process of getting a new constitution.

Yesterday's meeting, Tuesday, was the second President Kikwete to meet with their opponents about the process of the new constitution, especially after the conflicts inside the parliament.

During that meeting, those who were attended include three ministers of the government of Kikwete, Stephen Wassira (Prime Minister of Al-Relations), Mathias Chikawe (the office of the prime minister of Parliament and coordination), whose opposition parties were able to listen to their stand on the changes of the constitution.

The leaders that attended the meeting yesterday with the names of their parties in brackets as Professor Ibrahim Lipumba (CUF), James Mbatia (NCCR-Revolution), Tundu Lissu (CHADEMA), Tundu Lissu (CHADEMA), Tundu Lissu (CUF), Tundu Lissu (CUF), Tundu Lissu (CUF), Tundu Lissu (CUF), Tundu Lissu (CUF).
