
Sumaye has apologized.
Sumaye Peter Elias, The Citizen of Bushiri Atick, popularly known.
Dar es Salaam City, retired prime minister Frederick Sumaye has denied the action of the parliament to stop the fight for one of the party activities to make law saying any government which didn't give him to be identified.
Instead, he said the democratic government requires freedom of people to get information and give opinions which will help the leaders in making a decision.
Speaking to journalists during the commemoration of the media freedom day in the world yesterday, Sumaye said that he knows article 18 (2) of the constitution of the United Republic that says.
"Every citizen has the right to be given a report at all times about different events in the country and all over the world which is important in life and the economic activities, and also about important issues to the community."
He said Tanzania is a democratic country because the constitution has identified himself, but he explained to be surprised by him and the action taken by the fifth term government to prevent the parliament's advertisements by giving different issues.
"The government has given an argument that he has stopped more advertisements for one time so as to evade the use of same time, they say they will start the parliamentary studio that will be aired by TBC, they will move to the office of the parliament."
He said the action of the government to prevent one of the parliament is to break the constitution of the country and requested citizens to their constitutional rights to get news.
Sumaye who joined the parliament during the election campaign of last year, said that parliamentary sessions were displayed directly, the citizens will get their democratic rights, compatible with information on issues concerning them.
He said any government keenly would like to do his things to be known to the public because it's the reason that they elected it and that the local government would like to be highly commended.
"As our government, we believe that it has been elected democratic, because I see it is difficult to put open the parliamentary debates so that the citizens are supporting them there," said Sumaye.
He said it is normal for the government to be said to be good and bad and that they can try to sucks to offenders, which will enable you to bring back the development of the nation and its people.
He said Airtel should not be seen to have different opinions from the president is a sin for the government of Tanzania is a democratic system and has been put by the citizens, therefore it must be given. "
While giving them to the senior leader in the third phase government, he urged the journalists to focus on professionalism in their work so as to avoid conflicts that can come out in the community while used the media not to be shaken by politicians.
The executive director of the association of political journalists in Tanzania (Tansort), George Maziku said that commemoration will continue to remind the journalists about their responsibilities and for them that were killed as an illustration of the results of lack of freedom of the media.
He said the biggest challenge facing the media industry is bribery and said that it will be an increase in the growth of the journalism profession because they are given investigation on some of the issues.
"More than 800 news reporters have been killed in the whole world within the past 10 years ago in the country, two journalists have been killed within four years only, that this is a big number where today it gets together and claimed freedom in our work," said Maziku.
