He didn't see the Judge TAKUKURU's tasted.
May 31, 2013.

The fight against corruption have been faced with a lot of challenges, including security and good citizens who by recognizing the effects of bribery, are cooperating with the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption in Tanzania (TAKUKURU), South Sudan reports.
According to the investigation of this newspaper, one of the people who graduated from corruption in order to deal with the national disaster, and who has been faced with a lot of land against security and its rights, includes the Mgongolwa Valley.
Mgombeni that Jeremiah is taking up to the criminal case number 212,of 2013 in the court of Mwanzo Kigonsera, Geita District now is reported to have peace, have been living in fear.
He has set aside the environment of being seen as a solution to some of the workers and bribery in the court and the police force in that district, after giving a statement to the judge of the Court of Mwanzo Kigonsera, Amina Mbiku, who was listening to that case (number + 2) for the mistake of asking and receiving bribes.
In that case, Jeremiah is said they will be able to defend his house to his house after he has received money to sign him and later, the defendant forced to plan and claimed to get married, the defendant believed that it is not right to be sentenced for criminal offenses when that case was supposed to be.
As a result of being unsatisfied with the trend of the case that was opened, he requested to move the case against the district court so as to put the lawyer claiming that the case of the claims had been opened against criminal.
The reports from inside the court explained that there was a previous strategy to get money so as to get their money from Mgalula, it was alleged that the suspect told him that the case so as to take them well and the judge met with the judge.
"If it appears from the demonstrators he was sent, I have heard that the judge who plays for his phone and told him that he gave the money and they agreed to see him is a mother (TAKUKURU)," explained the source.
The reports indicate that after being requested for that money, Mganza told him on TAKUKURU in front of being requested for bribes by the judge Mister TAKUKURU who found their money and set aside him and put him a ploy of getting those money.
Another source has explained the existence of a strategy so as to deal with Mgeleja about the mistake of listening to TAKUKURU mother who is alleged that his colleagues had gone against him as the young man will pay a lot about her colleague.
More information from reliable sources within the court explained that after the arrest of that case, the suspect was supposed to arrive at the court so as to be given reports of his case, but when he arrived to be heard under the defense and taken to the prisoners.
"The day before yesterday when he arrived to the youth here (court), people had gone down and told him that she does not know him, she told him that she is still unknown and told him that she is still unknown," says our news source from inside that court.
Makunga said one who is out on bail was accompanied by Mgatu at the time he was taken by the visitor, claims that the police were telling him and told him that he has claimed to have shown that she has discovered it is.
He claims that even the police force has prepared him that he has taken a curse from seeing the judge and they promised to give him a place of affliction, but also the suspect was able to return to the following day for the efforts of TAKUKURU officers in Geita district.
The investigation of this newspaper even so, has revealed that the judge decided to take him to the suspect because of violating bail and it was alleged that he claimed to arrive in the court and therefore the judge decided to carry out his bond.
