
Irrigation is the farming sector.
If you are saying that water is not good for a human being alone, even in plants, according to the farmer depending on the rain he cannot have a business farming because she will not have a lot of rains to prepare the farm on time and at the same time.
Not having a lot of rains, when the farmer cannot know how they should prepare themselves so that they do not complete their homes and also to have sure of the heavy rains.
The farmer will not be sure that the rains will be obtained, so that it will be obtained, so as to resolve the deaths have already been harvested.
However, the possibility of using better seedlings and drugs is difficult because he does not have a lot of farming because it is because of irrigation farming due to water catchment areas, all systems are important to make water farming.
The good luck in Tanzania has enough water sources, what is required is the good plans for making its use.
Despite that we have not done efforts to build the procedure of harvesting water and used them in the right way, we are using 21 percent alone for irrigation infrastructure in agriculture in the whole period of increase of water which will be controlled by the consumer that will support them on the cost of selling products in the market.
If I have explained at another cost, the farmer selling products that were added value, the cost of products so that the competition is the competition to get the benefits and control the life of life.
Because the water in general is good, even there are big needs, use that are supposed to take place so that they should not be the source of conflicts and build birth.
So as to have a good use of water it is a must that the community should have a plan to maintain water sources, care for infrastructure and distribution of water without favoring any user and every user could have so that everyone will have in a very fast rate.
A good plan is to encourage business people to invest in company to build and manage water use in collaboration with the government that will be made in collaboration with the manager of the value added value and other stakeholders.
The business people will be welcomed to buy shares in the company with hope of getting the profit of every year that will be caused by the activities of selling water and in general it does not have shares to the company to supervise the availability of irrigation water, sales, tax collection and the collection of revenue.
Shareholders will be able to employ managers who are planning experts, management, processing, selling and collection of water revenue which will have the responsibility of giving their job information in their board.
The board can also request for the role of the value added value to be following up on the performance of the managers of the water company and to give the directors of the board if they see that it will increase efficiency and accountability.
The amount of fees for water use has been ordered by stakeholders according to the size of the project, numbers of users, cost of water which include infrastructure, care, electricity, salaries and skills of workers and other things.
