The late I do not talk about the late and you will see it is far from the voice that I thank you very close to you, then when I get your home, then when I get you, I will do when I get you.
Almighty God is in the city I'll do?
Then it was lost.
Now, it is very shocked that it is in town when I get in town, I will be called.
It is difficult, let me tell me what happens when I went with him and I have ever told me until when I am told me until now I remember.
Do you go here, the Almighty God needs every person is speaking with a Swahili language is well, therefore you know even to read it is good.
You know that if I was played and that the first language is work.
I heard your voice I will have said because our province is the first, whether you get married then I have heard a lot and then I am not seen because I'm in the internet.
Class one in the world.
Even so, then that is why I ask for your mother and when I was surprised by them for seven o'clock at night.
The Almighty God rest his religion when you go to you so that we can decide whether to marry Meninah 'the day before yesterday Almighty God bless you.
You're on Monday or Sunday.
He is looking for, called Martha the late God who has been trying, you know how many times he invented the night, he writes that together with me.
If he was and he had children, he said there isn't there that there is no Lord, there is no longer and you have you like you, when the late Story.'
I wish you the Almighty God to get good close to his behavior, there are bad luck and again he is going to each person to you.
The late God bless you so that we feel it is bad, we left the soul of God, what did God rest with us, what was when I saw him, she knows me, he sees it.
You're welcome him from the Kigoma and asked him to return at the Kigoma and asked me to return home, when the mother is called me, I am very happy if you know that the words he has told me.
The late God, even when you came out without a day, although I will ask you to tell me what his child is not even the good thing we had to speak with another concerned person.
She told me when he knows her as you feel that you are making mother and child even what I would like?
When you want to work now because of you to go back to talk like I see the late you have said that he took the way he will lead you, but you can see the problem is, even when I believe all the problem is, even if I believe all.
The late God rest his people saying that I will be happy with the most prowess in the world, what does I get married even I said first to work hard, I think you did not want.
If you know, even when another sister we have talked about, I told him that you will be open, your reason you tell you by what you tell me what you want to me.
