Kikwete and Diplomacy.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

Several times in my articles in the past, I have congratulated President Jakaya Kikwete for the habit of talking to them, especially when he refuses to talk about some issues that citizens have a habit of dealing with them (without caring about what is in his speech) deserves to be informed.

But as it is normal in life, something if a lot of time can be able to build a bad state, maybe be at the real state, because some of the citizens have a lot of feelings like "Jah is just a continuation of the speech, there is no new song."

However, in his recent speech to parliament in Dodoma town, it's not only saying that he did not congratulate you by continuing the procedure that he made up on how to address them, but also what is in the speech was a big weight.

Maybe I asked himself, "this is the Lord, what I do again? I do I get President by fulfilling his responsibilities (that is my responsibilities), although the leader is supposed to implement responsibilities that made him to be given a solution to the concerned leader. She deserves such as it is.

The aim of this article is not in the whole speech of President Kikwete that he made in parliament in Dodoma but to discuss some important issues especially the position of the president in order to achieve the leadership of our nation.

President Kikwete's stand made a speech in the speech concerning our fate in the East African Community, despite being able to give a lot a lot of big national politicians like the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe and the minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta.

I have been following up by very close to these ministers, not only due to the importance of their positions but also the truth that their names have been mentioned so much in the race for looking for, the successor to President Kikwete "in the next general elections in 2015.

It's not the secret that, according to his position, Minister Membe is forced to give various statements about politics and foreign policies of our country and I think many of us remember his statement in two major events in our country, whereby a situation of cheating in our country and our neighbors in Malawi and Rwanda was not good.

You need that the day before yesterday the analysis of the statement to identify the difference between the language that was using Minister Membe and President Kikwete, when we met our relationship with Rwanda, though maybe it is important to have a good relationship with Rwanda and although it does not help to reduce the desire of hostility.

However, it's very much known that it was pregnant in our country and Malawi the same time, Minister Membe was quoted claiming that "Malawi will leave you to give him, after a report from Lilongwe town to indicate that the country was required to submit the issue of the dispute between the Lake Nyasa to become the international court for Miguel.

It's not that, "I will give birth, but a small one is believed that the fire is not available on fire but water and so that I have revealed in my article on the previous edition about words or noise which usually have more positive results.

In different times, ministers Membe and Sitta have been giving a surprise statement to "Landscrona" of the East African Cooperation, while Membe claimed that "we are waiting for divorce in East Africa," Sitta won with new thoughts of "the new community" between us and Burundi in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

And as the issue of "East African Community," it is in the area of performance of all two ministers, with Sitta was like a good opportunity to thank the local politics "said Membe showing his experience" to deal with the Korofi la Shree. "
