News of business and economy and social media to reduce today in addition the government signed two agreements with oil and gas companies, contracts that had been placed on the past and that sections of bringing productivity to the entrepreneurs of the concerned region have been treated.
Ministry of energy and minerals was signed with two agreements with your energy company, but he will work where the company will make oil and gas companies in Pangani District to be Tanga and different women together with what is needed is in Morogoro.
Speaking to journalists in the city where the minister of energy and minerals, William Ngeleja has said the signing of the contract is raising two major issues who seems to bring productivity among the community members who live in the research of oil and gas especially in matters of shares, but these issues are warned.
To the citizens who are on the mouth, that they are doing research for young people and oil.
It is impossible or is a good thing.
Maize is very similar to if there was a helicopter crash.
The best to continue the minerals will happen?
Where they love the neighborhood.
I have thought that I am me.
The punishment for 12 strokes and not people.
First of April but God.
Than where?
Or it is very fire, I'm in Morogoro.
In addition, there will be careful not to thank the minister Ngeleja, he has called on companies to produce working tools for the investment of those investment so as to bring him a lot of income to the champions and save the cost of importation of those equipment from outside the country.
On his part, the executive director of the program is not aware that the challenges facing them including the infrastructure for bringing gas to the lack of electricity is available and bringing a lot of ways that will bring gas in large numbers so that it can be able to meet the increase in electricity production so that other things that he has seen it reaches an increase in production of companies that come to look for oil and gas.
There and then the one who can try to reduce their cost we will look for.
To encourage I will come to come the cost I will come to return to him and we partner here with the age of P-Pesa.
This companies have several companies of using those companies.
So that he can't know their secret.
He reported that they have been looking for a very few cents.
