Opposition thank the parliamentary team.

June 3, 2016.

The decision by the members of parliament of the opposition camp in parliament to boycott the parliamentary sessions that is led by the deputy speaker, Doctor Tulia Ackson, claimed not to have faith that he has condemned CCM members.
While speaking to the Majira newspaper at different times, the members of parliament explained the reasons for the parliament leadership to continue paying the members of parliament of that camp without working in parliament instead they have been entering a contract to leave.
Minister for Constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, was forced to ask for guidance of the deputy speaker using 68 percent (7), he wanted to know the reasons for the members of parliament to be paid those allowances, while doing that is going against the constitution of the country.
He said article 26 of the constitution of the United Republic, says that every person has a responsibility to obey the constitution and article 2, everyone has the right to follow the procedure given by the law.
"This is how I am doing here, I request this guide because of the requirements of the law, I also care as the minister to ensure the country observes law of law by using article 23 (1).
Article article explains every person without the existence of discrimination of any kind, to get the income that is in place with his work, all the people who do work according to their ability, will get payments due to their ability, "he said.
Doctor Mwakyembe added that the action of the opposition members to enter the parliament, to sit for a short time, to leave and be paid those allowances without stopping.
And the member of parliament for Geita villages, Joseph Mulebya and asked for direction and claimed that the issue that they were given by Doctor Mwakyembe has ever tried to vie for parliament but the speaker has been giving answers after promising to confirm the answers but he does not do that until now.
He added that there is need for the issue to be taken to the Electoral Committee so that it can make decisions because the speaker was unable to make decisions instead of the parliamentarians to enter parliament, from but they still sign those allowances.
"It is very important to have the rules to control members of parliament who have been suspended from participating in parliamentary sessions so that nobody would recognize any activities in their regions including meetings so as to give a lesson to the parliamentarians who live in parliament," he said.
The day before yesterday, the member of parliament of Central Region, Alli Kamara, who asked for the guide claiming that the members of parliament of that camp have been entering the parliament, to sign him a matter that they need for the government, that act was not allowed.
As a result of those issues, Doctor Ackson, said that the issue of members of parliament who was suspended and continued to be paid for a low level and allowances will be presented to the committee on rights, ethics and power of parliament who had been able to see that punishment and use of article 75.
