
Vodacom launches her phone gallery (mobile phone 2016) in Kijitonyama Secondary School.
Various citizens have showed up this time at the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (phone Expo) that will be held in Kijitonyama Secondary School which is taking place today and tomorrow Sunday.
Vodacom Tanzania.
On the side of Vodacom, various customers have come out to utilize this services, do not have original products from Vodacom Tanzania with the highest speed of 4G as well as the real cost of affordable prices.
The mobile phone market that will take place in Kijitonyama Secondary School in Dar es Salaam city, will be held today Saturday and the day before yesterday, the entrance fee is free and different people are invited to the stalls.
On the side of the customer service of Vodacom Tanzania, those are thanking the citizens in general to get reliable phones including free mobile phones to customers who use different types of talk time and is found itself.
Speaking to this network, the head of mobile phone unit in that company, Miss Beatrice Singano Stephen has said that the Vodacom market to enable customers of the company to get information about the company's services including buying new phones that are required at an affordable cost from 18 thousand shillings, and there is an offer for customers to get free mobile phones.
When he arrived at the Vodacom Tanzania Telecommunications Company which has come at the at the end of the week where the last date of switching off fake phones is apparent and all our customers will visit the market and be able to get information about our services, "he said.
He said that in that open market, there will be various service providers who will deal with the mobile phone problems together with their services and will enable the customers to participate in that open market.

They have explained that the two-day operation is giving opportunities to citizens to get original phones and at affordable prices especially during this period of heading to the concerned authorities (TCRA), therefore they requested citizens to come out and get original phones and with low standards without fear.
