
Accidents of the transport agencies have a great ban on the 25th minute.

Events of criminal accidents like the occurrence of the Mv Victoria Spice were not affected by the Mv Mbaga ship it will reduce the faith of internal and foreign citizens in our transport agencies.

Economically the national income should open for instance, for instance, the tourists that need to come to our country can be forced to remove their plans due to bad reports of heavy rains and road accidents.

For what happened in Zanzibar it is a good thing to hear that the prime minister has resigned from and to get it there, others who are being involved directly and what happened to be taken against them and legal action will be taken against them.

For sure that accident and especially road accidents have been a disaster in our country.
According to the report that was released a few years ago, a phlebotomist from the University of Dar es Salaam popularly known as 89 percent of many accidents that involve passenger buses have arose from seven percent and other factors that are not supposed to be avoided.

This 17 percent shows that many transport agencies including the most buses we use here in Tanzania is a bomb that is not stable for the aim of transporting passengers.
We look at these 76 percent of human reasons that cause a lot of accidents here in Tanzania.

Research intern. It revealed that every year Tanzania is losing more than 20 billion shillings from different road accidents.

The sources of various research shows that more than 78 percent of the victims of the road accidents are passengers and pedestrians.

In knowing the statistics of starting from 2000 years, it shows more than 40 percent of those who go to the road accidents are passengers and more than 38 percent are pedestrians.

Those statistics from different sources show infections of road accidents which are dangerous and laziness of more than 6 percent, laziness of more than 6 percent, laziness of more than 6 percent and other things like it is not less than six percent of road accidents.

Therefore, more than 94 percent of road accidents are needed to be avoided by the community itself.

If you check the reasons for many road accidents in the country, you will find many being related to carelessness and not keenly.

The main reason for the first of alcohol addiction of the drivers and passengers at the same time when I live with one of the qualifications, it is a driver that I had not yet known as the whole of the whole community is supposed to make quick behavior of our drivers.

Other reasons is a high speed that is in line with the laws and the road accidents, we know that our drivers are supposed to inform them and they do not accept when they want.

We ask ourselves, what is the driver and drinking alcohol before the start of running, he can have its normal knowledge and its normal ability to withstand the speed of high speed?

These days will find the driver going to the speed of 150 kilometers for a period and then it is speaking with the phone and mobile phones are unsuitable for passengers and the driver of the passengers' vehicle.
The other buses will find the passengers and cargo at a high level is then to fail to pass on some of the bridges and caused a bad accident.

We look at the 30 laws of the year 1973 and its amendments to the year 1996, regarding how the vehicles are required to be close to the road, our problem is not a driver or the passengers studying in road laws.

The poor issue of vehicles in the country is one of the most accidents on the roads, there is my friend who had survived in the Kitonga area because the bus he had gone into the road by using a bad car, but we are supposed to realize those themselves.

There has been a lot of other reasons like people who abstain from the vehicles because the vehicles have but not drivers, to stop a small position among the vehicle and the vehicle, small experience in the road and more than all of the buses is a driver and especially the driver of the buses is supposed to put enough money.

Research shows that the driver is supposed to rest every after two hours of running a few hours and another research show is supposed to run a car between three to four hours.

But as such, the driver is not supposed to run more than four hours without putting on a driver, is supposed to get a good thing that is not fit, should be able to sleep a good place and a quality, and to be given good interests.

It's not possible, you don't know the driver, where you enable you to show the vehicle for the passengers you know if he went to sleep at nine o'clock at night or not to sleep completely.

He said that these accidents are taking the great job of our country and bad luck, some people that were taken by road accidents are very good leaders.

Together we should be able to take action against this and reduce the cost and cargo to the government and our family's cargo that could not be avoided.
