Who does not mean?
Sep 25, 2014.

The truth about our country and its future.
There are many youths who discuss the reputation of President Jakaya Kikwete but by bad luck, we have not discuss the reputation of the party that is supposed to take place in the next elections.

It is alleged that one tree does not make a forest that, the president is only if a person cannot do a miracle like him, with the policies and ideology of rescuing a citizen of the party that lack traditions and procedures that were implemented because they are facing lack, regulations and procedures of the concerned party.

I was a very small child when the field of Arusha was born and is in 1967 and I have lucky enough to be on the end of the stadium in Arusha, I have witnessed with a sober mind that I have witnessed in history of our country Tanzania (CCM) on February 5th, 1977.

February 5, 1997, I was one of the children that are participating in the field of Tanu Ilala, along the Uhuru road.
That road was defeated by people were many. There was a series of upcoming poets, dance with the choir group, Mzee Makongoro (now the late).
My brother, Gwagilo says there was also a series of attacks with their group, "Manyema," he went to Msufini Primary School, in Ilala district, there were faith in their leaders and faith in the nation, Tanaka or a small group of people from Tanu or a small group of people inside Tanaka.
The same way, CCM was born as a party of citizens, not the party of members of CCM or a small group of people inside CCM and in the year 1977 and even with your eyes, I have faith that with us who were in those days.
I was full of hope for our new party, CCM, Revolutionary Party, to the citizens of Tanzania, therefore, the Revolutionary Party.

Well, he noted that politics is a good thing and politics is a good thing and politics is the pillar that runs the country, there is a great importance of existence of faith in the citizens of the country, to politicians and their leaders.

Because, today the normal Tanzanian environment to participate in stages were made to be very difficult, with the reputation and skills of leadership that they cannot get a chance to participate in the leadership because they don't have money in the pockets or the people to cater for leadership.
It is as a result of the councilor's stand to move forward.
University.
Today, when a person announced that he has the intention to vie for the councilor seat, do not look for a member of parliament, there are those who want to look for him, he asked himself.
He has given a lot of millions of shillings to enable them to save his campaigns including venturing their campaigns.
It's not all who want to vie for political positions on these days to protect themselves from voters, but there are many who do so, but I believe it is possible for us to have a constitution that will give a lot of money, without being forced to use a lot of money, without being forced to use a lot of money, without being forced to use a lot of money, without being forced to use a lot of money, without being forced to use a lot of money.
Yes, we can agree with a constitution that will destroy the position of a small group of people having great strength to our country and even to reach a step of deciding to be a leader and who does not be able to purchase the leadership.
The future of our country is involving changes in the generation and the leadership of the country, that is why there is a great importance to see what they are in power now, in the environment of giving power to our country even after they leave the world.
It's not good to know, and it has good flavor, when some of them do not see their headlines, not for the interests of our colleagues, the family and our brothers, and our fellow leaders at that time, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and his colleagues were wrecking your news for our purpose.
