
A community that is if it is fed a thumb on top of 16.

After discussing the situation of issues they were given that there was a place where I would like to say that we have to recognize that we have already moved forward if we have already moved forward if the community, we managed to do and depend on foot.
If the child reaches a time he was a young man and then he was a whole person "and he did not stop depending on his father in many things.
He takes life of being independent and to do with his own issues.
The community does not slap because it has reached 23 years old, it doesn't know how it's on all days, but address the habit of taking a new chapter that goes with the professionalism that they got through.
"Your name is where I am possible to say that the concerned community is mature.
If it is unable to show the symptoms of sexually transmitted diseases and behavior, "a foolish thing" which still needs a tough father to launch a foolish thing, that community does not lie on a certain place in the process of improving.
If you reduce our community since we see Uhuru, we will recognize that on a certain amount, we started as children involved in other African countries together with some countries of Asia, South America, and even some of the European countries.
Our countries were by the father, sometimes when they are the truth.
Think about people like Sekou Toure's Guinea team and it is open to qualify for Malawi's stand, Jomo Kenyatta 'to carry out of Nkomola the player of Ghana, Kyoma, Pennsylvania, Zaire, and many others.
Among them would have been able to put in Julius Nyerere of Tanganyika / Tanzania, but I'll see the difference of dividing Nyerere and some of the people I was told.
The stall, Toure and Mobutu called for example, they were stars, but also they had violence made to the level of killing those who love them as enemies.
In their violence that they went into power in their will to remain in power, we should come out a person like that stand that those who died and some of her citizens as a leader that cared for a certain place in Malawi is not safe to sign him by seeing him.
The leader like Kenyatta was tough and he is cruel, and once he scored against his opponents, even those who helped him to get into power, as the name Nimlaumu Nani. I was surprised to be the leader of all Kenyans and became the leader of Fly 540 Kenya.
All these types of "leadership" were there in many countries in Africa and in the world.
He very happy that the person who was known as Luvanda, in China, another one was known as Marist from Argentina the other things were stars but everyone used to do a lot of things that are known, Tito Kasanga and others doing good things (Monbusho Scholarship).
We have been with the father, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who I helped me with his fellow colleagues in Africa, like women, Yaya Toure and their stand because the teacher was what is called "Jichunge.'
In the meaning of his administration, he was tough, he joins the opposition, and he scored against him 'without getting back to court, although he knew that it was a mistake.
He was a great country very fast, and took a step of building a Tanzanian economy to a level which since he was left to power, he sees again.
Right now, even what he used to strengthen those who had a good work of removing it, it's difficult for the guest of honor in the country here on these days believe that Tanzania has ever been able to have several clothes industries, agriculture and farming equipment, and so on.
In doing those work, the teacher made us like his children and he was creating a lot of time like the teachers she knows in class and he said that most of the people she saw like self-driven and taking them to court and beating them because she had not seen him because he had not seen him.
The constitution got a lot of power, as it has continued to give the president of Tanzania.
In his picture, the king of philosopher-philosopher Rene Meza he is involved with the importance of skills and professionalism, and he did a lot of work to make sure that we enable them to learn more days even though I see its success in America, which is more than the construction of these things he invested in a great extent in human resources.
As I said there, there are people that asked me to fear and fear about him against sexual abuse, embezzlement, corruption, corruption and so others told me what they tried to listen.
All these things about the founder of the Tanganyika Law Society (Tanzania) have seen the desire to sign Nyerere looking on the eyes of many people as a person who was on everything, together with the law and the constitution.
I have ever heard about the teacher in the 1990s by told that many people are saying that he is part of the country's constitution, but I believe that he is part of the country's part of the country, but I believe that it is part of the country is part of Teacher Haazu, or not to look for some time then debate continued.
In general, it is a picture of a teacher, who if there is a person in the country once worked with administration and integrity of an extent of getting close to the great shape, "the person who was to announce as a holy, but I understand what they are doing so.
However, we have clarified that we have been successful in the country, it has started in eternal peace, even if it is on a reduction as a result of our ignorance, we have no reason to do and depend on adults, we should leave a knee injury.
So as to do that we are supposed to leave several hazards, and one of the concept of "virgin" that we have no father, even apart from one person we were with and talked to us.
When we are required to focus on it is that, together with being left with our father, we are not orphans because there is no poor person just like this people should be able to supervise and encourage us, and we see another one another in our father.
When we are doing a sin of forgetting or accumulating the father, we do not put him in the danger of causing a system and when we go back to the father of the past, we are doing it to the father of the country without any reason.
When we continue to carry the thumb on the more so we refuses to grow, we are proud to see what we are proud of.
