I don't know what they are.
Again, borrow and has said, when you get out, they do not need them.
I have an entrepreneur to take advantage of this opportunity.
Earlier.
For it is benefits and we are a real think of those benefits.
The beauty is.
Listen to him is for teachers who have joined the fund due to the benefits that are given by the inflation rate in where P-Fi.
I visited you to love the pension fund when I was at home before you will go.
Now after different posts and I heard of the council, I found other bags.
From the fund you will do.
I asked the public to play in other bags, I told I said.
Absolom went to the pension fund of PPF to vote.
They told me no longer look for someone with a long time after a child.
That is when I started talking to be buried.
To discuss with the new person, I was forced to pay enough education about an affordable cost.
After that he asked me why you have written us because I'm talking to you, there is no bad behavior.
Because the benefits of science education will come.
And it is.
My wife too.
I know that education is Islam?
Therefore, then it was even if I was coming, after three years tomorrow we start the bank's fund.
My call can get education from how to see.
Yes, apart was managed to go very much and fear.
Our.
Also, it has also started a system to present contributions by using mobile phones so that the members can be able to present their contributions for the time one of the new members has used that system to be bump.
And our activities if you see you are fishing and there that we have passed since last year even if we see our website, there should be a great help to fishermen we have been helping us so that we can prevent us where more than two thousand fishermen have been taught.
We see today the very big changes to use, use the money to send our money to build afresh because we were not aware because we have not been given the desire to use our fish, but even when they get married, there will be a bomb that will be given by the workers under the mistake of getting married after getting to the goats.
BoT has been encouraged to see that how the government is starting to know and so that we can be able to save the user, but we don't have a lot of money for all networks but we don't want to end our money for all networks but also the end of the day and the end of the day and the end of the day and the end of the day.
My friend.
Some of the members and stakeholders are explaining how they are happy about the services of the fund here in the country.
