
18 December 2012

When we play with her, the leaders have been angered by severe pain.

By David.

The Minister of State, Office of the Vice President (environment), Doctor, while dancing with Huvisa, has emphasized to the Municipal Council of Dar es Salaam city and the environment of the environment for failing to put the city in a clean state and receiving a lot of money from the stakeholders of the environment in the world.
He urged the leaders to tell them that they have been unable to work so as to change the report of the Vice President Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal so that he can take more action.

Doctor Huvisa said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he launched the voluntary state of environment in the city and insisted that, he is surprised to see the country like Rwanda and Mozambique have been late to get his freedom behind Tanzania but they are doing well in cleaning of the environment.

"The country like Mozambique and Rwanda, have made great progress in the environment area, every leader that is currently in that area is working hard and fail to supervise the law where there are no leaders who have been given bonds, if you get this action," he said.

He said earlier, Doctor Bilal launched the cleaning campaign in all the regions of that town, but it is surprising that the only municipality of Ilala is what is doing well and others have been banned by severe pain.


"I commend the people of Ilala, you must make sure to supervise the issue.
Environment, the municipality of Temeke, Kinondoni is a shameful matter, the payment is seen to be done in vehicles of collecting rubbish but the environment is still ongoing, "said Doctor Huvisa.

He added that he has done a work tour at Kinondoni areas and given instructions but the state of dirty was established in that district together with Temeke.

He said that situation is shame in the country especially considering that, the city of Dar es Salaam's supposed to be clean at all time and an example to be played against other provinces in the country.

Speaking about that report, Doctor Huvisa said the life of community depends on the environment of environment where the environment is faced with a lot of challenges.

"There is a problem of many citizens moving to the city thus causing the increase in challenges of environmental destruction, people to increase so much about the effects of water and climate, the damage caused by water sources and infrastructure," he said.

He added that the challenges are required to go hand in hand with the effects that are brought by the changes in the country thus the keenness is needed in control so as to have sustainable development expenditure for sustainable development.

Doctor Huvisa said that in the ninth meeting, African ministers (AMCD), that took place in Kampala city, in Uganda of July this year, caused lack of information on environmental condition in the African continent as one of the reasons contributing in poor plans for development activities and implementation of the environment of the environment.
