
The concept of a union of artists and administration in the agricultural sector.
The parties such as the Chamakary music which was in the past, had a great strength to the extent of disrupting music and running the band 'band which is not true and it has reduced due to several times, there have been a report of not agree among them.
On the other side, the music party of the new generation that is not known as Tanzania Urban Music Association (Tina) was founded by some of the new artists of the new generation and they felt it was best to start a new party which was emerged with the name of Tanzania Movie Talents Competition (RTO) although there are now signs of joining with Tanzania.
On that basis, the speed of the creation of artists of artists in their profession together with the start of success by joining BASATA but after short time which were faced with the rule of artists in the art industry, but it was also a challenge to the leadership of BASATA in building a good administration system in this industry.
Apart from a series of parties for many years of artists, there are other challenges taken out to unite artists of four regions of arts, film, film and exhibition in order to build the level of administration from the national level up to many parties which were completed in Dar es Salaam only and fail to connect all artists in the country so as to build the rule of administration.
In addition, many parties which were allocated to unite business artists (profession) and try to understand the branches of the branches of the other areas that form the National Arts Council, for example, the technical and technical artists are not connected to the vocational training that are not from the art of those technical schools.
On that meaning, together with the creation of many artists of artists in their profession, still the rule of administration towards the national level was not complete and they emerged with the need to form the associations of artists at the national level and join together with the supervisors, laws and procedures of the arts industry.
In general, we will see that during the end of the open issue of the establishment of the examinations of four groups that were known as technical colleges, the party members are still having a stable foundation of wanting the associations of artists, party members and the ones that involve the associations of artists so as to have effective in building a good administration system.
A warning to artists' parties did not have good symptoms of artists and the arts sector itself, while the number of artists increased by many youths who have seen through this great efforts they are required to implement artists against challenges and various problems.
The only way that was required is to look for the way to fight for these parties so that to be successful but also threatens the behavior of artists to be in groups and parties instead of stopping one-one of the wave of art that takes a new chapter each of them.
Here is where BASATA started the system of artists themselves to register and educate themselves and more work to revive their parties so as to build a whole system of administration in the arts sector.
Big decisions that were taken by BASATA was to bring together all artists of all professions and to give them new ability to revive the parties and to build the administration system where now it was known as the associations of artists.
The process of the associations of artists started as part of bringing together artists to revive the party, all the artists that were expelled or have been stuttering, all the artists by building the union but build a stable bridge that connects artists and government or artists, and various regulations that are affected.
Now, what is the importance of the associations of artists in participating in art activities, what should be done to ensure these projects are standing to protect the interests of artists?
We should fully support in the next article on opinions and advice of email, BASATA @ mkito, a phone with phone number + 27700 and 496 Shillings and 890,536 billion shillings.
