
We are in a picture of President Zuma of May 30th, 2012

We have witnessed many times not being touched in mind the art of art, together with the artists themselves as cartoon artist, color, and otherwise it should be taken as part of entertainment and an opportunity to enjoy, or to do the exercise.

It is true that, together with the fact that, these art activities usually have a great importance, more than entertain, most of us know that we are not aware that we are not wrong, warned that we are not aware that we are not aware of the behavior.

To prove that another responsibility of the art work is recognized but we are trying to appreciate your eyes, we have seen how artists get married after died or died (example, Steven Kanumba) or leave the art of art.

We have also witnessed several times people when they come up about the art when you follow.
For instance, I have ever heard the people saying "here is saying what is unacceptable, and it is very disturbing, and it is a big lesson for people, a leader or a party or if they could have changed."

Recently, a few months after the general elections of the year 2005, how many journalists from Tanzania are annoyed by the cartoon artist which fell in Kenya's Daily News newspaper, Godfrey Mwageni has said that they are working with president!

On these logic, then the art work is not for presuming it has been important for the construction of the community and the nation, but sometimes the source of art is needed to be the source of the disease.

It's recently, for approximately three months up to now, one art has put the nation of South Africa in eternal peace that can be a lesson on us, in Africa and the world as a whole.
This mosquito started in a short chapter, later they have been involved in a political picture and about the freedom of the referendum as the constitution, and finally they come to the end of racial discrimination.

Conflict, wisely, it came after a big number of Bambucha Mapinduzi which is in a big picture of President Jacob Zuma, was showing his secret part, as one of the art at the art exhibition, Goodman Gogo, in Johannesburg city.

After that picture, they have been buried on the first time in the exhibition, he invented the hundreds of people who were canceled long to get into the exhibition's goal so as to get a chance to see it.

If a sign that the art had been true, after it was taken by competition to market competition so as to get a fine of buying, two-wife and the husband of Germany arrived at the fight to buy for South African money for 124 million, equivalent to approximately 30 million Tanzanian shillings.

After the media asked the public about this picture, a lot of violence has risen up where there are two major sides, one claiming that the artist has used his first rights as outlined in the 16th article of the Constitution of this country that gives the opinion polls to be avoided.

Few days later, President Zuma, together with the party that deals with the government in the country, was forced to announce his intention to go to court against those pictures, the argument being that this picture it has identified himself as usual.

Zuma of his defending claims that the picture is given to the exhibition and gave a ban on the exhibition and gave a ban on the shows that caused many cases on the website of City Press Club, another argument that has caused the feelings of a black person of age.

This issue of most of the age of age, that is because a person who lost this picture is a black person (CMSA), the defending of this argument claims that a black person gets pregnant, "it is a historical attack against black descent."

These allegations were brought in front of the first court last week and the case's start on Thursday of this week and even so, he made him that in addition to his picture, it is the colonial attack against age of age.

As a continuation of non-ray machine that is accompanied by a group photo with Navy Kenzo Group when the lawyer Malindi continues to give his motion in court, he found himself being buried and he found the judge in postponed the case for a period of several hours.

However, the judges have said it is difficult to reduce that photo being shown because that order can not be strength because the many areas in the world had already seen, especially the internet.

At the time it is going on in court, two days before two hundred and one young person estimated to be 15 years old and sometimes the whole one man, who later was known as Professor entered into the exhibition and destruction of that picture by taking a point where these people were arrested and taken to the police.

During the case about that picture (which now has been destroyed), it's expected to be announced again in the next few days, there are several issues, do not look into this picture, which is our lesson and to others.

First, the issue of freedom of opinion, which is different from the constitution of Tanzania which he does not recognize him about this freedom for example, especially the murder of the opinion depends on, and therefore the court is being unable to give a decision about this.

When we are heading to the opinion about the new constitution, there is a challenge about what is in the section about freedom of views regarding the needs of the needs.
Our great responsibility now is what we hope for more than one-inch width will be able to find justice to this section.

Another issue is that discrimination of color and even tribalism are continuing to chew our country. Today you will discuss the picture of Zuma of Indian Ocean, media houses, leaders and other ways of good upbringing if we are not supposed to be responsible.

But also, it is clear that the conflict about the correct way of "culture and our culture" against our culture is going on.
