
The board of loans to place money for funds.

It has been written by Stella Manyanya.

It has been reported, 03 / 2016, the Higher Education Student Loans Board (HESLB) has said that all those who had requested for loan this year and meet the criteria they will be given.

The Executive Director of HESLB, Abdul Razaq Badru said that the day before yesterday in the city during the occasion to hand over certificates to five people who were given you a loan of higher education by voluntary contribution to voluntary.
Badru said that the number of requested for the loan this year is 827 students, which the board will ensure all those who attended the criteria are getting money for higher education.
That director who has urged them who benefited from the loans to pay their debts, he said last year, the students who were shown is 400 shillings.
About those who were given certificates, being a step to recognize that, include the employee of VETA in Shinyanga, Richard Juffali, who received a check for 17,950 shillings by Francis Mwillo, Kilolo District Council did not pay 1200 shillings.
Others are the member of parliament for the region, Japhet Hasheem Mkomagu led a total of 25000 shillings as Professor Peter Chami, who is the deputy deputy secretary of the University of Dodoma (UDOM), while dancing with 1,470,00 shillings.
Another one is the member of parliament for Biharamulo, Oscar Assenga, who at what was not mentioned even though the Executive Director of HESLB, said that she has referred to a big amount for the sun.
While speaking at different times, those stakeholders emphasized the importance of the beneficiaries of loans to return to power so as to enable that board to lend other students.
Biharamulo member of parliament, congratulated the board to look at the possibility of improving the criteria for the aim of enabling students to participate in areas of the periphery, to benefit from the education loans. On his side, the member of parliament of parliament, Hasanoo has emphasized that parliamentarians who are alleged to return to the loan easily.
