
Kenya has given 8750,000 shillings to help countries with Ebola.
By Bashir Yakub.
The government of Kenya yesterday gave donations of 87 million shillings to Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia.
While announcing the step of generosity yesterday at the Nairobi State House, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the sponsorship is according to the foreign policies of Kenya and part of showing the African Union.
"To stand together with our brothers from Africa during the short time is part of our foreign policies," said President Kenyatta to be a message to the media houses.
President Kenyatta insisted that Kenya will continue to join the international community to ensure that Ebola have been tested in Africa.
However, President Kenyatta said that the government has set aside a lot of strategies to ensure that Kenyans have been unable to ensure that Kenyans have been unable to cause Ebola.
This is not the first time for Kenya to give financial donations to different nations that were affected by a lot of money since the release of President Kenyatta, Mwaura Kibacha gave several donations when it continues to rule.
On the year 2011, the government of Kenya gave 82 million to help victims in Japan.
In September 2010, retired President Kibacha gave 100 tons of food to help 14 million victims of Pakse Airport that caused deaths of 1600 people.
That donation which was rice, breast cancer and meat was brought by various government departments.
Elsewhere, a student of treatment was built in a special room for fear that he had Ebola.
According to the news media of Russia and one newspaper of inside here in the country, Beatrice Singano Mallya who is 21 years old was set aside after having a high level of climate in the body.
"He had an ancient attack, 3710, a level that was very high compared to his colleagues from Africa when they were able to take health inspection from the Tegeta Thermal Power Station in South Africa," the news spoken.
Furthermore, that student was allowed to go home after he was seen by Ebola.
