
Nandy, the leaders of bribery.
Sei 29, 2016.

Some of the workers of the Moshi Cooperative University (NRF), and the department of land have been mentioned to lead in actions of asking and receiving bribes from the citizens in Mwanza province, the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDOM) has confirmed.

The deputy head of Mwanza Province, Richard Balina, has clarified on his talks with Raia Mwema, here the day before yesterday on Monday that Namkoveka said that the land department led in the complaints of bribery that was reported by the citizens in this province between January and September this year.

According to Balton, Namkoveka said that the land department every one is facing seven complaints were followed by the administration department with six complaints, education (five), health and construction (TANROADS) and construction (Tanroads) each one faced with three complaints.

Bribery in Nthepheya.

On the side of Nariadhara, many complaints have benefited from the servants that are accused of selling various property in the environment of bribery and protect the economy and development of the district.

For now leaders are destruction of Nicrox, they are continuing to be interviewed one after another, while the police force in this province was forced to sue them to some of them who are trying to maintain corruption against the property of that party.

The senior leaders of Namkoveka said that the efforts to be held for some time in the police force recently have been mentioned as the minister's officer, Sospeter Ndeki and the Majengo officer, Stephen Emmanuel.

The committee that led by the head of the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (GGM) in Mwanza Province, Engineer Ernest Makaka while other delegates of that committee are several officers from the State House, National Security, Police, and office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).

That committee was created a few days after the General Manager of NHO, Richard Somba, the Chairperson of the board of that party, Zeno Nkoswe and his delegates being stopped by the office of the registrar of cooperatives on July 15th this year to pave way for investigation.

It was explained that the punishment resulting from the absence of an agreement between the management and the NHO board (1984), the poor management of money and a unsatisfactory performance of the party's activities, the accusations that the leaders are unable.

Ndonga and Emmanuel is among the current workers and former officials of that district who were called and interviewed by the committee that was formed as a result of President Doctor John Magufuli through the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba.

Our citizens has also been told that business people that are accused of involvement in the purchase of political property, especially buildings and fields in a unpleasant environment that have been called and questioned by the commission at different times.
Even among those business people, there are some who tried to show a habit of refusing to provide a partnership with the commission but after being held by being satisfied and said the truth of issues, "said our news source.

In his talks with Good Citizen recently, the Acting General Manager of NHO, Juma Mshilili in that Juma, has admitted he and his fellow workers being interviewed by that commission for investigation.
"I am with my fellow workers of Nicrox, we have already been questioned by that commission, and not being questioned, but even putting it inside if it seems to be a bit of releasing reports," he said.

Mwanza Provincial Commissioner, Engineer Makale, told Citizen newspaper that investigations conducted by the commission continues well and promised to give a full report after the work is completed.

"Investigation is going on well and when you're fighting with them, the investigation is why I'll see you (journalists) and to give an official report," insisted Engineer Makaka.

Bribery in land.

On the side of the department of land, many complaints have succeeded in testing and selling of plots, provision of buildings including construction permits, whereby some of the workers are alleged to allow the haphazard use of buildings as well as the lives of people.

Other departments that are following up about its workers being involved in bribery actions in Mwanza province is the Court of Police and Health, all of them being under the local government and regional administration (Tamisemi).

But also in Mwanza province has got any complaint from bribery from the fishing department, resources, insurance, capital, politics and business in the period of nine months ago.

More information say that acts of asking and receiving bribes from citizens have been made by the high level servants in the district councils, municipal and Mwanza City.

Those actions, according to Balton, due to the violation of the ethics of the public servants who have been giving up of getting wealth and wealth through the type of drinking and illegal.

About the complaints that some of the police officers in this province have been involved in acts of asking and receiving bribes from the citizens, Balhas said that their office has not received complaints of that kind in the period.

However, Balhas said that in that period, their office has managed to take them to court more than the half a half that was reported about the servants of different classes that are accused of being involved in bribery, while several others have been suspended.

Furthermore, the deputy head of Mwanza Province has said that their office is continuing with implementing duties of inspection, making research, to take a case in court and educate the citizens and the servants about the effects of bribery in the community.

I will end.
