Katanga.
Thank you thank I thank God of Abraham.
If you're the right to follow you shortly.
John.
I was coming and contributed in all games.
Where there is a conflict that he started.
When you go to press you're not present even so.
After coming, but netball I think to be called priority, I request.
If there is a possibility of going back to netball team.
I will cross the past.
In the games.
If you go to Grind.
I was called Emmanuel.
It is called by the secretary of the soccer team.
It will continue contributing to Laizer.
I would like to support him and we were in front.
In abusive language they were given a certificate to participate in the transfer of the reason and in the past years for one minutes.
Government is one of your success through the public organizations and the public health, that was making us to see that you get better because they will make us get inside, but I've heard that the athletes are doing so that we can get the opportunity to participate in the games looking at each other.
When I get a life I see if I was doing it is saying what he is doing then he is doing if you are going to reduce the model who are going on in the country but we are going to look for those who are going on in the bonanza when I am going on in the bonanza when I am going on in the bonanza if you are going on.
If you look at athletes but for the reason you thank you, maybe it is a company, I requested him to tell him that there is a chance for sports you're getting in, but the child to make sure that they get good players and they can be true that we get players who do.
First it had been abducted.
It is you?
We would like to be.
Thank you, I was called to welcome Mister and it is the teachers we do not wait for my friend.
And I would like to inform you with the father of the sun, this year will take it to the African Community or I don't have any time that you like, has prepared himself.
To return it gets rights on my part, I think for the preparations now has prepared himself to this picture because there are some children who are not well here in school, there are these opportunities available here in school, there are this opportunity to teach in that school even to look for their marriages.
People of Olympic Milk.
They are looking for us that he desires to do everything done in the villages, but we cannot get involved in the villages there are people who also meet, we also begin all of them, we will also teach us all, we are supporting our party.
I urge you to give him that for enough preparations to our last teams I would like to help them and return to our community or in the community we request that I'll continue to participate in different international competitions like the community we want to participate in different games of the community like the community we want to participate in different games that we come from.
