The elders who will prevent the floods, Lowassa decided to sell the nation?
Sei, 10, 2015.

There is a saying that, where the elderly did not be infected with the word "said this saying I was very happy about issues that can affect the youth or many people who maybe they don't have a lot of things to resolve the issue that is seen without advice and wisdom of the elderly then it is headed to.
I believe this saying that it will be true in the general elections this year, especially after the groups of youths being seen without asking questions, thinking or even asking questions that they have already contributed to the presidency and eventually causing a chance to remove CCM from power and now.
It is true that our nation needs great changes and my readers can be able to remember well that I have written this time in this years of political awareness in the country, these changes are forced to inform you, but our youths who have never done all this time because they are now.
And that depends on it is that youths - others are poor people, (of the class or otherwise), there are no reason why we want CCM to see him, "there are no reason why we want CCM to change, then you can't understand what they are ready to do a dangerous decision.
There is a reason why for example, lorry drivers are required to be given time to rest especially if they have a difficult decision to see Lowassa because they are supposed to do a difficult decision without knowing if they are supposed to do a difficult decision without knowing two times if they deserve even to do that decision.
We expect these people who were cast in this fifty years today seems to have got the only position of removing CCM and therefore they don't have reached where most of them don't have heard, "others do not come up so that they do not talk with them.
And here when I see that - I see citizens not to be heard on October 25, Lowassa fell hard and we shouldn't understand the nation due to our fellow elders they can stay tuned and see why our nation will happen ten years later.
The elderly and children are the ones that are being affected by big changes or conflicts which will not be touched and therefore it's for their interests, (the elderly) and children or our colleagues in order to bring change "a good way to prevent changes being supervised by the feelings of the youths that supports.
