Citizens have a right to sign conflicts with strength.
January 17, 2013.

Several events of citizens who use his defense against the police force in Kagera province, where that force has already caused four police deaths, two police have been killed in Ngara district and two others killed in Karagwe district.

In all two events, police have been reported after failing to use fire attacks against the citizens who are trying to defend their property in their homes.

In this environment of every person, or every person with its neighborhood has to use them to protect themselves against the attackers, what happens it is that many police will continue being killed by the citizens who have already got a awareness of using illegal immigrants against them.

I have reasons for the basis of using this article because this article is because of being able to save the police and other deaths, Kagera and elsewhere here in Tanzania. I will explain those reasons by using what I saw in Kenya.

In the year 2001, I went to Kenya to visit my friend, Joseph M. Nyambo 'to teach them a lesson that they use in class (not pictured) with the source of words of human rights and laws, "said the truth of the law of human rights and laws," said the truth of every person to use them to protect themselves.

Some of the areas, Nyanga wrote on any explanation about the name of the Lord 'does not give any details about the view that issue of destruction that surrounds the farm, dangerous and speed up to someone who was attacked if the person has been attacked if the person has been attacked if the person has been attacked if the person has been attacked if the person has been attacked if the person attacked them.
All of them is continuing to write, "there is no reason that would be given by a person who will be done by a person who has reached here, it's legal action that does not lie or be paid according to the size of the risk that was caused by" (Nyage).
Then later, I'll give a directive about the controversy that would be able to come out about this stand, "we can affect the thoughts that someone who used to protect themselves against corruption, he will not make sure that he can cause death," said Nyamiyaga.
Finally, Nyenshile, I commend, "talk about this environment, you can be sure that in reality and there are sure that we have taken place here but the criminal offenses will benefit because someone will benefit us against sexual abuse and law" (Nyereregete, 2001, 2001.
These views are supported by the famous lawyers here in the country including Professor Issa Shivji, Professor Maquei Lueth, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Professor Palamagamba Kabudi, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, and law of Tanzania in general.

According to the law of Tanzania, section of the concerned law is article 18 of the criminal Investigation of Tanzania as it reaches the year 2002, but many times it is known as the regulations of the year 2004 (Tanzania Electric Supply Company). This section of our law has said three things in the reader of this article.
