
Ummy is important that are available in plenty.

It has been written by Ally Daud Lweno.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

The government has said that important drugs for human beings are available in large numbers to the Supreme Court of drugs, (MSD) for 24 hours including malaria drugs, maize flour, gray of HIV, drugs and even so as to fulfill and implement the policy of the fifth term government.

That has been said by the minister for health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu during his meeting with journalists that took place in Dar es Salaam yesterday so as to talk about the state of availability of medicine and vaccination in the country.
"All the important medicines for human beings are available at the main medical camp for 24 hours contrary to people and non-governmental institutions to distribute words that MSD has shown drugs, an act that is not true, there is not true that drugs are needed to be distributed to all health centers," said Ummy.
In addition, Ummy said in order to implement the plan of health policy of the fifth term, a total of 251 billion has been built to ensure human drugs are available every time when they come from MSD so as to provide better services from MSD.
He added that the government has set aside 85 billion for the purpose of paying the debt claimed to have MSD so as to ensure that the attack has done well and not lack medicine as required at the health centers and provide medical services for the appropriate time.
Apart from that, the minister said that the vaccination problem at the moment has been given solutions, because they have managed to receive 40 million children who are only two million shillings, the vaccination exercise will make it a 2 million Euros as the vaccination exercise in the country.
We had the vaccination problem like four weeks ago, but we have succeeded and we have been able to bring all important vaccination services in the country, "explained and added that they need to buy and make production of medicine in domestic industries so as to contribute to the economy of internal industries so as to contribute to the economic economy.
In addition, he urged the directors of health centers together with the coordinators of the District Health Insurance Fund earlier without waiting to them in their stations to eliminate disruptions to patients.
