It is wrong the freedom of thoughts, economy.
May 6th, 2013.

The current generation program for journalists in Africa has a challenge of leading the fight against slavery in the economic and economic growth in order to make the African Continent to make them feel their dreams of having a full freedom that was started by the freedom of his Uhuru.
The deputy head of the St Augustine University (AfDB), Doctor Charles Kitoro has said that the liberation of us intellectually and the economic cannot be found without having journalists keenly and not the truth.
He was speaking during the 50 year commemorations of that university that took place at the end of last week when the celebrations were opened in hand with the celebrations of the Uhuru International Day.
He said in the liberation movement of African continent of sixty years of age, the Bishop of Mwanza at that time, Joseph Blacks, has decided to support those efforts by starting a new college in Nyegezi district and South Africa so as to sign the liberation movement of the African Continent.
"Nmrod Mkono was started in 1997 and started offering media profession to countries that are talking to English so that those journalists use their wives to support the liberation movement of Uhuru of this continent that it doesn't be found without having patriotic journalists to defend the rights of the ordinary citizens," said Doctor Kitoro.
He said that in Africa, Tanzania including the presence of political freedom, but the liberation of economic growth has not yet been found, and wanted the journalists in Africa to fulfill their responsibility to lead the African Continent to end.

It is the news reporters to be keen with the ones that can deal with the colonial era of liberal statistics to change the thoughts of citizens so that they can have positive thoughts and not not to stop using their resources and they go back to them.

"We are complaining about corruption and corruption problems in the country, but the fight against corruption you cannot defend if you are not journalists and the patriotic media that will be on the front line to run the fight against corruption," he said.

I have been used as an important institution for the media profession to youths of East Africa, Central Africa and South Africa during a period in which Tanzania was the headquarters of the Electoral Commission for the African Union (AU).

If he knows the message of the expert who was requested by Bishop Sedrick Ndonde of Holland has been selected to attend that university but he was unable to attend because of the big age, Doctor Kitoro said his message is urging the youths to consider the reasons for the establishment of the university.

"The expert from the expert who was requested to manage this college and father Bishop Blacks, says," we have heard about what I was started because of the liberation of Africa, the need is still good, "said Kitila was quoted Peter.

Elias Makaka a veteran journalist from Kenya who was the guest of honor at the commemoration, said African Union is still dominated by us and he insisted that it is the right time to decide to manage our issues giving an example of how African countries succeeded to intervene in the general elections of Kenya last year.

"During the elections there was a conspiracy for the western countries to intervene in our elections, African countries until step threatened to boycott the United States, but after elections among the first ambassadors going to the State House to break the president," said Makau who is also among the students that studied in that university.

Speaking about the freedom of journalists he said that any freedom that is accompanied with the responsibility of journalists are not supposed to write because of writing the freedom in use, it can bring great disaster to citizens as Kenya has already witnessed in the general elections of the year 2007.

To fly or write every thing that happened without checking the results of that news for the interests of the nation, but this journey we were keenly, we were looking at the results of every news that we have done in violence, "he said.

He said the strategy were using it is not giving the opportunity to few people who were seen not to have good intentions and solidarity of that nation, there are people who were able to make sure that the country is successful in violence but they stopped them.
