
Female children do not know if they get pregnant?

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The minister for health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu has expressed fears due to the cause of early marriages and said the government will put strategies to fight with because of affecting girls living from 14 years to 17, many are in danger of getting HIV virus.

He said that yesterday in Dodoma town when he is holding training for the supervisors and regulations of research of the HIV virus in Tanzania of the year 2016, that was done at the Benjamin Mkapa Hospital that is in the University of Dodoma (UDOM).
He has said that the government will come up with the strategy to protect the lives of female children, which have been affected by early marriages so as to achieve the efforts of the government in fighting poverty.
"A big sign that my ministry is in putting strategies to fight with it is early marriages," said Minister Ummy.
He has said the statistics of the year 2012 show that the quarter of all girls who depend on 14 and 17 years, already they had not received at least once he mentioned the leading in the problem that is Rukwa by 24- 5 percent and Katavi with 276 percent.
"We know the problem of early marriages including the possibility of HIV infection and other health problems," he said and added.
"If I want to speak to girls there are no development, they will get pregnant women to remain in the neighborhoods if they will be able to be employed or be self-employed and they don't be able to get their children."
He has said the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) for another time is making research on the indicators of AIDS virus and the research of this year will involve all people from small children to the age of 50 years and continue, while three resolutions have been facing citizens of the age of 15 and 49 years.
He has said that different from the previous results, the research of this year is of its own kind because for the first time involves citizens of all age in the households that were selected.
He also said that it is also the first research to collect information concerning the HIV virus and AIDS (HIV) to the amount of HIV or HIV or the level of HIV infection to people of all age, in large numbers of the body's immunity in the body.
He has said that in the past research, the amount of VVU is seen to have reduced from seven percent in the year 2003 to 57th percent in the year 2011.
The Executive Director of NBS, Doctor Albina Chuwa said that the research is of its kind to be done in the country although you've heard that there is like that one.
He said that money collected in every household is secret and there is no boundaries for any person to provide a secret of any person until when it was done to the analysis and give a total of a total of HIV infection in the country.
The executive director of the Tanzania Commission for AIDS, Leonard Maboko said the correct collection of statistics can help the nation to know the number of victims and in which way.
