SIDO has called during the exhibition of entrepreneurs.

The 29th September 2016

Entrepreneurs in the country have been advised to come out in large numbers at different exhibition organized by the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (SIDO) to enable them to announce their products and learn how to improve the value of products that they make.
The executive director of SIDO, Engineer Felchesmi Mramba, has said the exhibition of business for entrepreneurs has a great importance since it gives a unique opportunity to learn and also look for products of products.
"The regional exhibition organized by SIDO have been forced together with many entrepreneurs, including those who come from the neighboring countries, which comes with different products, showed and informing them in the exhibition," Professor Shivji said.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, about the exhibition of the Southern Region, which is expected to be opened tomorrow in Mbeya City and ended on October 4th, Professor Baregu said the entrepreneurs will take advantage of the opportunities to improve their products.
"More than 200 business people have confirmed to participate in the exhibition," he said and added that SIDO in collaboration with other stakeholders has been unable to ensure that products that make small and small entrepreneurs have increased.
The necessary so as to compete.
Professor Makame Mbarawa said different products of skin diseases and hands will be present at the exhibition and also entrepreneurs from Kenya will participate.
This is an amount of 98 shillings as SIDO, is giving a great priority, because they get more than 90 million opportunities to learn how to do business including getting markets, loans and also how to improve their products, "he insisted.
He mentioned some of the financial institutions like the CRDB Bank, NMB, Diamond Trust, that they will participate in the southern region exhibition which was made up by Mbeya, Songwe, Rukwa, Iringa and Njombe.
"Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drug Authority (SUMATRA) together with the Business Authority of the country (Tan-Trade) will participate in the important exhibition," Professor Shivji said.
Professor Shivji has called on entrepreneurs from other provinces in the neighboring regions to come out and take advantage of the opportunities of the unique show.
"I would like to thank the big awareness of entrepreneurs and students that make high level products," he said and added that time has come for Tanzanians to buy and be able to stop products that are made in the country.
