
Those criminals have lost their colleagues.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published today September 2016.

Three people who are believed to be criminals of illegal weapons involved in various criminal events in the province of Dar es Salaam, have been killed by their colleagues in Zongomela area, Mkuranga District, Coast Province.

Despite the killing of those criminals, the police force in the special region of Dar es Salaam, has been successful and arrested more than seven people who are believed to have been involved in an ancient attack by the police, that caused the death of one police.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the police commissioner of special region Simon Sirro said that before the killing of those suspects were arrested in different areas of Mbagala, Keko, and Kawe, in the city.
He said that those people were arrested following an incident of robbery, which occurred in August 29 this year, at the Sophia House area, the Vogue Bexhill, where those robbers were alleged to attain 35 million shillings and lost its disappearance of the type Techno Phantom 5 and PK.
He added that the investigation of that incident, continued to take place on September 3, the investigation team from the special region of Dar es Salaam has reduced and succeeded to arrest three robbers who were interviewed they confessed to make various events of robbery in order to mention various weapons they are facing.
Commander Sirro said that those criminals have took the police in Mbezi Ward on the houses that they were affected by the police held and succeeded to get different weapons, including 23 gun and more than 800 houses and other things.
He mentioned those weapons to be three Israeli soldiers, of SMG type with 120 wagons, 916 points, approximately 130 bullets and 2 bullets with a three gun shot and 130 bullets with a three gun shot and 130 bullets.
In addition, he said that they found the 12 communication radio and his three awards, while having the eyes of looking for three computers, one acre of cement, one acre of flour, one acre of gun and two vehicles, one machine for diabetes and two vehicles.
He said that the investigation revealed that the robbers from September 6 this year joined the gun a model for a total of 1,06730, being shot in Mbozi road in Chang'ombe.
Sambayamoto, said that those criminals confessed to be involved in the theft of millions of cash in Kariakoo African Bank in the year 2014 and Stanbic Bank in the year 2014 and Stanbic Bank in the year 2014, using a type Techno Phantom 6Plus in the year 2014.
Commander Sirro said that after the interview, those criminals said they are already the other weapons that have been affected by Mkuranga District in the Coastal Region.
Where the police were accompanied by those suspects up to the forest.
He said that when the police arrived at the area, they claimed it is close to where those weapons went to the vehicle and entered into the vehicle and entered into the vehicle at night.
He added that they were in the country with police with great joy, suddenly he went to a series of attacks from front, where the police got down and later they were heard, "you have forgotten the people."
He said that after the two consecutive days ago, police witnessed those criminals who failed to sleep below while being shot dead in the chest and the unborn child.
He said a soldier displaying the area that was shot dead and when they continued to move forward, they found a bomb attack being attacked and it was not shot in Magazine, so as to make the number of weapons to reach four.
Moreover, he said soldiers killed those criminals and taking them to the vehicle heading to the hospital but all of them died on the way from a result of a lot of blood while talking about the incident that caused the death of one police.
"Those criminals were a group of like 14 people and already we have arrested more than seven people who until now we are holding more interview so as to make the investigation," said Commander Sirro.
He also said that there have been different reports that are spread in the media outlets claiming that in the scene of the area, there is a soldier involved with the incident and claimed that those reports are not true and there is no one who was involved in that incident.
In another event, the army has been able to arrest four suspects with mistakes of theft of those vehicles, including one of the embassy, commander Sirro said that the vehicles were stolen in Dar es Salaam city and sold to different people in the city and provinces and all suspects are continuing to be interviewed and once the investigation will be taken to court to answer the allegations they are facing.
Sirro said that in another event, the army has been able to arrest six suspects who are alleged to be involved in breaking houses on night and stealing their suspects, said all suspects are still being questioned and once the investigation will be taken to court to answer the allegations they are facing.
