What's the silence of many about the union of Tanzania?
December 11, 2014.

My end of the previous week asked distribution of drugs being done by the commission on constitutional changes and politicians that more than 60 percent of the citizens, Mainland and in Zanzibar want the Tanganyika government to be through a union of the contract or the union with three governments.
That article caused a stern warning made by the commission by using data to enable us to know our citizens that the three governments are the views of the commission to show that that's called 60 percent, which is 60 percent of 45 million.
Likewise, it's not 60 percent of gave the views in the commission, whose number is 33,537 shillings and not 60 percent of those who met the union, whose number is 75 million shillings and among them 46000 Tanzania shillings.
If I have noted that 2,070 people are only 36 percent of the opinion polls, those who talked to the union. Among them 23,537 people gave opinions in the commission of Warioba and not the right to use that number to legalize the number to legalize.
Therefore, the question of asking, it is true that the structure of the union is the biggest nuisances for our citizens, Mainland and in the islands, as they get about 27,937 (2) of all their views), because of their silence, they did not understand?
My today's article will follow up in a voice that comes from the silence of our citizens on the union, a voice that the commission of Judge Warioba has decided to resolve it and remove the views of a few.
On my view, the silence of the voice about the union has a big margin in the union, it is that many people in Tanzania Mainland and in the Islands, have no problem with the presence of a union in its current structure, "poison that has not been done in the hearts of our ordinary citizens, and therefore it has not done enough amount.
Secondly, in giving opinions, it is seen that many citizens who came out to speak, "problems" concerning their daily lives, lack of primary and safe water, food, health services, better education and others of the type.
Despite the shortage of services or needs, when they are determined, it is determined like products, and products that its price rises every day.
However, politicians and those who call the activists, on their big technical, have never used to capture the debate and even give direction to the citizens about what to say in front of the commission.

And with a lot of criminal offenses, we have continued to prove to some of the citizens that "the problems of their daily lives will be resolved since CUF to enter into power so that CUF will lead to power so that CUF can be very difficult, in this article of life of life is witnessed by Ahmed Rajab, in his article to our citizens, something that was witnessed by Ahmed Rajab, in his article on Monday, February 13, 2013.
So, most of you want that finally Zanzibar was heading to Zanzibar, according to other development, they feel that at least they get reliable and stable infrastructure as well as making sustainable economy.
