
Obama has a secret of winning 15 people in 2012.

In life, there are people not to fail and the easy way to avoid failing, are unbeaten.

All days, the good winner is the one who lost the time of Barack Obama, is an example of a good winner in his life, Obama has failed often.
For sure, it's not many to know that Barack Obama is an example of politicians who failed in many times, but we did not give up if there are several factors to fail to Obama in his best way, the American can win the presidency of America.
And now Barack Obama has won two times on vying for that award as the second time has a great meaning to Obama's meaning, he had lost the time, Barack Obama had been able to play for that award.
I have read several articles with explaining the way of Obama's way to win the very high award as one of Obama's group in the way, if you will be a scholar and a scholar and a scholar and a scholar and a scholar from the University of Chicago, Mzee Rusimbi, and what happened to a very few votes.
Obama is not an entrepreneur in the debate.
He spoke about a scholar, and his public did not understand the time Mzee Rusimbi was an old man of politics and he spoke about the language of people and put him so much on the platform where Obama used to give his opinion after baptism is like to get political education! "

There's when Obama started to learn more on the basis of failing, to stand and continue to fight and eventually win, and further, to learn from being unable to go well, all days, at the competition there is win and failed.
Wisdom is to start by winning and or to fail.

All days, there is a good victory and bad luck and because there is failing to send himself and remove those acts, they showed up with their actions, I was outside the Diamond Jubilee Hall in 1985 when our Mzee Ali Hassan Mwinyi was giving a speech of giving thanks to the presidency and inherit the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.

I remember this statement, "we love you, as you as compared to Mwalimu Nyerere, then it is same as compared to Mount Kilimanjaro and the anthill is a statement from a noble person, humble when there is a statement from a great person, humble when there is no wonder.

Our colleagues, in their story, comes to war, one of the things that were forced to death is possible, it is an act of buying his opponent, a good winner is humble when there is a good winner and he does not want many times!

Mshamba, is the one who believes that in competition there is a win and failing to improve and thank his opponent who plays in the program.

It is a very disturbing who is ready to learn from the winner.

Mitawi will be an example of a good Samaritans just when it's not only of the phone and asked him to thank him for his victory, but he also wrote them in public to accept the results and congratulated Obama and his family to win.

Lusillile so as to cooperate with Obama in his administration, because in their competition, it is very big that is to protect the interests of the nation of America and well, equity, we have a lot of learn from the American elections.
