The president part of the parliament, it should be part of the president!
May 23, 2013.

The parliamentary session of the government of the United Republic of Tanzania is going on in Dodoma town.
Last week, President Jakaya Kikwete arrived in Dodoma, not to address the parliament but meeting with members of parliament of CCM, the president is part of the parliament but for this time of the president meeting with members of parliament of his party, we will have to look for how to say that parliament is part of the president.
I have a reason that President is happy to see that he is part of his responsibility to speak to the members of parliament of his party at the cost of paying all the tax.
This is not true or jokes, the president of Nela which will enable you to get a lot of time to address the problems of his party, it is very encouraging to protect democracy in our parliament.
However, one thing is open, that the trend of members of CCM and his government at a parliament session is going on to leave a lot of questions more than answers.
We should have witnessed CCM following exercises for being the opposition party inside the parliament when it was forced to oppose that, it's good and even join the small parties in order to deal with CHADEMA.
CCM members of parliament have left their primary responsibility and started falling for the government.
Basically, CHADEMA who came to be the ruling party in conjunction with the streets which were affected by their opponents CCM, who by knowing that they are forced to join other parties so as to complete their opposition to CHADEMA.
A lot of time, even the speaker and chairpersons of parliament, they're being forced to violate the ethics of doing rights in their decision and helping CCM so that they saw the CCM party and the speaker, against CHADEMA's motion on different debates that are going on in parliament.
In all the debate, CCM is seen his opponent and CHADEMA as the administrator of us that CCM is the father and he is the father and he is the father and the trend of the change is very big because even in open issues for the interests of the nation, CCM is opposing and leaving us.
I conclude at this, by building a argument that, it is needed so much so as to bring in CCM and it is not a solution to you by the president and it is not a solution to you by the president without a solution and it has been revealed that using police is not a solution.
I am a member of CCM that I got up with my party, and not me alone, but we are and we were led by our chairman Jakaya Kikwete who has turned to a light weight in our party's bad state.
He has talked about the groups inside the party, he has complained about the bribery of the party elections, he has complained about the lack of creativity in running the party, he has complained about the lack of creativity in running the party, but I have not seen him taking any action.
Every time he has promised that the coming meetings will take place a great decision to change the issues inside our party, but those sessions are not there and we do not see any article on time even when I see this article, the sessions of the party are in Dodoma but there is no sign that there is a new issue from there.
Groups inside the party have benefited from the presidential election of 2015 which has already started selling the party, some of the groups have reached an action of preparing a motion on the party so as to meet the leadership of the party.
Another group that is organizing a motion to destroy the list of some people who are supposed to be expelled from the party, and if you are not seen on the paper, the group will leave on the party and this is the symptoms of the party which is heading to the end of his life.
There is issues that are going round inside our party, but there is no one that gives them transparency and the appropriate time it is important to separate himself from a cap so that the party should be far from the government and to be free of work in politics.
There is a need to go back to where they come from, so as to save our party, the father of the nation did this time, claiming that the weaknesses within the party.
