
The chairperson of Korogwe seems to take place on October 26th, 2012.

The report of the commission that was set aside for the accusations of being faced with surgery for timber in Makalama District, Tanga district has appointed the chairman of the council of that district and other government officials in that district.
Chairman of the moment, who is also the councilor for Dahi Ward, Sadick Yusuph Kalaghe, is accused of being unable to plan the illegal program of harvesting trees in that forest that is contrary to the law.
Together with councilor, Kalaghe also is the chairperson of TFF of Tanga province, the secretary of finance, economy and planning, the district of Korogwe, and is the one who is alleged to save the 4G network of trees because of surgery for water, the electricity tariffs.
That commission was established in December 2010 with the former prime minister of Korogwe, Erasto Mussa Sima after being given instructions of doing so by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda after complaints from one citizen called Shangani, a resident of Freema village.
The resident made a letter to the prime minister while insisting that the condition of the decay of the environment in that forest together with other areas of Deddy and the participation of political leaders together with government directors being listed in their names in that letter.
The report of the commission followed.
That commission was created by five members who are Mussa Nati speaking (chairman) and is reported to be the commander of TAKUKURU in Korogwe district, Issa Wopler (CCM), Miss Mwajacho (member) and Haji M. Ambassador (member).
In addition to that, the chairman of the council commission has warned the names of several servants of various government departments together with police who are in one way or another are alleged to be involved in planting trees, surgery, and destruction of the environment.
Some of the workers who have been touched by those accusations include Betty Mkwasa, who is the acting head of the department of natural resources and environment in Korogwe district, Damas Ndumbaro, who is the Marketing Officer, Juma Mohamed Othmani Chande, (Foreign Affairs Officer) and Edward Senny.
Others are senior inspector Mwigulu Nchemba (assistant manager of forests) Simon Mhina (the Assistant Manager of Gongo La Liga), Daud Michael, (the Assistant Manager of Majani ya Chai Secondary), Daud Michael (the secretary of the economy and planning committee of CCM, Deddy.
He also said the chairpersons of all villages in Ditopile, and Mpance, and the executives of the villages and wards that are alleged to be involved in the small businesses together with collaborating with the surgery for timber.
In his report even so, the commission has freed the officer of the Institute of CG, Revocatus Malimi, who in our last season was accused as one of the involved in that program.
Regarding the allegations of Kalaghe reminded that commission which his report (they have lost in the) was noted that the councilor of DfID, where that forest is involved with claims of planting trees, surgery, and destruction of the environment of that forest.
Part of the report is accusing Kalaghe because of that investigation he was having a cargo of timber and over of 4000 shillings among different types of timber in a story or his residential house which is in the village.
The commission reached in that house together with the natural resources officers of the district with the aim of doing well in that house but you missed a partnership from the leaders of the villages, claiming that those toilets were able to reach 97 percent.
"When the commission while in his investigation it will be informed that home for brothers Kalaghe because there are industries, the commission did the follow up and true that it used to do the timber," that can be easily read in the report of the commission.
That report continued, "he was found with any timber that are not involved with any illustrations for the law and also the timber is claimed to be the presence of those timber and not legal."
The commission stated in his report that according to the secret information from the citizens of that county who were interviewed, that chairman of the council is involving themselves so much with the issue of removing the traditional trees by announcing people who are doing those activities.
That report has continued to be noted that Kalaghe has done its plans by using a network of leaders of the villages which are the chairpersons and executives and it is alleged that he was coming from a leader not to agree with his requirements for being supported through that area using its strength as the chairman of the council.
The claims by the commission against the chairman of the council were chosen and its action of controlling the commission when he was called for an interview on December 9 in 2010 where he claimed that he would not be able to attend to him that he knows his father, a patient in Dar es Salaam city.
However, December 10, the commission visited his home met with his wife who is a teacher of Bambucha School, confirmed that her husband is in Korogwe and that yesterday was there at home, "he explained the report of that commission.
"On the logic, the commission has satisfied itself without any doubt that brother Kalaghe reminded that the whole issue of destruction of environment and allegations of surgery for timber and buying of trees due to being found guilty of causing the destruction," explained that report.
That report is determined that councilor Kalaghe should be legal action by considering the forest law number 14 of the year 2002, by sabotaging the economy and causing the government revenue.
It has been reported that the leadership of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Korogwe district will take this action against leaders and its members who were involved with that case including that councilor.
Regarding other suspects who were mentioned in that scandal, the commission has satisfied themselves that they were involved in one way or another in order to achieve the plan of planting trees contrary to the law and also to fail to implement their work performance.
Being unable to take legal action that have been found from Korogwe, it shows that a plan to take them to court, the council members and his colleagues have forgotten in what is claimed to be the involved, he got in chest with some of the leaders.
"The issue of being taken to court for those involved has been a dream because leaders of the government and those of CCM have been on the front line to welcome the chest and some of the workers," says our source.
Our news reporter added, "instead, the council's chairperson has been forced to change his lives and the directors going against them and the executives who are going against them and its instructions which is contrary to the public service."
While giving an example of our journalist, he explained that the timber that was found with that chairperson was arrested and arraigned in office of the council by lack of important documents but later they got instructions from the Provincial Commissioner's office at that time Said Kalembo and that they were able to be fast and take them into consideration of their timber.
"The surprising thing the timber managed by using the council vehicles and at the cost of the council, something that is contrary to the procedure because the timber did not have been arrested by the council but the government commission," he explained.
Statements by the suspects, speaking about the accusations that were directed to him Kalaghe reminded that he is not involved in any way with planting trees and surgery for himself because he was not a member of the committee that was prepared to coordinate this case.
I have talked to you the writer, last week and I noted that my stand is the same, I am not involved in any way and issues that you know, "said Kalaghe.
About the report of the commission he mentioned one suspect, Kalaghe claimed that the report of the commission did not work right because he didn't be given a chance even after being questioned, and the commission achieved more on words of listening to her political bad luck.
"If they have the truth of truth against me, why should I understand the case in court?
When we go to you, I wish him defend him in court, I decided I will be supported by the council members and the chairperson of the council will have reached an end and their goals will be independent, "said Kalaghe.
He added that, "the day before yesterday (Friday (last week) I went to speak with Muslims my colleagues, that I believe I don't know God, I believe that he is ready to go back to this law," Kalaghe explained that he is ready for any time to be taken to the law where he believes that she is ready to wait for his leadership so as to end in 2015.
"Those who ask you to know that I cannot be the councilor and chairperson of the executive committee for my term, I will end I will leave and go to do my life activities thus I give them to them to be patient," he said.
And the Natural Resources Officer of Korogwe district, Betty Munuo who has been named in the commission of commission by making carelessness of that scandal, made him Good Citizen that it cannot talk about those allegations until when he got the consent of the council director.
"I cannot say anything until when I was given the consent of the director of the council if the work procedures are explained, therefore we are communicating with our office to be given the consent to answer," said Munuo.
The statements by the leaders on his part, the former chairman of that committee who is also the commander of TAKUKURU in Korogwe district, Musa Nyelesa has refused to talk about the issue through phone and instead he gave out the requirements of not meet the author.
"Sula is asked, it is a very important thing for that I request that you go to the office we will be happy and I cannot speak about it on the very phone," said Rwezaura.
The former head of the district, Erasto Chilambo, who for now has been moved to the district of Bariadi confirmed that it is true that the commission that was set aside charges against Kalaghe and his colleagues but even so he didn't be given one authority to address that issue.
"It is true the commission did work but the recommendations that I presented to the provincial commissioner during Said Kalembo and after that, I did not know," said Sima.
Mke Mwema did not succeed to get Kalembo who is currently reported to have retired from public service and the new head of Tanga Province Chiku Galawa.
