Suspect: I understood the child of the 10 day?

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The police in Morogoro Province are holding Anna Luena (33), who is a resident of Chakwama, Dar es Salaam city, claims of the theft of the child, Angel Meck Sadick (20), a resident of Chamwino, Morogoro Municipality.

Rukwa Regional Police Commander Mponjoli Mwabulambo has said that the theft took place on September 13th this year at 5 o'clock in the morning at the Mount Meru Hotel in Morogoro Municipality.
While explaining the environment of that theft, Commander Matindealisema, he said that the suspect made a mother to the child while on the way from the health center, asking for him to give her husband's child, who has given birth so that he can give him money for congratulations and then for four.
He has said that the suspect was given after being given that child, since he was lost on mysterious circumstances.
After the mother of the child to recognize the child was stolen, he went to give a report to the police station to give a report of the theft.
He has said that the police after getting that report, they did a operation in buses that were involved in different areas, and succeeded to arrest the suspect in the bus of Upendo Primary School in Pwani province going to Dar es Salaam city.
"Police are still continuing with him concerning the incident and the steps of getting him in court are followed," said Commander Matemu.
Speaking to journalists in the office of the regional police commander, the suspect Anna claimed he had a bad intention to marry off the child, but it's a solution to him that she does not have a child.
"
On his part, the mother of the child confirmed the front of the writer of this news outside the office of the police commander of the province about being stolen, the child was on the way from a health center for the vehicle when he has opened.
He said that she had't know the woman or his residence, but they met on the way, he was coming from the area for the training to return to his home and he could not continue to explain the incident, except to thank the police force to enable the availability of her child.
That incident of theft of a girl child was done by women from Dar es Salaam as August this year, Morogoro Police is holding two women residents of Mbezi Beach in Dar es Salaam, Sarafina Julius (22) on allegations of theft of a female child.
The child was stolen from the child of the child, Jumbents (33) in Karume Stadium, Morogoro Municipality while on the age of one and a half years in 2013.
When he was found on August 7, this year, when he attains four and a half years, while the suspects were forced to study in the previous education.
