
Stop noise, give your motion on July 20, 2012.

Last week I discussed the step of the ruling party of doing a public meeting and to answer the charges that have been directed to him by the opposition parties, especially the main opposition party, CHADEMA.
I said that for a party the party has been trying and eliminate this problem, it was a good sign that now they have discovered that it has got a loss to let their opponents be careful.
However, I cautioned the ruling party about the danger of doing other mistakes and requested them on how to do, which are insufficient. I would like to continue with my advice to the party, if it would like to continue with my advice to that party, as it is not able to listen and learn from people that do not have its cadres.
Even if it does not have that ability, this is an advice that would be taken to work with politicians in the whole country, together with people who do politicians who are involved with construction of issues in their areas.
The Henga said that the patient will be used quickly, because the instrument they had been left without work or exercises for a long time when a human body needs exercises so as to have a power, and if it will be left without exercises, it will be left without fear.
The brains of a human being, same as your brain do not be used to think and solve problems and to resolve the problem among them your ability and how to get her ability, finally Ukawa is married.
This dangers should be very big as the brains of the brain, it changed and started fighting the brain of an old man needs more exercises so as to try to work more than the brain of a youth.
This is supposed to take one directly in the activities that the ruling party is causing it to make, it is a activity to go to the citizens and to answer the accusations that have been built by their opponents, who as we know it is clear, it has started in the desert.
Like the way I said last week, it is a must to put a public meetings so as to make a political work, "said that the party has been standing on the basis of the political and political ideology which has been suspended and said that.
If it was eliminated from there, if I personally I am very happy, now you have come out to talk about those things and policies of implementation to lead this nation.
The ruling party has bad luck, if he has planned to have a good child who is supposed to be careful, because they will not recognize him about her father and the ruling party should not be enough, but it cannot be enough for the ruling party to say it does not allow change, then.
This is because there is no foolish person who does not tell citizens of Tanzania that the state of issues as it is today did not need change.
We can sign up about the kind of change and who will lead you, but it is my advice that it did not mean by saying that he will not need change.
Changes are not there.
The lives of people have continued to be critical so that every sign of us are being involved in very difficult life and they are unable to sustain their primary lives like normal food, accommodation, normal and normal transport.
At the same time, they do not see their country and his wealth is the biggest in Tanzania without giving them a lot of life, but they ask you questions, but they cannot see other questions instead of answers.
Many are believed that their leaders are not being fair to their rights and that they do not benefit themselves and their close people, in collaboration with the rich and outside the country, which are the national resources that use them.
Citizens are not aware, it is not bad, but even if you're very happy, today I see the ruling party that it is alleged to know this, and that is ready from outside and doing big meetings like the desert, recently, and not discussing this?
Or we will continue to give information on performance of the government, which without doubt, it is not a good thing but not the responsibility of the party to go to the neighborhood to explain.
I would like to listen to statistics of the number of kilometers that were built very high level, "these I would get into the network if we want them to discuss different standards, therefore we want them to discuss different types of Ugali, so as a three months to be given?
Stem cells could be tarmac inside the Kilwa road or the one of Mlandizi / Chalinze, with network that affect the vehicle caused by the heads of the government they received it, then there should not be someone who had gone to prison, who also been expelled from the director or removed from the list of contractors?
The minister entered the counting, a modem.
Then, the minister did not tell me that the number of the road kilometers which would have been built to Burundi, these countries have never been discovered, they are not the minister of Burundi, he is the minister of Tanzania, and I have been unable to look at Tanzania.
And not there's no reason to arrest those opponents that they will use the roads to demonstrate to the ruling party in power, to answer the prices they would have.
I have said that there is a must that you will be used if we have already been forced to discuss and stop depending on a period of two several years, to an extent that the party has allowed me a chance to go for a period of two several decades ago, instead, the party has allowed me a chance to go for a period of two several years.
For each other and admit this argument (he was a resident Institute and Research Institute) has been a new concept, to come out in the political party with the scholars who have never allowed to use them because these things are a huge loss, and when we see you're getting tired of seeing him!
In 1970, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere asked diplomats in Tanzania in a small way, Arafa,, 'Do not be self-out) and I think all politicians would have tried to look for this important thing and they hurt them keenly.
It is how the ruling party can be able to go back, it appears to remember (if you are still records, and I don't know, but you don't hesitate to participate in the debate that is facing more as we're getting in the year 2015.
