
Mchaga answered me after killing her.

It has been written by our correspondent, Geita.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

Mbazi Manase 36, an evangelist from the East African Church (AICT), Charles Kazuka (45), has blamed her to leave, after killing her child, Malmo, Charles (15) by fining that newspaper from those events the day before yesterday.

However, he said that he would not hesitate to speak about that issue in details because he was at the celebration of the launch of 'go safely on road safety which is taking place in Geita province.
However, the reliable news from the village of Education, Kisuma village in Geita district where Mbazi, an artist was living with his family saying that he took the decision to marry off his daughter who graduated from class seven this year, after being found with a man whom he was not known.
It was reported that after falling, he took him and went with him at home and stopped him inside while he continued to marry off when she was buried and his death.
According to Winnie who was not ready to be mentioned in the newspaper, after Mbazi Manase 36, he took the decision to run a distance of one kilometers and later put up him from the battle that happened on the pelvic regions.
Commander Mponjoli Mwabulambo said that the investigation of police and doctors is going on and that it will be completed the bodies of all the deceased will be handed over to brothers for the burial.
He wanted the community to be careful when the time of rescuing their children because it is not time and they are supposed to be given a stern warning and dangerous parasites.
The same time, some of the residents of Kasese district, those who missed him at a different time to be surprised by the steps he was told because he didn't have a habit of crime and violence.
Kasongo Junior speaking with Magesa Mulongo every one on his time said that Mbazi, an artist was a good example of religion who doesn't have a bad behavior of criminal incidences and that the step that he has dropped by many questions, claiming that maybe he is the plans of God or a cookie.
