
Government, doctors comes from?
Petit 13, 2012

In a patient, a pain of disease, what happens it is enough and that it is a strike of doctors on his side and cause pain.
Without doubt, we have never happened in Karume, a step that made some of our colleagues due to the strike of doctors, in the beginning of this year, there is a result of doctors who are in the health sector, especially in the health sector, it was a lot of challenges that cost lives of some of our colleagues.
In some way, there are claiming that the tension intended to improve the health sector in general, from work tools to the interests of doctors and other servants.
That while doctors and other servants registered themselves as a result of getting better interests like fruits, citizens (patients) will benefit from more better services, to be provided in good environment and with a reduction.
But it is also true that behind those goals of strike (improving the interests of doctors and patients) there are great pain, some of our colleagues. It is possible for pain or pain when lack of treatment without any pain in treatment.
It is because of the reason, we believe and insisted that every side involved in improving health sector without considering the citizens that are not guilty of the executives in the ministry to fulfill their responsibilities, to ensure the health sector is growing at a level that match the ability of the country economically.
Non-communicable diseases in the Ministry of Health and the government in general is abolished by an amount of what is collected after avoiding non-infectious diseases to be used to improve the health sector.
We cannot continue to build a new behavior in the nation, that for a certain group of specialists involved in order to succeed to get his rights such as Luvanda, is the first to have caused the effects to other citizens.
The government is a must that a cry for doctors and on the other side, doctors, and it is a must you know a cry for us because they are not supposed to be sold to be sold to be sold to be sold to be sold to them by some of the directors in the government.
We believe that there is a way to end the factors that do not view or listen to the ones that are not guilty, since the occurrence of a strike of doctors in the beginning of this year, it is clear that the sides that have conflicts are meeting and perform talks.
Our advice is that, talks between those sides are approved by considering weight of the defense and the real state of economy, if there are areas of getting money to improve the interests of doctors and the health sector in general, the government should not hesitate to take action.
It is possible that there are community groups or political parties that benefited with one of the doctors in a certain way, although those groups are not the source of the strike but on our part, we also insisted on the strike of doctors has more effects more than the benefits, we are requested to compete.
