"Professor" of music until a fiancé.
Sei 15, 2016.

PSG called 'Heavy Fuel Oil' due to many songs with a message and loved a lot in the country, that is not another but he is the artist of the new generation, Joseph Haule, popularly known as Professor Jay to the artist name and Joseph Haule as the real name.

He is a long-term artist and he started being known as the hip-hop group of Herve Renay, that was very prevalent at the end of the year 1990 and the first of the year 2000.

This is the ones that attended, Joseph Haule of the music market and among the 41 households that were done so much, "I believe" which gave those young people.

After falling for a long time with the group, finally, Haule left that group and started doing his personal music activities, he was able to give a lot of songs that performed well in the music market in the country. Among the strokes, it was the name of Mzee "which was with the content of more political and antation Bongo."

Also, "Ziba, a vibrant singer" was very happy about his days not only with its own kind, but also due to a huge message in him, something that has been as a sign of this artist.

After doing well in the music market, that youth decided to follow in the footsteps of his fellow artist for a long time, Joseph Mbilinyi, ran away from politics in the general elections of the year 2015, Joseph Haule called for the parliamentary seat in Mikumi county on the ticket of the national opposition party in parliament and succeeded to win.

The political life of the leader and that musician is not easy to be a lot and the community without doubt, it is still waiting to see his skills in music going to again in the political platform.

After looking at shortly the life of Joseph Haule, let us want to be used in social media networks.

On Twitter, he is not less than 1600 Tanzanian followers that makes him be among the few artists that they exceeded the number of 200,000 here in the country. He is also a member of people from his party, Freeman Mbowe and Vincent Kigosi, who is also the President of America Barack Obama and President John Magufuli of the United Republic of Tanzania.

He has also written the page of Henet Ward, a famous boxer from America Floyd Mayweather, called Mayweather Promotions, something that depends on him and that he loves music, he is also a lover of the boxing game.

Likewise, he is leading most popular players in the world like Cristiano Ronaldo and Real Madrid and the famous basketball player of America, Kobe Bryant and Kevin Deddy.

On the side of music and musicians, the Bongo Flavor veteran is called Justin Bieber, Juma Nature, results from Kenya and Jay Z, among many.

On the Facebook page, "has approximately 109,143 students.

Together with other things related to his music that he likes to involve his followers on social media networks but it's also using the networks for the purpose of issues concerning politics, especially its activities as a member of parliament.

That is like what he did during the parliamentary sessions going on early this month of September when he wrote on his Twitter page, "today we've started to discuss the bill of law of the availability of information, that is' Chama Cha Mapinduzi, 2016 '.
