
The animals were stolen from the end of the UEFA matches.
The former star of Celtic club, Kenyan Victor Kavanagh refused to sexual excitement to play in the European Champions League.
However, Muguya has emphasized that he can return to that contest while at Southampton, which is currently holding the fifth position in the premier league of England.
"Every person is supposed to play in a high level and that is our aim as Southampton, I was playing for Tottenham in a champion club and is not true I want to play in those competitions. I am surprised so much for the night of a champion club in Celtic," said Mugule.
While being a small child in Kenya, Muguya has had many more pictures of the players of Manchester United and place them out of his bed sheets, he was looking at the English Premier League matches in Nairobi city with Cathbert Kajuna of mid-fielder Paul Pogba.
Two weeks ago, Mugenda falls into Southampton's squad which was losing against the defending champions Manchester City together with the former champions Arsenal and Manchester United.
Muguya, 23, continues to accept the affliction in England. Despite living with entertainment in the city of Mkwajuni, a few weeks ago when he won the match, the ones also attacked other products including television before disappearing during his car, the type of Land in the country.
This issue even so it was not depressed, mid-fielder Mugule.
He is some of the players who will enjoy and be proud of dancing to dancing in the high level in Europe.
Southampton is delaying this time the mid-fielder who ran into an injury to lack of the Ugandan citizen, and without having a lot of resources that other clubs do not hesitate to fill the gap by playing as the old legends, Charles and Kenya.
Muguya has not yet been not yet known, he has no experience that he was playing for the national team, Harambee Stars' at the first of 15 years since he joined Beauts AC Club in Belgium and later scored against Celtic club in Scotland.
While Celtic, Muguya has scored a winning goal against Chile in the European Champions League with 21 years old, while the interest he had in Stars, Sweden and Celtic was able to uplift a huge student (2710 billion per week) in EPL games.
Mugule comes from a family that is going on in a knee injury and the father Noah Ogano who plays for the national team, mother MONDE, he played a ring on the ball (netball club).
When he lost against that, when he decided to check up, she had decided to check up from Claudio Ranieri, who lost its energy and spiritual formation.
February this year, Ivory Coast together with Muguya, who is in him at the time of the fight to deal with the illegal immigrants.
Under Coach Kochanke who is a citizen of Uan an entrepreneur who was coming back and that he had Mugule, a shame for a lot of 6 months and it is a great possibility of a person, Bhana, to see how talents in their own kind will be her.
When he was still mounting them in Sweden and Belgium coming down, Muguya has told me that he would like to move ahead and even so, he didn't understand that he would like to play in Celtic after his thoughts were of playing the football in the country, there will be a surprise of it to be a surprise of Manchester United.
One of the disabled children that are many and in the African continent, Asia and lived in England.
I do not participate in this country.
Some are some of the world in the world that is growing up in the world, there is possible for Muguya has only dreams, use Honorable Vientiane when I'm to see how the talents use by Mugule area, "Masau boasted.
