
Hamad Rashid now will be the chairmanship of ADC?
Peter Elias, The Citizen of Bushiri Atick, popularly known.
The former presidential candidate of Zanzibar on the ADC ticket, Hamad Rashid Mohamed, speaking with members during the opening of the party's general meeting in Dar es Salaam yesterday.
Dar es Salaam City, the party of ADC has appointed Hamad Rashid that his chairman should fill in the position of Said Miraji Abdullah who passed from his leaders regarding the decision of the party to participate in the repeat election in Zanzibar.
Also, that party has criticized Doyo Hassan Doyo as secretary general who took the position of Lydia Moyo who was supporting Abdullah by not wanting the party to participate in the election which took place on March 20, this year.
Speaking about that step, the deputy chairperson of ADC, Adeline Mkomagu said that the party has reached the decision in order to fulfill the requirements of the constitution that he wants to have full leadership.
He said after the occurrence of that conflict within 30 days if the party's constitution wanted, formed a committee of seven people to run the party.
"The delegates of the general meeting have requested leaders to fill vacant positions at the moment the party has the leadership and we are ready to go and work," said the leader and insisted that they are not ready to see other conflicts inside their party.
At the same time, that party has condemned the government's action against parliamentary sessions directly on the television on claims that it will involve democracy and freedom of citizens to get news.
Mkomagu said that the government is required to ensure the media and journalists are free to get news.
He also warned that lack of important information is causing the violation of the country's constitution that gives the rights to citizens to get news.
"ADC is condemned the parliamentary sessions not to be aired directly in the government, and see the importance of giving them to their rights," said Mkomagu and added that the true democracy is freedom of the media.
Former Rashid who was the presidential candidate of Zanzibar through that party said.
"The media stations will be able to run itself by considering the interests of the citizens and not the owners, the issue of freedom of the media is not the government alone."
Rashid who is now the minister for agriculture in the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (EALA), thanked the delegates of the general meeting for accepting to participate in the repeat election and being elected to be the minister.
He said the party has shown maturity by following his constitution that wants to participate in all elections.
He said that the ones who want to do that party will not participate in the repeat elections, they never happened.
The assistant registrar of political parties, Sisty Nyahoza, addressing the party to discuss the crisis that is facing them to reach the agreement.
He said conflicts inside political parties causes parties to lack faith from its members.
Nyahoza explaining the party for participating in the repeat election in Zanzibar and said that it is an important step in democracy, he said his office will look at how to provide punishment to parties which are not in elections because it is equal to each other.
He emphasized that the office of the registrar of political parties will discuss the issue before being inclined.
