
Yanga is going to break their hearts of the Coastal Union of 09 / 2012.

Players of Yanga soccer team have said that now they are planning to move to break the Coastal Union record not to be played at their home stadium.
Mkwakwani, Tanga, on Saturday this week will battle against them in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.

Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, the assistant coach of that team, Nadir Haroub 'Cannavaro' said that they want to improve their leadership in that league by beating the Coastal Union.

He said they know Coastal is a good team and they are expecting the opposition in that match but he has warned that Yanga is a threat to your players well, "he said.

"By true I am my fellow players we thank you for new teachers' Siri ya Mtungi ', by scoring new and important things, our team has changed and every person sees them, therefore, we will go for him there, again, we will go against him there, again, we will go against them," he said.

But also the internal news from Yanga is saying that the players have been promised a huge portion if they will win that match.

Those players were awarded 15 million shillings with a win of 2-0 goals against Azam FC the day before yesterday in the Vodacom Tanzania Mainland Premier League at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam.

That win made Yanga lead the Premier League by attaining 26 points while has emerged the first match in the first round against Coastal Union in Tanga, followed by Simba with 23 points, which the day before yesterday was defeated 2-0 by Mtibwa Sugar in Morogoro town.

Iddi Pickup, is expected to face the former goalkeeper of Simba and the former coach of that team, Iddi.
"Father" has said that the ability of the goalkeeper number one of the club has gone down and his treatment is the sun.

"Kaseja has the ability to come up little, because his doctor am not there when Simba went up to work, Kaseja will be able to open his skills and he will have not been covered by easily," said Ponyo.

Pickup, has asked the leadership of Simba to be able to return to work so as to eliminate the talent of that goalkeeper, among the best athletes to have ever happened in Tanzania.

At the moment, the coach of Simba soccer club is another former coach of Simba, James DeBarge, who was given that job after losing to Oman, but currently Parrish has completed his contract in Oman and is in his home, palaces, Ukonga, Dar es Salaam.

In the 12th match, Kaseja has been scored 10 goals in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League this season, something that is not normal in the previous seasons, although that is claimed to be allocated to the examination of the current security of that team.
