For sure it is still a section of the solution?
Jo'clock, 2015.

Inside these two weeks, we will get a chance to see and decide whether CCM can think and be accepted as part of the solution to our problems in the country, this will be true where we shall see how the ruling party will begin and be there in the next few days, there will be different steps of getting candidates of the party and the biggest thing is that of the presidential candidate.
In the next few hours you have shown that several months will return their forms to look for sponsors, especially those who will not hesitate to look at the end of doing so that is when the one who came to look for all thousands will enter on the area of the one who were waiting for names to fulfill names.
There will be only a form where we have already made a lot of things that are supposed to be surprising even so that CCM would like to bring more questions, because of a question I don't know if CCM would do not have a lot of questions, but that is the problem of not knowing more because that is the problem of not knowing more so that the problem is not very delicious.
For you not to put a high risk of sponsors, it is not that CCM itself has managed to look for someone who is professionally and loved more by members of CCM if you will not look for a lot of sponsors because the party can compete with the names of 100,000 sponsors!
Recently, one hundred thousand sponsors are not true that the party becomes wrong in the party I take it for example that person she had given his first step and asked him to support him for his new journey and he is not a saying that "a man can land himself," it is true?
But that is only one of the another one is that if a person will listen to him and even different leaders of CCM are saying you can't know what they said, "we believe that they are not aware of the citizens," we believe that they are still giving a solution to the citizens' problems and eventually, they will have given a solution to the citizens' problems.
Or even people do not want again to think that he has announced a close to fifty percent, they have been ministers or ministers in that government which today they have planned to fulfill the dream of contraception?
But if you inform us that there are many of us, they believe that CCM is still a solution but it is true that CCM will give you a lot of money more than 2 - 4, it doesn't know that maybe "this journey has come up with any person who requires him to know that the answer has been extended to be four.
I believe in CCM at least be able to find out that part of the solution is a must for Tanzanians to sit down and now it will be able to break their groups?
