
"Edward Lowassa is involved with me for me together with a beating they had carried out as usual.

The Eastern Arumeru member of parliament, Joshua Nassari has criticized the member of parliament of Monduli, Edward Lowassa that he is involved with the beating he got due to hatred in his colleagues.

Moreover, he has criticized the speaker of parliament, Anne Makinda to be among the people who are mocking him together with other leaders of parliament, because there is no one who joined the phone or using him a message to register a situation as a result of the beating he got with severe pain.

While speaking yesterday in the room, he is admitted at the Institute for Medical Research and Licensing Agency (MOI), Nassari claimed that he has been the prime minister before resigning from Sihana Nkinga, at the parliamentary elections that took place on April last year.


Nassari who was admitted at Selahema hospital in Arusha town before being transferred to MOI, claimed to be shot dead by Green Initiative 'when he was in his efforts to vote in the councilor's seat in the county of Gongo La Mboto ward.

"The beating I got when Lowassa was involved, he wants the presidency, but he cannot get by tell people like this, he thought that I will not die until the love of God," he said.

He said there is an issue that citizens should learn about how there have been events of the floods and being attacked, but there is no normal citizen and religious leaders, Nassari claimed that as the ordinary citizens of the county, they met with several issues that were unable to announce, including being attacked by the attempt to score.

He said he has also noted that two soldiers who were present at that area were able to make them to save their lives, but they were able to save their daughters, but due to lack of gun shots, where he was going to buy a gun and sucks to the youth without stopping.

Speaking about his condition, Nassari said that it has been tested from a B@-@ ray machine that it has shown that it could not allow the back, but the doctor has advised that there should be another solution that give an MRI tests in order to check the condition of the veins.

In addition, he used that opportunity to thank the nominated member of parliament, Joseph Kimwaga who helped him to do plans to communicate with the parliament leadership and to allow to be transferred to MOI, after all CCM members will go to Arusha to address the people a bomb.

However, Lowassa was looking for him about those allegations but he refused to speak about that issue and said that he will not be the supervisor of the elections, Paul Kitavi.

A citizen getting a fashion model who is also the secretary general, denied being involved in Lowassa explaining that the day of that incident was in Geita.

This is an actress who is happy to be an artist because he didn't just stay, but he was not a physically challenged person, then he was surprised to see him is in hospital claiming that it was not true, "said Kitavi.
