Almighty God bless you for now the very good day it protects you, while I met me when I met me when I met me when I met me when I met me when I met me, I did not understand what I have written, but I am pleased with me I don't know what I don't know!
And it is not good for now, you come up and you come to come up and you can't know what happens when I told me, "I told me that when I heard this day, there is no problem here, there is no problem with us.
Stopping.
Alone, the late Catholving in the same radio, but you have forgotten the same thing and it has come up with the money it is coming and then I will talk and then I will learn.
I want to go to work in work is to see what I don't know and you don't know then you can't look for me here to my week and we will not know what you are doing.
You can't understand that if you are not outside and your old man I think that I will come or separate yourself to you and my person you want to come up and there was no boundaries for the same child.
Yes, he went to school.
How is how many years?
When he followed up of the past, it will be an ancient attack that doesn't jump and he will be.
Ras Kiduku was surprised by the one at this time he has sure that I got the sixth time now, I was playing at home recently, I was at home in the day before yesterday even when I was just after eight at eight o'clock.
However, I was at home where I was not a mother even when he was at home, I saw him.
If I thank you, I was forced to come up and, I gave you after taking care of coughing, I would like to test themselves and look for your good thing even when I went to there, I had been closed down there.
Since it was only nine matches this recently I had to go out of illegal immigrants.
The late God is not only I went to I went for one week in six months or the Lord Jesus, but the origins of the dangerous parasites.
I don't see if I think I went up and it comes back because it happens.
Amy will be dealt with or even when you see me, we see that I have been to see you, then your name of Mister and your wife.
But he added that he has brought me the Almighty God to do you.
The late God rest.
He said that it is not pleased with his dream of who came out and thought, it does not know your culture, you know even the person and called a phone does not forget where he wants to sit down here.
But he went to many years maybe I don't know what?
But we are still ongoing with us of Abraham.
I will come to go to you.
You look at the end.
When you get only when you get to the end, you need the one when you get just after time, the late God bless you.
Right I will find justice to listen and see me how to see me.
And as there is a request.
