After the debate in parliament, after the speech of the budget, I read eight on eight and after the patient will speak.
We have received opinions from complaints.
We will remain with the eight that I said that it is that religious institutions are supposed to be taxed.
Then after that we are not saying we should talk about the effects that we want to make sure that we have been satisfied with the truth that the person given is.
You are going to according to what happened.
For several years now, we have been bad things, the late God bless us to believe that some of the religious institutions have been some of the things instead of being used for their activities that are used for products.
You want to continue with the procedure but at this time we have contributed a lot of great contribution that has continued to be used by two institutions for the purpose of providing better services to our citizens, we have also explained that, we have requested all the funds to be used, but we have requested them to have requested for the support of climate change in the country.
When you were beaten and then it has brought here we have told your first priority, then after there we are inspiring.
Likewise, we are urging religious institutions that are not ready to increase the importation of dairy products to stop the deaths of deaths that will be bought from.
Number.
Therefore, if the equipment they want to be brought in the next year, January 19th.
But in addition to that list, you will not like to talk like that which he was forced to go to African countries this year, to talk like it as required to do that exercise is the second, what we want is to go to know the names of people who have ever been affected.
Maybe the control of tax.
And as we have said that recently, there has been taken that in addition, the letter said forward is for Ambassador Seif to be happy with the rate of this list, to give them the Archbishop of his bishop.
Therefore, the money we want to bring names of people who have qualified to be a letter to ask for forgiveness from the army's intention to bring him a letter so that the religious organization can bring a letter that it is also an agent who has appointed to buy their cargo.
A third issue.
Decreased by Msama.
Cold has been doing so as they have attached his letter from the executive officer of the government in the neighborhood and district commissioner of the institution which will be held and therefore things or the project.
So, we need to be satisfied that the fourth issue will lead the vehicles that will be put in the seventh round of these institutions.
We will also see the number of special color so that we can be able to save.
Therefore, our aim is to control the use of those vehicles, Moses we have been ensuring we give birth to then those vehicles do a different activities of the sun.
And the end.
And at the end is a lesson to religious organizations.
We continue thanking him for the good work they are doing to serve the community.
I insisted from now.
A business organization that will continue near the tax exemptions.
The government of the fifth term.
It usually attracts more.
