
The court has given me the transfer of digital change.
By Richard Mwaikenda.
The chief justice, Doctor Willy Mutta (right), happy with the Judge Mohammed Ibrahim at the Supreme Court before giving a decision about the transfer of you, from the picture, Paul Pogba.
The high court yesterday advised the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (CAD) should not also support the television stations for the old electronic system and he will stop up until the case that was presented to three television stations and decided to be decided.
And at the same time, the judges, Doctor Willy Mutta and Mohammed Ibrahim Lipumba commanded the case that was presented to the Global TV Online stations in collecting taxes (Royal College (Royal College) in order to be seven judges of that court.
"There is a problem to explain the decision of this case that was presented to three broadcasting stations.
The case that was presented by the lawyer Paul Muchi, who represents three broadcasting stations will be treated with all the judges at this time, "said Commander Mutta and Ibrahim.
On December 30th, 2014, Judge Kalalami have stopped the CAD match of switching off the television stations that were left up until yesterday, the case was chosen by two judges of that court.
The lawyers have praised Kiliberali (CAD) Mohammed Ken Solo (StarTimes' and Pan African Group) and Evans Mela (GNP) opposed the case being comforted by those two judges saying "the decision on September 2nd) was brought by all seven judges of the high court.
We request that this case has not been paid by all seven judges of this court.
Likewise, in that decision, the one has a bullet in color, "said Mister Kiliberali.
Mister Mukulasi, representing NTV, collecting taxes and, explained the court that the stations will have a huge loss if they won't be given four network that can be able to serve its customers in a good way.
Mister Hit revealed that CAD has given a decision about the transfer of the internet when he invented the picture, Paul Chagonja together with only one wave of those stations.
"CAD has given out the stations a fine of only one that will be put in the Rahmani building, where the wave doesn't be enough," he said.
This lawyer said three other network that will be installed in loam soil.
But CAD explained that two judges are saying that there is a procedure of national plan to set on network and also CAD told the court that it has given a three centers to be free through digital change.
However, Mister Mukulasi, told the court, "the citizens are looking at television when we ask for the licenses and what we request is to be given network for protecting the advertisements and it did not be used to serve the residents of Nairobi and its environs.
CAD through the truth, so that they thank Kiliberali has passed away and said, "all the world there is nothing to be allowed to do," the lawyer said the stations will not be stopped despite that they are continuing to compete for the former system of Shira.
Mabebani also told the court that since October 1, 2014, there have been things among the others who are playing for all.
These lawyers said that there is no problem of one of the dancers.
But Judge Mutunga asked Mister Kilimba to explain reasons for not giving service to these broadcasting companies.
Mister Kiliberali has said that this network will be released through a procedure because it is a must for the government to make research before launching it.
Mister Kiliberali has said even when this network will be released at a procedure but he said "I want to assure you of the court that CAD will not have three centers but he said they need time to communicate with other companies that make calls through digital network.
Two sides, Mister Muchi, he said that these companies have bought their daughters instead of relying on StarTimes'.
At that time Mister Kiliberali has asked for that case to be paid by all seven judges of the high court.
That court made an action against the CAD match against corruption in the Christmas and Vogue Bambini Journal on December 30th, 2014, for three stations to request the court to beef up time and to leave.
