
Magufuli did not want to speed the implementation of the development projects.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.

President John Magufuli has said that his fifth term government wants to see things that are being done by giving results without losing time and that he would like to see development stakeholders especially China to do that speed.

He said this yesterday when he made talks with the Deputy Minister of Business of China, QamKemm, where those leaders agreed to speed up projects being implemented in the cooperation of those two countries including the construction of the central railway project.
In that talks that took place at State House in Dar es Salaam city, President Magufuli told Qian that his government wants to see things that are done and given the results without losing time.
Speaking about the project of construction of the central railway from Dar es Salaam, Mwanza, Kigoma and joined the countries of Rwanda and Burundi that Tanzania has set aside 1 trillion shillings for the purpose of starting the construction in this budget, President Magufuli wanted China which has agreed to participate in the construction work in hand with the speed of his government.
"We have decided to start the construction and already 32 contractors have come out to build a central railway from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro, a distance of 200 million shillings, therefore we want to start this financial year, because we want to start this year," said President Magufuli.
He added that the project has great benefits to Tanzania and other eight countries that depend on the port of Dar es Salaam and that its completion of giving a great contribution to the growth of the economy of Tanzania which it has reduced as a high-income country by the year 2025.
On his part, the Deputy Minister of Trade of China congratulated President Magufuli for the great work he is doing in improving the economy of Tanzania and fighting corruption and promised that China government will increase efficiency in the implementation of the development projects including the construction of central railway.
Those talks were attended by China ambassador to the country, Doctor Lu Youqing, the Vice President of the Standard Bank of China Sufiani, the minister of industry, trade, and investment, Charles Mwijage to the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango.
