They are not stuck on.
October 18th, 2012

The system of payment of money to those claiming from the government have forgotten, our citizens have noted.

And because of being stuck in, ministries and various institutions in the country have failed to run some of their activities, and even the delay of paying the salaries for their employees on time.

Although the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance, Ramadhan Kijja, has confirmed the existence of that problem saying his source is getting spoilt through the computer system (Monbusho Scholarship), but there are reports that the system has been built for the benefit of some executives.

Those reports indicate that, that system that is mentioned to control the ways of buying money through payments which had been done between some of the directors of the ministry or government departments and some of the directors of treasury, has been an obstacle to some of the directors to conduct corruption.

It is as a result of the availability of the system, our media sources have noted that approximately more than three months now some of the payments for the workers are not to take place on time due to the payments for employees in the government, even payments for them from the government as a result of paying for a long time now.

In the ministry and government departments, all some of them have been directed by the registrar which is under the new leadership of the minister, Doctor William Mgimwa and two assistant ministers, Janeth Mbene and Saada Mkuya Salum.

According to our media sources, the introduction of payments like the salaries of workers has been taking place at the time of being presented to the treasury at the process of payment of money.

"I am not paid several months now, some of my payment has already been made by through all the process, but there are several months now, I have not paid payments," explained our news source inside the government of President Jakaya Kikwete.

Speaking to our reporter about that problem and the blame that were directed to treasury, secretary general.
The Ministry of Finance, Mkubwa Fela said, "Airtel is true that there has been a problem and efforts were taken to them."

According to the Catholic Church, what happened is the spread in the system of information and financial statistics, who in short time known as Boniface S which are using a special technology of computer.

"Payments for these days will be held in the main process of two types, but there is a normal process which after being completed, it gets into the second process of putting into Dogodogo Multipurpose Training Center," said Kijja.

In his explanation to our reporter, the Secretary General of treasury, said that the problem of the system has resulted from electricity problem sometimes to continue and sometimes to reduce the strength.

"The system has been destroyed because of electricity, you know our electricity at another time is with problems and now the problem has taken time because of the beginning, the problem did not make sure that we go through the system so as to work well at all times," said Kicheere.

That situation has taken place during the time that the Ministry of Finance has been informed about some of the ministers not presented the budget for other ministries as parliament continues to pay.

Among the ministers who had talked to their ministry to be given money after budget which was prepared by the parliament is together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.

In his speech of the budget estimates for the financial year 2012 / 2013, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Benard Membe complained to parliament saying his ministry was given 44 percent of the budget passed last year.

Membe said that, my ministry has continued to get a little share of the budget that doesn't meet needs in the financial year 2011 / 2012 in the period mentioned, my ministry received 50 percent of budget requested for the small budget to implement the economy.

However, Membe said together with those weaknesses, the ministry for his position as an important mid-fielder between Tanzania and foreign countries, has continued to cooperate closely with the ministry, departments and various government institutions together with the private sector in order to benefit various opportunities in the economy and community sectors.

In another step, the action of the Ministry of Finance explained about everything he put in a difficult time in the minister (new) of finance, Doctor Mgimwa, who for now his fellow ministers have been seen to increase the speed of success in their ministries.

Ministers who for now have increased the speed of success in their ministries include the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, who is preparing to fight with the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe.
