We will see you to choose an Mansoor who will go and close to the continuation of the program to talk in the morning from ten o'clock in the morning, where we become a lot of news that we have never been seen in other parts of the country, but we should also show what is going on in other countries in Africa and elsewhere.
Most of the biggest thing is that I don't know if yesterday was looking for our news news to build the night, we had news from Tanga province where I met the head of seven departments to work together and that is what I have done in the main bus this morning, I am today I wish him.
In looking for that number four here, the reader dies with her in the phone and maybe be able to see.
Why is someone who will go out and in his work area, maybe there is a reason but why is someone to work from outside of its kind as required it will know many in Karume.
A report is.
If we have found himself on history, I was a problem it involves as a employee who will stay, as he was living a lot from the area of work hard to meet these people waiting for the current law.
According to the law of employment.
The two thousand year and four hours.
For the beginning of now, we do not want to do the employment of this contract and said that this is employment for the contract between the employer and to be employed during the agreement there is doctors who also have an agreement, while one is near him and he is ready to meet those conditions.
There must be a primary reason especially following someone being stopped or sacked from work and that's why the contract is unable to break the contract between him and the employer broke up because maybe the death of death or has reached the age of death.
Other reasons, the initiative has donated a working contract to read the payments of being the ability to do a job, we will make sure you don't know your duty at work, welcome him and also to be against the basis of the foundation which has invested I am looking for one wife.
The employment of this employment which has an agreement of serve but those who were suspended is the directors of that council on the late.
It is a must.
I see there is a problem.
There's a problem if it's hard to see for instance, there are lack of working for instance, there are experts who are also involved, Aunty Ezekiel who are also involved, Aunty Ezekiel are also happy to be treated with me.
Stakeholders following discussion.
You think what we know that Washington, who lives in your farms in urban city, when I get to see your body.
You miss.
First, let us benefit from their place and we are being faced with a great poor, today it is poverty of the villages.
There is a taste of development in the league but poor households continue to do.
Come to the officer.
Where running the village where is where it is expected to live in his activities he is going to live.
I don't see the commitment of Tunduma and rural areas.
.
The marketing officer.
Smoking cigarettes, instead of living in the village where they were given this work is a problem and they did not care about the stomach, they are suspended from work.
If you have seen all that happened in local government elections.
The late?
Then this happens a distance of sixty 10 kilometers from the area of work.
.
The late God created the local government elections through recently, the late God rest every time in events but we see a defeat that was attacked by the citizens yesterday we have witnessed the executive members to be given.
You miss.
And at the end of the investigation now, he can make sure that he can do our schools with success if they want to live well the late or even when you are doing information and communication, the late God has left out of the village where there were only sharp teeth.
Here is it?
A life I don't know because there is a in-law for some time I don't think this one and you don't have a chance to watch the country in a period in which I don't know how to live in Tanga town and to live in areas of work so that we have to live in place so that we can be able to do if they are.
It is nothing.
It is a distance of sixty eight kilometers for the workers of Mkinga District Council to break off citizens in their areas of the head of that province, Tanganyika Region, Omari Masukuzi and explaining the issue that is correct because those workers are supposed to serve the citizens who are supposed to serve the citizens from Tanga to go to a male circumcision.
Therefore, if the son is a school living.
That morning will be though the morning will be even though.
And here in the country because of doing this work, I will be one who is not only one who does not see the chest?
Remember where it was two days.
We are not seen up to today's morning, if you go to press here, we will have to participate here in the past five weeks.
Workers.
Creates thinking of the council is not a procedure of this college and this is this service providers in the country.
There are some they were saying that the construction of the laboratory seems to be removed from that council due to the servants living in different claims of their work, to fulfill the executive director of the council.
You will take a step to those workers.
Those at home.
For sure he is true.
You know that above.
Look at the life of development of development.
It is like you know?
I call him.
Almighty God rest the workers.
When we love you feel?
And we have been commanded?
Shame is a shame.
There is no need.
The district council has been founded in two thousand and eight hours after the day before yesterday to come from the District Council with the aim of moving social services closer to the citizens, why doesn't make Tanga live.
Now the user of the news that we have in part of the news to see a few news about this, maybe the reality of this year, I don't know that there is no big number of workers not just like this, I don't know that there is no big number of workers not just like this, I don't know that there is no big number of workers.
His phone does not be easy, maybe there is a need to know that like my, I will go to what is used to do.
He wanted to reduce the problem of people to run away.
Miners, this problem is the biggest of the moment in a human being, when he told her new readers the truth, directors and let me see themselves so as to solve this problem, it is a big problem to try that property and stability.
Led to the economy.
To improve our condition of their mother, I will begin saying this nation is being faced with a high standard but even so, even if it was yesterday in the media industry we can enjoy yourself when you look at different houses and sadness compared to the areas of urban and and.
Another foundation of looking at life and how the government is supposed to be availed to the district councils.
On the start of new district, it has been challenges of constituencies as challenges of residential buildings for the directors of those councils and also the whole house is a challenge that I have given you the king Ras Makunja since he was announced the new council in Chamwino district, Dodoma province.
When you talk about the road itself to come from Kigoma town to reach.
It is not about drinking alcohol?
For now, it is in a pose to have a picture that recently, it was a servant who has already missed the life of.
For many years, you have been suspended from areas where water is a problem, it is a challenge, it is a solution that if you get into the village is the reason for a term of employees or many pastors here in the village.
You must have MOI.
The Almighty God is not true that there is a must to improve it, Mwigulu there are our fellow Tanzanians live and a scholar that you are getting close to their fellow Tanzanians in the villages, it gives you a problem because natural Tanzanians will go to serve our Tanzanians there and they are the one to see.
