
Scandal, Lulu and Wolper and on the sexual violence.

The scandal involving luxurious houses and men have continued to take a new look for female stars inside Bongo movie star, where this journey of two stars, Elizabeth Michael 'Lulu' and Jacqueline Wolper has said previously they were shocked.

Do I register more?
The investigation on Friday has revealed that, there have been the meaning of some of the stars to find each other as she is more than what they had at their disposal.

It was claimed that after Lulu was reported that after Lulu was reported to be a huge flared at the luxurious home for himself as popular in Arusha town which is in Mbezi Beach Hotel in Dar es Salaam, Jacqueline Wolper is alleged to answer the charges for the existence of a good building by Mister Mwamoto. in the areas.
According to our sources which are close people of those stars, for now the two will be feared, because everyone has got a Mister of "rice" for a long time.

All of them pay shillings.
It was claimed that if it was for Lulu, Jacqueline Wolper has paid the house an amount of 1,500 billion American dollars (more than 24 million shillings) in 30 million shillings in a year.

What is the audience.
Reports were claiming that if Lulu is Lulu, the house who was eliminated from there is a lot of sleep at the visitor's hall, part of food, traditional healers and traditional stoves.
Also outside that house there is a big area that it was caught with good flowers with the enough area of vehicles.

In addition to the presence of that luxurious houses, Lulu and Wolper have been born with some of the vehicles that were bought using by each other.

Vehicles.
The investigation shows that Lulu has a type of Toyota in New York city with a value of more than 700 million shillings, on her part Jacqueline Wolper was in a marriage of Toyota Princes Stadium, which is worth more than 30 million shillings.

Let us lose the meaning.
News of "mystery" are indicating that those two have a lot of things like the type of palaces, a own kind of life (own kind) where the Mister Jacqueline Wolper has dropped by acting but Lulu is still getting a load.

"Lulu and Wolper has been operated on and good Samaritans who want to get all who have no reputation" for example, Lulu together with living in a good life that a big number was handed over to her mother as a gift.

Jacqueline Wiwa of Nigeria.
Friday we looked upon through his mobile phone but he was called without being received by our writer, he arrived in the neighborhood of bananas, she did not hesitate to get married, but the star of the star claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of the star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of that star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of that star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of that star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of that star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of the star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of the star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of the star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of the star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars of the star have claimed that he has been seen to get married, but the stars have claimed that he
