Kikwete wants to be loved by CCM or greed.
Sei, 26, 2013.

In my two weeks ago in this newspaper, I explained the importance of President Kikwete to continue supporting a new constitution, he explained that after attending the meeting of the new constitution.
To be presented by finally, Makabe made the bill for law that will make corrections on the law of constitutional changes, 83 percent of the bill and not to change their stand of creating a new constitution as well as many of CCM members of parliament had the courage to give them on the pomp of the fees.
All of this is because I have been able to listen to one of my previous articles, that our leaders believe they have a lot of mind more than any person here in our country, and there is no great ignorance, and believe that you have a lot of mind more than any other person.
And a woman doesn't know that the power has a habit of ignorance, and if it is in the community that involved our leaders such as our country, the leader of the way we have ever been very much, but today we are leaders of representing us in many good things and good that they did not see when they were in power.
President Kikwete entered in history by going to him that it was a mistake to his party to oppose the presence of a new constitution as it's because this had a courage to kill him, to go against the position of his party and his government by putting off the new constitution is a must.
As usual of CCM members of parliament to rise up to them, they agreed with a new constitution by supporting their leader and even so, the process of creating councils that were done by CCM party, but the commission on constitutional reforms have been unable to complain about those that were affected by the public institutions and the commission they agree with them completely.
At the moment we got to the President Kikwete alone for another time again, with the ability to communicate with his fellow cadres on how he did for allowing his lawyers by using his courage to enter the process of the new constitution.
However, this will tell you to leave the history in this country as if he wants to leave him by CCM it's good for him to join with them by signing up with his administration in this country for many years to come, but if he is still an intention of leaving his administration in this country for many years to return.
All of us know that the aim of CCM heading to insisted that the constitution of the constitution should be as the way it is wanting to make sure that they put the constitutional parliament like the constitution that they have already done many issues about what is in the draft of the commission.
That will take place is that when they were not together with them inside the constitutional parliament, you will launch all these things that was on the draft so as to bring these issues that they want, including the presence of ethics in the new constitution.
