Sitta opens up, Lowassa dies.
On the 18th of 18th, 2016.

The popular politician and the retired speaker of parliament of Tanzania, Samuel Sitta, has wrote a letter to the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa to explain about his views of doing away with the boils that are in the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), our citizens have told him.
In that letter, Sitta, who was the minister for transport in the fourth government has explained that it is good for the government to reduce more about the board of directors of TPA that were violated together with his management while they were not concerned with the problems that they had not involved.
In his talks with this newspaper this week, Sitta said that he is supporting the performance of President John Magufuli and his government, but he believes that with his courage, he will continue removing boils that the government is supposed to accept to return their decisions, where there is fear that he did a mistake.
"In my letter to the prime minister, for example, I've told him that the board of TPA was given his meeting immediately after it was appointed.
"At the moment the government of Magufuli has revealed several loopholes of the collection of tax through the port that is known as' JD but given it keenly, will see that it is the new management of TPA that was appointed is the first to identify those weaknesses.
"There are professionals and people who have volunteered to cooperate with threats and other difficult conditions for work, to be patriotic and to defend our nation's property, if I think there is need to view these issues," said Sitta and now he has announced to retire from politics.
In those talks, Sitta said that he was understand that intentions and plans by the government in fighting corruption is enough, but he has given his thoughts because he is a person who know the environment of TPA and the concerned party concerned with the appointment of delegates of that board.
More than another person, I know that the environment that has been there in TPA before the board was made, I am the one that I asked the past board to form a new board. I understand that he met with just one time in October and two months later, he has announced his hand over.
Many of the accusations that are there now about TPA and other things that were given before the board's establishment, if I ask those people to come out as delegates of the board, if I think those people should come out and say what I know, maybe the government could not get the real information. "He said.
He said his management about the management is to be like the one of the board because it is the management where it is the management where it is clean and discovered the problems that he was handed to Majaliwa about TPA and that is being implemented by the government at the moment.
President Magufuli announced the decision to break the board of TPA, the management together with breaking the appointment of the former Secretary General of the Ministry of Transport, Doctor Shaaban Mwinjaka, that decision was announced by Majaliwa after doing his tour in December last year.
Those who were the board members of that board is Doctor Tulia Ackson, and senior lecturer, who is now the deputy speaker of parliament of Tanzania, Engineer Mussa Ally Nyamitwe, Dononda, Kisukuru.
Haruna Masala, who is the retired executive director of EWURA, Engineer Gavyole said, Doctor Francis Michael, who is the senior lecturer, the University of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, who is the Director of Planning (NSSF).
What happens, the chief marketing officer of the Tanzania Ports Authority.
The former chairperson of TPA, Professor Joseph Kiwanuka, was appointed by President Jakaya Kikwete to hold that position in January, this year, taking the position of Raphael Mollel, whose appointment has been dismissed.
The management whose appointment has been dismissed by Magufuli started working on January last year by Awadh Massawe to be the acting managing director of TPA, taking the position of.
Speaking about the 100 days of Magufuli, Sitta said that he has signed is a leader who is going for fast and standards which he called for the fifth term president to have him, and gave him a call for allowing the leader to fulfill his dreams of removing the problems of citizens.
Sitta said that there was understand that there are restrictions and threats that Magufuli will move in implementing his responsibilities and put it a lesson so that we can be happy because they are all from him.
"My request for his skill is that they are supposed to go with his speed and I thank you that I have seen its ministers visiting part of the areas where there are a good start because they were married," said Sitta.
