I learned in Kenya - first, it is expected to arrest women, amen.
APR, 03 / 2013.

The Saturday of March 30th, 2013, the United Republic of Kenya completed the process of general elections of the main court of that country to legalize the victory of Uhuru Kenyatta. There is a lot that we continue to learn from this election as a nation, and I believe it will continue to be written about this training, and I believe will continue to be written about this training, and I believe it will continue to be written about this training.
In this article I would like to go back to three things that I believe it is the most primary things we are doing and that we are supposed to consider when we are heading to the general elections of the year 2015 in the country.
The first issue is the importance of having a free institution and Independent Departments in general elections, these institutions are many but the biggest are four that are of election commission, police, public servants and the court.
A big reason that caused Kenyans to come out in large numbers to vote is because the ones that will decide to win.
We have risen up for a long time on the freedom of our commission and all the time our commission and the government has insisted that it is free and therefore it was not free and therefore it was not free and it would be free when it has been appointed by one of the competitors in different elections.
In line with the freedom of the commission, other servants who are involved directly and elections have done their professional work and professionally, instead of stealing from political parties, these are together with the police and various public servants in the main government and local governments that were involved in one of the elections.
One problem which we continue to face here in our country are fanaticism and without fees which have been caused by public servants in matters of elections and the law in general, many workers with authorities and have continued to believe that their service is a benefit from the ruling party.
Police and other security organs are still saying that they become responsible to serve the ruling party, the interests of the party and the interests of the ruling party and that is why we believe that the ruling party will be allowed to make sure that the ruling party win.
Because of fanaticism and get fees to the ruling party, those servants should stop stuttering on how he started the winner who is determined by opposition parties, up to citizens when they decided to use extra strength like the way we say in announcing the results in the constituencies which the opponents won in the year 2010.
