Followed by our brothers, apart from the elections that were a Chief Inspector for instance, we have done it well.
And one we did the inspection of success in the control of cost in public procurement, which we have continued more.
The late God bless you and he knows the transport of a plane.
And we have been studying if my report will you see.
The nations involved in those recommendations.
And this we did, that we did because it is openly seen that she gets a person.
And you will be touched by the office there is a very big difference.
Then I saw it is why so I will request to you in the report that there are the Almighty God to read it if you see you.
See that if you are not aware that you are not involved in the previous years ago.
A white house carrying each one more than the low level that was there during the time of doing.
And this is because we have seen its disappearance to the important reports on the tickets.
We request the review of tickets that show that ten percent of the ones have been put in on behalf of the two stars and two for the journeys that have shown an amount of fare.
A company of seventies and two on the international journey has shown that one percent of only one percent of the tickets that had an important information including the fare is needed, but sometimes the tickets are getting but it did not show.
Now, if the truth is like that, you give the actual problem with Jane Mwakalebela to be in a country for Uganda.
Most of them gave birth to the important reports to attain Njombe cases, and not correct for the projects of construction.
A percentage of those projects were not present when they were on the plans for procurement of ten percent and six machines for all projects being implemented because the councils they had put other schools involved with the number of classes that was expected to be built for you and be in today water.
Why when it comes to the implementation it is a case to do the end of water if you are not acceptable.
You know what?
