The conference of exchange experiences on the health issues was opened in Arusha town where participants of ten members are cooperation in the health sector in the East African countries.
They are discussing the future of that sector in Africa that was organized by a shortage of teachers, requesting them to be awarded the health and welfare of the community, doctor Hussein Mwinyi is expected to check the development of implementation including the issue of mother and child health as well as Raymond.
To reduce the deaths of young children, together with the availability of good environmental services is among the objectives of Millennium Development Goals which have promised to implement it more than ten thousand Tanzanian shillings.
At the time where some of the countries are still being faced with various health challenges, one of the implementation of implementing some countries in Africa together with its friends from different parts of the world, meet in exchange experiences.
Our children and pregnant women continue to get married.
We will also be.
My
Also, we're very much together if we look for malaria and from this time the person wants to fall in and without what things we are doing to reduce.
But a big thing that it has said, the treatment is good, it is good that our source which is good and can bring success in the health sector then we look at how we can deal with the speed and therefore it's why he has said.
Of Tanzania.
But in this agreement they have a chance in doubt if we will be able to support experts need to support the government which every day comes with a limited budget.
Almighty God has said I think that we cannot stop talking about the problems because of the budget giving them to talk about the late.
Secretary concerning the success of all reasons, we are saying that today the second because of the budget only.
We cannot use Mary means that we will not meet but questions, we will make sure this goals we get in this mother we know what we are doing so that we can do so that we can do so that we can do.
One of the participants in that conference is saying that some of the health projects were unable to make steps due to death.
But it is a must.
Let it be however, even if there are black patches that are there without a must.
These are good and the community of every kind different from Kinyanyiko area, Forte Carlo Ancelotti.
Because there is a reason that there is a problem because the community can I see if you go to Dar es Salaam.
?
There is a pose.
By Ambassador Seif the implementation should be presented to the conference includes the deaths of mother and child living in good health, health and human resources in the health sector and its importance where the recommendations are expected to be taken to the health committee before the members of parliament.
Members countries in this sector include Namibia and Kenya.
Mamboleo Newspaper, Zambia and Zimbabwe from Nigeria are Philemon Solomon.
