Parents have been urged to educate their children so that they can be able to deal with challenges that are facing them including the suppression of the system and changes in science and technology in the debate he will have a report.
The deputy secretary general of the easy office, Mlawi explained that the challenge when he was speaking to students of Mivinjeni Primary School, located in rural areas in Dar es Salaam city where he led women to be easy to visit the school and give a gift of one of the women in the world.
He said the aim of giving those prizes will be able to come out of primary schools not to give birth to the girls so that they can be able to see and identify success and challenges that are facing them.
Those qualifications including gear used to distribute water equipment for drinking water is now cups, diplomas, which are worth one million and fifty shillings not from.
Because we are there?
That is the main way that will enable them to deal with various challenges of life.
Such as well as the speed of change in science and technology.
Dealing with a disaster of AIDS.
And the effects of climate change.
The chairman of the union that the employees through an easy job Fatuma Mwassa, has called on students not to consider the environment of the environment where the teachers of the school, Angela mountains has talked about the challenges facing the activities.
I have been able to see for this week we could also give them to remind them of sin?
There and one girl and to get the truth.
He says that religion will be required to do so.
Each one of us decided to climb with at least being a permit for the destruction that causes the act of area.
How do I come forward?
Truly, I met with a whole chapter, I did not want to meet the Ambassador of Tunduma City to look at the time you are learning, you find this person in the meaning of a woman.
The attempt failed.
We believe this which is the Municipal Council in the villages is facing several challenges including a fence which is a threat to the security of their property and even their lives, it is also facing a challenge of lack of electricity, which is also facing a challenge of lack of electricity, which is in the municipal of Kibaha in the villages is a website that is known.
