
That veteran account, TANESCO was suspended from 19th of 2012.

Few days after the sacking of work of the executive director of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), William Mhando and his colleagues Mrs Robert Kachumu, an agent of the heads of that organization at one of the banks in the country has been denied by state agencies in the country, South Sudan, has been told.
That veteran account (name of the bank and with an account are needed so that they do not affect the ongoing investigations that is being found with more than one billion shillings and now is claimed to be paid by the blessings of the high authorities.
Several news sources have explained that the veteran has been found with billions of money while the source of those income that match the income that match the public servant is a problem.
However, when the previous investigation is being done by the state agencies in the country is going on, on the other side, that was revealed in a great campaign to collect them in the leadership of TANESCO being reduced because the efforts that have been facing them even the parliamentary committee.
The parliamentary committee which some of its members are involved in removing 'Jahazi Concert which has been suspended include the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals and the Parliamentary Committee on public organizations.
Some of the delegates of that committee is mentioned to be made by the secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Eliakim Maswi together with the Minister Professor Sospeter Muhongo with his assistant, George Simbachawene, said that the accused of having a tough stand against what is claimed to be carelessness and embezzlement of TANESCO.
A total of fake phones.
According to the reports that are there, for a long time now, there has been a plot to prepare and make a share of the fake phones "of electricity in the country through different ways.
The investigation that was done by this newspaper and the verification of different media sources within the Ministry of Energy and Minerals together with TANESCO, has revealed that some of the machines that produce electricity in Dar es Salaam city is together with IPTL, Symbion and Agnetta.
That information that are supposed to be noted that after switching off the machines and caused a share of electricity (non-communicable diseases), has made a call to produce electricity production available.
In that call, whose primary school is forced to buy fake phones, sometimes the government gives money for purchase of oil but sometimes the funds are 19,200 shillings from TANESCO, an organization that every month will collect more than 100 billion shillings from its customers.
In the purchase of oil for the purpose of running the machines in order to increase the production of electricity, several issues are taught well to benefit the involved.
The first issue is to be available in what is called "captain a lesson that led to the second plan, is to continue doing the theft on the oil level that has been made for the purpose of starting the involved machines.
That dirty game is alleged to be reported to some of the leaders of TANESCO but there was no action that got taken up until that issue when it reached to the leadership of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
"This issue has been used for a long time now, electricity has been destroyed by low level production so as to expand the needs of electricity production through oil so that TANESCO can buy.
"It is an issue that did not be reported but followed by the management, but approximately three months, just after it was reported they did not happen there for the first time, he promised to take action," explained one news source.
There is evidence of breast cancer is one of the ones that are mentioned to take place inside TANESCO, is being postponed immediately after the process of starting the electricity generation equipment, at Kinyerezi area, Dar es Salaam city.
The machine that will produce electricity by using gas, is mentioned to be a threat to the network of crude oil for TANESCO for the purpose of electricity production using oil.
"Due to the threat of this project, it will be unable to make corrections, they discovered it is a project of 240 megawatts this year, (the Kinyerezi project), will reduce the plan of eating fake phones and producing electricity to oil.
Minister Muhongo said that the project is signed so that the project is signed so as to start a concert, to vote and explained to one of the sessions (minister) being satisfied with that habit, "members of parliament are mentioned to be involved with the leadership of TANESCO who has been suspended.
According to the news just reaching, that member of parliament is alleged to have given an agreement of spreading rumors for the vehicles of TANESCO through its company claiming that his company was given a contract after the contract "Nisubiri" from another company.
But when the nominated member of parliament was faced with those allegations, another member of parliament of opposition camp, Freeman Mbowe said that he is alleged to have the interests and leadership that has been suspended from TANESCO.
According to several news sources, Mbowe, who is the chairperson of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has been mentioned in talks that will be mentioned to go well in order to buy electricity machine that is owned by other investment company in the country for the moment they have been involved in selling electricity at a high price.
Mke Mwema did not succeed to get Mbowe to listen to his details, but one of the leaders in the party's agenda, John Mrema, has told our reporter that he wants to buy that machine is not Mbowe, but he is the Hai District Council.
"Mbowe said that the member of parliament had promised to make sure that the plan is to buy that machine for many days which will not be used to buy electricity which will be used by Hai residents and another amount of electricity will be sold for TANESCO," said Mrema.
The issue of being stopped by the top leadership of TANESCO has shared a lot of feelings while groups of people being removed and there to try to protect that decision, they have been thrown because some of the delegates of that board have been forced to be identified because some of the delegates of that board have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been forced to be identified because some of the board members have been
Mke Mwema should be informed that the ministry of leadership of that ministry was called in Dodoma where it was called to listen, front of parliamentary committees related to TANESCO.
More reports have been found that when we go into the stage, it explained that together with meeting with those committees, the ministry of ministry has requested them to meet with the committee of CCM where our information officer has asked us that they have lost everything in relation to who concern TANESCO and who do not know it and in which ways.
The resignation of Engineer Mhando and his colleagues to come to an amount of three days just after constitutional citizens report to report the groups of the workers of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and their counterparts in the ministry and private institutions of the ministry, who consider the current efforts to look at the ministry and institutions and institutions.
Those efforts are according to various media sources in the government, they have also involved close to some of the chairpersons of the board of organizations and institutions that feel that, in a new environment at the ministry, their employment opportunities are discussed or fail to control conflicts in institutions and organizations.
According to those reports, the network of those groups that joined was running a campaign of the leadership of the ministry on claims that it has been running different things.
Mke Mwema has also been directed that outside the ministry, institutions and organizations, that network is being supported by some members of parliament, others in committees related to the ministry, and that the implementation of the ministry should be presented to parliament next week.
Another argument that is claimed to have been affected by that network as a reason for the need to change the leadership of the ministry is to be the new Minister, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, not a politician, his parliamentary candidate gave him a great opportunity again in the ministry that is mentioned to be rich and destruction of energy and minerals.
Apart from that, Raia Mwema should also be told that other claims are an issue that causes the source of tribalism. Professor Muhongo was coming from Mara province where that is where the secretary general, Elichilia Khamis, although it is known that from one province and now they are doing one office to be a problem.
When he was asked by our citizens about those allegations, at the beginning of the last week, Maswi said he had not have a way to prevent people living in the country.
He said there should be a must, or not to make that, he and the teams where they are building the ministry, they have decided to work so as to bring productivity to the areas they were handed to them.
"President Jakaya Kikwete has been appointed easily so that we need to go here to play.
We have been given an opportunity to implement how to follow me when you go to your home for how many times it mean?
"If you see there is a thoughts like that, you should know that we are doing so that we should never believe in things like electricity, and if you have begun to get rid of our problems in areas like the mines, now they have begun to get rid of our problems in areas like mines," said Maswi.
The permanent secretary who was appointed by President Kikwete to be the deputy secretary general of July last year, to an amount of one year, taking the position that was left by David Jairo who was accused by parliament together with other things, with embezzlement.
In addition, Professor Muhongo, one of the few experts from Geology, has joined the government in the beginning of May this year, after being appointed by President Kikwete first as the member of parliament through 10 positions of the president to elect members of parliament according to the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The organizations that are under the ministry of energy and minerals is the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) whose board chairman is retired, retired prime minister and former head of police, Robert Mboma, his executive director is Engineer Godfrey Mhando.
Others are EWURA, its board chairman, Simon Saso and the chief executive officer while Haruna Masala and the Executive Director of the Rural Electrification (REA), that its Chairperson of the Board of Minerals (Tansort), that its Chairperson of the board is Doctor Leonard Kazoba.
Yamungu Kayandabila, chief executive officer, Engineer Paul Masanja.
The other is STAMICO has said that the chairperson of the board is Ramadhani Kailima Ramadhani, the executive director of Professor Abdul Razaq Badru, that is under the chairmanship of Professor Abdul Njaidi (TPDC) which its chairman is Michael Mnzava with the chief executive officer, Yona Kilumbi.
