That is the only village in the middle of the country.
Brightiles 5, 2014.

Tourism is the sectors that are being mentioned to have a great income and statistics show that, this sector is behind in the mining sector for many years now, tourism experts have been encouraging the small tourism sector and already it seems to grow.
The mountains in Ikhwan, for passengers who use the central railway, is very popular since it is the best player in that railway that was built by the only two years ago.
It is this mountain that is available in the Indian Ocean is the ratio involving a high level and below of Tanzania. Here, for passengers have been informed because in order to climb that mountain, the train will be forced to be removed by two engines.
However, when I was on a way from Mwanza, I got lucky to learn more than Mount Meru and believe that here I could be taken and taken as an attraction of tourism, or put in records for the nation.
It is not true that the journey from Mwanza up to Dar es Salaam, for then it is long, and at the average take place between 14 to 16 hours, the law takes a whole day and more to sit on the seat while in a high speed of most of the buses in the country.

At 12 o'clock in the morning, I was the main bus station in Nyegezi district, in the outskirts of Mwanza City and my ideas which have already prepared for a long journey to be enough in the pocket I was called on how you are marrying.
The modern technology with normal services as well as the fear of high speed I stopped "the number 4," the aim being to control the driver, while when I get the opportunity to control the model that is pleasant in our country, short, international tourism.
Well, it will benefit from a large extent, and even the mountain that had a lot of passengers at the road, Mount Meru Hotel, now is not something again since it has been built well and remain at the normal state.
Since I was in the front line, I heard in the front line, I used to build a lot of friendship with the workers of when you are looking for two drivers, Charles and on the past, the lady of Parliament and the technician of that vehicle, Hamza Mzige.
Food at the afternoon we were at the Manyoni Council, while Charles, the driver and the MC of that bus, has changed the passengers to be food and to build a hotel in the area, it is 10 minutes and insisted that it is good for the passengers to take food and return to their seats ("signifies) ready for a journey.
For sure, at 10 minutes, the vehicle will begin a few minutes later, while we were forced to start serving the Mount Meru Hotel, the workers of the area not to inform Charles to give the history of that area.
Charles on behalf of the video for the video and increase the voice of "microcephaly" and started saying, "our passengers, condolences and journey I think it is good, I give them a little history of this area, there are others not know but I give them those who do not know themselves especially the students."
Until when I was not very happy with this news, I saw it as a problem, Charles Msonde, "the village doesn't know where the village has two major reputation and this is the village that is in the middle of Tanzania.
"The second reputation of this village is that, in the year 1974, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, made them to talk with several beggars and build their camp here, that if you look at the left side, the ones that are inside him are poor people.
"The father of the nation gave these houses and urged the government to attend to you in everything but at the moment, these people don't think these people are served, but these buses are very fast because we have a bad behavior."
The passengers scrambling to be fed a eyes on the left and on the right is the road and brought to those disabled people, "those who had been directed" by the government.
Charles was not back there, but he requested the passengers to check on the right side, because of the roads, saying, "you're looking at on top on the right side of the road, I will see you on top, there is a stone which has points as a person standing.
This statement was pleasing many passengers and with great joy, follow the debate about the important points in the country, that is here is in the country and there is no one when involved accidents?
