
Mombasa is leading in giving birth.
Rebecca Malope with Winnie.
He added that the court of Mombasa is leading in the list of pregnant women who are not in plans as one of the five children of every woman usually schedule were allocated, to pave way of the research.
It is also said that Mombasa people should get medicine for family planning compared to other towns in the country, while among ten women in the country, with non-governmental services, "the ministry of health and the local government, he said.
In large numbers in Mombasa, he said that in Mombasa has a huge number of reproductive health with 29 percent, while having 39 percent, it shows that report.
The Executive Director of NCPD, Doctor LKibuko has said that the health experts have urged the government of Mombasa to set aside money so as to help in the planning of family planning and that the parliament of Ukraine has also been entertaining people on issues of family planning.
A very important issues yesterday, experts and analysts have admitted the workshop to discuss these issues related to the local government, he warned those leaders that the development and their plans are in danger if the number of people will continue to increase.
That director also said lack of sponsorship on family planning is among the source of that number to increase after health workers failed to provide those services.
"The use of drug abuse in the local government of Mombasa has reduced up to 27 percent compared to the national level with 39 percent," said Doctor Kibiga.
He added, "the number of people has also increased in this area compared to other areas in the country, while 48 children in every woman is average compared to the national exams while 46 are giving challenges."
The Deputy Director of Communications Science and CPD, Miss Lucy Msoffe was awarded the traditional foods with a bomb.
A habit of people taking the responsibility of family planning to agree and be satisfied with their husbands is another issue that has resulted to family planning.
The birth of the deputy governor, Hazel Katoma, said that many children's birth without a plan has increased in the number of youths who do not have work.
"Family planning is good to be given a lesson or front as one way to reduce the number of people and to make for many years of the year 2030," he said.
