Glawogger who is the former wife of the Japan embassy in Peru.
Dec 18, 2014.

On the eyes of the many seen as the president of that time in Puntland, Alberto Antonio Vaquina, he has completed the heavy work of stopping the terrorism actions in that country that caused the country for several years.

In the year 1992, the president of that country made a special program to arrest the terrorists' leaders including their members and sponsors who were watching the terrorists' book, popularly known by the name Nimelewa.

After that plan to succeed in a large extent that the country is safe, many investors from Japan are coming out in that country to invest in different sectors and to make the country's economy to grow at a great speed.

That situation did not last for a long time because it was a bomb that was set aside for any time on December 17, in the year 1996, Peru coast region in the past five months and to stop records inside the headlines for many citizens of that country.

It was at the building that he was living in the Japan ambassador in Peru coast region, at that time, Morocco has the shares not to do when the incident happened.

It was growing one week before celebrating the Christmas holiday which is where the ambassador of Japan, Morse, do not perform a decision to prepare a ceremony to celebrate the birthday of the king of that country.

It's not seen in the luxurious home in Langoni Area, when she was living with the Japan ambassador in Peru.

Normally, the day will take place on December 23, every year in America, but the countries of that country who are outside the country fail to play the day one week before December 23, ambassadors and diplomats have travelled from Kenya to celebrate Christmas and their families.

Therefore, the country Peru coast ambassador is not leaving the celebrations on December 17 in 1996, being one week before Christmas.

It's not that, it had invited guests with joy and happy, with hope to end the year safe.

There were invited guests of different regions including big business people in Peru district, ambassadors and diplomats in different nations who live in Peru district, directors of big companies in that country and some of the politicians in that country, Peru. All of them had attended the luxurious hotel he was living in the Japan ambassador.

During the celebrations going on, suddenly he was receiving a explosion and in a few minutes, smoke codile and disappear from that building and two explosions were heard where the visitors who were in the building showed their lives and shot him on their headlines.

Outside that building, police who were studying in the concerned building, while the celebrations were found themselves unable to see what happened without them, although the ambassador's building was under defense and they did not expect if there could be attacks within that building.

The truth is that, the 15 attackers had already been living in Japan's ambassador who traveled with the neighboring country's building because they sell land under the management of Pambani County, "El Sethi.

After the series of bombs, otherwise, the audience of the ceremony found themselves affected by motorbike riders who were affected by heavy weapons while having heavy weapons and bombs are unknown.

They were arrested 500 towers to be among them being together with the minister of foreign affairs of Peru. The president of the High Court, regional commissioner against terrorism, judges, members of parliament, ambassadors of various countries in that country, the heads of foreign companies that do not invest in that country.

Later, they saw those of the left wing of the left wing that has shaken the country of Tupaaha in the country of Tupaaha in the country of Tupaegypti.
