
Kinana is now vying for ministers Chibu and Doctor Seif May 22, 2014.

The executive committee of the Revolutionary Party (CC) CCM) is expected to put blood to the president's appointment (President) in order to arrest some of the ministers who have failed to bring him, "those senior officials to deal with great problems that involve citizens, including farmers, Almighty God, has been told.
The executive committee of CCM is expected to take that step after the secretary general of that party, Abdulrahman Kinana, presented a report of his tour to the provinces where his delegation had witnessed the understanding of some ministries including agriculture, food, and health.
However, before the session of the executive committee organized and being a few days just after Kinana was involved with one of the party leaders of FN Party led in Tabora province, the directors of Ministry of Health, Food and Cooperatives and those of the Ministry of Health, have met with special needs in the provinces before the executive committee started to save their ministers.
The situation of "fighting and with approximately three months have passed since the end of the 37 year celebrations of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mbeya Province, where the party's chairperson, Jakaya Kikwete has given blood to arrest the ministers" cargo. "
In switching off the pressure to arrest those ministers, using those commemorations, President Kikwete said that the executive committee will continue to follow up on the instructions of ministers "cargo") and if there is no development, then it can decide the authority's authority to take action against the party.
It was in Tabora province when he was on his tour in Tabora province, Kinana was faced with a cry for farmers of tobacco in that province, which is caused by being carried out the debts from debts that resulted from corruption of non-communicable diseases and leaders of parties for farmers of that product.
Among those alleged to cause that situation, one of the farmers from being beaten in 283 billion shillings, that they will sell through the sales of discrimination is the chairman of CCM of Tabora Province, Hassan Mwinyi, and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, Christopher Chihira.
That chairman of CCM is also the chairperson of the farmers' council of Tumbatu said that the accused of allowing the corruption of billions of shillings, while the party was rumored to be 64% of money for farmers of tobacco in the last season.
And Minister Chihira is alleged to assume the resolutions taken between him by the stakeholders of tobacco in Tabora province, when the minister met them in a special session of January this year, which together with other things, aimed to look for a permanent solution about the cry for all the years from farmers of tobacco.
2283 billion shillings, according to the Tabora Provincial Commissioner Fatuma Mwassa, that are supposed to be paid by those farmers of discrimination because they benefited from the loan from CRDB and NMB Bank which have caused small scale farmers of discrimination through their primary parties through the input of agriculture.
Those directors were shocked when they were shocked by the executives, sessions in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives together with the Ministry of Health, have been done by senior directors who have gone to areas where the tour of Kinana has passed so as to make corrections on work.
The reports of the sure that President Mwema has shown that the senior executive officer of the Ministry of Health, is heading to Tabora province where Kinana visited the Kitete Referral Hospital in Tabora province and found a renovation of the hospital together with the construction of the institute of assistant registrars (Tazara), which has been directed.
However, when the senior executive in Tabora province explained that the contractor who was given the responsibility for three years now, who was mentioned by the name Humprey Ngowi has come back to work, more reports indicate that the leadership of Ministry of Health is alleged to provide all the contract for construction projects and renovation of health infrastructure in Tabora province to approximately three years the projects were directed without completion and therefore causing a huge nuisance to citizens.
That step has come after Kinana as in Tabora to put open that "Nakula Uzi," by the Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Seif Rashid and his secretary general, Doctor Charles Pallidum and just after going back to Dar es Salaam.
The Provincial Commissioner of Tabora, Mwasa has confirmed that the contractor started again for the renovation of that hospital together with the construction of the hospital together with the construction of the hospital and the construction of the university's construction (Tazara), that was been directed by the contractor for three years.
More information is saying that the renovation of the hospital did not fail to provide its services to success and caused the affliction of patients.
The statement of Nape on his side, the secretary of ideology and propagation of the executive committee of the Revolutionary Party, Nape Nnauye was asked if they will sign the executive committee of the party to advise President Kikwete to change, "all of the tour will be presented to the executive committee, they will give them and decided to take action, our work we have seen."
