NHIF is a farm.
MTVs, 2015.

Who he said that socialism has died from socialism and he is supposed to confirm that you ask and learn about the philosophy that started the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) - and maybe the neighboring countries.
I don't like to witness the implementation of political politics here in Tanzania, but I know there was a district farms where citizens destroy the community together with downloading the ones who gets hard, and another one who depends on work, and sometimes it was a system that does not pollute the environment so as to evade a strong winds.
The effects of farming for this system in the land farm was those who were forced to stop their efforts and work with the end of the last long time, "why do I register myself when I don't know how I will be satisfied with my efforts," he asked me.
Unfortunately, socialism is not to put our strength such as the cooperatives, but our money according to NHIF law, employees are forced to have an amount of three percent of the income to contribute to the fund, although there is no quality or extra time to contribute to the fund.
The concept of the health insurance fund has been built in a foundation of helping children, that is one community of those who don't have and those who are contribute to the fund according to the ability of each one, so as to deal with a disaster of diseases.
If it was in agriculture, the era of cooperatives, not easy to join the health insurance fund in accordance with the law and need to start the fund every civil servant will be a member, he will put up the fund every time the government has contributed to the fund and it is not allowed.
On the occurrence of this fund, it is only same as tax, as a scholar, a scholar who passed the tax payment of contributing to health services that were being able without consent.
It is this structure of the fund that is the main reason to emerge with complaints against the fund from different people to an extent of involving the employees of the University of Dar es Salaam through their union of teachers of that college, Ukunguala, last week to urge the leaders of that fund to listen and answer the complaints.
That meeting that took place on Friday of February 28, Nkingwa, has helped a lot to remove the gap of information from they they are from that fund from that university.
It is surprising then that in the resolutions passed at the end of the meeting, the fund was requested to build a system of giving information and education to its members, they were required to use the most communication services for this time including social media networks.
Likewise, the fund was to talk about the system of meeting with members and its stakeholders every time in meetings like the one and the employees of the University of Dar es Salaam so as to listen to the problems and answer the questions of members.
Basically, during the preparations, the employees of the University of Dar es Salaam got a lot to the message of the leadership of the fund and already there was a thought of having an explanation that if the instructions that are provided will not be forced to leave, then employees should start a strategic plan through legal efforts or a political effort.
However, the leadership of NHIF has reached in the school, he was very disturbing and at the end of the sitting on one person, the chairperson of Upewe Promotion, Professor Kitila Mkumbo, confessed that he has begun to announce the support of socialism of NHIF.
Some of us are still getting tired with maybe because they have not ever lived for socialism.
However, I promise that one of the heads of this country and institutions including those who use the truth, "do not be connected with NHIF, they will contribute to having status, equivalent to a careless spender.
I understood that in a country it is that there are people, professionally as well as policies, it's very fast to create a system and their kind of life, they are not involved.
Her example is as the senior officials of the Ministry of Education who can be able to create a system and education strategies that are not seen.
When I come back to the topic, after the opening, the session started on Doctor John Juffali, the secretary general of CCM, reading the complaints of workers.
Among the complaints are some being forced to join NHIF when they have already have another membership cards once for one household to the husband and all his wife to employees in the public sector, a blockade that is expected to do the children's children or poor services.
Basically some of the issues were on the ability of those leaders including the issue of the need to be a member and to be able to contribute to the fund without being given a report.
