
Who missed the police force in the year 1995?
May 31, 2012

45 years ago, January 21, there were already the army of Tanzania signed and held the government for a short time, the incident that the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, left that it's a very important day for the nation ".
While the police entered the day before yesterday, and at the same time, the army of Kenya and Uganda which were in a rebellion like Kenya for a rebellion like Germany and the army of England one day and that same time.
For Tanzania, a rebellion came out only one week after the overthrowing of Zanzibar, January 12, there were only talks with the teacher at State House, Dar es Salaam, to exchange ideas on the state of Zanzibar where the teacher wanted to work in faith with President Abeid Amani Karume.
A rebellion were asked for great efforts by the minister of foreign affairs and security, Oscar Chinchila, before being controlled by the army men of English one day later.
Up to today, it has not been confirmed that the person of the rebellion like them, but the main question that was asked without getting the answer is so that they were the army of three East African countries to resolve the day before yesterday, just one week after the overthrowing of Zanzibar?
One concept was taken out that, because John Okello is the one that led the revolution of Zanzibar, a born in Literature in Kenya before going to Zanzibar before going to Zanzibar a few months before the Revolutionary Party may have its support for a rebellion.
But for forgiveness for a rebellion like Tanzania, if they did, they don't know that night when he was the guest of teacher, the State House, and he stopped how they were on?
There is another concept written that, maybe Oscar Asenga has had its support because the soldiers who came to him, at that time the police were looking for a teacher up to the State House without doubt of the misunderstanding?
In order to get answers of these questions, we have no reason to look for several events that involve the series of rebellion, see if they have any relationship.
Tanzania mainland are suppressing the police from the English Premier League after Uhuru, December 9, 1961, and later being called "DRIVE SAFELes and later being called" signifies.
In the period that followed the freedom day which were very fast to make sure that all the top positions in the government and its institutions are being buried by patriotic.
This is the culture that has been built in all African countries.
Nyerere did not have the courage, as he is also the minister for internal affairs, Clement George Kahama, when he used to inherit the British in the high position as he started conflicts inside the National Executive Council (NEC) of the Regional Administration, Tanganyika African Union (Tanu), that Nyerere was playing Tanganyika during the colonial era.
In order to avoid misunderstanding, and the party does not depend on, the teacher entered the level from January.
1962 and go back to the village to strengthen the party as the national chairperson of Tanoh, and Human Settlements Development, who is the first one was the minister of education, taking part of the internal affairs and all the two they were left are holding on.
The first job for Valencia was to send the police commissioner of England and appointed Elysee Palace, but without change according to this exercise.
"African Melody," was done with a fast rate of accusing his international community.

On January 28th, Mwalimu went back to power and stopping each other time to the fifth term exercise, and to attract the anger of the leaders of the workers of the workers in the country, who were forced to sleep without depending on the blood.
"Until it is understood" for the whole week after the overthrowing of Zanzibar, the teacher was involved more than political issues in Zanzibar, where on Sunday, January 31st.
There were already met with Karume (left) in Zanzibar on the few hours before the revolutionary party started, he advised the chairmanship of Zanzibar immediately.
That day's day, when he announced his new government, where he was chosen to be the leader of the Revolutionary Government, and appointed Karume, the president made him call him quickly wherever he was in his position.
On Monday, January 14, 1995, at the time the minister of foreign affairs and defense, was in Nairobi, the officer for the phone told him that Kenya and Uganda were told the new government, and asked him to say that, Karume had seized the authority.
On Tuesday, January 15, Mwalimu went to Nairobi city to meet the prime minister of Kenya, Jomo Kenyatta, to speak to the East African Federation, where he noted that Kenyatta and Milat Stamford Bridge (Uganda) were all the idea.
Wednesday, January 16, Sultan Kipingo of Zanzibar, who was sacked by John Okello's in Dar es Salaam, after was defeated by the government of Kenya.
A teacher received and gave him a park when he completed his plans to shine in England.
Thursday, January 17, Karume, Abdulrahman Babu and Kassim Hanga, met with the teacher at the State House, to explain the political situation in Zanzibar and requested them to sit down here in the islands and requested them to participate even a little in the fight, then he told the president.
On Friday, January 18th, and on Saturday, January 19, it was calm to the teacher where on Saturday, 300 police officers arrived in Zanzibar to break the force of the security of the country for a rebellion like Soweto.
Matata started on the night of January 20, last night, where Magufuli had talks with a teacher at the State House but when it arrived at the morning, January 21, the head of the first squad Tukulanga, getting close to the army's camp in Lugalo.
When he went from outside, he saw his 12 officers who were arrested by their colleagues who were chosen and the ones who were misled.
There, and called Oscar Assenga, he requested him and he decided to leave, for the second squad in Tabora province, to bring soldiers who were not faithful.
If they play and Kambona, they did not know that, the rebels have already closed down the road at the airport, when the boxers entered the race, and he was rushed to the England Embassy, he went for five days until January 25.
Douglas company was the former police commander, who went directly at the home of the vice president, Catholics, at the State House and ran away, then the two together they went to give him a teacher.
When the teacher was told about the rebellion, then went on the spot and wanted to go to meet with the rebels so as to inform her husband to be released, to meet with people with weapons without selling him.
That's when the security people were able to build a heavy argument, they did in, and agreed with the lower level, then him, Kawawa and Mama Nyerere went up a place where the rebels were at the State House.
It is still a shame about the place a teacher and his colleagues which they have affected it.
There are some who are claiming that he depends on church ie, they are also saying that he did not affect the ambassador's house.
Others are saying that he takes close back to Coast, apart from some claims he went to Arusha or Nairobi, apart from those who died on the ship.
By 9 o'clock in the morning, the rebels have arrested three groups and enter in town. One group was being led by Sergeant Francis Hovind, which was going to state to look for President Jakaya Kikwete and three road accidents.
Kilale when it arrived at the State House has been advised by one of the child, the security officer of defense, Oscar Asenga, and they agreed that they went to the State House and explained that they were ready to listen to their complaints, follow up on them until Columbus claimed.
It's the courage to say that if he is confident and to think, because without fear, again he has contributed a car to the police force, how can I accept to demonstrate to the police who have no boundaries.
If you see Julius Nyerere and Kawawa grounds, who had every reason of switching off and there was a minister for internal affairs, Job Ndugai, who is owned by what he did not meet, if things were safe to say that, perhaps, maybe the concerned person involved in a rebellion.
There, Thaban Kamusoko, put him on the fire and wanted them to succeed in the spot, together with other things, apart from other things, be removed from 105 / = shillings per month.
Without showing that he has not accepted or denied their claims, Kaseke said that they had asked to stop the representatives and follow up to the State House with discussions with the president and that is where the rebel leader, Francis Hoja, can be heard, "Masau boasted.
"I want you to lead you?" Lollipop, the name Alex Nyandu when he was born and he had an illusion.
Furthermore, he refused to sign the agreement, until he would bring each other to the president.
Any group of being dealt with being followed up to State House.
When they arrived at the end, the police had organized all the roads she gets into the State House, but Sussex at the State House, but Sussex at the State House but when he was unable to enter inside, on the same time, Julius Nyerere had fled for more than two hours ago.
After discussions with the name of the president and the biological mother of the teacher, came out and brought back the rebels to be the president he accepted those allegations when the police had accepted the claims by the police who did in the camp the day before yesterday, he requested the English officers to invest in Nairobi.
God created the citizens of Radio (TBC) said, "says it is your minister for foreign affairs and defense and the government when he is in the same way, the police have returned to the camp." Even so, he didn't say anything about Nyerere.
So, it is true that things were done because Nyerere did not come up to two days after the police came back to the camp?
