But I would like to follow me because I remember in Sokoine, there should be his first product of a hole in doing the beauties in Dar es Salaam city.
Do not have the integrity of us.
And I have also written the news about alay, he removed him in the past that he felt it has been infected with a lot of own kind, if we want jokes by the late Sokoine, Nancy Katani and after the third, how many gods are there.
People are many.
When they started he told me, he doesn't know her for them and all goats which poured.
He says first he said to know what is going to go as because my wife is in the middle is already the party will be careful.
You cannot listen to him again that he said by her husband to call him and to reach it, it has also said.
Since he was a person he did with him.
You know he has retired from that step.
For sure to think that in his activities tomorrow, let us start going back to India it is not only for we to use it.
It's not me that Tanzanians at the time he is proud of the late in Sokoine on how he is heading to the matter of the late Adam with bones presumed to be just something that I think she was fouled at that time when you are calling you shortly.
And I have been saying that he is supposed to be very fast to say that then do not wait because he was well prepared by the teachers when it gave you an order.
They were left with the truth that peace and destruction is just a time when it had no name to be taken to drinking water.
In Batuli, apart from the lives and life, the greeting of how to meet the economy anywhere, when they see the money they have been able to give them an opportunity for the agricultural houses to pray for you.
If you go to Grind.
If you are doing, he was a child but he took action.
Deputy Head of the university.
The deputy secretary general, you know that she has not been given, he would have sent the money that he could not have poles because of that agent, it is not only one but the phone asked me.
When they talk about tough action I made mistakes will be availed to people on the board of my center I had not seen him, the human being did not see that, when the human being led by giving bribery at the same time.
In the community.
It's just some of them to live with that which he says was a must for him to talk about what they believe in the community, but we still remember that even so, we remember them, we remember it is true to do good things.
I love you.
