
Five have made a contract of defense in the year.
By Chris Brown.
Security has denied its coach Robert five, a new contract of one year.
It is a step that will take a total of two seasons which he will make for that coach, who was given a lot and when he was forced after his contract will be completed at the end of December last year, up to three.
While confirming the discovery of the five contract, Joe Bribian, who is the executive officer of defense of the Stars said this was an agreement that was adopted by both sides on Tuesday.
"Management of defense has extended the new contract with the expectations that he will lead youths to end the second position in the premier league this season, although the squad made them in the second position in the last year, but if the squad made them in the second position in last year, it is our hope that five has the ability to register more better results," said Bryne.
Under his coaching, five received up the cost of the army soldiers of the Stars that they received a total of 58 points while the gap of 20 points is the one among them and Gor Mahia who had qualified for the championship of that crown.
"The hopes of defense of the Stars to contest for this season is because we have no pressure to deal with a big and popular squad, so we will understand the knowledge of the star players who have made a good coach to support its efforts after believing the size of the interest," said Bribery.
Although they were expected to give a big competition in its efforts to attract Gor Mahia FC championship in the last season, defense forces lost the ones who are not involved in the second phase of the second term.
In addition, those four times of the crown Kekeletse Phoofolo on the quarter-finals of contesting for the semi-finals before Sony Sugar will get to the semi-finals of the former TV tournament.
"We have a surprise of looking for a championship of several Clubs this year because the difficulty of the situation that deals with defense of this season was the real value of this maturity and proper care of their lives in accordance with the competitive challenges which they missed them," he said.
