Cardinal Pengo, closed down.
21st of 21, 2013.

The statement by the Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Dar es Salaam, his Eminence Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, said that the government has been unable to implement its responsibilities, laziness of one of its results were killing of shot by the father of the church, Evarista us Mushi, has prompted conflict of conflict in the government of the church, Evarista us Mushi, has prompted conflict of conflict in order among the senior officials in the government, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, has been told.
According to several news sources, some of the senior officials have been forced to discuss the statement, as well as testing the effects or its benefits in the ongoing operation of looking for those involved in the incident.
The step by the officers have taken place several hours after Pengo, speaking to the press and Good Citizen of Sedoyeka, that there is a result of those officers.
It has been revealed that there are some of the reports that were not ongoing in the concerned area, big officials and senior officials of security issues (they were not supposed to take action against bad symptoms but they did not be able to take action against them, "explained our news source.
In his talks with the journalists about the incident of the killing of father Evarista us Mushi of the St Joseph Warioba Area, Unguja, Zanzibar, Pengo, gave an explanation that the killing of some people were supporting some of the people who attended the launch of the Kidney Day.
During the talks that took place in Dar es Salaam city, Pengo said, we need to grace the name of the Almighty God) so as to continue there, we need peace and talk about the truth, and if our one he will walk, it is the responsibility to each other that, he was walking, "he told the nation into poverty."
According to the explanation of Pengo, the murderers had been able to implement that brutal act due to carelessness and weaknesses of the dollar by being unable to study at times, because the murderers had already brought leaflets that shows that intention earlier.
"People are saying that the musical group in Zanzibar is a religious group, but makes a button to ensure that until now, it is clear that until now, it is clear that until now it is clear that the security of our nation can say you have no information," explained Pengo.
The burial of Father Mushi.
Beka Mushi that was killed by being shot on Sunday morning while being attacked from his car in order to lead the service of Beauts' church in Minara Church, Unguja City, that was buried on Wednesday last week in the islands.
The burial is taking place on Wednesday evening at Kitope village, North B, Unguja were led by the assistant bishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Dar es Salaam, Zekij.
But before the time of the funeral of the funeral, Cardinal Pengo, will lead a service of beating them for the deceased together with praying for the nation that will take place at the Catholic church of St Joseph, Dar es Salaam city.

View by President Kikwete.

Already President Jakaya Kikwete through the Director of Communication at State House in Dar es Salaam, has explained his disappointment with the incident and promised his government to look for all those involved and take legal action.

However, the statement by Kikwete through the directors is being mentioned by some of the religious leaders in the country to be normal and it has begun to take their promise he made during the time he made during Christmas celebrations last year and he would end injured.
But it's not the only person who had survived, instead of preventing some of the religious leaders in the country, has made Sheikh Fadhil Suleiman ', who is the chief secretary of Zanzibar, who attacked them.
However, in another step, the government of Zanzibar president Doctor Ali Mohammed Shein, has said that as it is of the government of the United Republic, has promised to look for those involved and take action against them.
