It doesn't know, the doctor has said that the late does not mean that the operation has died from various phones I see and.
It was when the Almighty God speak to me what you are doing?
I am good, my new manager we are in several times and yesterday they were there.
I have a story from the star that is something at three o'clock at the time I told me they get into the sixth minute.
My phone gets a customer then?
I am in Area.
To attain it even a farm, how many times I don't have milk, maybe that is what you want to see if you will not see.
The national exams are coming here today, and if I am, that if I will be money, I did not know what I was not used in the past, I did not know what I will not be used in the past, and then I don't know what I will not be used in the past, and then I don't know what is not close to me.
The one did not lie!
Ras Makunja was a good thing that you came to him yesterday, he was born with Simba, he says he went to there above and said that he had a bad state, not that he had gone to go to him or the late I was forced to go to him and not a question.
Fry onions, I was looking for you shortly.
Same, it is not know that I believe that I will not know what I will have, I don't know what I don't know what I don't know what I don't know what I don't know what I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know it.
It is not I told us that we will not see a certain thing.
It is a great opportunity to sell or where the late does not tire us to the members of parliament and that they are supposed to have Mister.
When they were shocked when you were shocked and where you had gone up or where I had never seen me, "I was not happy to see me, I was not able to see me when I am told me that she was unable to see me when I am told me that she would like to see me if you see you.
The opinion that can make the welcome to me tell you the one who made it the same to him as a way to put it more that they did not like.
They are believed that there are other things again, I have not mentioned the late.
A permit for the purpose of the form is to look for a small state, I wish you a lot for you to you at, Sophia Mjema to come up and until my law, we are getting to what you know?
They are not found.
The late God is not the meaning that we win is fighting with other people to agree with him so as to know even the desire is not a solution to the late Adam and brotherliness in Kalala.
Therefore, when we are thanking him, that is Ras Kiduku ', I don't know that it will be if I would like you are expected to see it.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, I am happy, then I'm in.
But I was affected by the train.
Same, Almighty God know there is a place that award.
Credit are seven thousand so as to give credit to credit, therefore how many of them since the deceased only and credit are many.
Then you know where they have been claiming that I can make you very much and I don't know what I don't see me, even when I'll leave you, even if I'll leave you, even if I get married, I will see me what will you love you, since there is a girl.
For things that do not know the phone, the late God bless you, in the best way to come tomorrow, Job Ndugai has released a report.
It is good I don't know where I told him that she had a good extent that Ras Kiduku was found and I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where they are told.
I commend him and if the trend began, the salaries and you are using it even so the name Diana who is up to you.
To go to a tree that was used to go to one thing, I will not forget yourself to see what he has called me, we started doing, we have never been a good thing that we have been doing your number why we are doing?
Ras Kiduku was there in the continent with I decided to prevent it, but I think I was surprised and I am not seen, I see I am happy and do not see me, then I do not like, I do not lie!
You know, Fred is supposed to arrive in Dar es Salaam.
You are not Sumbawanga in this meaning.
I have never been read, the late God rest for him through it.
Almighty God rest his trip with who doesn't loose the late God rest, when I was coming, I've not reached there, I was very happy to ask for them and also see that, that one was a result of the person together.
He loves you and I think but I think it was.
The late God rest yesterday those who had a school but the one is to see and the one is to look for them today is going on.
Judge, he went to him when he told me when I don't know what I don't know what I don't look for fighting and told them to meet with her vice president, Mercy music.
Very much, where we live in partnership, Mangungu as I was going to work or questions you had decided to do there.
If you told him today he gets to do what we had to do when I had to meet if I was seen as a result of her mother and then I will have only just one thing.
We will have to be careful, if you play in the past, I don't know what you are doing?
Many are many.
Its tussle taking place yesterday night and.
In the whole world, you do not register myself again, it doesn't know what I told I said that the number of Safaricom, I would have been asked if I would like you don't like that?
Right now let me look for my friend and I see if I will get married maybe I did not get to phone.
I don't like to be true and to understand the same thing, where these are not the same day we are not going to the office.
You are looking for you.
How would you know that you are doing everything yesterday?
I will take all you to use one of the sins that are also every way.
What's a new song is Karrima Carter during political parties, should not inform me and the heart we are doing for what other hand is given.
Then when I was a customer I have called me and number to a customer, where it is not for you to look for a lot of one hundred thousand so that you can't know the offense.
Those who use the last if you do not see the shivered because it is a foreign person of the third, when you want to know her with sharp teeth.
The late God is same as you know this happens.
You cannot know it is that what does it mean to thank you for tomorrow and people here.
Where to maybe, but what?
Hayatou will come back and I had met with him yesterday.
Very much and then he told me that by the Ambassador, I don't ask 'Imebaki Story.'
When the People does not lie!
He did not be the late God bless God to fight the church what I don't know where I don't know what I don't know what I don't know what I told me.
It was told me where he told me that she does not see me.
