
To oppose the constitution of the public, it is to oppose democracy and not praising God, 19-19.

The accusations that were given by Samuel Sitta against the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and that I have decided to talk time in the previous edition of this newspaper, they have made them to reflect on information about the challenges that are involved in the journey towards the general elections of the president and members of parliament by the year 2015.

After listening to him, I was satisfied that there is a need to do a briefing, clarification and the defense of the ideology of CHADEMA in order to be noted.
"The issue or the idea that came out is" 1, so as to insisted on its political teachings, economically, community and otherwise.

Each one or a argument of that kind will be going back as "mystery" (birthday) of CHADEMA is the constitution of CHADEMA in the year 2006, manifesto of elections, registration documents, and also the electronic documents, because of various speech of the party leaders.

And today, in order to show the truth that Samuel Sitta who are opposing the "public," those of democracy and antibes, have decided to do a briefing, a clarification and the defense of "mystery" (birthday) of CHADEMA.

"CHADEMA we believe and should know that" the elected president, to form the administration of leading the country, he doesn't show the authority of Public Service and then used the authority to defend personal interests instead of the interests of the public.

Therefore, the philosophy of 'strength and the public authority is the same way to change the thoughts and the leadership that supports the public, so as to bring up new thoughts and to put the leadership that will be owned by the public through free and human rights "(the year 2006), article 36 and 37.

In the documents of CHADEMA, it is supposed to be given, "it is supposed to be given if it's not the public service" (Democratic's Power Breakfast program) or "thank the nation's strength" (Democratic Movement).

CHADEMA is a administration system that affect the public energy.

Previously all of all, I would like to put forth in the teachings of CHADEMA concerning them.
"It is beneficial to the public resources" do not have any difference with the teachings offered by the secondary teachers and students of our universities to teach them to of for example, "said it is the public service"
"A member of parliament has a citizen to have a citizen of secondary education and the university teachers', as it was published by the Tanzania Education Institution in the year 2002 regarding the decision of the public," it has been discussed in 11 and 12 issues from the age of 45 to 51.

In a certain way, the Institute of Education in Tanzania, secondary school teachers and VETA college students are working in spreading the ideology of CHADEMA. In my opinion, this is the reason that made CHADEMA to get married when you are not in his recent politics.

This view is being supported by the following of CHADEMA, secondary teachers, students from universities and their students have agreed to follow the following, "the word" democracy "is due to two words that are in the Kigambini bridge," that the second word "
"Chama Cha Mapinduzi has noted that administration system that affect the public property," the constitution of CHADEMA (2006) has mentioned the open words, "energy and public authorities (the United Republic of Power)" in the 31st minute.

In today's world, democracy has its decision of many through their representatives who have gone directly and get them in the decisions such as parliament and the council of councilors, but it's not therefore, democracy has the decision of many through their representatives who have been chosen by the citizens through the circulation of one candidate who has been appointed by the representative to be elected by the citizens.

For example, the president is being elected directly by the citizens and then he had appointed ministers, judges, and other public servants because his appointment is being counted at the elections that was done by the citizens through the first round through the support of the president.

A person who was chosen by one person can be responsible directly to someone who decides or be responsible through the circulation of a person who engaged to him through the representative of someone who defected or all together.

Likewise, the person who was appointed is supposed to be responsible directly to the person who had appointed him or be responsible in the circulation of a person who had appointed him through the representative of a person who had appointed him or all together with a group of words, "the Democratic leadership in accordance with human resource ethics" shows relationship that are supposed to be involved between illegal immigrants.

In this activity, which did this view of CHADEMA, the president is responsible for parliament and the voters, because the parliament and the voters will be able to play against them through the opinion polls so as to inherit the power (Power Pool Education Through Progressive Domestic Resource Mobilization.

Now the parliament is the one with those authorities.
This is the only way to retire from BADEA.

This is the one that is followed by the Constitution of CHADEMA (2006) where it's said, the philosophy of "strength and the management is the same way to change the thoughts and to put the leadership that will affect the public through free and rights" (the year 2006, article 3( 7).

This view of CHADEMA is contrary to the view of the ideology of ideologies.
In the system of Political Parties, the president is elected to form the administration of leading the country means it should be discriminated, they visited the Public Service Week and then used the authority to defend private interests instead of the interests of the public.

However, the constitution of CHADEMA is looking into this matter through the creation of constitutional changes, "CHADEMA believe and recognize that" the elected president, to form the government's administration and then used the authority to defend personal interests instead of the interests of the public (constitution), article 3( 6).

Accordance with the conclusion of general, we are very professionally and we said that "Success is self sustainability," you know what will make the decisions by the democratic system when you missed the decisions and actions of praising him.

And contrary to it is true that you know that, as the extent of decisions by your democratic action, you will make decisions and legal action is spreading in the criminal acts, it is a habit of preventing themselves as a problem without caring that they are mental.

For example, the citizens have decided to pass through the box for votes that the education and health services will be given like "the benefits of the party and eventually make sure that the health and health services are offered like, the strength and public authority is to oppose democracy and not praising God.
