The government has said that it is still getting a full report that can be dealt with in Nzega town and that he instructed the provincial commissioner of Tabora to ensure that they are following up the issue so as to be taken.
That has been noted today in parliament in Dodoma after the member of parliament for Nzega in the southern region.
Asking for permission to be the deputy speaker of the parliament there will be a servant in the parliamentary law, I see the small regulations and the second on the night before today.
In the European Champions League.
It comes a fire.
And bullied.
Some of the shops.
Those citizens for a period of five years.
They have been paid for tax.
And this institution has been unable to give services to the citizens of Nzega town.
I was supposed to honorable members of parliament to discuss together.
Where a citizen is fulfilling his responsibility.
Legal action of paying services at the government institutions.
And the government institution is unable to give that citizen a service and an event of this way in Nzega market not to be the first.
It is legal for those citizens to continue providing these funds to pay the government when the government does not have the ability to give services to those citizens after the guide was taken, he clarified and wanted the minister in the office of the prime minister, policies, and teachers (Jenista Mhagama, to give a clarification of the government, then it has brought about.
He is saying that it is an emergency for reasons in Nzega town.
It comes a fire.
And it has brought up his motion in accordance with the regulations of email and seven.
The regulations of red and seven are the members of parliament.
I do not be able to be read by your rules and.
Where the sixth and eight regulations is able to put a total requirements about an emergency issue.
Now so that I am able to enjoy the counting, it is an emergency must make all these things that are present at least.
They can be taxed.
One of those issues are normal and.
Third time.
Which is it?
Its effects are clean and it can come from any time which happened on that day, and it has brought up without delay or not there will be an opportunity to discuss several days in a normal way.
Addressing the issues of parliament.
But you read it too.
Shame, the small regulations of as FGM?
The first and second on the second is also looking for other terms, honorable members of parliament depends on him because it has said, this issue happened yesterday night.
Mshanga has mentioned nine o'clock in his advice is that we don't recognize the government right to give information if it gives the information about this matter because all the members of parliament even if these funds will also educate them about this issue, therefore, an issue is legal.
Citizens.
Ras Kiduku was forced to pay for a service that can't benefit and has mentioned the main service in that Honorable.
Office of the prime minister, I request that you help us to help him if you give you the report, but also there is a question that will be asked if that will also be given this report and we have received it as the government here but also.
Ras Kiduku was in all provinces in the country, we have heads of provinces as our chairpersons of defense and security committees and we believe that the head of the province will have a good report.
But the foundation stone which Honorable the member of parliament in the country has wanted to know and to know what is required to make sure that what is required to make sure that what is required to make sure that what is required to make sure that what is required to make sure that there are many areas so that there are many people.
Fire will help as to fulfill the plans they have been given, the government will give you a report from them, the head of that province but they dispose it without a report in Nzega District and give a report from the parliament in Dodoma town.
Peter Msami a citizen.
