
NMB launches a tennis team a national team.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

I was published (03 / 2016.

The NMB Bank has given a sponsorship of 10 million shillings to the national youth team under the age of 15 that are expected to participate in the competition of the African champions "Africa Search contest, from October 6 in Nyasubi, Angola.

Apart from that money, the bank has also given various sports equipment including surgery and sports equipment, while speaking during the equipment in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Executive Director of NMB, Ineke Bussemaker, said his bank values the sports especially to the youth and children in improving their talents.
We believe that in sports if they start being silent, starting from small age, we prepared them to fulfill their dreams, we help reduce the mind and even to promote their talents, therefore we are sure they are blocking the correct talents in the coming days, "said Bussemaker.
The Deputy Chairperson of the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TLB), Philbert Nassari said that the squad of five players will leave the country after tomorrow ready to participate in that competition for one week, to continue to start on October 6 to 14th this year.
He said the competition is involving 10 players for every 17 countries that had qualified nationally, but Tanzania is taking small number due to the shortage of equipment and areas of exercise which has caused the game resulting from the government to serve the eyes.
He mentioned the squad that will represent Tanzania in the European Champions League, Nuzulack Dausen, Karim Msigwa and Mussa Seif, while the technical bench will be led by Peng Aljabri who is the head coach of that team, the team's head manager.
The representative of Dar es Salaam Province we need to pray for Club (DYC) who are the guardians of that party, Robert Chapo, "he said they have been giving various training, including training of that game as well as announcing the youths who are participating in the competitions in different countries.
"Our aim is to ensure that Tanzania is participating in the Olympic championships for the future of the year 2020," said Ciara.
