Claims that the government has been able to enable women in the villages.
There are three members of parliament for my condolences, he also tries to tell his wife but the people when earlier said for him, he will make sure his girlfriend loves her lover, he has managed to enable women to sit and see why you feel.
If the punishment for pregnant women, there's no grandfather who is still water and there is still some of all the villagers of political parties like the truth, let me tell me if the government does not ask ourselves how the government has done to ask ourselves how the government has done from him to explain what they are marrying.
We are continuing to claim that it is good to know that everything is going on things and the remains of you.
You have remained more than a little people in each other since I will give you a lot for many women even without knowing the way until today you cannot get a question but I think I could not get a question but I think I could not have a good child.
It does not mean?
The government especially when another mother is supposed to be responsible, to show love together and make sure that a woman is inside and later, I have been able to make sure that a woman is in unity and later to see that the government can start in a group or to the village who is capable of stopping.
First without stopping.
The reception area.
A woman knows the money for paying.
For payments?
It has come as something to pay the debt, it is very little, you will do you have told him.
How is it?
By the phone and children of the villages still do not have.
When the children who are famous in our country, is going on with Vogue Baamar, I have been able to open.
You get out to how many years some think you ask you a question which is why the child was born with his verses and beating them into the game to reach the first time since their mother was born.
Father's father.
It's coming from.
In the family.
Most of the father have refused to leave and he knows God, he said without he used.
A lot of time.
