
Heaven is masturbation.
And the beneficiaries of the Permanent Committee.
I will be able to investigate it said that the two light, it makes a difference, this statement seems to be different from upcoming stars Hamis (xx), who is 20 years old.
Barqat Mvungi who is a musician and a high table who identifies themselves as a result of his two talents.
In the music field, I have been able to record two seasons of my friend and New York, which for a long-inch width in addition to what he is faced so as to reach where he is.
He said that he saw a happy to use his two talents to stop using income due to the shortage of employment opportunities in the country.
I met my ability, when I was very happy about a student at Sullivan Provost Secondary school, that is in Donge County, he knew the Kicheere. I wouldn't want new songs with other artists together with being involved in that offense, "he said.
The discovery a lot of expanding, even after completing his studies of high school in 2013, the company said that what happens a problem is to look for ways that would be able to start a way to pay the income by using its talents.
For a small capital that he was with them, he started his private team, (xx), who was involved in a group photo with various items like a man, among them a man, what is, I will play the youth.
"Although I would give an official launch this week, the order of getting married I do I request for people who believe my people," he said.
According to a lot of understanding to his fellow customers, on this, he advised that cooperation between them can be the biggest pillar in improving.
"Youths of my age are my customers, it's my very few customers, I have been able to get out to the elderly when I have been seen from people with the age of the age, this shows that the youths themselves and that they will join them," he said.
In addition, he says that it is not a must for youths to fulfill the evil deeds if the use of corruption, but they can be able to take their time to recognize their talents and use them sweating.
In the music field, I explained that despite being yet to oppose the FGM, it has not tolerate any little revenue that he has been getting a lot of life in life.
"Several show that I have lost, I do not use the platform for signing more with my talent and I understand that if an artist is important to sign him, instead of putting interest for money in front," he explained.
And as a result of challenges that he has contributed in life, his music still focus on the reality of educating fans and the whole community in general.
For example, my life of life is looking for its efforts in looking for a way to build a strong desire to develop themselves in the Indian Ocean, a lot of surgery is to the community so that most of each other is a message that everyone with each other about the reality of life. "
I explained.
His music style is Afrima-dance hall, while its spherical guidelines in the English language.
His main aim is for now is to officially launch his company in order to expand the opportunity of giving revenue.
If you know or annamatinde @ mkito.
