I went to a black bikini.
May 23, 2012

Last week I discussed about people's issue, with great positions, with a large number of years that do not like the elderly, but you have not identified himself by giving the statements that did not like the elderly, but you have not condemned the deputy chairperson of CCM and his statements about violating their party.

This week again, the other old man of CCM, the secretary of propagation, John Chiligati is said that he has decided to get in that group of encouraging "to understand."
Chiligati is saying that, he has decided to speak about the youth of CCM, Hussein Bashe, who recently arrived in Dodoma town, he has been encouraged to vie for a member of parliament from what was explained as a problem of citizenship.
Chiligati is saying that journalists in Dodoma city on Sunday, Hussein Bashe, was left out in the presidential election because he is a citizen of Somalia and that it is not a citizen of Tanzania, and that is if he is not a citizen of Tanzania, even if he was born in Tanzania.
Until when I don't see the problem, the problem is coming, if we heard, that's case was same as the one of the writer of this article, "the former member of CCM" and he was sent to him in the past years.
Nakheel, earlier that it's not good to the writer of this article to use this platform to talk about this issue about it, and I say it's not good, but it is legal in a certain state. I will try to explain here below.
My Wahaya says that someone is impressed by the tension about the matter he did and insisted on what he has said, I was born with my dog, it is that if you want this thought, I believe you love you, I said you love me.
With different effects and in different environment, this is a weapon that is used by people who want to say what is like the truth, but it is possible that Mister Bony speaking with his dog, claiming that his dog was there, but he says there is a rumor that his dog was there, but he says there is a rumor that his dog was there.
So as to comfort widows, can I urge them that they are not there alone, because the biggest of the world are using it quickly so they can fly the American war against Iraq and how it gets married, "the minister of foreign affairs of France and how they denied permission (with words) inside the meeting of the council of security.
In a stern warning that took place in the United Nations Security Council, every type of buildings which were used to defend this side and that one, everyone used to do what they had decided to do what they had decided to do what they had decided to do the problem, even if the United Nations had refused.
But to my personally, a statement that showed tired, fatigue, and tension between the United States, is when his senior officer admitted to Tanzania in that objection, by saying that even Tanzania found himself as a permit for the United Nations.
This spokesperson of the United States did a move to this (this is the real meaning of this word) about the cause of the war between Tanzania and Idd whom she made Tanzania was to use his primary right to answer to the security of the United Nations.
The same logic or if I got a baby is among the things and the listeners that have built a culture of easy thoughts that have contributed to each other (together with our thinking) is that you are supposed to have a whip, so that you can remain in Bambucha.
