In the picture.
We have been increasing the use of money during elections, but we are talking to those that we had to see if we were with different radio.
And ten thousand in the month which is two hundred and ten thousand, the president of the United Republic of Tanzania Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete was supposed to follow the natural use of money during the elections that has continued to continue to reduce or put more than candidates who use money so that they can be able to get into power.
We want you will inform you that there will be difficult, but I have also been difficult to go to do because I've heard that democracy should not be followed by citizens I think it was well because I think it was to the purpose of every school.
Maybe because this problem was signed on ten o'clock in the month which is expected to reach ten years.
Without doubt, the general election was still, but in a different time, the general elections are still ongoing from two hours and ten.
Do you play in a small elections where the child is in the middle.
Which one do you read, there was a foolish thing that I have done its own work and I am happy that I am not happy about what I believe at this morning or even if you see you, so you can see that, so you can see what you are used, but also it's also an official guest.
The government like it is another one for the good things, especially for him to speak?
Then, it has been written by that dollars, I've heard about this system of economic issues, but it has never been informed that many times not having.
As soon in Dar es Salaam, we will be able to help the late Almighty God of Kagera because I will only go and later to go for you for the third time since it starts, then I will come up to use opinions which have no need in Facebook page, we will leave you.
It is a big way through the profession I am just through you, I am not happy about this and the use of money at the time of the current election on the trend of Mathias Chikawe and there is ten elections that you want.
There are a lot of things here and we will tell you of poverty to indicate that incident was signed.
Yesterday.
He knew the intentions of the secret law to ensure that we have to control the use of money and it's money.
New time money has a lot of time if it becomes the illegal money, it takes place for democracy and he will be democracy when we will not be afraid that we can't be able to make sure that we cannot be able to make that money not to get in bad effects but the late.
For this years since two and ten days, I cannot get until today.
There is no enough evidence to say that there is a reduction and maybe we see the increase in reasons because of events to use money from different levels, the Lord will remember there.
Those of the small elections that was done immediately because there are a high election for local governments, we have discovered a lot and maybe for the first time you will have a lot of money use in the neighborhood and neighborhood, villages and areas in the elections so as to be able to be seen by the law.
About the strength of phone.
It has not seen I think that there is still asking yourself the place, what is what we need to do?
The second reason is there a lot of answers according to someone who is vying to vie for the chairmanship of the government.
If the money will take me?
The late God about the forehead is part of the big problem of maybe the issue of the problem, the results of a big problem which we are supposed to control bribery but to control the real book that has already been involved in the course of those money, a situation that is believed to be able to vie for a big candidate.
The late God rest his first people and asked me.
He has not been seen in who in the office, I'm in the seat and I'm in the system of looking for sure that you have been given money to the party, the one that will be to be appointed within the political party and maybe even a day or any institution as a stable party can need money.
Those who know that they are using that opportunity.
Therefore, it becomes a must to show that this is not easy for a way it was a system that you must have money that you would be able to surrender, but if he can go back to control you, but the use of money you cannot go to you, but the use of money will continue to continue using the money.
But the law is already been fined.
But still the situation is like the father and wanted them to bring my child.
Maybe be it?
That's not funny when you are very close people, it takes so that this organizations has weaknesses, this is just a short time, the names are not supposed to get another name.
I have ever heard about the use of money in the elections.
He started after the general meeting of African Union held in the country.
For instance, I want to know what is born and he knows it was to control it.
Two major things among the use of the illegal finances will lead in the election period so that the third phase will be used by the illegal government which will handle they be used for the roads to serve the citizens of that area to rise.
All political parties see the seedlings and asking for politics, Lema.
You thank you but I did not know.
Two thousand and ten thousand shillings of the control of cost of elections.
A large group of foundation has said.
Someone has been given the authority to supervise this law.
A big percentage is the assistant.
The registrar of political parties as we look at the position of the registrar.
He is a male child.
Mchaga answered me if the president would leave.
Mwenda is telling the officer that they are believed to be.
You can be Ukawa and accountability which you need.
Success which this week comes back.
Therefore, the condition of as usual.
If you stay in, if you get married here, you love me here to watch it?
You can supervise the law.
We're going to participate in elections and three months in the race.
What is also if you have?
Eastwood is to put this law in one way or another.
To be a big problem is who is going to be in charge of this law.
There are some of the authorities of managing these laws, I will be used by the National Electoral Commission, "he said.
It is a group that will lead us to communicate with this work because there is no need.
That is a very big problem here.
What is what you will go to supervise this law.
The registrar of political parties and the election commission whose leaders are very high and that is not that media without considering that its activities can be implemented due to one person from blood pressure, this is seven institutions or one person is a very big problem.
This is a shame for the way I said I have received there, it is also a must that you are annoyed so that this is looking for us click here, I urge them to continue to know the safety of us with another big problem in this legal law.
Now.
