Old is not the laziness of the same type.
January 26, 2013.

The debate for the presidential position takes place every day and there are two important areas in this debate which takes a new chapter every step.
The first area is in the process of collecting opinion polls about writing the new constitution, but we had gone for instance, to reduce or leave the authority of the president.
We have heard that the turn out of men and women, turn out of the mainland and in the islands, and turn out of religion and its denominations and I believe that there are some of the opposition parties.
The second debate of the presidential debate is on parties heading to the general elections of 2015, we have heard that many names were mentioned, we have heard that there are few people present as their head, they have written many people since the thoughts of father of the nation, and several issues of several things.
This debate is going on in the bar, service houses, the sitting room, sleeping rooms, and even in the wedding and the wedding.

Father of the nation in the past, warned about the port without a way and when he likened to the debate on this way and to prevent it, that is discrimination.
At the time it was inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM), but currently the debate on these issues are very important in all parties, in this article I would like to tell me shortly the concept of the age of this debate about the presidential position. I believe that they have not discussed this issue because our newspapers will last one week, it is good to inform me for another time.

Our party's spokesman of our party (CCM), Nape Nnauye, has been heard last week in Mwanza claiming that our rivals CHADEMA are discriminatory, I was surprised so much but you were shocked when Nape is speaking!
Discrimination is evident that Nape in CHADEMA and his origin are CCM and before you have heard his fellow youth January Makamba after finishing his time he would like to give him the youth to rule the leadership of the nation and the party in general.
The bureaucracy of the dollar that collided with our chairperson, is denying members the opportunity to interview our chairman because he continues with our thoughts in all levels while the elders use money so as to buy the age, and the youths getting money in one level of age.
Currently, inside CCM, an old man seems to be a youth, and a young man of bribery was chased away because of the same type and not because of its maturity in thoughts.

In this speed of serving the presidency in glasses on the age, it is easy to assure you that after there we tried to discuss other factors that are not important because we want to discuss our marriages, our family and even the beauty is not easy to end in a criterion of only one.

But there is a fact that about the presidential position most of them don't want you to inform you, because that step will stop the presidency is not the same same or old because we have requested many youths who have risen up and so many elders have risen up.
We have promised them the elders who have succeeded in the presidential position, so that the youths who have succeeded in getting to them are still in the criterion of their age, we have contributed to them as it is the only criterion that has enabled us to achieve their presidency.
The age of the age of the growth of many African culture, has been buried and the most importantly, the reality and that is why it is not right to say the same way is robbery, and old is laziness.
In the right side of Tanzanian, presidential, it is very much even to destroy some party policies during different elections, we see some of the politicians who claimed that people should choose a good party because it has a good policy that is not correct but its reality is not right.
On our eyes, we have seen for instance, inside the Party of Revolution, the performance of the party and his government is not another one from one president to another without informing them in accordance to the election manifesto.
