
More than 400 houses having been killed today.
Jackline Masimba, Mwananchi Communications, @ mkito.
In Dar es Salaam City, more than 400 houses that are in Ighombwe Village, Kibamba region, Kinondoni Municipality are expected to be demolished today because of the high court that was released the day before yesterday.
The reports are saying that in that area of being viewed as a threat of 33, wealth of Henry Tandau had a conflict since the year 1997 after a group of 11 people raided and started building houses and serve them to other citizens.
The chairman of that area, Lewis Hamilton said that after that area being attacked, his owner decided to go to court and to sue them as the previous allegations.
He said that the case was run for a period of five years and in 2010, that judgment was issued in Kashimba and then they were seen they have the right to own the area, they were required to share.
However, Kashimba will not be satisfied by that judgment and decided to appeal and go to the High Court.
"During the case it is unacceptable, and his colleagues continued to serve the citizens in areas by partnering with the local government officials," said Kulwa Mwaibale, a resident of that area.
Before yesterday, he said that on the 26th of January this year, that case was given judgment by Divine Kweka, so the day before yesterday the day before yesterday the court made all the houses that he does not destroy the party so as to resolve the problem with his area.
Some of the citizens who put up in that area were shocked by that judgment and claimed that they were not given a report.
"I don't know if this area has a case and it is the case that I have found after listening to the announcement, here when I was confused," said Anna Stephano.
"When I was written to you shortly after listening to that announcement, even I have not yet heard," said Donde us.
The situation was.
A citizen reached the scene of the scene and found those citizens that are self-employed while each one seems to take advantage of it.
The councilor of Kwembe and Dimwa, said that those houses will be stopped after the court's order was released.
However, Kolimba said that they are planning to take them in court so as to prevent them to buy the camp today.
