The Mkapa NBC race.
Sep 25, 2014.

The special decision of the third phase of the third phase of the National Bank of Business (NBC) by selling a big part of its shares to private investors, has continued to sell the nation, this journey being the government unable to increase the value of the shares that it was using for approximately 30 percent and now the blood can be sold.
Depending on the bill on the way to sell the big part of NBC shares won the opposition by various people in the country, including Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who believes that protects the laws of the organizations or public institutions to take place in losses and not otherwise.
Reports indicate that the value of those government shares has gone to the government itself to borrow the NBC and fail to restore those loans.
The government's shares inside NBC has no value again because the government has contributed a lot from that bank instead of investing in order to protect the value of those shares, "explained our news source from the office of the registrar of treasury at condition of not being mentioned in the newspaper.
That situation has come out during the time that the former controller and auditor general (CAG) of Ludovick Utouh has said that he has played 74 times about the use of collecting taxes, use of its funds at a large extent that arose from borrowing from business banks.
"The Chief Executive Officer of NBC shares has urged the government to sell its shares because they are not worth value, that is even those funds were found in NBC and they were lost," explained our news source in the government concerning that issue.
While the situation is therefore, the NBC leadership in the country has not allowed to talk about one of the issue, the acting marketing manager and business issues of NBC, Jump Mtingwa, when he was asked, he cannot answer the issue of preventing themselves especially if the issue is involving our shareholders. "
The leadership of the Ministry of Finance and it is not available until they're going back to explain that issue and even when they were wanted by the phone, the ministers, Adam Malima and Mwigulu Nchemba who were not supposed to be found without answers.
At the moment the National Bank of Business (NBC) called National Bank of Tanzania (Tanzania) Limited or in a short time (Tanzania) Limited is among the business banks in the country that are run under a permit for the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) which is the level of control of the bank.
The Executive Director of NBC Tanzania Limited, Barclays Africa Limited has been listed in the Dar es Salaam Port and currently the country that uses NBC Tanzania Limited and the Barclays Bank Tanzania.
Experts of banks issues believe the blood of wanting the government's shares to be sold in the process of joining those two business banks after seeing the activities of one bank among them being faced with several challenges.
Several reports indicate that by December 2013, NBC (Tanzania) was among the biggest institutions of financial services in the country, have been estimated to be worth 1 million American dollars equivalent to 1200 million American dollars equivalent to 1 billion US dollars.
By considering the statistics of last year, it was the fourth bank to have a crown in the business, behind the National Parole Board (NMB), CRDB Bank and the Bank of Al Shabab.
The history of the introduction of that bank starting from 1967 in the government of Tanzania did a decision to enable financial institutions, to be public property including the bank.
In the year 1997, the bank divided into three institutions of first of first, NBC Erick Holder who is the second runner up 'Fulfill Your Bank (NMB) and third from NBC (1997).
In the year 2000, the Central Africa Group Company, Barclays Africa Group, in that time, was known as Abed Group Limited and the government of United Republic of Tanzania ended with 30 percent of the shares, that bank is called National Bank of Tanzania (Tanzania).
