
If you face poverty.
By Antoine Griezmann.
The cases of people died after taking alcohol with poison that are not being taken by deception because they can be a national disaster, therefore we are not supposed to be taken against the sale of laws and misuse of non-communicable diseases, but those contributing to the presence of the government and the community in general that the issues are going on well in this country.
Most of them had survived after taking alcohol that the alcohol was quoted saying that which makes the drinking of alcohol is poverty because they are being sold at the low price where they can be able to withstand the efforts of government institutions that are involved in controlling the income of Kenyans.
Insisting on this statement, it is clear that those drinking alcohol is sold at a low price from the farm or in the streets of stalls where the residents are the low income for Kenyans who die every day due to poverty.
It is unacceptable, that the authority of dealing with albinism in the country (NASA) will not affect the sale and drinking alcohol if the government will not take appropriate measures to fight poverty.
Since more than 100 people died in drinking alcohol with poison that he from Eucharist, Kiroreli, Ranaldo and Naimu in three months ago, the government has promised to take stern action against those officers in those areas on claims of failing to work.
At the same time, I said in this hall that she removed the officers not to do the whole business people is proud of selling alcohol with poison but the government is expecting to put enough strategies to advise the security of alcoholic beverages.
It is surprising that the steps that will be self-fees, under Mister John Mutasingwa John, took the time to investigate the company to make corrections, it did not have fruit, something that has shown that many should be done so as to prevent many Kenyans.
That is clear that the government has been walking on many things and cannot avoid fear following the cases of Kenyans being killed and drinking alcohol that are dangerous to them, it will be possible by putting strategies to strengthen the economy.
Despite this problem to reach a certain amount of students of primary schools, secondary, universities and women affected, there are no symptoms that the standards of poverty will open soon.
I got their fees to focus on her work hard and stop involving themselves with good relationship activities.
It will be easy to understand the truth than to build a wall and the government intends to direct us to increase their property to strengthen the lives of many Kenyans.
