
The eyes sitting in Dar es Salaam.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was published (03 / 2016.
The police commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Simon Sirro has said that the army has arrested the suspect, "Scala" who was involved in events to join the weapons in Buguruni area in the city.

Sirro made that statement yesterday in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam city during a meeting to discuss security during the area that was organized by the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, said the suspect who is known by the famous name as' Scala, was arrested after police given reports of events that he has done including causing injuries and caused injuries, Said Ally.
"I have heard of the citizens are complaining here that we have been unable to arrest the police who was not recognized as the police force being arrested, already we met and the law will take its course, there is no one who can compete with the army," he said.
Moreover, Sirro said that after seeing that suspect, he was questioned, he said that all his network and already they have arrested, therefore he has urged the residents of that area not to fear since the suspect did not happen again in that area.
I know this issue is still in court we cannot speak about so much, the good thing when he was arrested, he explained that he had seen him to have arrested all the network, therefore there is no need to have a plot in this area which is safe, "he said.
Before yesterday's statement, citizens have complained to the police of the area which they failed to take action against that suspect who was being known for a long time. Sadiki Mgaya who was witnessing the terror attack by Said Ally, said that the suspect said that he has come out for the purpose of paying him because he stopped him.
He said after doing that incident, the police arrived at that area with the suspect while there and citizens affected the police but they did not take any action instead they wanted the citizens to kill them.
In addition, those citizens have also complained to the head of Police Station, Colleta Mnyamani, claiming that he has been forced to be given criminal reports including violence but a person when he was arrested when he stopped him and was allowed to leave.
But leaving other officers, they have been sent again to arrest those statements by citizens who are unable to give a statement where he said the police and all officers who are unable to fulfill their responsibilities will be taken against court together with being sacked from work.
I know there are a police and careless officers who don't know how to fulfill their responsibilities, but I urge the provincial commissioner we will take action, I've heard here, I've heard this and we are complaining that we should take this step, "he added.
Moreover, Sirro said they will do a big police in that area to arrest all the ones that are involved with criminal acts, because they have noted that in that area there is still a small renovation.
"We will go back here we request your cooperation without you and we cannot know you, I urge the parents to make your children who are responsible for those events because we will start that operation, not to get your child," he insisted.
On his part, Makonda urged the citizens to volunteer to conduct inspections and urged the citizens to contribute to the security so that those youths can be able to do security and make the area of Libeneke.
"We have a responsibility to conduct inspections in terms of contributions, here, Sirro has said that the limitations in the stations are not working, I would advise you to prevent them from events of criminal acts because those will be arrested for law will take its course," said Makonda.
