
Doctor Mwakyembe is operated on.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2013.

The Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, has arrived in an assurance of waiting for the management of the Tanzania Railways Corporation and Zambia (TAZARA) which is evident in implementing his directive by wanting the acting executive director of that organization, Dickson Phiri has not continue to live in a hotel and instead they should be given a house to live in order to evade the cost.

According to the reports that are there, Salla said that for approximately 6 months now has been reported to live in New Africa Hotel in Dar es Salaam city at the cost of that organization and therefore bought millions of shillings.

The news that was found from the headquarters of the TAZARA headquarters, Dar es Salaam, are indicating that Khiri has been paying for sleep at that hotel of 200 American dollars (approximately 320,000 shillings) per day, equivalent to approximately 39,00 shillings per month because six months which have already paid 57,356 shillings.

All loss to the TAZARA organization is in while he got in the same time by the Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has directed the Director for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has directed the Executive Director to relocate to the TAZARA house which is in Masaki, which was being used by his predecessor, former executive director of that organization, Ndaiao.

Leiria in his employment in the beginning of this year and came back to his country at Zambia, before the TAZARA board was appointed to be given that position.

Speaking to the TAZARA workers on October 21, this year, Doctor Mwakyembe congratulated the executive director, Koga, a period of two weeks to leave a hotel in the city and moving to the organization's house.

One of the TAZARA workers who did not want his name to have told the newspaper saying, "you know the plan to set aside a hotel (Phiri) was for a period of three months, but if you give you the cost of living a hotel in which it is 200 American dollars in a day.

Therefore, three months have passed and now more than six months.

Speaking about that situation of continuing to live a hotel in the area contrary to the instructions of Minister Mwakyembe, the acting director of TAZARA, says that he has not seen him to live in the New Africa Hotel, saying that situation is blaming each other with his family.

Kraehenbuehl has said, "it is true that I was told to leave on a hotel in the city with the minister, but up to now, I have not seen him, even so, even me I have not seen him to live here in a hotel because it is used to live with my family.

The TAZARA board was to meet in June for the purpose of discussing my issue, but the director who was living in a good house is supposed to affect the life, therefore my order is waiting for is the session of the board to discuss my fate. "

On his part, the TAZARA lawyer, Marko Mabala, told BBC Citizen saying "this issue has political issues and work.

Doctor Mwakyembe gave the directive to a hotel in the city, but the house is required to relocate, it is still being held by director who passed and even keys to join Zambia.

"Therefore, the house has been closed down, he said it does not need a notice because he will be ready to release keys to the house after being paid all its benefits.

"Together with the TAZARA executive director who left to hold that stand still, the government's side of Zambia has thrown out the pressure to release a house, while the former assistant director, Ayoub Nyenzi.

"I thank you questions (Mabumba), why you have said he has given her all his rights, while Routh who is not the TAZARA employee as he continues to live in houses of the organization when he did not lie?

Routh who was the TAZARA employee, but was sacked by the organization since 1998 and until now he leaves the house which he was living with his family when he was the assistant director.
News reports are saying that others from TAZARA are together with Damas Ndumbaro, the former assistant director while he was impressed with the news that is available inside that organization, claims of 10,008 American dollars.
