
Mwarabu has been removed in court for giving birth to MTVEMA.

Story from our photographer.
That scandal of Prophet Mohammed's scandal, Josephat Mwingira has been asked to give birth to the wife of the person, Doctor Alberic Kraehenbuehl has been continuing to deal with the wife of the person, Doctor Aifena Mramba, an American citizen has done a case at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Dar es Salaam, claiming compensation of 75 billion shillings.

In that case that was opened by Doctor William Ruto, who is represented by Lawyer Kelley Ndhlovu who was represented by Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi as the second one with the lawyer's lawyer, Doctor Philosophy Nyato is the second accused.
Already the case that was taken to court is expected to be taken on November 21, this year and given registration number increased in December 12 this year and the judge who will listen to the resident magistrate court.

Our source inside the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, has said that during the charges of charges (they are presented before the court, Doctor William Ruto has claimed that in the date, 'Mwingira entered the relationship with his wife.

The documents are saying that after a day he complained about that, he told his wife who turned out on that he was caught.
He explained that the relationship was not allowed to be given pregnant but also his wife to get other health challenges which however he didn't know.

The argument of the lawyer.
In those documents, lawyer Ndeki said that his customer after realizing that his wife has attacked and Mwingira, the same time he has got health challenges, he decided to give a report to the Central Police Station, Kibaha, Coast.
"Police told my client that, that is a case of claims that it's not criminal, following the process of stopping the claims in court," explained Ndeki on the charges of charges.

He is continuing to say, a child who Mwingira clarifying about the birth of Doctor Philosophy is in the age of five years now.
Lawyer Ndhlovu who is the romantic relationship, has caused being accused of being accused in the marriage of my client, bird feathers give birth on life and affected us.

"The ability to work with my customer has gone down to a large extent, he is leading a non-governmental institution which now it has enough sponsorship from one person or groups of various institutions in the world.
"In that step, my client has denied the honor and being aired on his status, it's not only Tanzania but all over the world."

Do you need Doctor William and Mwindadi.
In his explanation, Doctor William Lukuvi through his lawyer, that the court does not know the court that the court does not know, Doctor Philosophy will not be infected with the child which does it be conducted.
Doctor William Ruto has claimed that he has a hospital equipment valued at 6,500 American dollars (more than 10 billion shillings), which Mwingira has made the decision after eating a conspiracy by Doctor Philadelphia city.

He wants to be sold more than 739 billion shillings.
In that argument, Doctor William Lukuvi is the first to fulfill their devices that she has claimed that Mwingira clarifying an impromptu visit and after getting married to be paid for 75 billion shillings.
Doctor William has appealed to what to be paid to that amount, that he is a health expert who has been recognized by the American State House (White House) under the presidents Bill Clinton and George Bush.

His institution called Global 2000 (2010) International organization has focused itself with the United Nations and he bought various equipment for use in the health and vehicles sector in the United States which is worth 107,356 American dollars (more than 160 shillings).

He had a plan in collaboration with his wife to build a health center and the five star in Kilimanjaro Province and bought 37 hectares to that purpose, even so, his wife gave him a gift.
He was elected as one of the people who were identified to the health services for the 21st century due to its performance in that industry in America.
He was living well with his wife and he had started to learn a chance so that he can go to work with him to live in America.

Doctor William Erio.
Doctor William Lukuvi speaking to our journalists, he confessed to open that case, he said.
"I have a plan for other things, Mwingira clarifying another case of claims in the international court if I will see here in Tanzania I will not be dealt with."

Mwingira clarifying an issue?
On the side of Mwingira, it is difficult for you to get, because the efforts of our journalists to look for him did not have fruit, because they were forced to have reduced, because they were unable to do his boss.
