
Bags are proud of the suit of Taifa Stars, a shame.
May 31, 2013.

By making a request part of the ideas that got to be written in this newspaper with a scholar, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo, who is the senior lecturer of psychology and Education, the University of Dar es Salaam, that sometimes the thirst for success in the national team, popularly known as Taifa Stars.
Recently, we have witnessed the noise that he was given Taifa Stars, search of a suit and took a big position of the debate at the media stations while playing in the direction that the team is like having received victory through those suit.
That I think the team has done or it has been operated on in Tanzania, so it's just a suit ', that is today players of Stars have put a suit and has become a great success.
We have heard that for example, different people with honor will give a great opportunity about the debate of the Stars suit, that it is a big issue in the history of that team.
Basically, we have no problem with any efforts to improve the state of Taifa Stars to be in fashion or other things, if we cannot have a problem with any efforts to improve the life of our lives and many others, from the villages to towns.
The problem that is in our part is to continue getting direction as the nation if we stop discussing a lot of issues and assume that a big position has taken a better position instead, for example, the position for victory of the team in every game.
A suit is just such as; therefore, and the truth, and the truth is to discuss fashion designers and how many players continue believing in many small things instead of knowing the great shape as a win against the most popular team in the world.
It is same as to prevent our players, it should inform us that the foundation of their victory is a suit instead of exercises, listen to the coach and discipline in the high level.
We have been disappointed to see some of the media houses when he called for more than the Stars debates, instead of the discussion of the technical analysis about how that team can be able to sustain his international friendly games instead of the quality of the team instead of the quality of the team.
