
The union of the agreement will bring the Union of African Sep 14, 2012.

The commission on constitutional changes will continue again with its activities in Unguja and Pemba, after you are in Tanzania mainland for a period of several weeks preparing the opinion polls of citizens on the next constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
If you like to the late, the delegates of the first commission will also go in the northern regions of Unguja and then it will also go in the northern regions of Pemba.
Since the process of giving the nation a new constitution starts the issue of unity, it has been the main issue that endangers the political and the politics of the islands.
For sure since the United Republic should not be known on April this year, they have been facing and being discussed by the people of Zanzibar maybe to win any political issue but this journey is the main issue that affects the people of Zanzibar.
It will have shown that this issue did not benefit us so our colleagues in Tanzania.
It's not that they don't obey God, but they don't pay priority as their brothers in the islands.
This means that the exercise of collecting and taking their views to the citizens will be finalized in a period of the next six months.
They have the stand because up to now the opinions have been of giving recommendations that is affecting the law of basically, about the structure of the union and they are worried that the commission of the constitution will not have the courage to represent those views.
Certainly, this situation is continuing to have sure that the biggest number of citizens of Zanzibar will continue to inform the commission that they started again in Zanzibar, but there are a union of agreement and not for the moment the government is also a union of two countries but it is the constitution.
Recently, the many readers of Mke Mwema, all of them said that they come from mainland, they have helped me more about the union of the agreement and that this is the right time if they will bring about this understanding and therefore increasing weight instead of leaving the people of Zanzibar.
The reader has continued to write that as it is now the fate of the union, the presence of a union like it will be decided by people of Zanzibar because all of them are very difficult to see that the current structure between Tanganyika and Zanzibar has no benefits to them.
Therefore, they feel that it is true that is open for them if they want to continue with the moment the current structure of constitutional change is growing, and the alternative means of the union will have been destroyed, in the basis of the agreement.

What are the difference of those two types of coalition in the country and the one by the union of the constitution is growing up with one dollar that is able to compete with all the internal and foreign authorities and it does not enable Tanganyika to deal with those involved.
"The United Republic of Tanzania" at the same time, Zanzibar has lost its full authority and its freedom to remain in his foreign affairs and it will have a good responsibility inside his union and Tanganyika.
The second phase, alternative medicine is the United Republic of countries that are free and every one being a full authority and the freedom to sit in their internal and outside the country will be connected with the agreement between two countries that are equivalent to free that are free and that are free.
The contract will be the foundation of that union, it will explain openly that those countries will cooperate in what issues and how the partnership will be.
Another big issue to attract in the union of the agreement is that every country that will sign the agreement of that union will have the strength of using 'register and eat it and even in a matter that has been made, the implementation of the policies about that issue that's endangering the country or going against its interests.

Another thing of the Almighty God is that you will also be able to communicate with another country, to support the union because there is no great country, that it will be good because the size of the union did not have any country because of its size as a result of the area or a must.
All the countries that are inside the United Republic of this agreement will bring equality without caring about their size or the international law and the international community usually look at all the countries with an eye and it give me that it is similar to the law taking every one of those countries to be free and to be with his actual authority.
The environment made in achieving the Millennium Tower, we do not meet themselves or put your heart to a relationship between free countries like and so far between Tanganyika and Zanzibar in one country seems to be a great participant "and another" participant. "
That's when the concept of that concept of every participant will not inform his administration authority for the participant.
The good example of the union of the agreement is the United Republic of Europe for giving an example of that union is not knowing that that is the type of union that was completed.
We must know that it is a good example of the type of union that is best to win this year that we have.
I know that the issue of "you know" there will be able to speak and say why Germany and France they get into the European Union but it's true that the two countries involved in Euro tournament but it can be a must for it a good agreement.
Another example of a union that is better than this one we have is that the United Republic of Tanzania has told the one that will connect two countries, members of the East African countries (OAU), Senegal and Gambia Union from the year 1982, 1989.
The union was of the United Republic of that agreement that brought together the army of those countries that brought together their economic and financial issues, it gives their policies of foreign affairs and communication and it started the union institutions.
The presidential candidate of the United Republic of Tanzania was done by Senegal which also had two sides of parliamentary seats of the United Republic and even so, on the existence of the union every country continued to have its freedom.
That union contract started to be implemented in July this year, but by bad luck the union was sent away from the year 1989 because-Gambia Union have complained that it was faced with Senegal in his freedom and his authority.
If there is a must for having a union of sincere will to join the African Continent, then the solution to the problems facing the Tanganyika and Zanzibar islands is in the creation of a union of that agreement.
An issue that encouraging the people of Zanzibar will support the United Republic of Tanzania, it is the desire to move forward to their country because it has been able to rule and run the country's activities without and waiting for the ability to use their natural resources without a partnership with any foreign nation.
Apart from being a solution to the problems that are facing the United Republic of Tanzania, the new constitution of the agreement will ensure that you will be given right because all the countries will be taught the future of their country without considering the consent of his fellow country.
We should just think that the commission on constitutional changes after they collect them and when they do the views of citizens, it will have a warning that will give his recommendations at his last report since this issue is very important.
