For Statoil has caused us to investigate so?
Mr 11, 2015.

The crude oil company has entered into the new allegations of bringing together diseases from Norway because of hating its workers, "those who give the company's secret," said Mwema should remember them.
Ready, investigators from Norway have questioned approximately five employees of that company on claims of blocking the secret of the company to the press in the talks that was recorded through illegal land.
Mwema should understand that the association of workers of energy and minerals (NMAT) have already received complaints about that investigation which is claimed to non-compliance with the country's laws.
At the end of last year, this newspaper reported reports of crude oil using different ways to evade paying taxes including not getting into a luxurious houses which will not be used to buy a luxurious houses which will later be used in the cost of investment.
According to the sources of sources of this newspaper, the interview between those diseases and the employees of Statoil Tanzania, took place at the headquarters of the company's headquarters between January 28th and 29 this year.
According to the details of NAPA- T, those workers were called and interviewed in different times, while they are preparing and not knowing where they were waiting to be interviewed, something that is against the procedures.
This newspaper has been successful to see a letter written on February 9, this year, to go for Statoil that was written by the secretary of NAPA- T in that company, Bieldt.
While we understand about the right of the employer to make investigation, but the law is also wants the regulations and laws that will be used to make that investigation is known to those who were interviewed, an issue that did not happen even when the suspects were asked to be given those reports.
Also, they took off the record record for that interview which when the name was not able to sign any place, this means that when he asked the ability to change anything from that interview because they missed the part of the letter which he has been sent to the secretary of NAPA- T in Dar es Salaam city and also the secretary general of NAPA- T in Dar es Salaam city.
The letter of NAPA- T with three months has warned them about the total number of work in the Statoil company where it has explained the lack of not spreading among the local workers and the management and the environment of the relationship that doesn't be health between the foreign citizens and local workers.
"The party of lazy workers did not want to get answers of those allegations as soon as possible and also management at the meeting to discuss these issues and how to build a good future of work," said the letter.
One day after that letter of Mchomvu, Statoil Company bought a letter written by uzia Kullane which together with other things said there is no law that was sent away from that issue.
Salvation, it has also been able to see in the crude oil letter in one-page where uzia Kullane, he says "as the employer, Statoil has the right to make investigation if the accusations that are there are true and enough to take disciplinary action against those involved.
"There is no law, which requires the employer to give a report to the party's workers about the investigation that is taking place even so, just after investigation will be taken because of the investigation, it doesn't take any legal action according to the procedures," said part of the letter of Kullane.
While giving an explanation about that interview, the Head of Communications for Statoil Tanzania, Genevieve Mpangala, said that happened was a normal inspection that will be done by all big companies in the world.
He said each one that was questioned, was for a period of its special reasons and that the inspection had goals to view the company's condition at different levels.
"I agree that there are people who came to interview with our workers. That is the normal inspection and it takes place so as to view the situation of the company in general in various issues," he said.
This newspaper is worried that those diseases from Norway who interviewed they were two, the one being known by the name which was left in the station that has not been sent back and sometimes the name was not found until they're going against them.
According to the sources of this newspaper from Noma, employees who were interviewed they had been asked to the interview with or they did not know the ones who interviewed them.
"When they came to the special exercise that we have been planned for an interview, that's when they were told that they have been called for the purpose of being questioned about the information that is swelled in the media and that the interview is secret," said the source.
