
The death of a journalist who is a teaser?
Brightiles 20, 2014.

Today we are continuing with a third place and the last part of this incident of the killing of a journalist Guelord Bungado (October 8, in the year 1996, John Gmwaijonga has been arrested by tax officers at the Heavy Fuel Oil Company in London while on the way to climb the plane heading to Amnesty International Airport, while having a big amount of money that are estimated to reach 500,000 dollars.
He will be remembered that section of the law of transportation of drug trafficking as well as a big amount of money Mister Grisham said that he was questioned by several police officers concerning the accusations that are facing him, including the killing of the murder of those accusations.
10 days after Glawogger who was arrested, one young man by the name Paul Pogba, who was born with a mistake of eating the murder of those two people had been presented in court although the illustrations like the motorcycle and weapons that were not found.
In November 1998, Paul Makonda when he was found guilty of the killing of the killing 'Guebuza and was sentenced to life imprisonment.
Like Paul Makonda, who was sentenced to a life imprisonment.
An incident of the killing of this news reporter caused the decision made by two films that they got their popularity as the ambassador of Sky Falls "that was made in the year 2000 and the other given to the name of this writer, called 'Guebuza.
However, he is one of the news reporter in Ireland by Reasonable Doubt, who has joined the book that talked about life up to the death of the song Guillermo Oreo ', which he released in the year 1998 and scored a goalkeeper of Life and Debwa,' Crdb Bank.
The book is mentioned to carry the content of killing him by his employers, that the individual has been accused by many people, an amount of calling her mother who was accused by many people, an amount of calling him when he was interviewed by the England Broadcasting Corporation, BBC.
