
How do the stall continue to cooperate with them.
"I have a lot of us that the leadership does not love the citizen or being dealt with by citizens, but it is his former president of Malawi, Mrs Ban Ki Moon, who arrived in the funeral of the presidents of South Africa who have agreed to participate in the general elections.
When the stall was born on A 7, 2012, the leader of Malawi, the name of Malawi has dropped by the vice president of the age of M Bank (MCP), which is causing a bunch of Plasmodium falciparum.
Apart from losing the presidency, the party of the Tanzania People's Women's Association (TPDF) organized and he didn't check 48 goals.
3 and 17 led by Abdalla Omar, a modem.
That scandal made some sponsors of their donations while some of the officers in the government, business people and politicians were accused while likewise, that situation made him to bring down the cabinet of ministers in October last year.
However, most of them feel that she is going to see that decision of public funds especially considering that there was claims that his People's Women's party is what involved the scandal.
Social media agencies in that country have said that those efforts are in order to deal with the scandal of Cibitoke village, they don't reach more than 75 million votes.
However, their stand has been defending himself that his government got a economy of that country which depends on the agricultural sector, which had already harvested.
According to the research that was done before the election by the commission for human rights and the peace of the religion, Herve Renay (CCM JP), scandal of Cemetery did not have a great weight to make it remain in the presidential elections.
For CCM JP said that citizens did not know the pain of that scandal, and therefore it did not have any kind by votes and added that people wanted the policies that are in the bar of hunger, to identify the economic growth and a reduction in the fertilizer price.
Likewise, it is alleged that the former leader of Malawi, used the public money badly during his campaign.
If they see her, they are saying that Mrs Salma did not have a good foundation of politics among the citizens.
