

By Chalila Kibuda, Arusha.
The level of production of vegetables and fruits in the country is expected to increase further after the real farmers started using the solar energy technology to irrigate their produce.
That technology has been successful in the country for many years now, although it continued to answer the challenges of lack of light on people's homes by the national grid.
As the use of that wall, there was no need in rural areas, but the electricity has continued to be used in urban areas as the cause of power shortages but also its costs are mentioned to be affordable.
Apart from the use of its cost, that technology has continued to strengthen by emerging various companies that make products that make solar energy as which could use electricity which was made by Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
In those changes, today we are witnessing or buying products that use solar energy like radio, television, and also there are also the use of removing water, using phones and other things.
To be talked to the needs of light and products that use the solar power, now through that technology it started to answer the challenges that are facing the local farmers.
As it is for people who need light on night, that is the way for many farmers who continue to use time, money and lot of energy to relocate the water at one area until it is needed to reduce.
This challenge is not only caused the farmers in the villages, but also they managed to grow the areas where they can help them especially in irrigation and other things of the farm.
For example, farmers of the real produce in the village, South Africa, Unguja South Region, have destroyed water and increased water from banks using the air, so they can be avoided, they can be avoided, then it is recognized by the rules and regulations.
The tomatoes farmer in that village, Issa Machibya, says to increase water into machines by using a bus and there is a high cost of making them fail to reach the goals they had put in place.
"He said the government and other stakeholders will launch electricity so that we can use electricity so that we can use our produce, for now, we are using a huge cost of buying oil for oil," says take place.
Iddi Hassan, the barley farmer in the Kiroreli village, Kitanzini ward, he says that they sell water from football from a faith, then give them into alternative tank that he made in trees and plastic bags.
The challenge did not live in clean water but he says that they are continuing to use a lot of time due to the strength of drawing water into goods and it will happen there.
I am using the strength and long time that is why I have forgotten the area that it has never come up to irrigation, if I could have used to be able to produce a high price while I believe it has helped me more, "says Hassan.
While the farmers showing the thirst for energy that will help in controlling the water on the farm, that situation is different from the farmer that is currently in the Ziba village, Central Region, Zanzibar Islands.
The farmer Festus Mengele said that she is capable of paying him, the waterfalls under the water, doughing, says a non-communicable diseases in the country (TAHA) has enabled them to make more action.
He says the action of the solar eclipse "solar eclipse" to pump the water into goods and then give them into power through Skype. Has increased the speed of production and reduce their cost that they used in.
