
The organizers of Kabila is taking place.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been published today, October 2016.

Some of the locals in the country have sent passengers to Tanzania after the President of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Joseph Kabila has assured the country that all the DRC cargo will be responsible, as required by making a good environment for the port including various systems of infrastructure so as to attract more countries to use the port of Tanzania.

Speaking to this newspaper through the phone in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the economy expert from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Doctor Haji Semboja, said the tour of President Kabila is a solution to Tanzania if the government through its institutions will plan well to improve the port's services and other areas.
He confessed that the DRC country has been having a long-term partnership with Tanzania and many things, but in the business issue it is good for Tanzania to prepare themselves, although improving the whole country more than Tanzania that is depending on the port's issue.
"This tour has brought a lot of good things to our country, if we use well our economy will go and we be part of the countries with better services at the port because primary schools must be responsible so as to recognize that development of our colleagues are available," he said.
He said DRC does not need the port but it needs another service like the whole system of infrastructure such as road, railway, and Lake Tanganyika.
He congratulated the step by President John Magufuli, to start using forgiveness from DRC cargo and to give it more time from 14 to 30 days and revealed that together with that it will have a little loss to the government, but it will attract more people of that country.
On his part, Doctor John Wanga who is also an expert in the economy from UDSM, said through the cooperation of DRC and Tanzania, we should expect a lot of good economic issues and even so, he said it is now time for the government of Tanzania to end up the construction of the modern road between those two countries.
He said that he recognizes that the government of Tanzania has given money for the purpose of construction of the railway and explaining that the debt for those funds can be able to return to the economy to grow fast, if the port service will be sold more than bureaucracy at the port and areas of transportation were controlled, the economy of Tanzania can change than it is expected.
He said statistics show that many types of goods are to produce that cargo to go and from DRC, therefore the completion of that railway, will reduce the cost of that country and other neighboring countries and therefore being used to use the port of Tanzania.
The economist from UDSM, Doctor Jew into the moment, said that for now, Tanzania is required to realize that there are many port that use Tanzania competition like South Africa, Kenya, and Mozambique therefore it is a responsibility to ensure that it makes a good environment to attract other countries to use the port of Dar es Salaam.
He said that for now, it's earlier that the economic situation will continue being after the DRC promise to use more than the port of Tanzania although he insisted that if that promise will be used by the port's environment to be further improved, the Tanzanian economy will discover themselves.
In the tour of President Kabila that ended the day before yesterday, assured Tanzania that his country will continue to use Tanzania's port because its services have improved than it was in the past years.
President Magufuli promised to improve more on the environment of that port and insisted that the number of cargo from DRC has increased from 106 percent whereby up to now business between those countries has increased from 23 billion shillings in the year 2009 to 39673 billion shillings.
