After water and cooking oil for livestock have condemned the breeders of the village of Ugandans and harmony in Bunda District, to transfer one thousand shillings for the systems of going to the provinces of Kigoma and we are required to look for water and livestock.
Breeders and citizens of these villages have requested the government to help them get clean and safe water so as to avoid the trouble the students are getting now, where some development activities it has reduced due to citizens using a lot of time looking for water and others leaving with their livestock.
Water shook some of the areas of Ukerewe District and better ways of breeders not to go to Kigoma and money.
The plain truth is there.
It is a very long journey from him is Majaliwa I was not livestock.
All those are receiving after the shortage of food and responsibilities of their upbringing.
I had we were with those who live immediately after what is claimed to be Mgongolwa Valley.
I have been told.
It is a Free Agent who has a teaser?
He has bought a area in the moment there were anything related to there that a tree does not support us with the person who is asking for someone who is asking for himself today this week but at the end of the marriage, tomorrow it's at the end of the marriage.
The loved ones that ended in Mpanda is not a Catholic church it reaches a place to buy a well of fifty thousand shillings to help citizens get water but also there is no water that is not worried because our hope is that we will get more education but for the purpose of looking for this education.
Texas County only giving international wealth, I was different from the league to give you a well one well, the leadership of Ukerewe District and the request for the government.
There is a car.
You must use more than seven thousand people.
It is high.
The biggest of its size is because of us?
In Urambo has been looking at a time when the renovation being able to pay their economic activities for now, it may continue being dropped if the water problem is unsolved because of breast cancer.
