In our last article of discussion that was done by who in Dar es Salaam city where we are in Kagera province, Muleba District, we are talking to girls and in our high table, we are talking to girls and in our discussions, we are happy and what we see the topics which are there.
The female child which they should do so that he can be the catalyst to his lover to be availed to their health that they should do the secret of her lover.
So as to be dealt with.
Hayatou, and see that, the first reporter did a love police for someone.
Now, I read it to give you an example that you're talking to you.
Bye, what I told tomorrow or I will give you a phone or be able to write a message that you have the skills of talking to their skills and do not qualify for the Dar es Salaam.
To convince him is in which way he will go.
And you have never been found?
You know himself to show a love.
I don't see something that you can do this, that you can convince his lover to go down, that you can be at the late when I told him, she refuses to say it is that everything you don't know.
You tell me that until you go to us to help him, he would like to love me, he saw it in different things, he will take a decision to go to test themselves about something that he would like to find out a bit about my parents and again comes back to the last child.
Certainly, I don't have sure that I was born with you.
Why comes back and when he went to him?
Insults don't have faith in the way they do we have.
How do you go and let's go through my health, therefore he can be careful, it is possible that you are supposed to know if you believe that you will know if you believe that you can't know if you are tourists and building if you are not seen.
We will have electricity there is no products that you know if someone has to land, this one was posting on him, therefore he can leave that.
You mean that you don't want to tell him that when the father comes, you don't like me, I did not know what I had gone because I had already started my things and it is still a story.
For them don't know health?
News analysis is possible for my parents to know that disease or not there is no fear that we go together with my health, you know that you are happy that we do not see me, but we believe that you should not know it, but we believe that you should not know if you should also know it.
They are proud of us.
They are not seen.
With my lover, by showing your joy by showing your joy, it is not everything that has come up because we should talk about.
He is not so much using me we don't like so much to use examples that some and some of them do so, we need me to know how it will be like a lot of love to use the position.
A statement that you use it should not be allowed to make sure then leave it.
There are people saying that when she is pregnant, she still has his girlfriend a whole, that he says she does not want to tell him closely and they have ever seen him in fighting.
If it brought a certificate is it good to me with my lover and I believe that we're getting married but I don't know what she does not love me, but I don't know what she has been infected or even though I've not been infected or even if we have not been infected or even though we have not been infected or even if we are not infected.
We're talking to that disease, it is possible that the person who performed and he made in the country, a act that has been infected with the disease, it does not mean that I have not been saying, I don't have a disease with my customer because he does not want it to increase the disease.
That is not true that they have reduced and then?
You have not noticed, that the courage to remove it will be yesterday.
You can't know where you fell in the near future, to remove the honesty is the meaning of which we are in the ten and eight month in the world, an action of one colleague, laughing out on his colleague.
While in addition to faith that happens, I am looking for example I think that there is a lot of fans that they have.
My friend I have with that if they went to you, if you do not lie?
It asked himself to be, that is why he knows it that she has called 'I love you alone.
But coming from himself, he was coming from his soul and another person, if he has decided to test for us, I have decided to look for me, I don't have a problem if I had already put yourself how you feel like, we had already been affected by our health as if they do all.
We need to have two like the lovers, why is you to make one thing, one of the founders wanted to get married maybe he went to other youths to go to other girls.
He wants him to told the choir so as to be availed to you the ones that he told, told him or not that, his name of logging inside.
The first one that I have.
It's happy that I have ever told all the ways he has refused to see me what should they do with me and he does not know that if he told me, he told me that he will not have no longer.
If he will go back, he will not agree that it's only what we get in, but refusing it depends on her communication related to him.
Dimakatso much in that hospital, using all ways of persuading him.
Absolom went directly to one of taking the picture that they have been affected.
Therefore your password will be done?
And in Navy Kenzo relationship together with yourself, it depends on this habit of increasing the disease, because of the disease, Jide and does not see what I don't know.
That God like yours, when you came out and only he does not love me.
He is saying what my name is one who will go back, I know that he is asking the Ambassador that agreed.
Yams flourish in light weight.
Communication is equal to us here, we are doing so that we are going to look for a good lover he gives him up with.
I think I do.
We have sex from our health.
Anything can I want to oppose a little, then it comes from what you love you.
That happens, if you return to another lover, I cannot look for another lover.
To put the basis of you to be like a female child to I want to see you.
What he will do is for brother to get the yes.
What's something like to be true that you love you.
Yes, there is someone who wants to look for advice even to you.
That I have given us again but I have tried to use every way when I wish you, if it is my true friend who will give you good advice if you will see that you have lost each way or do you get advice.
.
Therefore, that is how they can stand, in relation to our topic which has been a young man, what should they be able to convince his lover to be looked at.
