A big fire whose source has not yet closed down girls including all equipment that were in Mpwapwa secondary school in Dodoma province, some of the witnesses who have explained that incident as usual due to the environment of the fire place since a time they witnessed the incident.
The fire events in girls dormitories are continuing to bring a loss of property after another incident that is involved a small school in Mpwapwa secondary school in Dodoma province.
This incident is an explanation that it is a teaser?
As a result of his environment where one day before this fire ended, some of the students claim to see something suffering from having a lot of his bed, all over them reached only one of the lot of bed that had been there though they succeeded to control it.
Asking for him when he refuses the capital meters.
Truly, I was not seen but I believe it is a person from yesterday to sell it yesterday, we should leave yesterday, we should leave yesterday, but I was surprised by a great shape and even the other things were in the third commandment of God to be on Dogodogo Multipurpose and shivered.
It will be heard today we wake up in the morning we are safe.
We are expecting to look at everything that is affecting the value of the things to make each person and his things there is no anything even one, even one.
One of the teachers who were present at the scene has said that the fire has shown an answer to the private efforts of different groups that came out of the chicken in Mpwapwa district until now it does not have a vehicle.
While the student is found.
Better asking for government to look at this issue.
I arrived.
Police and people.
And if they do not know how many times I think I think they had to help to a big level but also.
I had promised to end up, he advised those students to take advantage of this water to come into fire and they also felt it was going on.
As a certain amount, we should strive to marry off the fire though the government who at the moment have already taken to the country to get a lesson so as to schools if the school is supposed to be viewed so as to prevent gas to prevent water when you go through professionally as usual.
Following the opening and everything is the head of our school?
Now a cry for parents and the community as a whole on behalf of his fellow students.
Most of the most important thing is that we don't know what is from the students and the true problems are tell ourselves what we will do everything we have been lost and if our country is supposed to know why the federation can help as to help them.
God, let us continue to arrest our writer, I would like to see that as we do that we do not like to do today, I don't know what we are getting to you until at least.
From Mpwapwa, Dodoma Province.
For the parliamentary seat.
In this.
If you're the right to give you a teaser?
