Giving birth of business we start in the province where two people have died after being faced with a joke in the quarry while I see in the area where one person being injured in the neighborhood has caused the small-scale farmers in those regions because of our writer to implement their report.
It is good again, there was a trap where two people lost their lives without hiding anything due to lack of those minerals without having their expertise, the owner of this area will be allowed to confirm if that area has already been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has been allowed to confirm if that area has
We need the council.
Here I went through life?
Again.
To help spongers from the department.
Also.
Alone, do?
To see now since the review of all.
In addition to areas that he has been allowed to do our place afresh.
Yesterday which they will continue to sell education.
It is not correct that you have no objectives.
For women who we have given education to Sports.
We know the education we want to provide better services because I talk about my life one of the residents of that area, they have requested the government to help them to remove the soil problems that is dangerous because they can also get that money even if it was in the same day and spoil it.
On his part, the councilor of Swaya Ward explained to it that it is the chairman of the village, Laurent Mathayo asserted the government to help them to produce soil so as to avoid other effects of the youth but here when I met them on the same time so as to see the miners then the head of the province gave birth to those miners.
But at the time we want to change.
Up to that, if you been worried about our mother?
Before continuing with the activities.
But at the time of us as a citizen.
Desire to work?
Despite the government to ban the mining of minerals, some of the youths who don't have been able to build those minerals at night and in the evening, even after the incident, others were found and they are continuing with work as usual.
The only way to save them in Zanzibar Islands.
I did not mean?
