In the first month I will look for five minutes not to prevent it.
Two, my name is called me.
He is the chairperson of CHADEMA of the East Constituency.
They left the secretary general of the revolutionary party.
It is after a pose.
To hear you miss this province.
I saw a lot of words that I said now I would be able to say it's back to my place where I am no problem here, I don't have a problem here.
I have been working as the chairman of CHADEMA constituency for seven years.
I have learned more things.
Inside him, I saw it a word that is used for a long time of political party, is not present in the party.
And not it is not correct because CHADEMA is one person or two say this should be at the sessions according to their constitution that is leading the party, this is how to learn true, I have seen the honorable coordinator.
The late God, after the arrest, the decision made I urge him to go back again so that I can work together.
The conflict they know where it was recently in short summary.
I have been the chairperson of the primary school committee when I am happy.
The cause of the school found themselves after, we had no ability to raise us because the Almighty God's property are there.
I will talk with investors from his bed company, as the chairman this year I decided to make approximately twenty million American University for the purpose of our children coming from there and CHADEMA.
I was told those things should be done by that not.
Sometimes it is easy for all the councilor for all of them, there were also plans of this way to do when I arrived to think about ten and five this month, the deputy minister of minerals and energy was injured in the quarry while not small-scale miners.
Hayatou, and my chairperson of the revolutionary party of the province, Mizengo Pinda in group members have been given out that fields, I want to be satisfied by the honorable member of parliament for all the years but now we have talks about understanding and the company is going on well today I am speaking here in Kinondoni District.
Honorable member of parliament of Singida East constituency is in Manyoni District now, right now is to try to be completed which was done by the deputy minister on ten and five, I thank people who have started understanding anything but I thank the secretary general of the revolutionary party, your work that made it should not be stopped and say this words would not be made.
Because of giving him close to her home again.
