
No Professor Lumumba, Kikwete has apologized.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

At the end of last week, I was happy to listen to the debate about the process of giving our nation's new constitution that took place in Dar es Salaam city and the big speakers were General Ulimwengu and Professor Lumumba from Kenya.
I don't know that the debate has helped to remove your eyes and try to understand the chief player that causes the other to be.
As such, I urge them to prepare well and for sure all those who use and using their time to try to convince the citizens to return to the constitutional parliament so that the process continues.
Until now, there is no sure that will happen at the parliament session in Dodoma, although the leaders are determined to ensure that they have the ways that they can be able to enable the new constitution to be available without the participation of UKAWA.
I went to my records, I appoint President Kikwete that he is the ones who caused the name of the name that he caused the other in his speech to close the parliament that was organized by the commission of constitutional changes led by Judge Warioba.
In his speech, President Kikwete claimed that those who joined three governments are very few and he added that the commission of Warioba went to take that number and to use that proposal of the structure of three governments.
It's not only that when he went to the front line and pray to the citizens that if we are not accepted by the third government system, the army can lack salaries and therefore eliminate the government because he is not ready for his presidential term to have a three-government structure.
Those statements are in his speech, your impatience will be even before the commission of Warioba, it has not arrived at work to collect the views of citizens, he said President Kikwete had already had his stand and not to be interfered with the structure of three governments even if it is the citizens who want.
My brothers, it depends on billions of nets that were used by the Commission of Warioba to collect those views of citizens and billions of us that were used by the constitutional parliament, you will agree with me that President Kikwete has touched me so that President Kikwete has touched me so that the process of getting a new constitution which does not have a good intention.
Because, as a good intention of them, he would like to respect the views of the citizens that were collected by the commission of Judge Warioba and therefore he could not give the statements that he made.
Certainly, those statements have made responsibility for the second draft of constitution and laying the opinions of the citizens about the structure of three governments who are suspected to be the ones that caused the user.
I got to say behind that many leaders in the world, especially from our African countries, like very happy and surrounded by the people (Nakheel), that you can't read a lesson.
Normally, these work is praising everything that the president is doing or attractive, and they are doing so, to vote for him, and that he love them. "
President Barack Obama said that they will face more than President Kenyatta, they will they thank you more than the president asking for a certain person, they will probably leave the person further, and when they see the person you're happy, they do not tell ourselves as a lesson.
It is my view that there are people with the behavior of natural resources, radio, and cancer, and the ones that live in our parliament of the constitution, after knowing the position of President Kikwete on the step of insulting the Judge Warioba and they thought the president Kikwete!
Those are those who want them to give him for that position of President Kikwete of creating a three-government structure, even himself he encouraged them to make sure that they get the problem and not because of the interests of the nation.
Those are the ones who came out more than insulting the judge in Zanzibar when he was surprised even the step by saying that CCM Zanzibar are not ready to release an administration through the votes; maybe by the blood poured.
My brothers, all of them in general is the ones that caused UKAWA to vote in the parliament and therefore, causing the actual problem of the first lady's first, but now it starts to send himself and return to his last speech of the month of the nation.
I conclude by saying that, I agree with all that was said by General and Professor Lumumba in the way we can be able to get out from the main constitution in order to do the general elections in this year so that we can have time to discuss more.
However, I get to agree with it is a thing spoken by Professor Lumumba, that we want President Kikwete to ask President Kikwete to apologize because he didn't agree with it.
Our country is poor, and have been used to reach many billions of money for the taxpayer identification for the purpose of reviewing the process of the new constitution, and therefore the president should be the first to be fulfilling the process through its statements to resolve the work of his commission.
That is why I personally and I believe that President Kikwete is supposed to ask for all that happened.
He has requested for us to ask for us that he will also apologize for the peace of Zanzibar, who passed away from that parliament claiming that, because they won the dollars to place blood, they will not be power through a piece of papers (votes)!
I am a Christian, Mathayo 18th of 22 talks about the aim to forgive him and apologized.
"Then Peter's right now told me, the Lord, my brothers do not tell me if the first time I don't tell me, although this article I will speak about those two things and asked him to forgive him," Masau boasted.
Although you don't know it is not a must that you have been asked for forgiveness, but we ask for forgiveness for a good thing that is supposed to serve the child, therefore, all of the two have no worries at now or later.
The important thing is that President Kikwete is supposed to ask for forgiveness for causing the user that made UKAWA to prepare a constitutional parliament.
Although Professor Lumumba does not recognize that President Kikwete has apologized to President Kikwete to ask for him who cause the presidency, but the truth is that there is no worries at any time and to them feel that the act does not recognize him.
And that is why in 1998, President Bill Clinton of America asked for forgiveness from all Americans by getting into a relationship that he didn't have a special worker at the State House, Monica Lekule.
Such as a fact, if it is true (you are telling them, Professor Lumumba) for us to ask for now because they destroy the presidential institution, then I want President Kikwete will be happy and ask for him to leave at the State House at the end of the next year.

Us will enable you to forgive him using billions of our money by starting the process of a new constitution that does not have a good intention of them since the beginning.
