It is for the production of electricity is approximately one kilometers or two hours to reach at a special area of electricity production, although we are supposed to have enough water in the dam of electricity, although we are supposed to be safe for the machines for the establishment of the equipment's performance.
Some of the laws.
A pipeline that will be distributed in different places in the country.
When we know the availability of electricity to the residents who live in the area that surrounds the river that produces water to water catchment areas as well as making human activities including farming and use of electricity in a group photo with a huge number of electricity production at Kidatu dam as he is also, the head of is made every step.
The environment of improving according to the improvement of me if they will move to me in it we see that the day before yesterday.
There is insisting that to be paid by private sector, I need to cooperate with corruption so that we can partner with the country to see that the water are fruits and maybe he is left with a total of 3 goals, therefore we will get a good ability to meet what is needed because of improving.
Mbowe said that the number of doing that job should be forced to explain to me, it is a must for them to take them together with employees of the fund.
In different professions like that why do the technical bench has risen up for instance, as it is a manager here there are good people, we are working with this disease like but all over the world have been completed and there is no problem.
You should be needed for the production of contraception is going on in all sectors in the country, are very important to get losses due to lack of reliable and five percent from the production and distribution of electricity that has been lost every year in order to save a Tanzanian poor.
The only one that would be able to make sure that I get irrigation in the country easily and distribute them as well as the growth and small industries, it has also been destroyed, but up to the high level of consumers, TANESCO was partnering with the citizens to ensure the infrastructure is available for free.
Behind the community who was close to the deceased.
I was found.
And at him.
The villages are near the same time I have gotten lost.
Look at each other and they do not want them to depend on their studies.
They are forced to miss a shop because it is one of words which we have given to Neema if you check.
To take ten thousand the ones that we leave to carry the one in the income just for free.
And their produce and you like to sell and benefit.
Their words were as well.
The world.
Others are there.
For reasons they are getting.
It does not have no longer.
.
Why is electricity.
Near there is wrong things and spread electricity?
Here is a neighbor.
It is a must.
Most popular that he has raised from everything you can be.
