
Majaliwa laying the thanks to Dodoma.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published in October 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has started his official activities with him by visiting areas of providing important services to the community including markets, health and housing after being welcomed to his office.

In addition to giving instructions of the changes they are required to continue with the government that started moving to Dodoma, it has also advised servants who will go to Dodoma because there is no problem of health services and areas to get primary and housing needs.
In addition, the Prime Minister who visited the areas of provision of those services before speaking to civil servants of Dodoma Province, the elders of the province, traders and various leaders at the Dodoma conference hall (Dodoma Convention Center), he said the government had a team of experts who will give advice on the whole issue of moving the headquarters to Dodoma province not to be in the province.
"We have made a team of 10 people who are involved in construction issues of capital city, these have the experience to look at the headquarters of the country, we will come to Dodoma and then give it a lot of areas of the city to ensure that the real situation is where they will give their views," he said.
Speaking in general about social services like education, electricity, water, and markets, Prime Minister has assured the servants that the government is looking for every area and to consider the recommendations that were given so as to improve the provision of those services.
He has urged those servants to change and be ready to receive their fellow workers who will arrive in the phase starting from this month.
The health service provider while visiting the Dodoma Provincial Referral Hospital, Prime Minister emphasized that he is happy with the explanation that he was given by urged the workers not to return to Dodoma showed fear of getting health services, to eliminate that doubt.
"The servants feared to Dodoma should know that there is no medical problem of health services in the hospital, there are good services," he said and wanted to enhance security to the health and health centers.
However, the chief medical officer of Dodoma province, Doctor James Charles, giving his report to the prime minister said that hospital is given priority so that it can provide its services due to serve 23 million people in the year, Singida, Iringa, Manyara and Tabora.
"It has been like a referral hospital because there is a professional service with bones presumed and there is a specialist doctors who give good services, we request that hospital to be responsible for many patients and for more than 1000 patients usually get surgery," he said.
Doctor Charles said the coming of the government in Dodoma if the province has prepared to provide good services and also considering that there is a fifth hospital with his colleagues in Dodoma Provincial Referral Hospital, Benjamin Mkapa Hospital, Muhimbili National Hospital, which is a chosen hospital in Dodoma municipality.
Marketing business speaking at the main market of buildings, the prime minister wanted business people to prepare due to the coming of the government in Dodoma where 2,700 servants will move to them in the province.
He said those servants will move to support their families and therefore it is a good opportunity for business people to improve their services and added that the Immigration officers will be of six months according to the prime minister, the main market is to have plans including a special place of making vehicles.
"The famous guests will come to Dodoma, ambassadors will visit Dodoma office, and foreign nations will come from Dodoma," he said.
Moreover, after reading posters of the complaints in his talks, the prime minister wanted the director of Dodoma Municipality to check the possibility of reducing taxes to the business people of the Majengo area which has risen from 20,000 shillings per month.
In Dodoma for another step, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said that all the government will be in Dodoma by June 2020 where a total of 2,700 workers will be ready to relocate to Dodoma. He wanted the Capital Development Authority (CDA) to eliminate houses that were built in plenty.
He said that yesterday in the city when speaking to the government workers and various government institutions in the province and urged those servants to have faith in their government.
Prime Minister Majaliwa said the first group of ministers is expected to be in Dodoma until February 28, 2017, while the second group was required to be announced on March 28th to August 2017 and followed by other groups as planned.
"Every secretary general when it arrived to be the strategy of bringing the workers in Dodoma.
So as to ministry that will separate money from the budget to bring servants and pay their copyrights before moving to Dodoma and June 2020 the government will be moving to Dodoma, "he said and added that all the government services especially the prime minister will be realized in Dodoma.
He said President John Magufuli promised the government to move to Dodoma up to 2020 and now the government is in Dodoma and it wants the Capital Development Authority (CDA) to provide plots for the need to build the house.
"Kasunga said that due to the process by the TIB bank so as to reach November in different stadiums in the city and they will release their recommendations, we want to repeat the city as we don't have in Dar es Salaam there should be three roads that are in the third time," he said.
He said that if there is a area of building a CDA competition to talk about with stories, so that people should form the person to talk about the arrest, so that we should make sure that you want to repeat at the middle, therefore, there is need to build City to repeat the offense of Dar es Salaam.
The Prime Minister said that the government together with all the work done, needs with integrity and urged the workers of Dodoma to be ready to receive their colleagues and requested them to change.
