
An outbreak of the mountain has affected people.
By OMR.
SELEKT program, Australia thousands of residents of Mkonkole town, yesterday was broadcasted for emergency following the explosion that was sent in the mountain to destroy their homes.
According to the government's report, the explosion that happened to the mountain located at the New York city, was faced with a reduction as a result of property.
"The explosion started slowly but later the speed up before the voice of how to be heard," said the head officer of the department to deal with the problem of the law in that area.
Already the local government has banned the journey towards the area that was affected by that tragedy.
"The officers of Lands, Matindealisema, it will look at the ball.
The points have removed the community that are living close to the scene area where some of the locals of that city, have been advised not to get out of outside so as to avoid suffering from the destruction of the disease.
However, the government has not given reports about the number of victims of that incident.
The station to deal with the spider plant in the city, Darcoboa, said that there is an error in the parts of the country that were headed to the southern region of that country.
"The explosion was coming up to a length of 60,000 shillings which is the entrance to the sky.
He said that as a result of bringing up the damage caused by the sky, the plane may be forced to use a high level and to avoid the certificates of Solomon and Plasmodium falciparum.
The Australia cargo plane, Qorro has said that three planes have used alternative ways to fear that they will be able to urge them to remove those acts.
"Our planes have started to avoid conflicts between SynoHydo Corporation and (center), who came out of the explosion and / 09 / Shangwe who was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by a explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an explosion that was caused by an outbreak of New Zealand.
"The number FF21, Qam22 and KF130 now will go through the middle of the city of papers in the New York city so as to avoid the truth." He added.
He said that that new way will not affect the time of the journey of those planes since there will be an increase in 10 minutes.
According to the report, New York City, was revealed to be covered by the deaths of stones from the same team.
"The police officers have urged the residents of that area not to be worried and asked to listen to the radio station of the area Radio East Africa, so as to get more information concerning the tragedy," he said that a report on the website of the station to fight and clean water.
The explosion was released in the year 1994 to mountains in the sun and Vogue.
