Work experts in health sector.

It has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training to place a special program to increase more experts in the health sector within the country so as to reduce costs for the government to educate those experts outside the country.

He made that order yesterday when he inspected the development of the construction project of Mbeya Campus at the University of Health and Allied Sciences, Muhimbili (Muhas) and construction of the Muhimbili Health Center in Zongomela area, Ubungo district, Dar es Salaam city.
He said the previous governments have done great work and the country has reached a good step to increase experts inside the country who will also go to solve the challenge of shortage of specialist doctors in the provinces and district, the construction of that center will give them citizens the desire to look for money for going to get treatment outside the country.
Already the great operation of heart diseases has started to take place in the country. The Prime Minister has directed the District Commissioner of Ubungo, Humphrey Polepole, to serve all people who were involved in the theft of 1000 shillings for oil to run the machines in the workshop of the contractor who is building that oil.
The Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako, said the completion of a lot of food will help the availability of many specialist doctors in the country who will reduce the cost of taking patients to children outside the country.
Previously, the Deputy Head of that college, Professor Ephraimu Mwasanguti said, the completion of the hospital together with all the university, will enable them to reduce by a large extent of shortage of health experts in the country and to reduce the number of patients taken out of the country for treatment and will also reduce the number of patients at the Muhimbili National Hospital.
