
Encourage us.
By Mwangi, professor.
The union of breeders in the country has urged the government to reduce the cost of production by 40 percent in order to enable the beneficiaries and expansion of the world of meat.
They said that the tax system that is being implemented currently has 32 percent and therefore increasing the cost of production by 50 percent.
In the workshop of Kenya, the OM production project (KCC) that was organized at the junction, he from the junction of the end of the week, secretary general Mister Elias Ndayisenga says the situation has been caused by the VAT tax on 16 percent and to be able to rise in farming equipment for 16 percent.
"We would like the government through the department to sponsor the situation and remove tax for equipment and then revealed that the VAT tax to five percent so as to bring funds to the cost of production to 10 percent," he said.
He said that the rules of the situation is in the country compared to those that continues to fear that, how the market is growing, how many nations have continued to get benefits to the farmers, where many Kenyans live.
Following the introduction of activities to strengthen the markets of products up to the country, he said that they give policies, they were given a challenge of uniting farmers to the district groups so as to make efforts to produce in large numbers thus selling them together.
Mister Ndeki said that for now the meat of meat has continued to sign up a world, with the level of meat in every human body continues to rise in speed and also increase in number of people.
"Every person in the world added that diet on meat is a period of last year up to approximately 1 kilograms of 9 compared to 43 tons in the year 2012.
He said that the effects of market effects show that the market will produce a long time in African countries, Asia and IAGRI as it reaches the year 2050, to show that it is a good market and which is capable of expanding the income and to be relied upon.
The market has been increasing at a high level while many farmers continue to walk on production, he said.
