We want a new constitution is not Judge Warioba!
August 10, 2013.

There are times I will answer to keep in mind the previous things because I don't get my joy.
This is because some of the records will be able to protect people that respect them for a long time and faith is based on how to loose hope.
Records is a very best way for or to continue knowing some people or not to believe again, and especially when they prepare to supervise what made to believe in the past.
I have found themselves in this situation in my secret relationship with Mzee Joseph Sinde Warioba, this is the retired prime minister, retired judge, retired Chief Justice and currently the chairman of the commission to collect the views of writing a new constitution.
According to most of us, including me, this one is one of the founders of the thoughts of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, and in the secret of us we have made the call him so that this is due to his duties and his thoughts that what he believes even if it gets against the authorities.
Inside our Revolutionary Party (CCM), he has been the solution to all who are looking for him because of their opinion polls in the community.
In the year 2006, I asked me in Dodoma when the group of members of the network started doing a lesson and to ridicule together with him that we have a happy about to be taught.
Mzee Warioba also explained that time, "CCM right now is wealth of the leaders," this statement made a solution to them, we believe that our CCM has been abducted by the leaders, and that we have our party members.
Rumors of his appointed to be the chairperson of the commission for coordinating the opinion polls of the new constitution which were attractive early in the streets before the official appointment and many of us did not know.
This is because we saw and put in mind his opinion that it didn't be for the front of the leaders, Mzee Warioba is known as a person who love Dar es Salaam to do a statement to the leaders because it has only been directed by leaders.
When he was selected to be the chairperson and then he accepted, some of us were shocked when we made a step to see so much and to ensure that our nation gets a good constitution that meets the requirements of the citizens and not the requirements of the leaders.
In the whole environment, our nation is faced, integrity of someone is the foundation that gives people hope that the rights can be taught.
However, there was a heavy reasons for some of us to instill doubt in the decision by President Jakaya Kikwete to appoint Mzee Warioba to lead this commission and secondly, the decision by Mzee Warioba accepted the appointment and all the instructions are not given.
Approximately one year before his appointment, Elder Judge Warioba was quoted by the press saying that they oppose the three-government system is equal to crumbling of those close to those.
That elder that has never got these words, and therefore they can be interpreted as he was ready to have his stand about the part of that new constitution, especially the structure of the union.
It is not a sin for you like a private person to have a stand because it is his primary right and the problem is when he will be unable to control his stand and to make it be the first position of all?
It should be remembered that Mzee Warioba during the third term administration wrote a series of articles in the newspaper of the Advice with the constitution and even asking him to get the father of the nation.
Let me be said that the father of the nation explained to him that the president of the year 1995, and told me that he didn't know the Tanganyika government "and that's when he knows his president.
On the position of father of the nation, the presidential process of 1995 was the one to look for the president of Tanzania and not the Tanganyika president that he supports Mzee Warioba.
During the presidential candidate of the year 2005, Mzee Warioba also was an old man of his fellow artist, Salim Ahmed Salim as a result of compensation that was used by President Kikwete at the State House, Mzee Warioba got a lot of money that made him to leave President Kikwete at the State House, Elder Judge Warioba, he got a lot of money that made him to shoot by President Kikwete at the State House and denying them members the opportunity to decide their issues.
At the peak of quills, it was seen every year during the anniversary week of the father of the nation (Nyerere Day). In the debate that was done by the Mwalimu Nyerere International Fund (Nyerere), Warioba and his colleagues registered the foundation of father of the nation and allow corruption to be the way of getting leaders.
