
Welshivered to me.
It is in a match that the coach met with the strength of the public.
The striker of Arsenal, Danny Sserunkuma the ball with Manchester City mid-fielder, Jonathan Hovind, during the England Premier League game at the Emirates Stadium in London.
London City, England. The goal of the striker, Danny Sserunkuma was enough to give Arsenal a 1-0 victory against Norwich City the day before yesterday and at that time, they will fulfill several things.
First, that goal was enough to ban the noise from fans of that club against Coach Arsene Wenger who was their long time, who has remained and is proud to have an extent of facing a huge blood of getting to that club for a period of 12 years ago.
Secondly, that victory has enabled Arsenal to return their dreams of playing in the European Champions League next season, having three points, although the team was on the field.
Third, Norwich has continued to sink in a disaster of getting the bridge this season and it needs a lesson to sell him in a hole of getting a bridge.
The goal of WelZuttah won from the bench taking the position of Alex Ireton while being found through the first round of their opponents at the Emirates Stadium.
Earlier, the goalkeeper who is expected to participate in the England squad that is expected to participate in the Euro 2016 finals in France, John Fisher has barred the mid-fielder Mohamed Eliona.
Several mid-fielder who sees a yellow card for each other with the referee Mike Pence, in the last minute of that game, who in front of Norwich having won one match out of 15 of the premier league against Arsenal, is out six draws and lost eight matches.
In that game, a poster for the fans had a message of "couples," pain is very short, Arsene she will face me, even so it was difficult to say if the church has supported the coach or not.
That club's fans moved out on the 12 and 78 minute, while noise about putting up the coach, an issue that involves 12 years of drought of the club under Wenger.
However, those fans were divided into two sides, those who were congratulating them were seen behind by the strength and those who have been supported.
