Viewers and gospel artists who tried to do what they want to change in the business of business and economy.
In addition, we were unable to continue today but business we start with the authority of the management of procurement and supply in the public institutions or the Almighty God, I believe that acts of corruption in the inspection of projects has caused many projects in public institutions to be built under the level of public institutions.
The mobile phone service through the Airtel mobile phone company, will have spread in different matches here in the country if the agents can be used to pay more than different social services so that the services can be used to pay for more social services so that the services can be used to pay more than their companies, therefore, those companies can be able to pay more than their mobile services.
Their number is more than ten thousand more that you're coming from the whole country and long fever; there to those agents can be able to give money because of receiving money.
Therefore, you want to say that you.
Ras Makunja has only that it is not true, they should use Athumani Airtel a easy service.
It is safe and as the way you will help you to get a great shape here?
Kigamboni member of parliament, Honorable Faustine Ndugulile has advised the oil distribution company in the country to provide training to drivers in order to control road accidents which are caused by bad motorcycle riders, while in an event to launch a motorcycle riders, while some of the drivers do not know how to return.
But you're near you.
Together having met the source of many accidents in the country.
Even you go to a big number like it.
Instead of motorbike and there is no weeds.
It was good we need to provide education to those.
It is possible that it is not good.
.
And we tell them in conjunction with the province of the chairpersons of the districts of threats, Magalula Said Magalula and the business people in that province.
In these awards of competitive market that are living in their products that are required to have the quality that is required so as to attract the customer, we get more information from the author's author.
Opening the training on the business exhibition of the threats of the province.
Bollywood films star is run by the technical organization, so coordinated and sponsored by Modewjiblog.
Tigo Foundation and also.
Yes, where I was one of us of the Ambassador of the threats that he has said in a goal and this song is sin?
And the market.
It is a must.
There is bad.
Peter's
It has been found?
The late?
In a lot of business he has been trying to remain in the training, shed light and direction on improving their business.
To know how to have capital.
It is a must.
You are getting a short message if it will win.
And wherever we are getting one hundred and eight hundred thousand shillings and the biggest challenge we have.
Look for markets you will sack our markets, but the improvement of our business and the tablets that are doing so much to come to work at work and then.
Then and a teaser sin?
