In order to implement the policies in government, they don't know all sections of the country.
A sum of 5 million shillings.
I commend the youth here in the country.
In every east has been advised to contribute to five percent of its income.
A youth.
He has been facing a lot of challenges.
Those youths explains that poor I thank God that for now, the government has succeeded.
Put your mother to stop stuttering.
But the unit is not a shame.
Same hours I have said that for example, this is when I was surprised and told me.
The report came that they are required to entrepreneurs in school.
But when they went to and also, he said that I have seen I am in the village, then, we do not know what she was looking for ten, what should know is the policies of drugs for who my friend.
They would have tried early when I was in the country in which I had organized himself.
Therefore, the right report for the money to land.
They were fighting despite the start of implementation of that policies, many youths have been doing.
B is an expert in the department of legal services.
From the ministry of information, culture and sports.
No that is why here is not the policy to benefit Tanzanian youth.
Hassanali has continued youths happy about the year without seven which has the aim of giving direction and direction of youth in the country.
And a lot of policies in its vision has an aim of.
The youth usually have enough capacity in participating in all sectors of political economy and I don't understand.
And this policy is the great guidelines that our youth stars use and all stakeholders in the development activities of the youth get to use and in the implementation of this policy, has said that all issues are a stakeholder in those schools from the family level and other stakeholders who are ready to address various issues of community development.
And the implementation of this policy is true you are going on well as I said different stakeholders according to their areas have been required to help the youths in different areas including the challenges they have seen through the ministry through this process so that they can benefit and increase the procedures through this bill so that they can benefit and increase.
You know.
