
Development funds to reduce the ones who will play in - Majaliwa.
Ezekia 22, 2016.

The Prime Minister of Tanzania, Kassim Majaliwa.
Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has urged the directors of the council in Katavi Province to be careful with the use of development funds that are taken to their areas and the ones that contested for votes will involve them.

"The money will be available is a fire to play with this council that our council will be brought here in the council for the purpose of citizens, they want the citizens to use it," he said.

The Prime Minister has given that order yesterday evening (Sunday, August 21st, 2016) when he was addressing a big crowd of citizens at a public rally that took place at the stadium in the stadium in Mpanda district.

He said the government has started taking money for development projects in various councils, therefore it is good for every executive that ensure that money are used for construction of various projects and not otherwise.

Prime Minister said it is a must the heads of districts and directors of the council to ensure that the quality standards of projects being built in their areas as well as the real value of the funds that were given.

At the same time, the Prime Minister has urged the minister of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children, Ummy Mwalimu going to Mpanda district to check how to reduce the Mpanda hospital in Katavi Region.

He said the hospital was built in 1957 as the clinic which for now are used to serve all the citizens of that province have been successful thus he instructed the Provincial Commissioner, Major General (Retired) Raphael Muhuga to the construction of the Provincial Hospital.

Moreover, the Prime Minister said that when the province is in the process of construction of the district hospital and put the construction of the District Hospital so as to ensure the government's policy to have hospitals in every district is implemented.

He said that for now, doctors and nurses who do work in the Mpanda municipal hospital were taken as a result of serving a large number of patients more than their ability, thus he has urged the doctors and nurses of Mpanda district to continue working in collaboration with their colleagues in the municipality.

Previously that hospital was under the leadership of the Mpanda council and the hospital for now is under the Mpanda Municipality, therefore the prime minister has urged the leadership of the province to improve services by taking medicine and medical equipment that will be able to serve the hospitals to serve the province.

The province has set aside 1 billion shillings for the purpose of starting the construction of the provincial hospital.
