
Donations and minerals is a curse from us?
Dec 27, 2012

Tanzania has been one of the long countries for foreign countries.
This love has been shown to a lot of time, including the financial support and even the major investment through the companies from those countries.

Statistics of the donations which Tanzania has been having been having a lot of away with another time in line with the objectives of the data service.

There is a lesson that has explained about this donations and other things, it's called Pindani Nyalile in the year 2006 when I have a reader who does not want to study a lesson.

This year will also be a lesson, 2012 Edenvale, has given donations of "received donations" and "service providers" in the world.

In Tanzania, the first country of East Africa, third and six in the world by receiving a bomb attacks in the year 2010 in Tanzania received donations of a total of 229 billion American dollars.

The donations was under countries like Afghanistan (3 billion US dollars), Ethiopia (5 billion dollars), Congo - Kinshasa (3L), in Africa, Tanzania is the third country for receiving many donations and it is the first in East Africa countries.
However, we have to read this data for a little bit by checking, for example, in that year every Tanzanian got a donation of how many dollars.

The star gives those statistics to also provide assistance to each head (Aid) Per ') for every Tanzanian was 64 million dollars.

Here in Tanzania, it was affected by several African countries including Congo Brazzavile (Monbusho Scholarship), Mozambique (23 million dollars), Mozambique (84 dollars), Botswana (78 dollars) and Burundi (75 million dollars).

Even in this period, Tanzania has taken the second position in East African countries in receiving donations according to the number of people by defeating Burundi only.

Corruption and donations.

It is good to add that the East African countries that are leading in donations, Tanzania and Uganda which are also leading in corruption, according to Tanzania International organization, Uganda is leading in corruption followed by Tanzania in the countries of East African Community.

It is possible that it needs research to show that relationship with the country with receiving many donations they do the government to be responsible for more donations more than its citizens and therefore considering the war against corruption that are run by citizens of the concerned country.
A curse from human resources (TEA).
45 percent of sales of products outside the country arising from the minerals, and especially the gold, Tanzania is four African countries, after South Africa, Ghana and Mali in the gold production of 23 billion American dollars.

Since the biggest production of gold started in the country in 1998, Tanzania has been made them outside gold worth 11,03 billion US dollars.

In that period of government revenue from all sources of revenue in the minerals sector is 455 American dollars.
Despite the great investment in the minerals sector and the growth of the economy by a speed of more than six percent per year, the poverty of Tanzania has continued to be greater.

The wealth of minerals and donations from outside will be able to reduce poverty and instead of more than 700 million shillings in a period of poverty in a period of the year 2000 and 2010.
A curse from donations?

The country which has approximately one-thirds of its budget is expecting donations from outside, but having corruption, a lot of poverty has been affected by a result of donations (ICT).

Although many researchers have written about "a curse from resources," there is need to make research to see if there is a relationship between the number of donations for the country and to fail to continue with the concerned countries, despite the donations which Tanzania has been receiving a lot of countries in the world with a small income to someone (GDP of the world.

However, according to the development of people's development (human rights), Tanzania has reduced from 25 poor countries in the world. 35 percent of contraception will live in the poverty of away according to government reports (PHPT).
Tanzanian experience shows that many donations from outside are not a solution to the development of people.

Tanzania without donations.

Tanzania should decide to receive donations so as to focus in increasing internal revenue and to be independent in Tanzania without the donations it is possible, the answer to answer is accountability.
When we build the foundation of accountability and we will make sure that we will be able to run our country without depending on the donations, by reducing the use of drugs, vehicles, and natural gas and investing in agriculture and increase the value of agriculture production.

Rich countries to stop giving donations to Tanzania from the next budget of the year 2013 / 14.
