
Saturday, August 23rd, 2014.

The responsibility of the employer is paid by the employer in minimizing the gap of the skills that is required at work.

In the last article we did an interview at least especially that many employers need to see for people from the class in a short time we saw that together with the ability to use the classroom for working environment, employers are looking for seeing the skills that we got to them, because of increasing the success of great skills of work.

Like the way we say, not war (URL) for the needs of the employer and the qualifications to look for work is one of the biggest challenges in the current world of employment and that there are many people who need employment because they have no ability to fill the positions they are facing.

Is it a problem of education or view?

There are some who believe that the problem is education and that we consider the knowledge of the real situation which does not affect the employment market because the students are learning with the aim of wanting to deal with the real challenges in the working environment.

However, research shows that, in the education that are being complained about, there are students who were involved with the employers of Tanzania, for example, it is possible that although there are some professional programs that are provided in universities which essentially has no productivity in the employment market, still there is a possibility of having a program to meet the requirements of the employment market.

When the primary question is, education has been supposed to meet the employment market needs, because of the graduates who were tested in all areas of skills and professionalism, or it is a job for employment opportunities to meet the needs of the graduates who think to be self-employed according to the needs, knowledge and professionalism.

However, we will still agree that, together with the challenges that concern the education system, we have not have a view on the side of the graduates themselves because of putting all hope in education and that a person believes that it is a full responsibility of education and teachers to make sure what they want to meet the requirements of the employment market.
Similarly, we have the meaning that the problem has reached the view on the side of the employer. That is, he believes that a diploma will get in the employment market and care of skills which is needed without problems, it is part of the problem that is not supposed to meet directly and every issue of the market.

The student should they do in this environment?

Without stopping the blame from one of the education system, it is good to look at how the student found in this education is being talked about with the capacity to meet the needs of the employment market where they will meet it, instead of being unable to deal with the challenges that are mentioned by them.

First of first, it is important for a student to ensure that the programs that you have read is related to one way or another with talents he is doing so that we can learn through the environment we need to learn through the environment we should learn.

In addition, it is a responsibility to be one for a student to get personal interests, for its own efforts, to make sure that he is going to read the real knowledge of those students, and we have never read the real understanding of those exams and it is difficult to have a huge understanding of those exams.

Likewise, it is a full responsibility of a student to be involved in line with other activities outside the class one with an aim of leading together with other important things that are not beneficial in the same time, can help you build the ability of knowledge that do not qualify directly in the class.

If everything is possible, it is easy to use extra time to work related to the ones that you're getting to me, it is something a surprising thing that many students do not have enough time to do things that have no longer.

For example, it is possible for you to use extra time for instance, so as to work even without payments so that it can be able to do this, it can make sure that you can deal with challenges of work.
Then how can I get into this gap?

On the side of the employer, the view that a student is to have skills and professionalism that is one-one and the responsibilities of work, and that it will get into the employment market while it has dropped by a large percentage, need to prevent the mockery.

First, it is important for employers to have special programs that make bridge between class and work, it's impossible to meet with one hundred percent of the needs of the employment market and therefore, it is the market to meet the requirements of his responsibilities and therefore he wants to employ.

Likewise, it is important for the employer to reduce his expectations by claiming that experience and skills that are not true, it is true that experience is a foundation stone for the work that can be done by anyone who has a good understanding without experience?

Similarly, the employer will be an important support to the employer, when he carried the responsibility of the guidance of 'Usiwe Bubu' so as to help grow and improve the environment because it was expected, it is not correct to understand the mistakes and problems of the employer.

By doing so, a terrorist who is expected to get in the employment market will have its responsibility to prepare to raise the big professional goals that will be successful in work, and so as to make its responsibilities, to build a wall, and so as to make sure that a transition period will help them to come from the real environment and a working environment.

Other things of the system like education, at the other time, will not be able to stop for each other and fighting for each other, and for sure we are doing a kind of looking for goats, and therefore we are supposed to deal with friendly matches, again the step in the step.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
