The Almighty God rest his right now, Honorable there is no need for knowledge or understanding to the public concerning a resident of us to talk about the authority.
The government's work is.
The laws governing this year.
Maybe if you use this opportunity to explain that maybe the main council of authorities of ensuring that the citizens are getting until.
It has a responsibility to the community and on the side of the main government which is the ministry of leaders and it has the authority of the leaders and it's not bad to go for a little time to go to the place and also.
The relationship of the ministry's activities on the meaning of the main government and is to fear.
For now, I would like to talk about that maybe I will not enter into a structure of us to talk about the ruling party of land and the residence in general.
It is true that here the law we are doing, when he could be able to come into the residence is the law of planning.
And.
First, there is a health law on the use of land use in the villages that has set up a procedure but we are following the ruling law of the provinces where it cares for the homes it and I think there and I think in the period that we will speak.
People talks about the towns and water is the ones.
Now, and how is its meaning, there will be a teaser?
Every council should start, I have set-up, there are council leaders with people who have been selected to me as the councilor is also in my ward, I'm the councilor and in my way, we are able to put procedures of reducing our homes our cities to enable them to stop law even so of the law.
Now, that ministry has failed to remove those power and started again the ministry, the main government has been using these duties to the local government.
But when a lot of power I don't know their hands and said that it is not my friend and that is why it will put one thing and the management.
Therefore, the ministry has maintained the work to make policies but supervise the performance for example in the areas.
Actually the truth of soccer.
Number within two and seven thousand.
The late God is now his authority to plan the phone in the council.
Therefore, they do not want to know if the preparations have taken every council, it has its committee of land resources and the environment is in the council is looking for those issues that are facing them.
Since the committee we should supervise all these things that in the past, it was supervised by the main government but the ministry is now good that we have no meaning that we are doing that we are doing this implementation.
Now when it comes to a little time, we will help and you for these things that you need maybe if you will see things you cannot get out of you, you find you that we can be able to listen to them.
It means that we are getting close to example, if the city has set aside its own plan for the moment up to all of us have been seen that maybe we need to save it and for example the use we got to say that Manji gets.
It is since this is now a must to agree and be changed at the level of those authorities, it has not been completed in a restaurant because we want to be satisfied that something that is going on there is not there.
Honorable.
