
The ones that die here is May 31, 2012.

While the government in Mwanza province there is a head on how to fight with people with albinism (Tanzania Albino), has been known as an average of 120 elders like every year in that province due to faith of witchcraft.
Mwanza Province is the one that is leading in the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society, between the Tanzania Albino Society, who have been killed, 20 is the province of Mwanza where those killings started to be reported in the year 2006.
However, different from the killing of the Albino Society, the killings of the elderly in Mwanza and Shinyanga provinces have been there for several decades ago and different stakeholders see that the government did not give the necessary weight to those killings as it is now.
Mabula William, a resident of Missouri, says that after being forgotten in a long time, the elderly who have been killed in hundreds of them have been killed by hundreds of them that had been connected to the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society.
"The killings are just the killings made about the human being and our elders have been done every year in Mwanza and Shinyanga. I would say that these efforts are being done by state agencies and the elderly but if we see that the fight is involving the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society, but we see the government has rectified the great strength to the Albino Society.
"Up to now, I have not heard that there are some of the elderly people who were arrested, and that is not that the killing of them came to an issue, no one is the meaning of the community that is being implemented because these are the father and our mother to the Albino Society," says William.
The Provincial Commissioner of Mwanza James Alex Msekela, who confessed that his province is facing a shame of the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society, he says that they are organized to eliminate that shame.
Speaking after the protests of the Tanzania Albino Society this week, he said that experience shows that the many killing of the Tanzania Albino Society, the elderly are the relatives of the deceased.
While insisting that some of the strategies have been put in stopping the killing of that head of the province, he says that it is together to revive the guards of ltikadiu and that every village will have security guards.
In addition, he is going on more by saying that it is banned for a person to go to the Physician in eternal peace and who will be found with the investor in which he will also be arrested.
"From now I want all Tanzanians (HIV virus) to be given out and if they want to build a good house, I want the district heads by partnering with us to tell ourselves how they are required to do you and then see how to maintain the affordable cost," he said.
However, some of the analysts of issues are saying that maybe the statement made another debate as the one of the prime minister Mizengo Pinda of removing the licenses of traditional healers.

Mwanza province is among the provinces with one acre of poultry, starting with licenses and do not have a license, and even those with the small businesses are many.
One of the witch doctors who did not want his name to be remembered, he has told BBC Afrique reports that the license they are facing is according to the law of natural treatment of the year 2002 and that every Tanzanian has a right to live in anywhere, the law will not affect the law.
"I don't know if I don't go back to home for someone who is going to break his house while it has not completed any house of life, then the government cannot be elected as a big conflict with its citizens.
In my opinion, the government has never been rushing into the license, instead it would meet with leaders of political parties of natural treatment, they cooperate with the way to deal with this problem because it is not all those who are doing those things of the Tanzania Albino Society.
There are those who are annoyed by this situation, they are saying that you can leave each other because we are playing, "he says and added that most of the witch doctors live in doing those activities, thus removing the licenses and prevent them to protect their families.
He added, "we should know that there are people that are depending on the traditional treatments because of preventing diseases which were admitted to the hospital," he says it is good for the government to meet and see how to eradicate that problem of the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society and the elderly.
Next month, March, the government has announced to make an exercise to vote on the cases of exposing people who are involved with the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society and the elderly in the country.
