This will follow up from the city where they are not with any time close to our media, today morning, for your electoral commission, Boniface Magupa when it will make international news on business and economy, it will also be able to look for international news on the business and the economy to give them an opportunity.
You know that now it will begin with news reports.
The speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, Anne Makinda has given a stern warning to the members of parliament and the secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Mister Eliakim Maswi for providing services that are not true against the members of parliament without having enough evidence that he broke the parliament and from Dodoma.
Fruits things have been given themselves as the same time when he was giving his decision against the investigation on claims that some of the members of parliament and the delegates of the energy committee and minerals that brought together acts of bribery in their parliamentary work.
He says agriculture has been given a place and it is a good example while carrying the professor of Dar es Salaam but said that the good thing is on how to know him, he would love him.
We're going to we used to and not money to parliament to say that all is good.
Do you get enough research and get into an issue.
Able to happen.
It depends on.
In his investigation, a small committee for ethics and power of the parliament revealed that in all the accusations that were made we have no enough evidence and many of the accusations were to reach or.
Even so, the leaders have been asked, the late Judith Wambura has ordered for the minister of energy and minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo and Mwangi, the church giving a statement to the parliament in his work to be some of the members of parliament.
To have a conflict of stem cells to do a tires and TANESCO had no boundaries.
Others who were present have taken action against non-evidence and finally they were given a stern warning as required by the Singida East member of parliament Mister Blue Pearl who is accused of his fellow musicians in his meeting with albinism.
From the city of Dodoma.
It depends on.
The Parliament has adopted a private statement by the member of parliament for Kigoma northern region, Mister Ramesh Shah, together with his changes that he wants the government to take action against Tanzanians who were illegal the illegal money outside the neighboring countries without getting off from Dodoma.
Passing through that issue according to the recommendations that are born is not the end of the attorney general, Judge Fredrick Werema, came to come after a big debate made by the prime minister Mizengo Pinda to parliament to reach them only that the government has already started.
There is no one that I used to go to there so as to avoid some of the reports we have no reason to cook as it is a mistake.
He has seen him to understand the other.
Therefore, it is not good.
We should not accept the new issue before more because of the one.
But we should wait until Honorable Nnauye.
He doesn't know that a person who is able to help us as an expert who has loaded in the area earlier on the topic giver, "the things took the decision to sign the nominated committee that will reduce them instead of just after getting money from your country's information.
We should be ready for even.
Which are blessed which does not mean?
First I want to make it a tomorrow, it has left to be taught.
As the guest of food.
.
The words are.
I would like to claim I will not be written once once they get the opportunity but he will be Jose James.
How is it?
And the first one?
We will help five houses and the problem of the illegal constitution just after forcing him to be given an explanation from the government, that's why the band has not seen, the sales manager will not be careful not to make sure you make sure that we make it more better.
Reliable government has directed the government and the government says that a special service to another sister should be able to know if you leave, then I didn't tell you that and bring reliable electricity in a whole process, which the government will use the money whereby the government can bring change.
From the city of Dodoma.
