
238 students were given to pregnancy.

It has been written by Nakheel, James, Moshi.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

238 students of primary and secondary schools in Kilimanjaro Province have been given pregnant for a period from January to August this year.

As a result of that situation, the government has requested various religious leaders, to help save some of the female students who were given pregnancy.
The Provincial Commissioner of that province, Saidi Meck Sadiki said that while speaking to citizens after giving a gift to 34 police officers, the police force, that did well in their daily performance and to maintain peace and calmness in this province.
"It is a shame for the province, because we are blocking the students on January up to May this year, the province had a total of pregnant women, they were seen, there is a importance of putting a special procedure of repeat, they were able to reach 238," said Sadiki.
In addition, the head of province said that according to the statistics, the district of Rombo is leading in having 60 years to those students during that period.
"In this trend, there is a need for religious leaders to provide special teachings to our children to avoid acts that will contribute to the pregnancy, this situation is a shame for the province but it is a shame for our colleagues to be professionals in various professions," he added.
He went back to his statement of wanting the religious leaders and culture, to avoid sexual abuse that wanted the case of pregnant issues that can be taken after two sides gives the second goal.
"There are non-communicable diseases to solve the case by giving a warning, this culture is not allowed, leaders of public institutions and different organizations have not allowed the government to identify the traditional foods so that legal action should be taken to those involved," he said.
On his part, the police commander of the province, Wilfredy has been appointed in the period of March to August this year, there have been approximately 1 incidents of rape compared to 92 events in the year 2015.
He said in that period of the year 2015, there were seven events that this year already there are 12 events, four incidents of attacking children compared to three events in the year 2015.
