In the same way, one of the drugs involve the data of the commission.
But food drinks, equal to one of the Tanzanians now.
Bagamoyo is using percentage percent to know the percent.
Without not this night, it does not mean?
If you look at statistics there is high table here at home for seven percent and one.
It's not this one and one of the people that have six hundred thousand people.
Some of the laboratory gave their views on the structure of I met.
It is twenty thousand shillings.
You will take all those who gave their views, they were with a total of three hundred and fifty thousand shillings.
Therefore, events have confirmed that the commission is open and let him know if you get here, I request you to explain not every one of the number after playing for the father of many Tanzanians want to be three.
That is the meaning, it has said that unfortunately, they do not think of what is an indication that it is.
Our country was bad and we are very happy so as to see a lot of our continent, I told me that I will talk about our country for a long time.
To an extent that we are worried that we are worried about that friendly match will also be used in the country or
And the process of the new constitution are changing the situation and rumors in this period.
The debate that is going on for the new constitution has risen up to one hundred percent about the issue of the union especially its structure.
And this issue has not been received because another time in the phone yesterday depending on the structure of the union.
At home, I'm talking about people, they are complaining because we met the structure of the union on other things in the fact is that you can't know how other things in fake phones will not see if I will release a two articles to leave that.
If you want to discuss international goals or it is the second step of all that draft, I don't have time to get a question of the Times magazine that is unacceptable, you should not lie or not.
But the whole nation depends on and then lead in a draft, if we want to discuss ethics and we are worried that it is a third chapter in a draft that does not understand and ask the leaders.
The leaders of the union of the union or the local government is done or the government Hassan.
Now if you read the draft keenly, I don't know how many have reached a draft or it depends on you that you are told or read the newspaper.
You read the draft keenly.
To look for that leaders are joined is leaders of the government of the union like those minerals but at the beginning.
It is touching the citizens that are done at the house while those leaders don't have the authority on their resources so that they do not get their health services and in general, the real situation of the union has no authority.
In the ongoing debate, there have been conflicts with a lot of errors that the three government officials need to know where they are very few and even the few people are not giving an indication.
My advice to you are that we are the ones that make religious statistics the group of women between these three groups.
