CHADEMA should leave CCM to start a check up.
Dec 27, 2012

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), does not look at the year 2013 if it did in the year 2012 to continue moving to the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
And now the time now has to politicians and the party leaders to sit down and ask ourselves what they do not make corrections, it is why their decision and their leadership has taken to disrupt the party and it is now continuing to blame CCM that uses a lot of ways to cause conflicts.
A few days ago we have witnessed, especially on social networks that it's called "couples" inside the party where various leaders of the council of youths of CHADEMA together with others from the party, some of the party leaders urging them to be used by the ruling party to cause the party.
We have witnessed about these networks that various leaders come or from names or because they will enable them to send charges against others. There is no one who was left safe for others, there is no one who was left safe and from the chairman Freeman Mbowe and the whole leadership of the youth union and to those in the provinces.
However, the statements by some national leaders which have tried to show that there is no problem, "what were given while confirmed that there is a problem inside and there is no thing that has been forced to write a lot of conflicts like the victory of God bless Lema in Arusha after the Court of Appeal will be resolved by this newspaper, was sacked by a big offence.
But a few days before yesterday after the decision by CHADEMA's decision, they were accused of having a person to try to give the leadership on how to get into the scandal.
Unfortunately, all of them are talking about these conflicts, they are talking about looking at CCM party because the accusations that came from BAVICHA is because of CCM, and that the accusations that are offered within the internet have benefited from the coordination of CCM leadership.
Now it has been saying that there is no doubt that happens inside the party, except that it should have been caused by CCM party and it has been the cause of national leadership and the system of CHADEMA is making problems in this main opposition party in the country.
For some people who we have been supporting them is going on now they are inspiring.
We ask about how the conflicts between people continues to be if the party will face power but its ministers are not supposed to borrow, how it will go into power, it's not what we are doing inside CCM right now?
It's not knowing that the ministers who do not agree with sexual politics from the current leaders are not that we start to witness the conflict which will continue after CHADEMA started to hold power?
But the most important thing is that the national leadership of CHADEMA is a must that you are happening and that you know but they are saying they are supposed to collect more evidence and that these things have happened for a very two years now and they are still waiting for them to avoid opportunistic infections.
Now, they have been able to address problems in the lower levels especially in the provinces but at the national level have continued to carry out and be taken into the party, the problem that is needed, we will have never put into an eye on it and to give them a permit.
