As required.
Finish the reader who should say only that the total recommendations of the government.
And the general suggestions to the government, the chairpersons are requesting them to listen to section ten in the public internal auditors so that what they want to increase revenue to reduce the loss of government resources or reduce the expenditure that have no benefit to the foundation of this period, I would like to this year to give those recommendations.
One is.
Not knowing the cost of planning the office of the government.
There is an importance of the government to invest in its buildings itself and this is the procedure and a good system of all the government in the world.
The inspection of breaking ten thousand in the third and three mentioned to identify the ten best offices only by the government were paid a total of seven thousand shillings only as tax tax.
Therefore, he advised the government to have a sustainable plan of building buildings for its offices and due to this system.
Why is it?
The leadership of the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation.
There is a probability of the introduction of the fund in its budget for the purpose of doing economic activities and grow the tourism attractions by considering that this is a very important job for Chinese to know our brothers and it is a responsibility of ambassadors but not have not been done because of limited budget to be taken to five.
Third time.
To start a national committee for coordinating the implementation of it more than ten o'clock in which I have talked about that of the federation, experts and various stakeholders who will be the supervisors for the two years old and to make sure that every step is implemented keenly and on time in implementation.
We think fear.
You miss.
Four.
Four.
Ten commandments of children read?
It is shame, you know the behavior of our towns I don't know how many cities including switching off their lights will be able to grow.
We have no work of having traffic lights.
Now, those chairpersons are questioning the existence of God, the presence of modern cities in line with the infrastructure for traffic lights.
The benefits of the presence of road safety in the city as well as strengthening the security of citizens and their properties as to enable economic activities that take place in the afternoon by night and also increasing the attackers.
When you came to the talks that before when he wants to do business up to up to who until now, we should do business and instructions which we will see all of them want to there.
It's not sure that this situation is very different in our cities, our cities will enable you to be a source of when we met with each other and when I met with when I met with each other.
Therefore, it is not knowing that, we live in Town, the government to revise the possibility of the establishment of the project which they have Mister Mister.
Office of Prime Minister.
You know that the meeting will meet TANESCO councils and other stakeholders to discuss the right way to start three road project in all the towns in the country and we request TANESCO to know that TANESCO is to know that the road's boss, if you're close to them.
Still, I did not see you are complaining and I will go down and I will go to me, it is because of darkness, I believe they felt it because you want to road and themselves they are from BADEA.
The social welfare of the country have passed through the proposal of Tanzania.
I was surprised a mistake.
Recommendations that are participating in the department after explaining that which he explained that they see the challenges facing the cost of Jerry Silaa, we have proposed the following up to the government where there is a big number of demonstrators to the prisons who are waiting for their cases to be heard and the rights to be dealt with.
This will not be possible when the government will still be demolished because they have the ability to do its constitutional work because this is together with giving the court money with the servants who have a need to go with its responsibilities in the number of servants I thank my boss, Honorable.
When speaking at a meeting of the judges, water has been put up to the court this year that is expected to be able to employ one of the six judges that they want to contribute much in reducing.
The prisoners here in our second largest in order to reduce traffic congestion and the cost of blocking the prisoners, the court is advised to provide blood instead of a small mistakes.
You know most of our African fans in the southern region for a small period of six months now I think just to look at the possibility of coming up with no wonder.
Third with the greatest aim is to see the importance of improving the project with a special project of expansion of Tanzania Prisons is usually very disturbing.
As a result of building new prisons and renovating four institutions due to the prisoners and prisoners who are in our prisons, there is an importance of the government to set aside money that will be looked into and treat the prisoners being one of their primary rights for a budget of Tanzania to be looked at with an eye of an eye for the only one.
I have no one who had to leave that from that of the black bikini.
Five is advised that the land officers have been presented with the purpose of getting title documents so that it can be able to use economically as well as getting into partnership with the activities of business production and the private sector in the 80s system.
And last, the departments are advised to complete his unit of beer.
It's called the Prisons for those allowances so as to contribute to increasing the income of the department.
You are worried about what?
And it is my?
The end of the end.
They are property and money that had a result of money.
Property and money that had been taken to our nation.
I say I request to say that the investigation knows that in financial institutions and Social Security Fund here in the country have had money for a long time without being taken and themselves as a result of various reasons like people living in the community fund as they have not talked to where I have not met.
Peace which have been made in this meaning you get to the list of Company you are getting tired of the genes, she sees them, "he says about doing what they have got but it was the Sabasaba grounds for many Tanzanians.
When you get married.
Money for the projects have explained that we think.
And there the illegal money that will be still underway.
In various countries.
There is a situation that many institutions do not like such as those are required to take them to the special fund there are many questions.
We are those who are involved in the end of a woman before it is used for the development of the community.
If the number of those funds will come out later and the illustrations to confirm the legality of his claims will bring land to the extent that he deserves.
Knowing the economy of the citizens of our country.
And many Tanzanians should decide to use the financial institutions including participating in the stock market, the needs for the government prepared to be prepared to be creative to address money and property of this kind.
My fellow journalists, this are just some of the things to come out in my ten reports that have been presented to parliament today, it is my faith that boots stakeholders will get a chance to read it in details and using them, I advise him to see what I feel.
When we get to the these days, but if you said it is available as well in helping offices if you will get something that will need me to look for us we will be ready to provide information to the citizens of Tanzania?
By finishing, I would like to thank our Holy Quran for its great contribution in making us to implement my duties as required but I would like to thank our Holy Land through its three management committee where it is also a result of the parliamentary committee.
In addition, I would like to recognize and thank different stakeholders that contributed to the implementation of my duties because they have been sent to the sponsorship of him.
The office of the nation did not see I?
The World Bank.
Six should be demolished because it does not depend on foot without stopping.
