
The minister of industries without industries, agriculture and agriculture.
May 30th, 2012

March 2008, one of the industries from Japan was brought in the country by President Jakaya Kikwete to advise his government on how it can bring the "revolution of industry" here in the country.
The action of President Kikwete to bring an advisor from Japan is doing, at the time, let me get faith that our president had already been able to make Tanzania become a country of industries and agriculture.
In four and a half years now, it has been known since the good adviser of the industries from Japan will finish his work of requesting President Kikwete about the issue, and then there are no symptoms of building the new industries here in the country, and then they have been directed or when they have been removed or when they get married.
I don't have sure that since President Kikwete came to power, close to seven years ago, there is no great factory (Heavy Fuel Oil), and not for a big factory (Heavy Fuel Oil), and not for a big factory (Heavy Fuel Oil), and not for a big factory (Heavy Fuel Oil).
Seven years of the administration of President Kikwete without being built in big new industries in the country, gave me the statements that was given by the Chief Executive Officer of Japan before he leaves the country.
The adviser of the newspaper, I've been quoted by the Daily News newspaper, the edition of March 6th, 2008, saying that every revolution of industries is not today.
He said that in order for Tanzania to reach the development goals that has been set up to the year 2025 (including the construction of industries), it is a must that this economy by 156 percent per year and continue with that level for 18 years!
But last week, we was told by the Governor of the Central Bank (BOT), Professor Benno Ndulu, that Tanzania's economy, for last year was to a total of 65 percent only, 5 percent and 156 percent of the patient is where the player is where they are where?
I am not an economist, but on my small level of education, I recognize that it is not good to our economy to grow fast, from his current level of approximately seven percent and to reach 6 percent a situation of the economy to stand on that level of 156 to 6 percent.
When you consider our discipline in printing work, and when considering the state of increasing corruption in all sectors in the government, and without forgetting the fact that many ministers and friends do not understand what is not easy for Tanzania, under the ruling party, to reach 6 percent in recent years.
And that is why four years in the country have already been seen since the incident, the lady advised the government of Kikwete on how to reach the revolution of industries here in the country, but up to now, there is no big industries that they have begun being built.
Very much, we don't know what we know and let me talk about us because our leaders and the big sins that they did is taking place, to sell and killing industries that were started in the era of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere.
At the beginning of this year, for example, I have heard the former President of the third term, Benjamin Mkapa, saying that if there is something he didn't know how his administration is developing agriculture because that coach Mkapa, later, he was quoted again saying that it's impossible for Tanzania to end the problem of employment without building industries.
Let us think about the president of the country how can you identify agriculture, though 85 percent of its citizens are involved with it and let me think that we cannot end the problem of employment without building industries when we are expecting to end the problem of employment so that it is good, we are expecting to arrest it to investors of Marie Antoinette.
That is why I am happy about, President Kikwete called for what has brought the player the one in the year 2008 to advise his government on how to reach the revolution of industries when we visited and saw it.
I have no doubt that even sexually transmitted infections which poured in Beijing in the Chinese industries instead of enabling them to reach the revolution of industries.
It would have been an issue of Mwalimu Nyerere's administration where we had the small industries, including the virginity of farmers such as Beatles, Kidney and Mutasingwa John, is obvious that bird flu could face more their journey to be a big country, "I say so that the reason we had to come from.
But now the leaders do not know the revolution of industries after they have killed all industries, it is something that is something that is why, it gives a lot of questions to now about our keenness and our ability to our thinking.
And that is why, personal and a half years have passed since the year four and a half years have passed since the ones that were made to be the one of the industries from Japan, and there is still a big industry that has been built in the country.
Certainly, there is a time I am happy about if there is still a need for them, for now, having a ministry of industries with two ministers.
Recently, every day of our minister of industries is what happens as a result of the minister who plays in the ministry for now and the adviser of the clothes at Friendship Fields, Dar es Salaam, for yourself how they were sold, little by selling vehicles!
Furthermore, in the normal state, a person has been asked that after CCM's government to bring down the industries and the dreams of the constitution from Japan, all the strength would have been directed to the Zanzibar Revolution Party (Green Revolution), but where?
Despite 85 percent of ODL students, small-scale farmers living in rural areas, the government has not identified himself even though it has a very popular program that is called "agriculture.
President Kikwete emerged with that is called agriculture first, but the fruits up to now is not stable for a period of three years ago but I was not lucky to visit various villages in several provinces in the country I have managed to look for evidence of our agricultural changes that come from that agriculture first same as I think that I did not see.
And even the leaders themselves, it's a few times you hear you go to the villages to advise the agriculture first or at least going to do their assessment and there and then do they do because they are doing more than the previous years more than the villages, and especially President Kikwete.
How many times you have got to inform our leaders visiting our villages to encourage agriculture like when he used to do Mwalimu Nyerere, his times you have got the open efforts of our leaders to enable our farmers in the villages about better agriculture.
My brothers, what I said is that, under the government of CCM, it is a dream for Tanzania to reach the Zanzibar Revolution, and it is more dream to reach the revolution of industries.
It is true we have ministers to manage those two sectors, but the truth is that there are not like the ones who are not present soon, there is dangerous to us for us to have a minister for agriculture not to build any agriculture.
Those brothers, my brothers, yes, it is the reason why it has managed to control the advice of people that were told the world.
We wouldn't have been forced to have a organization of Bongwe during the World Bank (WB) and the International Monetary Federation (WB) and the International Monetary Federation (IMF) to sell our industries and improve the industry sector.
I decided to inform you, when he spoke during the celebrations of May first, 1995, in Mbeya town, Mwalimu Nyerere once said this about the theft of the industries sector in the country, "the country cannot continue even little by considering the industries and the country especially those of our leaders not to resolve the problem of lack of employment to our youth in the country!
But something sad, is that they are still continuing to understand the advice of those who have been buried on our other sectors including the agricultural sector, here in the country, President Kikwete was called America and President Obama in order to be given the way to run the agricultural sector in the country.
Moreover, Obama told us that our savior is for agriculture for big investors from outside, and that it is the end of the priority instead of returning and insisted that the small-scale farmers in the country!
For that advice of Washington, where our leaders have not accepted, many years the big part of our land with natural fertility is in the hands of the ownership of those foreign investors - other things of the colonial era.
Although when we see for now, we are our leaders for them to be responsible for the peace song for forgiveness, that is that we will remain with 25 percent of the shares in every modern farming project that will be started by foreign investors, most of us are still there.
And doubt, it is that, at the end of all, a big part of our land with natural fertility is owned by Zito (75 percent of the shares is the owner), and that many natives have the ones that are owned by Zito!
That comes up, if we are the nation we will have where I ask so that it is why in the industries we follow up on their advice and to improve the sector, and then put it into the market of products of their industries.
And now those children want to work together to improve farming for small-scale farmers who are many in Tanzania, and instead we should depend on a big farming that will be run by from from abroad!
Let me make sure that we are going to do, the fate of the economy and the security of our nation will not be in our country themselves?
I know!
