
The welfare of soccer in the country it is a must for us to check the highest level.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
To continue with any game that will depend on how the concerned parties will take place from two legs and especially in primary and high schools.
In the past, the soccer game and especially the short-100 meters race that were allocated to 100 and 200 million shillings were destroyed, they were taken to a lot of importance in Pwani province.
Sameel Ahmed is remember how many youths including him are saying they were taking great importance in the short period of games of primary and secondary schools.
I was among the athletes that were in a short race that we were able to pay as a result of helping our colleague in the Coastal Region, Serapion iotic drugs when they got the reputation in a short event and even won Kenya medals, "said Ahmed.
The Jaguar type that was called by her colleagues who plays for the Boys Boys Secondary School (now KMU) and Arafa grounds (now Khamis High School), believes that if this short event would have been quoted by the importance, most of them would have run as a solution.
Speaking about the Coast football, that veteran says he is players and club officers to cooperate so that the game of that game comes back as it was in the past where Coast had a big competition against those of the continent.
Ahmed who himself has ever been hosted by Jogoo, FC Club that was participating in the premier league in the year 1988, says the state of soccer can go back as it was in the past if it was in the previous plans.
"I believe I'm happy with the players with birth certificates here in the Coastal region and it is good plans that can attract the competition against the teams in the continent including Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards Soccer Club," he said.
Ahmed said that the old players that have ever played for big soccer teams here in the Coastal Region, Feisal Abri, his team Warriors and Western Stars are supposed to visit various fields to see how the modern youth are playing soccer and sell it as usual.
"It is about the club they want them to look for these musicians and asked the field because they will help in a big level to give upcoming poets," says Ahmed who suggested that the old couple should be identified by a lot of Kenyans.
He says that most of the players who lost their nation at their times, wish you the bad results of the Taifa Stars team "because they are our old legends, Omar Mjenga, Ali Kajij and Mahmoud Mohamed are completely forgotten," said Ahmed.
He has encouraged the old players who are sick in different parts of being introduced to citizens who are supposed to be informed for this nation at different times.
He plays for forgiveness, others want to ask the coach of Harambee Stars, Rich Mavoko.
Ahmed has said that many young players of Coast will be chosen to play for the national team.
He said there are other players that are the same as Kwema and Mtumweni Jabir Seif, Bambucha and others who had great names last year.
