
Zitto Kabwe to announce their difficult decisions that will enable him to vie for the month of July.

Kigoma North member of parliament, Zitto Kabwe, has said his political fate in the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) will be known in a period of one month from now.
Mke Mwema should understand that the political announcement involves its political future, the party that has finished in his political life since he was the age of 16 years.
In the interview he made through the internet and the popular newspaper of the United Kingdom last week, Zitto said there is a big thing that he will do at the end of this month.
I have never done any political campaign through Twitter network in my political life, but I am expecting that I will do so for a period of one month from now, "said Zitto without going in details.

The England newspaper has started a new procedure to sign a famous people using Twitter network (without a interview) and Zitto Kabwe was the first politician to be interviewed after it was revealed that he is the one leading in having many followers on that network here in the country.
Speaking to this newspaper about what he is expected to do at the end of March, if he talked with the newspaper, Zitto said it was earlier for now to put everything in public but when you get everything that will be open.
"I say that in the interview I said, therefore, I would like to assure you that there is an event that will happen at the end of March.
"I request I urge you to know that everything about the event, when you get the campaign that will be run through Twitter and others, it will be modern and sure that the country has been operated on history of Tanzania," he said.
Zitto refused to say anything like that announcement will be related to one and leave him from CUF to go to ACT or any other political party here in the country more than to say 'Hovind,. "
At the moment, Zitto Kabwe is a member of parliament and member of parliament for the reason of writing a lesson that the High Court through Judge John Pombe Magufuli put him in the middle of last year after being sacked from his party, from the session of the executive committee of that party.
Zitto Kabwe and his colleagues, Professor Kitila Mkumbo and Samson Jumbe being chased away from parliamentarians on claims of organizing a revolutionary party from the chairperson of the party, Freeman Mbowe.
Recently, Kitila Kitila have moved to the new political party of ACT Patriots, while being the general secretary for a period with his fellow member and Zitto Kabwe, he has been involved in that party.
Speaking about the interview for Zitto Kabwe, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo said that he found himself in that interview but said that what is what will happen at the end of March is Zitto Kabwe.
I am a member of ACT, I am saying that my politician has his thoughts and his plans. I am saying that if he will decide to come to ACT, then we were welcomed with all two hands.
"We believe that he is a believer in the concept of Unyankhae, (Nyambo) which is the main foundation of ACT's policies, if he will decide otherwise, we will also support him because we know it will be with a good intention," he said.
In that interview with the parliamentarian, Zitto Kabwe was asked about different issues concerning politics and Tanzania, including political challenges, community activities and the energy of social media in politics in the country.
Zitto said the main weapon for the development that Tanzania has for now is in large numbers to the youth who said if they will be given good plans and will be used to be used because of their ability, the nation will make great steps.
He said that the opportunity has its dangerous danger to be under 20 percent of contraception we have no security of the Social Security Fund, something that said it is dangerous to the future of the nation.
He also said that for now, we expect many of the knowledge of social media networks but he said that the number of those use is small, while claiming that some of the top leaders of the government are not even in social networks.
Zitto has more than 200,000 dollars in twitter while he is leading with his followers while in other African countries leading presidents, athletes and popular musicians like Didier Drogba, Ivory Coast, and Wiz Khalifa, from Nigeria.
