
We have forgotten the local products to strengthen industries.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

Tanzanians have been advised to love products produced by industries in the country in order to help promote business and support the efforts of the government to build factories of industries.

Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage said that when he toured the Milulu Company Limited which is in a meeting in Dar es Salaam city at the end of the week.
"When you go to our products we are making market for our industries to produce more, grow and build our economy," he said.
He praised the efforts that are being done by that factory that produces milk from the name of Dar es Salaam and other milk products, and water bottles.
Also, that factory is in the process of starting to produce cold drinks and to decide fruits for the purpose of making various crops.
"I have been much satisfied with your work, you're doing well," said the minister, when he spoke with the leaders and employees of the factory, the factory that has a cows of 3,000 shillings, is producing an average of 10,000 shillings per day.
Also, it involves milk from breeders especially from the provinces of Morogoro and Coast as Draw, Lucha and Chalinze as the director of the Great Lakes region of Dar es Salaam, Yusuph Said said the procedure has helped to build a reliable market for the farmers.
"We are collecting an average of twenty thousand shillings every day after one day from those farmers," said Said.
Minister has promised the leadership of the factory to follow up closely so as to get reliable electricity from the national grid and other important infrastructure to be able to be more competitors.
Naif Engineering Company Limited is under the Union of Oilcom.
In that tour, Minister Mwijage also visited the area of 240 plots that are being built by the government in the area for Tundwi Songai - Kigamboni for the purpose of construction of industries and 100 houses for children who will be running those industries.
Kigamboni District Commissioner, Hashim Mgandilwa, said his district is prepared to ensure those areas are used as planned by the government and the Assistant Commissioner of Lands, Dar es Salaam region, Mathew Namkoveka said that those areas are for small industries and medium industries.
