
To deal with the effects of an interpreter.
In our article this week I did not affect the disease, the situation that come out after getting injured, this situation appears in a red card or a black in the skin are not affected by the heart.
This situation happens after an eye or put more injured and when it comes up, a red carpet that got an eye or a red sweater and a red sweater and a red sweater and a red sweater and a red carpet.
Many times the injuries of this way does not be very great to the amount of skin disability and are not very little not to cause effects on the face.
When it comes up when the area that got an eye on the blood of the blood is in the area, it's impossible so that blood as well as infants do not pollute the blood due to skin rashes.
The skin that is in the lower area of an eye and depending on the eye is a very easy way to the blood stream of the blood that goes through her shivered because it has been hurt through little amounts with blood as well as livestock that collect them in that area.
Also, the area due to having fuel can collect blood and drinking water from other close areas with the area when it comes from the first part I'll get out of the blood is a area of an eye on the eyes and the area that takes an eye on the eyes.
When it comes up to a area that is not known as an eye of an eye on the eyes, eat with the forehead what happens at the area of the skin one usually comes out and change color, this is because of an eye on an eye on an eye on an eye for an eye of an eye.
Things that can cause an eye on the injured is Mrs Regina being scored on the face, especially in the eyes of the eyes, eat with the forehead.
Miss Tanzania should be availed with the face of an accident that led to the use of more injured in the body of the eyes, let us think well due to the difficulty of the eyes of the eyes, to change there and it may increase after hours or a few days.
The signs of dangerous people should see your eyes without knowing the real reason so that they are causing the situation to be facing the situation, why do I think each other or the name is associated with great fever, bad changes, vomiting, stomach, and bad luck.
Thank you to see more pictures of one, lose their ability to see, fail to follow the eyes of the blood stream, the patient receiving these symptoms is good to go or live in the hospital so as to meet the doctor for tests and treatment.
