
The women's soccer should go.

It has been written by.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The national team of women soccer in Tanzania Mainland, Kilimanjaro Marathon, at the end of last week, won the crown of the East and Central Africa Confederation Cup, which took place in Washington, Uganda.

The competition is the first to be organized by the Council of East and Central Africa (CECAFA) after many years of preparing the men competition, where Tanzania has been participating in every year.
Kilimanjaro Queens will be the first champions of the competition that involves a total of eight countries with the team to play all his matches without being beaten even one game and managed to play in the finals against Kenya and won 2-1 goals.
For many years, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has been getting the open about women's soccer, but it has been unable to pay priority as they do with the men.
Previously I have ever said that the women's national league would start last month, but it did not happen despite the provinces to give its winners, which could have participated in the international league.
Now it is said that the women's league will take place next month and involved several provinces and the TFF should be careful so that the league will be the source of planting to women's soccer in the country.
Many times the national women team of Tanzania, Twiga Stars, has been participating once in various African competitions but it has never played for those finals that follow will be in Cameroon.
It is our expectations that the victory of Kilimanjaro Queens will help them to strengthen TFF in their activities of developing these soccer instead of dain and every day to give the promise of developing these things, that reality is not a lot than actions.
Together with scoring in Kenya in the finals, but we are still the best than their team because their team has already qualified for the African Cup finals to be held in Cameroon, later this year when our team of Twiga Stars was unable to do so after the previous step.
The country like Nigeria, Cameroon, Egypt and others have made great steps in women's soccer for a long time have been doing well in that soccer, therefore we should strive to follow the footsteps of those elderly.
TFF should strive to care about the players of those national soccer teams because it is a easy place to get success and to market themselves outside Tanzania and to enable our country to get reputation through the soccer game.
Tanzania does not have a good history in soccer in general to be in the men's soccer as well as to try to participate in many competitions including those of the world cup of African nations, contrary to the other things that involve the national team.
At time, it has come now for TFF to make difficult decisions by increasing other funds in the women's soccer instead of going and insisted that the things that we were waiting for them, instead they have been able to end up the money and not to do development.
Together with congratulating Kilimanjaro breweries and TFF we have decided to follow up with the eye of us that team and to help them more the women's teams including those of big youths together with those of women's youth.
Without putting strength in the women's soccer soccer, it will be difficult for Tanzania to have a long time to do well and instead we will just stumble and go directly and to get a landslide victory, we should be very happy and not with them.
