In reducing the requirements of the prisoners here in the country, President Jakaya Kikwete has urged the court's department to ensure that the citizens must be educated about alternative punishment so that I will start being used in order to enable the court to make its work fully, Hasheem Mkonga.
Area of the high court building?
I don't know.
The court activities are standing for a period together with the suspension of the use of the Kivukoni road for the purpose of commemoration of the law here in the country where that school was attended by President Jakaya Kikwete.
In that event, the president of the Democratic Republic of Tanzania, Francis Dande has used this opportunity to talk about the legal issues of the judges, together with the presence of criminal offenses that are required to be taken to the court and increase the number of audience.
On his part, the chief justice Mohamed Chande Othman, in his speech has said that the prisoners and prisoners are in Tanzania is the same as the second punishment is not a number.
The other challenge is that the opportunity and the head to save the prisoners and the audience.
There are still a big problem of congestion especially in Tanzania Prisons.
Nice does not be bullied.
It can be a second punishment.
It was a short time for the speech President Jakaya Kikwete will talk about the prisoners and prisoners at the end if the effects were given.
The number of prisoners in prison would benefit.
And even the construction problem in the prisons would have been there or they would benefit.
Dar es Salaam.
We have no reason to use this law.
A red card is a punishment.
If there is a mistake that mean?
The punishment for the way doctor Kikwete will also talk about the interests of the servants of that political party he likes for a long time.
We have been impressed me.
There is a family.
The Third has been a permit for the court and that it will be remembered that if other areas we reduce the reduce of Mister but at the end of the court, we will reduce the cost of the court from here in Dar es Salaam city without favoring some of the court from here in Dar es Salaam.
