
Our leaders we have to fulfill the last holiday of the year.
Dec 27, 2012

For many people, especially the end of this year, it is a time for a half time and maybe the situation is not so much in the villages because the end of the year is a good period of agriculture.
Everyone knows her and his family how she gets in the holiday season, basically, this holiday is a private thing and we are not supposed to know who is doing?
However, something for holidays with our leaders is not a private thing, we are supposed to know what our leaders are seen and we are doing what is in the end of this year.
With me, through this article, I would like to urge the leaders to use their holiday by looking at reading the books is a great reputation for many leaders, because it reaches the ability to communicate and give opinions, issues that are important for every leader in every level of writer Coulter, says that leaders with giving good speech to many leaders are important for every leader in every level.
Most of the famous leaders and those who did well in their leadership were good readers, including Wiwa of Charo, who had been awarded 30,000 books before attaining 30 years old, George Bush who scored 3 books in the year 2007 and 40 books during the year 2007.
Apart from various countries, even here, Africa, famous leaders and who had been successful are those who had good readers of books, Mzee Nelson Mandela used a long time to read it and even when he was happy to read and write a letter and this was enough to remove my mind. "
Bad luck here in our country, Tanzania, the culture of studying is very little, and especially among the leaders and this, you can realize that apart from various topics that involve our leaders in the internet and different places are faced with feelings of any evidence and that this is a problem of not learning and especially not to read.
Let us start now to learn in looking for books because the mental ability and the ability has not been paid in our areas like this year and many leaders in the world have been using these days to study and do exercises for other games like a swimming, playing golf and other towns.
I would like to use this opportunity to urge our leaders to use this last holidays and to study books so that they can build the good culture of looking at least 10 books for the next year.
I wish you the readers of Mke Mwema, let us benefit from general a good time for the last year and happy and will keep in the new year 2013.
