
Listen to them a family of Moshi affects 15 people.

Baby Amne Salim (not his real name) who is 10 years old is running for a surprise of heading to the Democratic Party's Grounds, Moshi Rural district, Kilimanjaro Province.

The child seems to be treated with severe pain and behind him, there are others who are aged 6-10 that they have been struggling to have a pain in their legs.

All those children have been affected by an attack and cut off in their legs and some of them and it is said that even in the most primary school, they have been built and lost their colleagues.
There is 15 kilometer race in the northern town of Moshi in Kilimanjaro Province.
This is not known as one of the popular areas in the production of coffee and agriculture of bananas which is food in that province.
This area is also famous for livestock production activities especially for a modern way to rear pigs and other types of livestock and other types of livestock and businesses from the livestock like milk and meat is one of the economic activities to the citizens.
In general, a state of life to many citizens is not very bad, there are modern houses and important social services that are available easily.

As it is in many areas in Tanzania together with the success that are seen in that area it is being faced with a problem.
"A hole" and the government and other stakeholders in the agricultural sector, have a problem of maggots.

Talk about it is the source of child Esther and his colleagues walking for severe pain and lit so, their hands has been attacked and read it and therefore failing to hold their own pen.
Those children are an illustration of some of the children and people in this area which have been affected by some of the families due to the huge poverty and clean environment in their homes.

Statistics of government officials in the county level have shown that the average of 50 people in two wards in the northern region and South Africa have been attacked by the pest and their health are in danger.
Many citizens, especially the elderly and small children have been identified and put up on a large extent, a situation that led them to walk well and make activities of wealth creation.

The number is unacceptable, by the executive officer of the South Africa ward, Jane Mandona during the one-day camp for treating it was done by the voluntary organization of Mijac Music, Tanzania, Moshi town and the Kenya Premier League that took place last week.
The camp for treating them took place in the grounds of the Democratic Party of the United Nations, the victims together with the citizens who attended the service to provide information on drugs together and to be educated on how to deal with the problem.
In those fields, a large number of people were identified by knowledge of especially elderly and children, came out to get that service from the medical workers from those two organizations.
In the normal state, you want to know if it is not a big problem but when you get them, many people have married, many love them and shouldn't feel much, because of their legs, we can have many factors that were caused by knowledge of those legs.
One of the ones that performed poorly as a class three student at Rahaleo Primary School (name withheld), who has been affected by maggots, who made her biological mother who does small businesses.
"Home environment is not so good, a lot of time is in search of livelihood and since I was small, when I read there is no one to entertain and they get in the eyes," explained the child.
He added that the child called "I love you so much this situation, even at the school you are marrying them, I will get a lot of much time, I don't jump and it's difficult for you to study or listen to the teachers keenly when teaching them.

Other victims that are enough people have also been unable to talk about the way they are affected and learn of themselves who appear to be the cause of thoughts as people who were affected by the community.
Speaking about the problem, the Executive Officer, Jane Mandona says, "the government together with other stakeholders in the health sector have set priority to diseases like AIDS, malaria and cancer and forgetting that there are areas where citizens are faced with problems such as an attack.

Mandona explains that the problem has become part of the lives of many citizens in that area and so far there is no action that has been taken to deal with the problem from stakeholders.
"And most importantly, the victims of them have been cooperating with a big challenge of stigmatization and other people like other people like people affected by the virus of AIDS," said the officer.
"Some of the people believe that they were washed gered and learn from others in their life, should not hesitate to partner with other people in the community, but not that being attacked by fear from people living in a dirty environment," added Mandona.
On his side, the director of Barclays Bank of Kenya, Doctor.
Stanley Kamoga or told the citizens that attended the treatment that the problem of knowledge should not be taken as a small problem in the community and all stakeholders to come out to deal with it.
He said that were affected by knowledge of it is easy to be attacked by other factors that are dangerous to their lives, because the source of learning is a situation of dirty together with the growth of poverty in the community and family.
"Our community has been using the habit of stigmatizing people who were affected with strength and strength to be taught in helping and educate them on how to deal with this problem instead of preventing themselves and protect them," said Duwe.
He cautioned them to be dangerous to people's lives because it is the cause of the spread of other diseases that are dangerous to AIDS (thoughtful narratives) and lost body organs.
He said his organization has its energy to cooperate with other researchers in the world so as to get drugs and ask for the World Health Organization (WHO) in order to have a special day of educating on how other diseases are given priority by that organization.
And the Director of MEMKWA organization, Miss Cynthia Gordon said that the problem of knowledge of not a small problem as the community take place and there is a great importance of taking action against the problem.

He said that the problem is responsible for further and the state of waste among many families, poverty, and your ability to understand and allow legal thoughts to rule among the community.

For us we are the first institution on May this year, it is just the beginning, we want to do and start a process to agree with the problem of learning in all areas in the country which are facing these problems, "said the director.

Learn of using a lot of strength in a clean environment, especially houses with dust, where people live together with livestock like knives, goats, chicken, and many times more stories that do not affect in the human body and laying eggs and bake.
