Two members of parliament of democracy and development of CHADEMA in Mwanza Province (GGM) in Ilemela province, Salvatory Baamar who was found in Kongwa District Referral Hospital waiting for treatment together with the deputy secretary general of CHADEMA, Zitto Kabwe who was also in the hospital.
We shouldn't agree on the other vehicles, a young man to twenty thousand, I don't like praising God for this picture after taking more pictures, I was given to you and you know it.
Then I was a manager in a vehicle standing before the vehicle.
Try to test for it is something.
In this situation there was a solution to you, when I feel it is not the police you will get the old help in the south, it was possible to come as an issue to overturn the phone for what he can make the member of parliament.
Human activities if they were given to giving me the father to supervise the sale of a health center before the police and you should know that they arrived at the area where it was attacked by Mister with my eyes being attacked by Mister with my eyes being attacked by the vehicle.
Her sister who doesn't know the law will disappear, but I know that the level is being stoned.
After posting a lot from there, then we do you will come into my car, they know that our activities are supposed to go down, then I request until it was given to be released, then.
There were injured in a trap of being seen to death.
In how he walked further, the five minutes will you get married like you know.
I said here there are very big holes here.
You are having.
After that which will take place with their hands and rushed to the car he asked if they missed the ship in large numbers to come back to me because it will be brought back to the ones who loves them.
The first service at the moment.
Competition and still is in this and he is supposed to do?
Bad luck if it has been destroyed by learn.
To make preparations for the purpose of returning it.
The efforts of getting the police commander of Mwanza province, Liberatus Sabas, speaking about that incident.
