Optat ten o'clock in the month of September two and ten thousand, I think it is not anywhere where we want to strengthen the constitution when we want to discuss matters that will be able to promote the economy, then there is no reason why we can be able to discuss matters that can be done by the country, then there is no first time you want to grow.
It is a must for us to be the first of these boys and the class one to all of all that concern even the ones that we have already been allowed to be on the view of technology and the true education is that the first one but the second in the field has already been forgotten.
In that sector it would have been done.
Let me tell me, I am very happy to the house, when the wedding took place, we should remember that we have managed to take place a good place but for All Stars, a whip, we will remember well if you do not have a mistake.
You will have written there.
In a state.
A very difficult way to make sure.
Our country's economy is not supposed to have bribery that the country is unacceptable, and leave me when I'm talking about I am talking to Q-Q.
In every sector, it will put a second chapter and put a possibility of a person to refuse to give him a car, it does not give him a car, what we decided to take over, then the doctor is told my blog that he is proud of.
There is that meaning.
First two non-communicable diseases have a must to abandon that we shall go through a good procedure of being touched by the information and we will talk about how to be able to contribute towards this discussion and we will remember that they can be able to lead this bill until we will when we complete close to my heart.
And making your decisions.
For the benefits of all people and the development of the United Republic of Tanzania?
Usual.
We need me.
The argument of the committee to pray for the report of the number one day and two of the special parliament about the form two four five, ten thousand in the past ten and six that have three thirty o'clock in the discussions.
Did God bless you?
Honorable.
Yesterday we really appropriate to be able.
It has been invited.
I don't know what he has already made.
The late?
He stopped.
Two.
Still continues.
I will distribute them now?
Our colleagues entering the station.
In short, these are not a lot of nine times it involves the parliament.
The ten commandments is involving the court.
The tenth commandment and one.
It involves itself.
Appointment of president.
Swahili language and two.
We are going to.
The late is the registrar of political parties.
And the article.
It involves the electoral commission of gender.
An institution of preventing and fighting corruption and stability.
And the ten commandments.
?
It involves a structure of the council of security.
And the security of the nation.
As I said previously those who are delegates.
Other things that teachers can sell to them inside.
In order to find the debate.
Say the completion of the launch.
Now we are going on.
They woke up the view of Honorable Lucy Nkya.
Honorable Yustus Kamugisha.
Victory of Asha man?
By Honorable.
Dogo giving the way of seven.
Look for now, Honorable Lucy Nkya (all the first one on the day of today).
They have to thank me for giving me the opportunity.
First, I would like to congratulate you as the vice chairperson, together with all the chairpersons of the committee who have directed them and they have been forced to lead the discussions on the first committee without giving up and they should come from all the newspapers in every day he loves you.
Honorable chairperson, I commend the honorable president of the United Republic of United Republic of Tanzania Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete for standing firm to make sure that this constitution comes not and we are doing good work here, Honorable chairman I took the importance to the citizens to get a constitution because all the delegates are prepared, we are working with integrity and integrity of the state.
Honorable chairperson.
Unfortunately, this is not a poster for a poster that I have not received and I cannot read it today, Honorable chairman I would like to view their importance and to be keen on how this nation is supposed to be availed to the memory of the purpose of the founders of this nation as it appears from the date.
Regarding the documents and going on the fourth chapter, the right to live and go to the referendum, article twenty and four in the right to life.
The late God rest the right to live as the chairperson, Honorable Francois Hollande, I would like to see that there is an importance of knowing that it starts when pregnancy has been cheated.
Because there is our one of us yesterday, he said that during the thirty-five weeks, no life starts when pregnancy has been supported.
I would like to emphasize the truth that we are looking on the constitution because they are leaving many children who are not born with their defending champions, Honorable.
It has been like business to get pregnant in many hospitals, especially if the country's constitution is not like the nation we have said that everyone has the right to live, but a child who has not been born will have the right to get justice and security which is married to the nation.
Honorable chairperson, I would like to go to a service!
Examples and two.
First, article 10 and two on the right to get education and learn the chairperson, I am very happy that we have seen that there is need for doing primary education but the chairperson there are disabled children who don't have the ability to go and go to school, not there are no ability to go to school.
There are children with great disability, but a sober mind has no hands when they were born without hands, Honorable chairman who has been banned from Kinyanyiko area, I request that the constitution is not a declaration of month who can be arraigned in school to be able to study as children.
Honorable chairperson.
I would like to increase it as it is possible that in this chapter to increase the article 10 and nine if it is possible, it is possible for the rights to get better health services and good deeds, I am saying the honorable chairperson.
There are Tanzanians who don't have the ability to go to hospital and contribute if it is possible that the Tanzanian is going and is not a case in our villages to get better health and treatment services and where it is possible for the local government to get better health and diet.
