
The mining will not turn a disaster of Kilimanjaro II is Juwes Wang.

The companies that produces minerals from Shishiyu Ward, Same District, has been doing the mining by using an evaluation of evaluation of environmental effects (EPOCA), which was not been issued by the National Examination Council of Environment (www.pmoralg.go.tz), our citizens have noted.
Due to lack of evaluation of environmental evaluation, Mujahideen who company has broken the law on the management of the environment of the year 2004, it means that any project of the environment is to be cleaned.
News reports discussed in this newspaper and the verification of various sources has revealed that, the company prepared a report on the environment of environment by using experts of one company which even so it never been unable to be signed by TPA) if the law has ordered it to have weaknesses.
The investigation of Mke Mwema should understand that together with the report of the Arusha company that is organized by experts who are not registered, it also did not have different reports on its preparation and be done in two different areas by using one report.
"In general they are using a fake report" (Eme) and they have been showing leaders and environmental stakeholders who are questioning the legality of the company's activities to build those minerals, "explained our source from the National Social Security Council (AU).
Furthermore, more investigation of Raia Mwema has revealed that even the mining licenses which the company claims to own a huge controversy due to the report that the previous license was owned by Abdiwawa, and according to the laws of the mining of minerals, they are not supporting them.
"The license that they are in the name of Abdiwawa, that was given so as to construct a plot in Mariupol City, and the legal license will not have the ownership," added our statement.
More reports indicate that the company is owning eight mining licenses, but not in Marie Stopes village but other villages were paid 234 villages, 7 villages and 4426 girls / 2009.
366 / 2009, 372 / 2009, 370 / 2009, 370 / 2009, 371 / 2009, 367 / 2009 with 373 / 2009.
In addition, the company has also reduced the production of minerals of minerals (number 640 / 2010) inside a forest of Shengena, and reports are indicating that all the licenses have been issued in the way that is explained as corruption.
"The forest of Shengena is a source of water and other important resources for the sake of the lives of the citizens in the whole district of Same and those mountains are involved in the natural gas areas of Same and minerals that involve the mining licenses in the reserve," said the officer.
That company is also alleged not to have a business license that is usually given by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and therefore lack of payment of fees and various taxes to the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) like the law has shown.
This, the relatives (he is mentioned the name of IAGRI) they did not have a business license from the Ministry of Industry and Trade and as usual when they visited the mining licenses which will give you the legality of the business and business license that will give you the legality of the business and business license who requested his name to be stopped.
The reserve is one of the forest that is in the mountains region which is known as "the East African region" and its kind start to participate in the area of TWU in Kenya up to the openness of Makambako and Tanzania where that forest has a size of 12283 kilometers and a length of 67 kilometers.
In addition, it has been noted that the forest is a residence of good governance in the world like the White with Ekaney (MARI) and it has a traditional trees that is not available anywhere in the world when they played in the forest and also water catchment areas of Pangani which is needed so much for the purpose of producing electricity.
"On that logic, you will discover that there is a long support of the investor to use the ordinary citizens (bribery) in getting the licenses of minerals within the forest of Shengena," he added.
Another controversy in the project of mining of minerals is that of the company not to have business licenses which is given by the Ministry of Industry and Trade thus lack of payment of taxes and other government fees.
The reports indicate that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has ever made a letter to the office of the Prime Minister to inform us that they have no information on the mining industry and he will not accept the loan that is taking place in Same District because the investor did not have a license of that business as the law has ordered.
In addition, more reports are explained that even in the revenue reports in the offices of the Kilimanjaro Revenue Authority, it shows that the company was to transport outside the villages and not minerals that will not return to parliament.
That situation is said that it was surprised some of the officers from the Ministry of Industry and Trade who had questioned the issue to their colleagues of TRA in Kilimanjaro Province and reports show that the company built to travel out of the country and not minerals.
It has also been revealed that there have been a situation that shows the presence of cheating in the transportation of those minerals, because the statistics that are in TRA, the District Council of Same and Minerals have been far compared to the year 2009 to 2011.
The statistics of these citizens have succeeded to receive from TRA offices in Kilimanjaro Province show that they started transporting those minerals out of the country in the year 2008 and they met any reports from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and the District Council of Same and minerals that were being transported outside.
In the year 2009, the transportation of 2105 tons of TRA funds, while statistics of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals show approximately 552 tons and the Council of Same District have shown the minerals that have been transported.
In the year 2010, the statistics of TRA have shown that the company organized to transport 2671 tons, Ministry of Industry and 41,326 tons of Same District and 4,060 tons.
In addition, the year 2011 statistics of TRA is 41,040 tons, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals which is 30,520 tons by the District Council of Same and its statistics to be easily reach 23,000 tons.
In general, those statistics show that in four four years, the transportation of 119,616 tons by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals is 6398 tons, and the District Council of Same is 67060 tons only.
Statistics show the great difference and maybe there is a huge cheating in the provision of these statistics, a situation that affects many money that will be found in terms and various taxes.
In addition, the report revealed that a high level of research is very high whereby on the part of ministry is 493 tons of 756 tons in terms of Same District Council, a situation that could make that council to get an amount of 119 million.
"These statistics show a huge difference and maybe there is a huge cheating in the transportation sector of those minerals outside the country and not otherwise, these statistics will be presented to that level," he explains one of the officers of TRA in Kilimanjaro Province.
Speaking about that situation, the manager of TRA in Kilimanjaro Province, Bihagaze (left), told BBC Mwema that the issue would be able to speak about the result of the absence of the office for some of the family reasons.
"I am out of the office for three weeks, therefore, I request that you get enough time so that I am able to work on because the issue is very critical but I request I communicate with people from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, especially the northern region," said the manager.
More than the recent reports have been found from Chamburo, in Same District, say that after Good Citizen on the mining of minerals, the government officials from different levels in Kilimanjaro Province have been looking for a solution.
Last Friday, June 22, the head of Same District, Herman Kapufi added that he received the session of the Development Committee of Chamburo (CHADEMA) to discuss the reports of the mining and validity of the company's documents to build a certificate for their areas.
The news explained that the district commissioner asked the delegates of that meeting that had requested the company to submit the documents and regulations as well as the company to be given the reputation of buying those minerals.
"Those who had him were caught up by the DC they failed to give instructions and it was accepted to be the illustrations for them to be presented tomorrow this Thursday in another session that will take place tomorrow," explained our statement.
However, that session is explained to have mistakes after the executive director of Mariana Village, who is also the acting executive officer of ChinaWard, I thank you el Mgonja, to invited some people who are not legal delegates.
Among those who came out is the chairperson of Migungani village, John Ezekiel who is saying that he is a servant of the company together with the position of the supervisor of the Labor Party (White man) in the mines of that company.
The minerals of Same West is being transported with huge amounts of 30 tons of 30 and 40 to Kenya where some of the cement plant in Mombasa and others are being transported outside the countries of Japan, China, and other residents of Same District have been accused of those minerals that they destroy their roads.
At the time where the District Council of Same doesn't set aside 1000 shillings only because it will be taken to Mombasa, Kenya, the investor sees it from one tons of 2,500 American dollars equivalent to three million shillings.
