
The size of the minerals and the price of a ring.
By Thomas V.
At the time she has copied one of here at home where it is seen to have a good relationship so as to seal a result of their lovers, it should be on the privacy of their lovers, there are different differences.
In America, Huvisa added that his fellow person is a very big event and we shouldn't confirm it so as to prove that love with their intention, "Express Yellow Flost their loved ones on the expensive price that was caused by minerals such as diamonds, gold, bronze medals and other factors.
In our Kenya, they have a lot of knowledge, or maybe it is because that their posts they are not less than 10 billion, I don't have sure but there was a fact that in today's article, I have ever been silent because of being fed a ring on a fine of 10 billion shillings.
His fiancée who is a billionaire who is supposed to be given by 47 million dollars, did not see the problem of 10 million dollars to show his love by Mariana, mother of two children who were arrested with Nick.
2-Kim Kardashian and Kanye West valued at 768 million shillings after signing up with rapper Kanye West who currently is her husband so as to resolve it in his love before falling off last year, Kanye defeated Kim, a ring that was made in 15 million shillings.
Stephano Kaombwe said that their marriage lasted for the 72 days only, putting her ring that occurred in 192 million shillings of Beyonce and Jay Z valued at approximately seven years now, you can believe it is because it was not a load of 480 million shillings.
4-Marc Kabende, worth 94 million shillings, actor, famous musician, Jennifer LSaro, who used that list of 32 million shillings, but up to now, she had given a surprise ring on January 5, but until now, she had stolen his trip with her fiancée who was eliminated from Spain.
At the moment they have not been infected with each other, they don't decide whether to get a ring that was set up by 11 classrooms and the RnB singer and Future is born with the rapper who decided to break into power last year after knowing that his family had gone against him outside.
Before taking that step, Future had already succeeded to give a ring that was set up by 15 minerals of cement worth 92 million shillings.
7 of sexual violence in Lil Upewe Promotion and Tom CRDP who plays within 10 years ago during that period of 2005, then Tom who himself is making her name 'Sura Sirambi' by Katoma in Paris, France, on the gold ring which he bought for a sum of 8 million shillings.
He had 42 years, with his lover on 26, even so, their love were at seven years before going to an end of 2012, those two have a daughter of nine years by the name.
8, Jennifer Lawrence, with Justin Bieber's valued at 4 million shillings, actor Lilian Lihanjo, who is the former wife of Brad Pitt (since 2000 to 2005), has been in a relationship with Justin Bieber who is also an actor that was captured by the film writer since 2012.
Justin Bieber found a ring that was made in 10 million minerals that brought them 99 million shillings before wedding on August 5, 2015, together with these two, which is believed to have 13 billion shillings.
9, Angelina Jolie told Brad Pitt worth nine million shillings after having lovers for nine years, these actors of Hollywood, wedded in August 2014 in France, while considering that Brad Pitt and Jolie is among the rich actors and the ones who are paid a huge amount from Hollywood, must leave each other.
Brad had bought his opponent, made up of 16 million American Dollars which is equivalent to 48 million dollars, which is equivalent to 48 million shillings and therefore it is a little amount of money considering that Brad Pitt and Angelina Mabula together with the wealth of more than 41 billion shillings.
10 years, Iggy Azalea and Nick Young worth 50 million shillings, Iggy Azalea after celebrating his birthday when she attained 30 years, Nick changed her fiancée who was surrounded by the diamond pond.
