But another second thing that you remember.
Maybe so friends did not remember.
There is when I see the police have never seen it, but the truth is the truth.
The camera that we have said that you are not seen, that is the fee for testing the speed of fire equipment and especially vehicles.
I have I remember that because this matter is called?
And the only experts we have that we are going to study, we were two from the police force, I went up with my boss, but I saw it, but when I saw it, but when I saw it, it is good for you to succeed and even so, you are supposed to be careful.
MASA is a five challenge.
First, I see technical challenges there are normal challenges.
But those two things I have said since I start with those drugs.
I got much problems when I was told.
To be able to teach or the biggest nuisances for the country.
About speed.
These exams are based.
Now it was not a lot of problems to other people, except that it is a must that players came out to go to that, he told me.
At the time for free he was an obstacle to him.
You miss.
I got a little problem because.
The biggest thing is to thank God what does it mean to prevent it.
I thank you so much that when he came to go down there and it will be given a long time if I saw him, he told me that this is a challenge which was a challenge where I wanted to love him, maybe I did not want to run away but he did not want to run away but God created you.
While I arrived here.
We were at the late?
Maybe so that they are being known for all people that every person knows that she will get the answer on the police force in an event or any thing that is going on with that act.
Your password is work and.
Awadh it is in bed and even my wife answered me, he knew the radio being heard on my name when I was waiting for a new name to me, I was ready and I'm going to the country in any way to work because, I said.
Without communication, there's no success.
And it was because someone can say that those words can say the truth that radio has died or a house wants to rest but it's the challenge but we were able to do well in the same day after doing that you're close to all eight hours.
This is a little challenge, Mister has reached a very high level, therefore it has set aside a little of you and he did not have a way we are doing where you are doing where you are doing where you are doing.
So as days I have been prepared by Mister Netanyahu and that.
Find out and about your performance in the police force and challenges.
