Three governments are the voice of God?
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

If the existence of recommendations of his primary government is the views of many citizens, it means that our leaders from the government and political parties have been unable to have a certain amount to fulfill their responsibility of leading the feelings of citizens in the creation of one government.
It is true that the presence of one government does not mean that it is sure of having a union among the citizens, but it is also true that one government is stable in the country with two sides or more is a big step in helping people.
It is a big step in helping people with feelings, ideas and national views against the view of citizens, looking at accordance with the origin of their natural resources that joined the Zanzibar Islands, join Zanzibar.
Although it can be seen that the third government is only administrative system and the country is still a union inside, but the real situation is that, the importance of heading to the public is part of the presence of leadership, that the leaders will expand and be proud of especially in Zanzibar or move against them.
There are no enough leaders in the scene, not from leaders of political parties and those in the government, be inside Zanzibar and even in Tanzania Mainland, they have been able to make national opinion polls to have one government, so as to stop the open opinions of the Zanzibar islands and be taken.
Because the leaders of this generation believe that the Civil Aviation Authority is to form three governments, without doubt, the leaders of several months later will fight for three governments, if they will be clear, the energy will participate fully in a high speed.
Yes, the strength and reasons that will continue to move forward and for sure, we are waiting for two nations (not two governments) which will be divided into suicide and building one nation - that this one of this side and those on the other side.
One of those reasons like it does not help them, it is wealth, the wealth of this nations, the wealth of the resources of Tanzania mainland can be in front of the journey, having a rich government among other two governments that are coming out of three.
But if it is not Tanzania Mainland, then, Zanzibar can have a rich government among other two governments that are remaining, that is the continent of the United Republic.
In the wealth of that amount, the sexual violence that were done by power can continue the discipline of respect the national gift (National Identification Authority) produced by the new constitution of the United Republic.
The gift that is wrong, patriotism, integrity, unity, accountability and language of Swahili as it is possible for some of the Swahili language because any violence is a must to be educated through the language.
On a large extent, I believe that the strength of continuing to cater for the direction of the origin of people from the mainland and Zanzibar still is big and will continue to make sure that following this generation with a voice of power, for now its disappearance.
Even so, we should inform us to separate the people of Zanzibar and we are done as it is in Germany and East Africa, but we are doing non-governmental organizations, but among our leaders, there are among our leaders, who are supposed to make sure they get married.
In this time, it is clear that the national disaster is a kind of leaders we have, the leaders who are very fast or start their permanent positions more than to build a nation that supports its citizens living by acknowledging and to be proud of them.
Yes, we can assure you for the third government is a better way to kill a discussion with some of the two countries in the union by concentrating on what is called "the current environment," but basically the decision is same as informing the people of the United Republic of Tanzania to ensure that every one of each one (Mbani or the Zanzibar Islands) are more important than you.
