
TAKUKURU in collaboration with the stakeholders of the fight against corruption.

An institution on fighting and preventing corruption (TAKUKURU) in collaboration with the Advisory Board of the African Union in the fight against corruption (Amahoro) and Uganda in celebrating 10 years since the African board in the issues of corruption started.

Speaking to journalists at the Dar es Salaam's headquarters in Dar es Salaam City, chief executive officer of Precision Air Limited Company, Chedi Ngongi has said that the aim of the festival is to give information to the public on fighting corruption and explaining the effects of corruption in the community and the country in general.

"Music is in Africans and it has been used to entertain but more than providing information with building and improving the community (the public) to be a good way of getting information especially to the youth about the effects of corruption," said Ngapa.

He has said that in that festival, different songs will be mentioned in explaining the problems of corruption in the community and especially to educate the youth the importance of refusing to travel because the youth is the strength of the nation and 75 percent of people in the country.

"In this logic, we have organized a show of the address that says" corruption is not true and it does not have benefits and is to be used to fight with any cost, "he said.

The artist Fid Q speaking to the press about that festival.

"This show will take place in Arusha on 7 o'clock in the month of ten and two at the General Tyiga Stadium starting from seven and a half hours up to ten o'clock in the evening and they will involve artists who agree with the community," he insisted.

On his part, Emmanuel Kalobelo, from the communications unit (Areas) has said that the African Union of dealing with corruption has been successful by starting different units for members of the African Union with an aim of helping others in the fight against corruption.

He has said the fight against corruption in Africa will bring strength together with not helping the community including artists in encouraging the fight against refusing to rise in all levels within the country and the whole African continent.
