The oath of economy is growing rapidly, they feel it gets to you.
October 17, 2013.

Last week, we follow up on the media about the list of those 55 years of the African continent that was announced by the Volleyball Association in Africa after its a long-term research.
The founder of the South African newspaper in business issues, citizens, Morogorogo, told the French news agency (AFP) that the number of many African countries do not like to put it open on their financial issues.
In the past ten years in Africa, according to the newspaper, it is Pastor Josephat Gwajima (Nigeria) 3 billion US dollars, Mike Pence, (Nigeria) 2 billion US dollars, Mike Pence, (Nigeria) 2 billion US dollars (57th billion), 390,536 billion dollars (South Africa) 3 billion US dollars.
Although in the ten best "of that list, there was no billionaire from Tanzania or any East African countries, the member of parliament of CCM, Mohamed Dewji (38), has been named as the old man of the age of two others in Africa!
The debate about that list of many years the age of Africa performed well, especially the many that contributed to them, there are only one type or another while others are accused of filling it through the origin of this continent, especially minerals, oil and natural gas.
The debate explained about the evasion of huge taxes being done by some people, the people came and how they are increasing a lot so as to help the communities around them.
At least that, many were seen to see the black woman of South Africa, Patrice Gusmao and the half of its income in every year is supposed to win in projects to help the community.
However, what seems to get the names of 55 names used in that list of himself, but it's a statement that was released and protect themselves and increase in large numbers to see him in the African Continent, it is clear that the economy is ongoing.
Pray together with AFP saying that the state of life in the African continent is good than it was in three years ago, he urged the statistics to say that Africa's economy is growing by an average of 5 percent per year since the year 2010.
The statement made that the number of people in the African continent is increasing because the economy of this continent is increasing because it is a police, and that is the one that allows them to get married and not the names of those attackers.
That statement was forced to return because April this year (2013), the World Bank (WB) gave statistics that showed that the number of poor people in the African countries of the Sahara Desert has increased in a period of three months.
In the WB report it is being shown that, three several months ago the African continent had the poor.
Now, if the poor number of the level has increased in Africa and reach approximately 14 million people, and there we are told that the number of people saw them in the continent is increasing very fast and now it does not learn what?
This is a question that may be allowed to be dealt with by believers who are involved, but I don't need to understand that there is an expert to understand that there is a great relationship between the increase in the population in Africa and the increase in large numbers.
For other words, I did not need to know that there are an economist from Africa (and the number will rise) because we have the poor of 414 million shillings (and this number will cost)!
