
Lulu with me celebrating with Diamond here.

Story: Mayemba.
Star of the Bongo film industry, Elizabeth Michael 'Lulu' has denied rumors that spread in the streets about love with a tyrant of Bongo Fleva, Nasibu Abdul Diamond. "

It has been a rumor that it's a long time, it will say that Diamond is divided into Lulu with Diamond or Sugar of Zimbabwe who was asked about that, he said it's not worried about it, but they heard from Lulu.

Claims of the previous claims.
News that were seen in the high table, states that those two are doing an artist's work together (it was not open) is the work between the film or music) but the problem that is between them is Diamond who wants Lulu.
The source that asked the reserve for his name is going round, "Diamond is unable to understand, he said every woman wants to come from him and his colleague knows he is at work, he wants to love him, that is the conflict that is between them."

Work to Diamond.
The papers presented by Diamond in order to get a clarification on his side, where he made them to get explanations on his side, where he said, "I've seen me what I was surprised and I have seen him here, then I was walking together, then he continued with him.

"These things have already been called and I did not want to speak but because I see if I think it is true that I have decided to put it open and now I have not yet met her as her brother and her sister.
Vote is not true Diamond?
Diamond entertaining one hundred percent.

Shot, what concern do you have?
Diamond of people who know this issue is the only two, Wema (Wema) and Penzila Kaisi (MARI) and I explained to them with great strength so that we should not think this is what I wanted them to ask you.
The cries of us tried to search for Wema Sepetu through their mobile phones but they did not receive.

Give an appeal to Lulu.
Speaking in a voice of faith, Lulu was surprised by Diamond and said that, not from him but he has no even work that he did with him.

"I thank you very much for me what should I do with Diamond, the work will now be when I am, and we are in different parts of music and film where and where we are in a short time, and every person is in her," said Lulu and added.

"First, I cannot get out by Diamond for the same time, or do not coincide with me, I started being found a long time, I have never been found from a long time, I have never been found a long time.

The name of Switzerland.
Diamond has been in the process of love with various stars, while those claims he himself stopped, an issue that had caused him to be called the Sugar of Saint.

Apart from the long list that he got from Diamond, that is swelled by many of the current relationship, which has not been known as FGM, Wema or all at the same time!
