
Sugar is starting that are measurable in Dar es Salaam Province.
Ephreim Mwasumilwe, The Citizen are supposed to fulfill our downfall.
Dar es Salaam provinces while business people continue considering the guiding fee for sugar that was given by the Sugar Board (SBS), that product has started that are measurable.
On March 8, the Executive Director of SBS, Henry Simwanza says that the reduction in the sugar price from 2000 shillings to 1,800 villages said the level that is in that product is little compared to some of the industries to stop the production due to a season of crude oil to end.
Investigation that was done by the Citizen newspaper in different places has revealed that sugar are not found even in big shops (supermarket).
In areas where that product is being sold at a huge price from 2,500 to 3,000 shillings per liter.
In Kilimanjaro Province, sugar has risen from 2000 shillings to 6 shillings.
A resident of Moshi town, Joshua Nasari, said that, "IT lives are those of the high level and the inflation rate in sugar, been wrecking the group because of a small ability to withstand the cost."
The businessman of Mwananyamala Hospital, Issa Machibya, said that sugar in the villages are found in the general shops that is why even the availability in the market is difficult.
He said that even when it was found it was sold at a high price from 180 shillings per liter equivalent to 50 kilograms of shillings.
Also the Citizen that were going on in the areas of Kinondoni, Temeke and Ilala and discovered that there is no sugar.
Speaking about that they are measurable in sugar, the information officer of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Edward Nkomola the player said for now he cannot talk about the issue because they are ready to address the hands of President John Magufuli and the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa.
Bringing the debate on the budget of his office in parliament at the end of April, Majaliwa urged the civil servants to be patient because the government has already ordered 100,000 tons from outside to compensate the shortage that is there and when it started it will be sold at a guiding fee.
Increase by Happiness.
