
Man City is on the race to win the FC striker.
The Manchester City club is in an important step of talks that are involved in Swansea with the aim of increasing the services of the striker of the Ivory Coast team, Wilfried Bony.
Maybe it may cost the defending champions of the Premier League (EPL) 30 million pounds to serve the striker from Liberty, and proud of them with talents in Etihad Stadium.
The Swansea coach, Geffi, said that the player is continuing to improve each other with her creativity in front of their opponents maybe it will cost any club that will cost you, "a good amount of money" so as to receive that service that has been beaten and 3 times last season.
Bony joined Swansea from Lesse Bercy who is in the peak of 12 million pounds in 2013.
Even though the Arsenal club, Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur club have been reported to have drowned with Leicester City, already has lost a ring on how to attend the application and his talent so as to strengthen the forefront to improve its campaigns in EPL matches, FA, Capital One and UEFA.
The arrest of Manchester City, Manuel Pellegrini has said that he is expecting to improve more on the column which will take place this month especially considering that he was forced to get into Christmas and a new year due to injuries that were not seen.
The fight for the transfer of Bony speaking to City on that amount of money will break for Joe Allen's record that was signed by Liverpool from Swansea for the value of 15 million pounds in the year 2012.
Although Pellegrini has said that perhaps City could not make any registration in the period of transfer this month, he also pointed out that their presence at the UEFA match may destroy the market so as to defend their status in the conflict.
Already City has done an important business this season after creating a service of defender Elichilia Khamis, mid-fielder Willy Caballidum and that was forced to appeal by Sunderland and Zenit St. Andrews worth 10 million pounds and 13 million pounds.
However, Pellegrini has clarified that City is facing restrictions of financial expenditure after facing the UEFA penalty last year, that club used to increase an amount of 49 million pounds in registration because one season was found with the offense of violating the regulations that are leading in the Champions League in Europe.
"We have a lot of restrictions on the level of money to use and the players to complete the UEFA squad be able to sign a big secret player from the cost of cost," he explained.
