Ukawa are playing for Tanganyika and Zanzibar freedom?
May 08, 2014.

During the topic he made on March 31, this year, for the youths of universities in Dar es Salaam city, together with other things, Professor Issa Shivji said that the recommendations of the commission on constitutional changes about the structure of the United Republic of the government would have raised feelings in America and Zanzibar.
These opinions of Professor Shivji was quoted by the commission together with several people, again with the severe words that made him to Professor Shivji said that he has been bought by the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Culture of making sure that many people have been bought has started to identify and change the national disease in this country and that every person who is a member of CCM should give opinions not like the party's stand, therefore, this is not a big challenge in the construction of their motion and therefore, this is not my motion on today.
My point today is that what was seen since Professor Shivji said the fear of Professor Shivji is not fear again but it is not true and it is not true that the Tanganyika and Zanzibar networks are boasting of and not knowing again.
Maybe this cause of wearing a sweater and about how the Tanganyika flag will not live so much like the words that I have made in Zanzibar at the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) at a large extent, and in my memory, the leaders of UKAWA in Zanzibar found themselves fighting for Zanzibar and Tanganyika instead of fighting for three governments.
I don't know these leaders if they want to do this issue or found themselves doing so that there are political tensions among the past, I request that I urge all the top leaders of UKAWA.
Freeman Mbowe, the chairperson of CHADEMA and UKAWA in a meeting of April 30th, 2014, together with other things, was quoted by one newspaper of every day of May first, 2014, explaining to the citizens of Zanzibar to ensure that we have a stable union, we are fighting for free of Tanganyika and Zanzibar. "
In that meeting, the attorney general of CHADEMA and the important member of UKAWA, Tundu Lissu, was quoted by another newspaper for every day of May first, Tundu Lissu, was quoted by another newspaper for every day of May first, Tundu Lissu, was quoted by another newspaper for every day of May first, Tundu Lissu, who was quoted by another newspaper for every day of May first, Tundu Lissu, was quoted by another newspaper on May first this year, urging citizens to know the truth about this issue look for books, "Lissu continued to say," Zanzibar is supposed to be a full authority. "
After touching on these words and the whole context of the meeting of UKAWA in Zanzibar I met the important question of CCM, UKAWA which is fighting for the presence of a union of three governments or freedom of Tanganyika and Zanzibar?
In addition to support the union of the opposition parties in general, especially in the context of the opposition party in the country, something that we have run for many years, will be forced to answer the intention of UKAWA in a working environment without even an official agreement with the open agenda.
Basically the CHADEMA are now getting into the CUF policies, Zanzibar free with a full authority maybe without knowing that it is known as CUF you want to have a great authority about all the important things like the United Nations and the Union of East African Community (SADC) or the Community of East African Community (EAC), the port of East African Community (SADC) or the Union of East African Community (SADC), which have already given these things in a union that you have no need to have the union that we have.
