Voters looking for him and the issues that are not close to them.
May 23, 2012

William Ruto, Adair, popularly known as' Usiwe Bubu ', actress and composer of the American film, while some time has ever explained his fans about politicians.
There's no reason for details that were put up keenly because they are saying they don't expect it just to say, Brendan Rodgers and some of the politicians.
His hatred against some of those acts of politicians are to use a difficult example and maybe the effects of the concerned politicians.
He came out the way she gets involved with the politicians of that type, in a normal environment, Rodgers dared to see the dog behavior against some politicians.
He praised the dog behavior against politicians, and those who do not have these politicians who are ready to build their opponents who cause their competitors, they are ready to do that because of political politics and dirty politics.
In explaining to how the politicians were given the problems, the author of the film, who died in the world in 1935, has been living in the world for 36 years, he did not hesitate to say he loves his dog against those politicians.
Later, the reasons for putting him is to answer his dog by politicians of the type, he said it is because of the fact that, anything that he does not do because of political reasons.
I will forget, she is quoted saying "I love her daughter 'It Off'," it is true, when a fools should put it, then they do that is not because of politics.
The dog was put in its procedures, for the environment that their business people in the same time.
If you are not involved with the domain name that you put him in a fox which is the results of a high level of knowledge, it gives him a sign by making noise (not put) without caring about it.
A series of noise without caring about it is the same night.
Mwanazuo's feared is true and it is true and considering the real situation, it gives an indication that according to the needs of the time.
The rapper has helped his responsibility fully and it is good and he is taking responsibility on sometimes, there is need for a attack against God (by concentrating on his edge).
Therefore, the first dog gives a sign but the audience decided to do a attack on these two events will target to protect the interests of what they take care of, not with the conditions or command, but by considering the dog view.
This patient's stand has given a great honor to the boss, the former boss, who was walking on Wednesday night and was revealed for the series of noise, he didn't leave it instead, he is preparing because he believes that his dog could be dangerous outside.
The logic of these explanation of the Will I Rodgers who is important for us especially during this time heading to the general elections.
By considering the logic, the example of Brendan Rodgers will discuss the habit of some of the aides or voters for the parliamentary position.
According to the general elections they are going on, it is clear that some of the parliamentary candidates should not tolerate.
Some of the members of parliament have shared statements of humiliation against their fellow leaders.
Basically, we are not supposed to allow him to convince the court to vote and consider some of their statements on stage and in this environment, we should fully support him, to change my dog behavior more than these people.
There are some of the politicians who should not be dealt with on stage and among these examples are leaders of the Community Party (CCM), especially the former chairman, Richard Kiyemba.
This has joined CCM. It is his right time and even so, it should be remembered that the former chairman - the top leader of CCM, Master J is possible there are things that he believed together with his colleagues they can do.
If I have explained, I don't have a problem with your decision to start or leave the party or not a member of any party, it is his right to participate in political activities.
My problem is the type of voting for him especially when he was campaigning for the parliamentary candidate of the Segerea region in Dar es Salaam on the CCM ticket, Doctor Hamis Mahanga.
During the campaign meeting, he was quoted saying he asked the secretary general of CCM, Yusuf Makamba to join that party.
But he also had another request that he requested for the work to market CCM in Segerea region. According to his details, he requested for a special work (I don't know if his payments is also special).
While on stage, later explained that he and the brother we will continue with my brother.
But apart from that fact, another truth is that, by partnering with them is the one who made the start of CCM J.
Without doubt, all claims that they are keen in their activities, Professor J Haazu taking doubt their private history and even of leadership.
However, during the launch of the parliamentary campaign of CCM, Segerea, Kiyemba who has apologized for the special work "by Makamba, told the brother who is not keen.
