.
But we as a nation you will see if the priorities are written and it's usually come up with this one here and to partner with him as the first one is that we are.
We have we have no plan that we have no national agenda that we want.
Therefore, I am first.
You will see you that we have no way that Tanzanians know how they get from the number one in this period of ten years and fifty minutes it is something?
First, he says that for a priority is their priorities as the end of the world, I have living that nationally we have no national agenda, we have no priority to the bodies that we need to help as to serve together.
Just like my assessment, I was in a private sector that the father is possible for the community who come from them or you can try to make sure that Tanzanians need to know what Tanzanians need to know what Tanzanians need.
What does it mean?
If it is a teaser problem.
It is expecting that it is a country and he threw out a problem but when you come up with a big agenda that we want to do with leadership because I want to listen.
At that time you will realize that this is the end of its meaning?
He did not know that there is a problem for example such as if you have the teachers he is about that he has been given food to buy.
That is also fifty years have been seen to leave long hours from time.
Twenty thousand shillings, has using other things to give an income.
That is the first environment before allowing us to deal with bribery, these people who eat the bribery that are telling us that the primary reasons that are making him are something?
If a nurse is seeing tomorrow's hospital but his last salary will not be allowed, he can be able to go to pay their debts.
This is a lot of food about that before going to check the problem.
I look at the first of Mister if he said and at the breasts here what is causing you that Erdogan is controlling and claimed that I will increase the salaries for workers.
These people are saying that they want to come to work hard to protect yourself from investing in industries to help.
There is no country in the world that happened.
Before doing a revolution in agriculture.
In Europe, we are communicating with the books we have from.
There was a result of saying your best has said that if this is the source you can move forward, the child said that the laying of a woman is equal to the age of two years up to the first time and to be the first one at the first time.
Therefore, you cannot continue saying that it is organizing a nation that people go and go to work hard to my colleagues when all of them don't want to leave if they invest in farming.
We believe that when you can be availed to last month and again agriculture that we have said that it has reduced in large numbers in the warehouses is there and we know that there are some people that are no reliable.
Third Wekeza which is in the revolution to combat that revolution in the revolutionary party also in the phone of Airtel, everything is possible but it will not be sure if he will have the first priority to the citizens that Mister revolutionary party has succeeded to have sure they have reliable children from being assisted by the husband.
One month while he is after sleeping until five years he was giving back.
Now, we are to invest in education to a child whose mind has been better if you are doing well in getting experts.
