
It is not the Coca Cola Company and the African continent?
Sep 19, 2012

Don't know you, "I am happy," you will not tire you, "is sure they are not aware of them.

Nasima said that behavior of us wanted to make us believe that someone who is doing is for sure he cannot get married and never he cannot respect life or any status.

The scholars of politics of the economy (political parties) are saying that every time you are looking at a human being, watch him from the concept of economy.

They has gone ahead, by saying that every human mid-fielder has productivity in the economy. Because of these people with anything for a human being of money and property.

His humanity does not have more value of property or money, the first, then human being will be given later.

In the year 2008 in the period of heading to Covenant Bank (Christmas) and the new year, Samsung drinks company through its Coca-Cola company which like the other company had a lot of business advertisements in every corner of the country and in different media stations.

It was news with different factors that involve different articles so that it can attract them to draw many customers as possible. I believe it.

Normally any business results are usually with the aim of persuading the customers to believe that the products that were announced are better and that is the preparations for a lot of business news, one with the aim of persuading the customers or users of that product.

This is the reason that has a lot of companies using money and a lot of resources in advertising business and products.

And it should be understood that, every word or color is another one that is used in making a certain kind of business usually has its meaning.

There is no sign, color or any kind that is used in the business platform, and it has been put by mistake or by bad luck, there is no bad luck in making business advertisements.

History shall always be made by people with professionalism in a high level and which is usually paid well.

When we go back to our topic here, in that period of heading to the last holiday of the year 2008, this company of cold drinks through his Coca-Cola Company which was constructed at a big poster and marketing officers have been distributed in every part.

Bango Sangho which was a red card having a picture of Santa Cemetery or the others makes a great gift (it is believed that inside a gift) and is believed to be inside a gift, and is believed to have been given a gift) of distributing this season of Libeneke.

As it is the fees we are told to have a big job of Santa Cemetery in Europe, I don't know if it is true, it is usually giving birth to the announcement of two people who are a gift known as Santa Ciano (a white) and a gift for a gift.

In fast, you look at me what I think is why I think there is a problem when I think there is just a business announcement?

But in business it is the first to understand the real environment of the concerned business, which I received so much about the poster, I realized that it is used in African countries where a company has been doing business, although I don't have sure that the Arab countries are in Africa.

After asking a lot of questions about that announcement, I emerged with these two questions, as an aim of Santa Cellphone Company, it gives a gift to African children, because what is happening, the company is owned by African countries and therefore what is happening is the African Union for visitors?

The meaning I have got from that advertisements is one of the age of age, it's only one to be given donations by visitors and he himself cannot be independent and therefore it is a person to be bullied.

Our political leaders are the ones who are meditating the situation in actions of their own trips, and that is why our country's head was asked why Tanzania is still poor.

As usual they are getting a chance to continue to put in advertisements in some ways that destroy their dignity and our ability to be independent.

After "katibayetu" to the year 2008, the company of cold drinks, this year has come and "Masau boasted.

In their end of this time (RCI) they have forgotten the name 'MSabatama, "it is a billion of African countries to continue using the Coca-Cola tournament.

My philosophy professionals are saying that, the meaning of the word is not yet known, but the one that led me the word, is not true, it is not your work to explain his meaning, but the listener.

The announcement of 'pombe yangu', has begun being faced with names of lot of good words and Matter, like I love Africa, a good woman more than all the women in Africa, and from all the best women from Africa, there are best than other women from Africa, but at the end of that announcement, there is a problem that has been seen and decided to write this article.

The problem is in the words that, "during the world we are struggling to deal with disasters and fear for the future lives, one billion of African countries are drinking and enjoy the Coca Cola tournament."

By considering they are philosophically, the translation of the words he got in those words is yours, and African billion do not involve yourself about future life.
We cannot have fear and later lives.

They were used in those advertisements with a big percentage are African countries but I don't want to believe that they were involved in making these advertisements.

I have taken a very long time to think about the meaning of that announcement and finishing me, it is that one day they want to apologize.

These foreign companies even if you pay taxes and employ our people in their businesses, but they use a good way to run and announce their products.

It is true we need foreign investors and other business partners, but the truth you will remain when we need our partners in business and investors whose status is like a human being.

I call on our fellow members and all those who love honor and human beings, that now it is a chance of the Coca-Cola Company which has apologized to the public of Africa for their views which in a way they have carried out a trap of killing many years of age and a black person in general.
