
Doctor Shein, I am not an artist about.
Our journalists, Citizen.
Dar es Salaam / Zanzibar Islands, the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, was defending himself by not increasing the salary of Tanzania Mainland, workers have removed some investors, while teachers will get tired of her finger.
While speaking at the commemoration of May first, Doctor Shein (in the picture), asked permission to workers when he said that in the implementation of the promise to strengthen their interests, he can't be able to do not be implemented.
"It is true that I have been able to stop when I am happy to go to school, 60 and 70 years, I have played music games together with singing, but for now, I am the president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutionary Council I cannot get married and this is the right to the citizens," he said.
While confirming his promise he made during the campaign when he was asking for being elected again before October 25th, 2015, Doctor Shein said.
"The government will continue to strengthen the interests of the workers by implementing my promise I have made during the general election campaign, when I was presenting the CCM party manifesto to give him a low amount of 300 million shillings per month."
However, in the implementation of that promise, the team is being waited for desire by those workers, Doctor Shein who is also the deputy chairperson of CCM Zanzibar, urged the people of Zanzibar to be patient while the government will continue to check the issue of benefits and allowances for the workers.
"I urge you so much to have patience, because patient gets pregnant and we should look at the benefits and other allowances for the servants in order to do and time as our country's economy is complete," he said.
Together with that promise that led to a section of employees to teach and market the headlines during that speech, Doctor Shein noted the challenge that is in dealing with the debts of employees of the retired pension funds, together with teachers who claim the government.
Similarly, we will do all of us to do so that we go to the field so that we are not paying, the payment of payments for workers especially teachers, I understand that they still use their rights and they have not been paid, we will organize a better procedure of how to complete that debt. "
The secretary general of the association of independent political parties in Zanzibar (ZTC), Khamis Mwinyi Mohamed, reading messages of servants of the public and private sector at the peak said that it is good for President Magufuli to implement his promises to the workers every time when he gave them, so as to give the heart in the implementation of their daily responsibilities.
He emphasized that the need of employers to consider the environment of provision of health insurance to employees, in order to give the heart to confirm to the security during their service.
Kilimanjaro Provincial Commissioner, Saidi Meck Sadiki said ghost workers are together with the teachers who did not depend on the classroom and instead make another business.
While addressing the crowd of employees in Moshi town region in this province, during the commemoration of the employees' day in the world, he said that the existence of ghost teachers in school has contributed to an increase in higher education opportunities.
"The level of success in this province is different from the past years, because this province was in the first position in the best standards, and this year is in the 17th position among all the provinces, this is because of teachers not to go to the class to teach," said Sadiki.
Sadiki stated that the violence of employees who have been suffering from their primary rights like holiday, arrears and salary increase.
"Every employee must get its capabilities because it is a source from the government or it is a person from the private organization, it is a must to be given his rights that is needed by the employer going against it," said Sadiki.
Mbeya City suffering a cry at what is happening at Kilimanjaro, Mbeya Region, more than 20 employees of the company making a lot of rocks, popularly known by Marmo and Garnito Mines companies (T) Limited, they decided to stay down and on the right of voices that the government failed to continue with each other.
The event took place when the workers attended the front of the Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Amos Makalla who was attending the demonstrations on May first at the Sokoine Stadium.
Those workers said that their employer is preventing themselves in abusive language, which he has helped to pay a small income and that the government has not come from different people while the chairman of the Federation of Political Parties, Mbeya Region (Tucta), Dominic Zege, saying that the letter is to indicate that the great problem and of many days.
Kraehenbuehl has requested the Provincial Commissioner to follow up on the issue closely and that many investors have been a nuisance to many investors have been problems including paying small salaries and oppress children.
And the acting secretary of Tucta, here in this province, Juma Duni Haji, reading messages of construction companies, mines, industries and farms the ones that are leading to oppress workers together with failing to provide contracts to workers.
Bwamburakis said the companies of that kind are the ones that are leading in helping foreign workers and they should not meet the procedures that get big salaries compared to the ones they receive from.
Speaking.
Makalla said that he will make sure he meets with the problems of employees through the heads of districts and other leaders.
