According to the health issue where the government will increase up to the Lugalo Army General Hospital which is in the city after being handed the responsibility to the hospitals in the country after being handed the responsibility of those drugs in the hospital due to that donation, the government was given to preparing for a report.
Lugalo Army General Hospital who now has succeeded in a situation becomes a referral hospital and gave a responsibility to serve the patients from different hospitals in the country.
I saw the General Manager of Actor Flora Lyimo who is also the head of this hospital says that earlier on the new hospital, it is a must for citizens need to be identified by our doctors.
.
Also the ministry of defense and the headquarters of bones presumed.
Take the opportunity to provide services to the citizens at the referral hospital.
It is the responsibility.
An inexhaustible speed can destroy the great success in different units.
But he asked the head of that hospital to build the hospital to provide medical services at the department of women and children.
You want.
The late God bless you?
The late God know the record for the same way, on the work it is going on well that we are not seen in the work part but we have signed a stern warning that had come out to visit some of the stations in this hospital and talk to the patients.
When I have never written from work.
I have met with a small car I've known as a system so that we can do this section, you have trips to care of services due to when I saw it, so much, the services is good.
Follow up yesterday that operation up to these hours can leave and the child is doing well well and their food we like to like food.
The late God, we give you an appropriate time that our son continues well.
And this young man is the ones who got an accident and the hips usually, I would like to inform my brothers wherever they are.
Njalu who is called to pray for Shenda is the host of Masasi and its parents live here in Dodoma.
One is called my father's father is called Mchaga, Mohamed Bakari as I'm very happy about God, it is called to do what is happening at the reserve area of the army.
Today is the third day.
I will continue to get services but I have not told my brothers and I have not seen all my mind up to today the Lugalo Hospital was started in the colonial era and later to be handed to military police from nine hundred thousand American dollars.
Prezidaa of the draw is not in the islands of Dar es Salaam.
