Zitto Kabwe, ask you to taste the nuts.
January 17, 2014.

In the conclusion of my article that was released two weeks ago, a resident of the news "is the year of political parties, CHADEMA, I promised to promote the tournament 2014, by checking international standards.
With a good example, four days after being sworn in the article, one of the things that made us to continue with the conflict of CHADEMA and the possibility of conflicts inside the opposition parties to be in public, it happened.
I request I urge you to put into my disappointment about the new development of CHADEMA, it is more than my joy to see what I heard this week, then I would like each other, then I would like my bad luck, but by bad luck, the real situation did not involve them.
Approximately two weeks ago, the Member of Parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe got a huge charges against his national chairperson of the party, Freeman Mbowe, and the party in general and maybe so as to bring good flavor that he said to Zitto Kabwe, "the whole issue as we follow.
"Lissu has said, I have been given 2 vehicles with Mzee mrod Mkono, he says he was told by him and I believe he told me he told the year 2005, he told Mbowe to work in Musoma Villages.
I think he also told me in the year 2008 (after the list of corruption has been announced in the year 2007, and he said that the party has given a loan and then paid he told me the 200,000,000 Tanzanian campaign.
"He also did not forget to tell him that the head of Aziz Abood while he knows how Tanzania's newspaper always has been started by the party's funds from the Constituent.
"I have done my condolences to the Mkono and Company Limited about the issues of the contracts, Mzee Mungai is my son and asked me to tell me what he did with Kinana and asked him to tell me what he did by NHC concerning the public house as Club Bilicanas.
"Masau boasted.
Zitto Zuberi wrote this document in his Facebook page, but because he is the only thing that he is not only, later he was surprised and not involving those accusations.
When I read this document when I was written with great shock, I was not happy about what I wrote on, although it is possible that the group has a great effects, to Zitto Kabwe and maybe the development of CHADEMA in general.
The effects to Zitto Kabwe is the legal reason why Mbowe has shown an intention to forgive him to Zitto Kabwe, to confirm that those accusations have been true or any person who does not know that she will have an additional work in "the case was opened.
It should be the accusations of Nmrod Mkono and 260 million shillings in a environment that is not a mediator but also in one way it was evidence of Mbowe and the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye and the former secretary general of CCM Abdulrahman Kinana and I don't see those allegations if Mbowe will attain his intention to open the case.
So, it is possible that by recognizing that the legal offense, "that is why for a short time later, Zitto Kabwe got a surprise" to Zitto Kabwe, the fact is that those accusations are very heavy, and if it is true then they get completely the status of CHADEMA.
It should be remembered that in the document he is heading to Zitto Kabwe getting various positions inside CHADEMA, who written the document followed up of what they called "problems," (your impatient), and claimed that, "any time he does not discuss because of the environment that will enable them to stop for its procedures."
