December 31st, 2013.

More pictures of CHADEMA.

M / a member of Singida when he resigned, "there is no longer.

Damiano Mkumbo and Darcoboa.

The former chairman of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Singida Province, Wilfred Lwakatare.
He has resigned from that position, opposing the executive committee's analysis and three leaders.

Those leaders are the former deputy secretary general of that party, Mister Zitto Kabwe, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo and Mister Kitila Mkumbo and Mister Rished Bade who is happening inside the party at the moment is humiliation of democracy.

He said the decision that he took is voluntary without keys to someone with the intention of protecting the democracy of the truth.
To make sure that it is mentioned and to be implemented in actions, "I am the first member to join CHADEMA.

Here in this province, it is also the 300 national member countries, I have a great honor to me, that I am not ready to get that respect.
They want to be part of the presence of democracy.

"I will continue to be careful.
The rights and Ukawa are all day without going back, "he said.
Added that, the action of the leadership positions Mister Kabwe.
His colleagues are not good and has left many questions that are asked by its members, "said Msama.

He added that, the standing committee of CHADEMA in that province is to discuss and rebuke any decisions that are seen to give birth, fear and lack of a lot of fear especially during this period heading to the general elections in the party.

In his letter to resign as the deputy secretary general of that party in that province, said the national chairperson of CHADEMA, Mister Freeman Mbowe, is supposed to give a word to members and citizens to continue depending on the party instead of putting into pieces.

The other stand is to ask Mister Mbowe and the secretary general, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, called for the time of the meeting of the executive council of the party so as to give decisions of this issue because it was done.
Few people for their interests, "he said.

He advised that issue.
A very high level.
The decisions that are being released back to be keen in order to maintain the state of calmness in the party and to promote her famous as there is a day that can lead the party, apart from taking the position of the chairperson of the party.

In the province, he also served as the founder and guardian of CHADEMA.

(1992-2013), the member of the National Executive Council (1992-2013) and the member of the National general meeting (1992-2013).

In another step, the Secretary of CHADEMA in that province, Mister Patric Kahemele, has requested the party to complete a session of the executive committee on a high table with leaders with conflict and the party so as to end the differences that arose.

Mister Msuha said that recently in his meeting with journalists and insisted that since the conflict started, there is no member who came back to his card "here in Singida, our party does not have any division.
They know well the basis of the decision of the executive committee.

And the conflict between our party?
We will end in a way of peace, "he said.
