
President Magufuli has been asked to solve the conflict of discrimination.
By Mwangi, professor.
The gold farmers in the country saw the President Uhuru Kenyatta, to lead the fight against Mkamba Rangers in the market saying they have succeeded to bring revenue through their plot and both buyers to live directly.
They said that they want President Kenyatta to give a good statement of the government to address those who follow up the coffee fees and to make sure that the local government of the country should be treated with the strategies of the market.
They added that Mister Kenyatta is a born of a area that depends on agriculture economy in order to help its citizens in an issue of removing conmen from the production of production until the market and then payments.
Especially, they encouraged the president to give an agreement to the main government officials in the Ministry of Agriculture which is used by those who encourage the management to stop themselves in any discussion about agriculture and sales of coffee.
We ask those who have been condemned strongly to bring down the income to farmers and also involve the transfer of agricultural activities until the management of the local government, he said.
Speaking at a meeting with the stakeholders of Mount Kilimanjaro region in the field of Mount Kilimanjaro, he said that the agricultural project of agricultural products under the sponsorship of the local government, he said that for now, agriculture is facing a market and also a price that will be awarded farmers without caring for the plans to make the farming.
Mister Mwaura added that they ask those who recently have been giving every kind of threats from the stakeholders in the sector opposing the involvement of the management of agriculture and sales and the local government, he said.
"We ask those who have been writing a letter to the council like the coffee Board (CBB), the Ministry of Agriculture and also to the farmers of coffee wanting the government to get divided into market management," he said.
Mister Mwaura said that the activities of bishops who are the ones that have been forced to rise up of conflict, conflict between the local government, he from coffee.
"We ask those who are looking for some of the chickens in farmers and that is also preparing to be elected in their factory to those organizations," he said.
Mister Mwayodeo for those who listen to the customers that the local government, he said they have discussed with them about the contracts of market and price when they want them to listen to them with one farmers directly.
"It is about Mister Kenyatta to give direction and care of the legal government, he said that it has an ability to include farmers as well as to prepare strategies for agriculture and market and not the main government or any other unit outside the country," he said.
