
NEEC do not use it well for the millions of Magufuli.

It has been written by Saleh Jembe Blog.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

The National Social Security Council (NEEC), was started through the national law on economic empowerment number 16 of the year 2004, being a high level of management and to coordinate the implementation of the national policy on the economy of the economy.

Moreover, the National Examination Council of Economic Empowerment Council which is under the office of the Prime Minister, is leading the national strategy of economic empowerment the economy through the construction of empowerment from ministries, departments, institutions, provinces and all councils in the country.
In dealing with the capital problem for the purpose of running economic activities to the citizens living in rural areas, the fifth term government led by President John Magufuli promised to give 50 million shillings in every village like the funds of the premier league to help the citizens to improve their lives.
Likewise, among the objectives of giving loans to entrepreneurs through cooperatives and loans (Saccos), it is required to help the youth in developing various economic activities that will help in bringing development to their development.
Recently, the executive secretary of the National Social Security Council, Beng'i Issa said that there are some institutions or private individuals who were able to bring in the citizens a plan of 50 million shillings for every village, they go through their institutions and urged the citizens to be keen with people in the way.
Beng'i Issa said there are some institutions that have been supporting money from different levels to what they are claiming that they are fees for registration so that those groups of entrepreneurs can be registered and be identified and finally benefit from a plan of 50 million shillings.
I have explained to me, NEEC as a high level in enabling the citizens economically which is also legal, it has the responsibility of managing and to coordinate the whole plan of the promise that was given by the government about every village being given 50 million shillings.
In addition to following the division of 50 million shillings in every village, NEEC also advised the responsibility to ensure it take legal action against the institutions and all stakeholders who want to bring in the citizens that they have been sent by that council, something that is not true.
Listen to me, NEEC also needs to inform the citizens about the whole process of reaching the beneficiaries of those funds to eliminate disruptions that can come out when the government was completed the availability of 50 million shillings in every village.
Likewise, the Council of People Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC), is supposed to inform the Political Parties and loans (Saccos) which have been seen not to use the money that its goals are to help the citizens to get into poverty.
However, in order to make that plan of 50 million shillings in every village, the council is being used to the citizens because it seems that some of them have no preparations immediately when they get the money they will be able to produce after capital.
The importance of the fifth term government to enable the citizens economically is a good thing and to be supported with each one that goes for development in our country and the heart of patriotism in caring about the life of the people that are many.
Millions of Magufuli are required to be supervised by NEEC so as to be used well as it was in the fourth phase of the retired President Jakaya Kikwete, where the government has given famous cooperation such as' billions of JK "which was not able to be used well due to some of the leaders through Saccos.
