Agents, to protect their votes and run, is an important example of our ignorance of us.
October 21, 2015.

Chama Cha Mapinduzi is a whole process that is translated in a different environment and even so there are several factors that have already qualified in the previous elections and that is because our elections broke the big number of foreign parties since the previous election.
However, the presence of political competitiveness is the previous terms and under the presence of democracy, other important criteria is together with the ability of our politicians and the community as a whole, something that is enough to withstand the effects of our politicians.
Another important criterion is to respect the rule of law, including to respect the public institutions to be taken against the management of the electoral commission so that these institutions should be given and accepted by all stakeholders who are participating in the election.
Apart from the servants of the commission that are in charge of the whole process of elections, law and regulations of elections are recognizing the presence of party agents together with the aim of agents to witness the process is run on behalf of the candidates and their parties because the presence of agents is evidence of not benefiting from the commission itself.
In the normal state, and in the environment that the election commission is free and public servants do their work on the basis of politics, professional and legal servants, we have agreed that it does not have the ability to supervise the rights without supervised by a level that explains the existence of agents as an important thing of showing that it is a free commission.
In the recent days, a debate about protecting the votes of the concept of protecting the votes was used so much in the year 2010 in the ongoing environment by the commission itself, it was a fact that the results of the members of parliament in areas that were built by the council is enough to have faith that without blood pressure maybe the results in these regions are different.
Therefore, I will see that the concept of protecting the votes is born with the problem that causes the ignorance of political parties in the country, due to the system of many parties starts here in the country, because of the political party's system and therefore they should stop stuttering on how the opposition party is heading to win.
On that level, the ignorance of political parties, some of the leaders of political parties know their fears about the ability of the Electoral Commission to do justice and especially when they believe that they are confirmed to fail, but the problem is that the Electoral Commission is not free.
