I thank God spoken in Kisarawe District, there are true I believe in another time.
The community because of sports stakeholders we have lost a person we can have said that it is important in the soccer industry here in the country because there is no longer a person who is capable of stealing their lives because Ukawa shall benefit from this place due to fatigue problems in the youth team.
The late Adam with a big extent, we said that there is this information after being announced to ask for different reasons.
We need to yesterday?
We learn.
Some of the visitors' questions.
Insults can be used earlier on this, here.
Therefore, why should it not be heard, I'll be taught.
What is there?
Those vehicles.
Sun comes with my colleagues but very big.
If you receive, I think I gave you by looking at these things that she found his girlfriend, she has been happy and she has known him well as the small youth I have known him with him in the general elections.
And then I have received yesterday, there is one chicken for sportsmen that we were surprised if there is one sports journalist who is called 'Nyanguda.
The late God created a message through it has been so cunning, that our colleague have been going ahead here, the Almighty God also did not have tried but the Almighty God also did not have any objection since the first time I have met with him in Shinyanga.
Which has been forced to teach and play for a national team only.
He was a player later he gave out the fear of being the permanent coach that took place in the Belgium's television station, from Mwanza as a shop that has brought him, but he took her to play with TID and asked the teachers to the teachers for what they are getting to.
Defender, we are white.
He was told him to listen to the ball, that technical is putting a two number so that he can help to start attacks because he has the ability to start a attack because it has the ability to bid farewell and it is possible for them.
If the conflict has the ability to start a attack but this one has the ability of attacking and forcing him in the right time if he went to a national team and even if it went to Simba soccer club and he went to play soccer club but he went to play soccer.
At other times a vibrant listener is when I was with the problems he's a person who he plays like in Dar es Salaam, I will make sure he knows on why he is the coach.
What is making its first system to help the team for sure he was doing well and let me give a red card and he had the ability to sit with any famous player hement fans for people who need me, Athumani Iddi.
But did he had the ability to sit with any player one day he was told.
First news believe that they have come up to now women and in the world that come to see by looking at it, he told me I will listen to me I was unable to sit with all the player, his player was trying to go to the training.
And there is no leader that he tries to do or he is her colleagues, he does not kill him because he was walking.
I sat down here, I told him that I told him.
Opening a lot.
I told him for what you want to go to the training.
He said that I have risen up to Colombia.
If you are happy that if you are your life to wear long-speed buses and true you will go back to the little income and you will go back there, later, it uses to speak one to our colleague.
What is it?
