
Nchimbi has made a commission to investigate the death of Nelly Mwangosi (06).

The Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, has launched a five-day commission to investigate the death of Channel Ten and the chairman of Iringa Regional Hospital, David Cason who was killed in violence by police and followers of CHADEMA in the Nyato village, Iringa district.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Tuesday, Minister Nchimbi said that the commission has been given 30 days to complete his responsibilities.

He said the commission which has been given six areas of dealing with them, will be under the chairmanship of retired Judge Joseph Masikitiko.
He mentioned the delegates of that commission as he is the executive director of Citizen, Thehabari, second from Tanzania Media Council (MCT) and the expert of explosions from the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF), Colonel Wema Sepetu and Commissioner Isaya Makaka of the police force.
"This commission will be free and justice, there is no need to go and fail to any issue, and I've not told them if they will have any professional problem not to communicate with the ministry so that we can give donations from outside," said Doctor Nchimbi.

He said the first area which commission will reduce it is the cause of the killings of that writer, as he was killed by a bomb.
The second area is to investigate that is true there are hostility between the police force and the journalists of Iringa province and the third area is to know if there are three journalists who are alleged that the police force in that province have put him in the list of dealing.

"Four, the size of the energy that was used to arrest the late Daud Mziray, and the followers of CHADEMA had any validity," said Minister and added.
"Five, political parties are true they have planned to appeal if the police commission that was set up for that incident.

While Minister Nchimbi made the commission, the coordinator of the Southern African Community of Southern Africa (MISA), has given his report concerning the death of that writer, saying he has received with great disappointment about the news of his death.
"We have condemned all the strength of the police force which has resulted in the death of a journalist while at work and also under the defense of the police.

We recognize the hostility between the police of Iringa province against the journalists that lasted for a long time, "the report said and added.
"Hostility said that his intention is due to the use of strength to be implemented in Iringa province and therefore every time the journalists should not report about the series of hostility.

Finally, the police have decided to kill a writer, this is a bad thing that he will take Tanzania to register themselves on the international community. "The institution has said that the death of Nelly Mwangosi, is there at an event that was caused by misunderstanding especially when you know the police commander in the province and was caught in front of him.
