The conflict between those types have continued to have been reported to be rocket which is aired in Ruvuma town and there are still an increase in air attacks against the Gaza city to be able to increase in fighting between those two sides.
Israel who was also expected to continue with the attacks with an aim of protecting its citizens who fail to fight the refugees camp, which is in the outskirts of Gaza, where those explosions have been accepted to be heard in the business city with them.
According to ten Palestinians and nine Palestinians have been killed since the start of those names, were killed after the army leader of the military branch and Hamas group has told them that are being attacked by the Israel forces in Gaza.
Whether through his prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu said that he will continue to protect its citizens even if he is announcing the war.
Do not lie!
What concern do you know.
Number.
There was a terrorist attack.
What is in pain?
We should meet?
There is a report that if they were asked, President Jakaya Kikwete ordered the army for a cry for the ten thousand shillings which may be taken to Gaza and more reports indicate that Bissau, the ones that are seen in the city of Gaza.
And the others to be beaten in the Gaza region in the country which was reported that it is showing the intention of Egypt to support Palestine, they are facing a attacks from Israel.
While in Gaza, the prime minister had talks with high-level leaders, said Messi continued to cooperate with Palestine in this period as a youth and made a call to the international community to intervene in the conflict.
He also identified himself, which he has been accompanied by the prime minister of Palestine, Sessions has visited various hospitals where people were injured due to agriculture.
Several countries have continued to have a lot of fighting and called on two sides to stop the fights that were mentioned to cause peace in the eastern central region.
Dimakatso I wish you a chance to watch the captain when they have.
