
We are not ready for war against outside, follow up on the first floor and 15.

Honorable Edward Lowassa and Bernard Membe has given a stern statement on the dispute between Malawi and Tanzania, that we are ready for war.
I don't want to intervene in debate that the work of announcing the war is not for these ambassadors even if there was a request, the commander in the force is to announce the fight and the danger of the commander in the army and not otherwise.
My point is the words of Honorable Lowassa and Honorable Membe that Tanzania we are ready for the war to go together with the fact that they are giving them for the first position, the desire of wanting to go for war is a must they recover.
I and many others who know themselves, we said that Tanzania will not be ready for war war, we should stop the first war, therefore, Honorable Lowassa and Honorable Membe, they think that war is important and we should not depend on the front line.
There are many reasons for Tanzania not to be ready to go for war with the statement of Honorable Lowassa and Honorable Membe, has been issued without informing them.
We know all of us that if we go to war that would have given a great responsibility, who will be hurt and maybe a permanent disabled is the ordinary citizens and we are not these leaders of politics who give information.
Many times the political leaders have started war, a situation that is bad to relocate from outside the country and that is why the late Gmwaijonga has said that he will continue to stop behind its deaths and affliction, he refused to stop behind her deaths and affliction, he refused to run away.
Women and children are a group in the community that got great pain during the war, this fact is that there are countries that have had conflicts from time to time.
I cannot get to know, maybe Honorable Lowassa and Honorable Membe, they discussed with our army about the importance of going to war with Malawi, I have a great doubt if these ambassadors have got a chance to discuss with women and all the citizens of Tanzania about the importance of going to war.
Without discussing with this groups, without discussing with all the citizens about the importance of going to war, announcing the war is to promote the economy of the public.
Another reason that is big to prevent us from going to war is our poverty.
Our government has no ability to increase salaries for teachers and our government does not have money to increase the salaries of doctors and buy other hospitals in the hospital.
Our government has no money to run its budget by 100 percent. Our government does not have money to buy desks, build houses for teachers, building toilets, buying books and other medical equipment, who will get money to fight with Malawi?

We witnessed what happened during the Kagera war.
In addition to that we won the Kagera war, our economy is supposed to stabilize up to today, some of the participated in the time of the fight is difficult to support war and especially if there is a chance to discuss and end the crisis.
The borders of our country was put by the colonizers of us themselves and now we are in African Union and we are in East Africa and Zanzibar together with its problems being an example to be followed, how can it be today, we are announcing the fight against the lake.
Why do we continue to discuss with Malawi the way to use this world together?
In the past, many years in the past, our grandfather who did not like to see the colonial era, used this world as well as how it will be the borders of the colonialist.
On our part Tanzania, we should do this lake until today?
It is our responsibility to deal with enemies who use the national safety of this nation, or doesn't have a debate because there is enemies who are outside the country and for my opinion, this time I see our security options, therefore, these safety of Malawi have.
The strength of strength and the ability to fight with enemies who know Honorable Lowassa and Membe, will be used to fight with the enemy to the country, it is a game of acting to show Tanzania has the strength to fight with the neighboring country as it is near the nation.
We have many ways of inside and some are known for their names and they have reduced our land to investors, they sell our economy and the availability of electricity in their pockets and many Tanzanians have shown that it does not have money to pay teachers and doctors, many funds are used to pay the electricity prices.
Recently, he has been arrested, a person who had a company of stealing electricity, has changed the electricity for seven years since it is possible he was getting married without being found or he was collaborating with other national enemies.
These things have been able to make our nation in corruption and huge bribery like that of Riders in Honorable Membe, he told me that the ones that were involved in the bribery they were paid and that they are waiting for.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has announced the war inside that party and they have announced the war to fight against him because it is the fight to fight with the enemy to their party as their party was unable to fight with the local dances.
Honorable Lowassa and Honorable Membe is among those who mentioned to vie for the presidency in 2015.
The conflict between Tanzania and Malawi is a must they be handled by great keenness and there is no enough reasons for making them to war even if we lost the whole lake region and security, the peace of citizens is very important for celebrating the whole lake.
If there are political symptoms inside this conflict, it will be a big conflict between them and we see Tanzania has people who are eager to care about the results of the war, they are ready to use all the dirty and good deeds so as to avoid power.
