
What is the tower that fell in the holy martyr.
Jide 5, 2012

The act of terrorism was known as Doctor Steven Ulbrahim who is a leader of doctors who are in a strike is going on giving many things.
Last Sunday, President Jakaya Kikwete informed that his government does not deal with the reason of doing that brutal act and it was not expected to make sure that President Kikwete has standing publicly that his government has been involved with that act.
The decision by President Magufuli is normal in the sector of African politics and in the open system and the rights of justice, president or not to be responsible, in the end of the event or announcing the creation of a free commission so that the truth is known.
On Monday, the Member of Parliament and Rukwa Regional Commissioner, Engineer Stella Manyanya said he went to parliament to support the speech of the president and he stopped by doing two important things concerning this scandal.
First, he added that the main opposition party in the country, the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), is involved in the dispute between doctors from being Doctor.
There were seeing their colleague and secondly, he said that those who are supposed to cross Doctor.
There was a person who kidnapped the same as Maganjila being a draw of that party.
That member of parliament who is part of the government said other things are usually known as Nyota Ndogo has thrown that Doctor Kizza Byanyima came in Germany and that Olsson missed him and helped him to avoid poverty and other big things.
The contribution of this mother in parliament brings you a lot of feelings about it and being known as Doctor Ulbrahim and as a free commission would have been possible, this mother has a great help to the commission.

Earlier on Monday, there was a decision that the members of parliament who are district heads and provinces should not hesitate to ask questions in parliament but they can contribute to the speech.
The contribution of Engineer Manyanya has shown a risk to mix up with this two seasons of interests, it does not depend on this time and that we are not honor to parliament, it will not be resolved.

The acts of attacking, manslaughter, doughing and even causing the disability not, in this phase and even after getting married, they are building a bad culture that is causing the collapsed due to this administration.
For instance, in this issue of unemployment because there was a lot of questions that do not affect in television, if the government started a speech on television, it is true that the government did not know that plan, then the government does not benefit from security of its citizens.
In any way, the government has denied the blame or not divorced, Doctor.
There was a result of Haazu taking you so that even after the head of the province, Stella Manyanya said CHADEMA are supposed to hold any person related to this incident.

A very open picture in front of the public is to be a small group of leaders inside the party and the government, has been able to build a large crime tower and also the famous tower of system, with the ruling party, with the ruling party, for now starts under construction.
They started using their hearts for them under mysterious circumstances, names of sayings and sayings such as Kolimba-Kolimba, that was used to do people with different opinions in the party and the government.
People with different opinions have continued to receive the message of threats from the phone and sometimes it will be dealt with because they will be dealt with because they will continue with their stand and they will start being dealt with because they will start, they will start being made.

The famous people and some of the politicians that have remained with the human cells have a great fear about the state of the country at the moment together with special sessions to time of the new security council of the nation, there is no sign that the state of safety of people with different opinions in our nation will improve.
There are words at the streets that now the administration has been seen and decided to have any politician who will be seen as required by the opposition party, but there are reports that do not be dealt with because, there are no single bus have ever heard very fast, killing them and denying them the organs of their opponents.

Most of us start to build faith in the pillar of the parliament in the ninth parliament, through that parliament, we shall continue to see the importance of that agency to be independent so as to protect the authority of the citizens which are the source of the government to save.
Now, that faith has gone into a speed because, the parliament has already lost its importance because it doesn't have a difference with the government which she wants to be left.
When it comes to the speaker or chairman of the parliament sitting, announcing the words that have shown with her finger to the ruling party, we have made many people to pass.
Mjenga, when he interviewed the government but his question came up or was born by speaker, when she is giving permission to the ruling party to stop, but it deserves for their opponents even cheering, it is enough signs for parliament to lose its importance.

The eyes of the speaker of parliament in any nation that affects the development of its citizens, is the foundation of peace in any nation, the holy spirit this begins from the faith of the citizens that inside the parliament, already he will have any evidence of discrimination, suppression of thoughts and defense of the body.
Even in those countries that resulted from violence, there is still a small hole in the parliament and basically the parliament is about, the parliament is about our decision and even if our decision themselves, we have decided to be about the parliament.
This decision cannot continue without pain in our nation because this decision has improved its tower and stability of this tower and it does not make anyone be safe and before the start of switching off poison that come from the State House, fear and thoughts that they started in the State House.

Because all of us have sure that there is no doubt that there is no problem with the administration of our nation, it is good for we are preparing to do it in a peaceful election while the government is currently a big group of people who disappear from politics.
It will not be easy to prevent each other if the rights will not be done in that school.
We have seen Rwanda in Rondo to take power in the middle of the killing of Kimbari.
The ZANU PF army in a long time with the administration of Gabon, they decided to take this law and killing many people getting the commandment of not doing so from their commanders.
The year 1996, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, was requested to give his opinion about the state of Rwanda and Burundi.
After thinking being silent, he said that the issue of Rwanda and Burundi is like a person who went on the back of Simba who is worried about the fear of being conned by Simba SC, the ruling party of a few selected ones in those nations will not fear about those who are many.
The station every time is coming up and giving excuses that they should remain in power, fear that you will be used for their evil deeds.

Even here, the authorities of their party and their party, are based on the peak of's tower or the back of Simba SC with sharp teeth, and to withdraw his clothes and to withdraw her, it's impossible so as to be able to come up with the enemy.
