
They are looking at CCM elections, Mwanza Town, 31st, 2012.

The view of the victory of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in three constituencies and two councils in Mwanza province in the 2010 general elections and others among the candidates involved in the presidential elections of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza province.

The candidates mentioned to have the strength of giving competition to each one in the position of chairman of the province, who had various positions of leadership in the party in the year 2010, which witnessed great changes in Mwanza province which was a stronghold of going to the party.

During the general election, CCM organized himself of Ilemela, Nyamagana and Ukerewe provinces where all were taken by CHADEMA, while also the city council of Mwanza and Ukerewe District were going on to the opposition party.
The Mabina musician Mousa Diallo who plays for those races to vie for the chairmanship of that province is the chairperson of now, Clement Mabina, who is expecting to defend his position as the chairperson of now, Clement Mabina, who is expecting to defend his position together with many challenges that the party says she will help him to lead the party with great success in the future term.

However, analysis of issues inside that party believe that he is the chairperson of the province, he is responsible for a big part of the party to lose its status in Mwanza province because in the previous election, being faced with the wave of change that was not expected.

Mabina explained that the situation as a lot of challenges and "bad wind of politics" which instead of separation, the members are supposed to deal with them and that situation needs a leader with the ability to connect all CCM members so as to form and lead the army with solidarity.

"There was a bad wind power in the year 2010, which was affected by many areas of cities like Arusha, Moshi, Musoma, Mbeya and Iringa and our union can give our contribution to ensure CCM continues to remain in power," said Mabina.

Explaining how the way he will be able to restore those constituencies that were lost in his hands and if he does not get a lot of those regions, it is a solution that he used to defend those constituencies as the chairpersons of the party and not one province directly.

"There are other questions, asked the district, we as a province, we should do campaigns of the whole region but the district level is the leadership that is supposed to lead the campaign, these questions are seen in the district," he explained.

About the way they will be able to come out of the party to be involved with corruption and also to clean up his government, that candidate says that the party is not attractive, but there are some of the corrupt members that the party is continuing to take action against them.

"Example, Misungwi we have taken a step like the party to remove our sponsorship to the chairman of the council, we have heard the media stations to take action, if the party we have no doubt and corruption," he insisted.
Another veteran who is vying for the position of chairperson of CCM in Mwanza province is a member of the National Executive Council of CCM (NEC) from Mwanza Province, Anthony Mtaka, whose intention to vie for the position is headed by other opposition parties, the party requires a great understanding of issues that will be responsible to answer the opposition's motion on issue and not using abusive language.
Musona is together with having a huge bail, as a NEC member of CCM of Mwanza Province, to make sure that the party is making well in the last general elections, but he also was among the victims of Kimbira of Ilemela province on the ticket of the party was unable to participate in that election by Zubeida Malick.
It is also a finger to be one of the leaders that can't jump and bad results of the party in the last general elections because it is among the top leaders of the party in the province that had the responsibility of ensuring that the party is making well.
Together with that view of some of the issues of issues inside that party, he believes that he has the ability and reputation that are required to be the leader of that position and he is ready to get power and used them so that the party will serve them instead of them to serve the party.
"The party in Mwanza province requires someone who is leading in collaboration with other levels of all levels to follow the constitution and regulations, a leader who doesn't know the groups and the party requires someone who will lead if the institution is not like the private sector," said Mousa Diallo.
He added that a leader who is a leader with the party at the moment is the one who supports members and not knowing and that he is supposed to have the intentions and strategies to save the estates, villages, wards and counties that are in the opposition in the opposition.
"I have planned to build a foundation of unity and peace in our party, which is the right to say we have unity and stability of politics in our province of Mwanza like rights and procedures are continuing to be bullied.
"I will see my desire to serve the party instead of a party that will be able to serve me and listen to the evil deeds that we have at the moment," said Mousa Diallo.
However, that statement has resolved by some of the members of CCM that it's a sharp razor to the chairperson, especially for the steps that the party has taken against the chairman of 4 kilograms of Misungwi, Glory Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, by giving me the sponsorship of the party at the time of vying for that position.
Several times, Chief has been quoted saying that the party's step to decide whether to sack him from the party because it is the agenda that carried the personal interests but it has also violated the constitution of the party and that he has violated the constitution of the party to get great competition in contesting for the position of the chairperson of the region.
Mabina has said that he has been opposing those allegations while insisting that the party's stand is due to the fact that the chairman has been involved with corruption in that council according to the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) and that there is no issue of income in that council.
The name of Nape Nsalaga and wind in the middle of the tension by the leader of the executive secretary of CCM, Nape Nnauye has increased in the race to vie for the position of chairperson of the party in this province where his driver Adam Soud has taken a form to deal with those political leaders in Mwanza province.

Together with recently, some of the members of CCM including some of his fellow candidates to have doubt if the driver has come through a voluntary contribution to vie or get into him in the process, there is the support of his boss, Nape, he says he has decided to do that because the party has been stopped and protect themselves and have no integrity and integrity.

Your "you know that leadership is their properties as my decision is to deal with this party, it is a party of all party members from bewitching him, therefore, we have decided to do this because our party we have no integrity, most of them are for their personal interests and solve their differences," he said.

He reminded me of his fellow members that together with being said he is poor, that he insisted but he wanted to understand that the election of money, the elections to buy votes, the elections to purchase the party and that some of the leaders did a celebration after the party failed.
He insists that he had enough experience in politics because he has been a member of the UVCCM council in the province, the chairperson of UVCCM, Ilemela district and the representative of the parents council of the province.

That position has also be dealt with by the current chairperson of Ilemela District, Seleman Kakoso, who has also faith that his experience in the period that he led in Ilemela District will help the party with great success in order to reach their party goals.

He is also the chairperson of Ilemela district where the party organized a lot of province and several wards to the opposition, he will have a extra work to come out and blame from the party not well under its leadership.

However, Khloe Kardashian of who was also the mayor of Mwanza Municipal Council (before being a city) he believes that in unity and togetherness in their areas and that the bad wind can be controlled by members who believes that he can bring together unity in the party.

"Together with the bad wind power in the year 2010, there were affected many areas in urban and we were losing our province (Ilemela), because our union can give a great contribution to ensure CCM is going to power and save our regions," he said.
Masha has remember Ilemela after being silent for a long time since he got a parliamentary position, the former member of parliament for Nyamagana and Minister of Internal Affairs, Lawrence Masha has emerged again in that region for the position of member of the National Executive Council of the district.

Masha has told this newspaper that for a long time he did not have a place to mobilize the members of CCM of Nyamagana and the citizens of that district in general since he lost a member of parliament but he has seen this is the opportunity to return and work with the citizens of Nyamagana.

Speaking to deal with the challenges facing the district of Nyamagana and especially to restore the parliamentary seat which he was defending champions, he said that he will partner with his fellow leaders to support him who will be appointed to vie for that position but the foundation is to listen to the citizens, to know what they want from implementing their requirements.

Speaking about the groups he said that he has no groups, he is a member of CCM and member of parliament and that he used to get that position he will continue to have groups and be a result of all people.

About the challenge why the party made badly in the 2010 elections, he said the opponents who came to have political parties to build an issue without addressing primary issues in the community and they get support but now people are complaining.
"There have been a lot of political politics (politics) to build a feelings of those politics is easy, people when you told the truth, things were difficult and people that they felt like people they saw them by knowing the truth," he said.

He added that the political parties are not happy and not good and not to help this nation, it is good to politicians to say the truth even if you will cost them before the journey, but it was revealed that they will move forward.
