This share will death in Komba.
MTVs, 2015.

"It is true that the only political parties that can download the late Komba in politics of Tanzania, I seen there are people to be careful," this is the statement of Professor Kitila Mkumbo that he made this Sunday, on the Twitter network of Twitter.
A scholar who is also a politician, who is also a politician, following a big division that has emerged (at least the internet) following reports of the death of a famous politician and the member of parliament of Mbinga West (CCM), Captain John Komba, happened on Saturday in Dar es Salaam city.
Although it is known for the number of stem cells that use the internet network is very little compared to the population of the internet, because different topics that arise in the internet can't see the division that has emerged in the internet following the death of captain Komba.
The division took the form of two groups, one can be able to enjoy the death of that politician who is carried out the death of various statements especially the time of time of the special constitutional parliament that he would have come out if the proposal of the structure of the union of three governments to be announced.
Another group that was one of the mourners, the citizens that came out with that death, led to the attempt to blame the deceased, "in this group, there were shocked the importance of serving the deceased and respect the death.
But inside those groups, they come out and asked me, "that is for one side showing the way that he gave them to some of the deceased's statements, but another one claimed that" it is not good to see the late. "
If I have touched me there, I don't know the situation there in the streets but if you feel that the number of the mourners are in the streets but if you feel it is the biggest of the mourners who can be caused by the deceased.
Though all of us know that our life has been end through the way of death, and although we do not want to change the painful truth, we should continue to fear death while the deaths of close people or we should know the past history and again that the death is there.
In a certain way, there are times the deaths usually have a chance to witness our some of our human beings and how many times we have witnessed, for example, some youths have reduced their lives due to the use of drugs, but its benefits especially when love can avoid that death?
For more than a long-inch width, there is a need to do someone after died, but when she was born, she's loved more to hypocrisy when we need love is when we need love.
That came out after the death of the late Captain Komba, where some of the colleagues have been seen to be happy, "it is a continuation of hatred in our country, while some of the politicians of CCM are the concerned parties.
Same, it's not good to talk about the bad life of the late Komba, for example, but by bad luck, if you put aside his competence in recent songs of the father of the nation, the late Julius Nyerere, an important history that he used during the special constitutional parliament.
He also said, together with "those spreading the hatred and others added to the step that can be interpreted as I wish the death Judge Joseph Warioba because the commission that he led in collecting the views of the constitution led the structure of the union of three governments.
But the sign of hatred continues to rule in our country, have started to come out in great open when President Jakaya Kikwete was admitted to the United States for male gland cancer, there was a small group that did not lose their differences, an extent that some of their colleagues were forced to stop the death of their president.
By bad luck, there is no efforts that took place though to start a debate about the development of hatred in our country and its results, today we see some of our colleagues that are seen to enjoy the death of our vibrant politician.
