The interpreter translating to the votes.
October 25th, 2012

The investigation that is going on in the killings of the former police commander of Mwanza Province (RPC), Liberatus Barwan, now is heading to the concept that there are more reasons for the killings, our citizens are told.
Reports that were found at the end of this week are saying that the investigation squad in Mwanza has been following up on information.
Commander Barsheba I was arrested for reasons related to love.
Until now, there have been reports that have been involving the death of Commander Barsheba I have been arrested but several people have been arrested but the very few reports are saying that love can be one of the real reasons for those killings.
More reports indicate that the investigation squad has been looking at the possibility of those killings that they have been done by criminal groups inside the police force in conjunction with social media networks and outside the country.
Reasons that are mentioned to be mentioned by those groups to participate in those killings is that at the level.
He has heard that Commander Bartez had been made for understanding and that was not a good news for those groups considering that, he was very close to the top leadership of the police force.
The investigation on the direction of groups of corruption and they are mentioned that you can bring several skills that can put the media stations in Nyamatala, although many people have already been arrested in relation to the incident.
Reports that got to this newspaper from different sources within the police force and a special team of investigation.
The murder of the killings explained that because that event has happened to those involved in that plan, they have great expertise in crime.
We believe they need to investigate so more to ensure they are sure of the concerned parties so that the action can be dealt with or it does not depend on it, it will be a big offence if there will be a big challenge, "a big source inside the government.
According to the news reports, the investigation of that death is crossing over to Mwanza City, which took the event and came up to other provinces, including Dar es Salaam and even neighboring countries.
"The late Barber who was.
Being trusted by top leaders of the police and even other security agencies have been killed in a period when the government had a contribution, "he says.
The doctors has been completed in a large area and we have been encouraged to ensure that they are involved in one way or another with the conspiracy, that is why you know now is like that situation has already been known which is like to look for a good way to deal with them without causing conflicts in the nation, "explained our source.
That source has explained that the big steps that were mentioned in that investigation is when the important news giver when he got the reports of those killings and to see the press.
Security.
"The involved in that program are keenly and they know what they are doing and what will be its results and they believed that they will continue being safe," explained the source.
Already some of the special investigation agencies have not yet been sent to Mwanza while the killings that were taken to Mwanza in Dar es Salaam to do important information within and out of the country concerning the investigation of the incident, some of the investigation officers have been built in that incident and to see the directors of the labor force (Tiananmen Square) from Dar es Salaam city just conclude.
This week.
"There are some who started being shocked by the others still, but even if they stop the strategies being placed, because they decided to take action now, they will continue to take action now, they will continue to make sure they are not involved," explained the source.
Commander Liberatus Barkley was killed last night on October 13, this year.
Commander Baranaba was killed in Kitogo area in Mwanza town when he was returning to home, the most popular teacher from the name Josephat Moses, who was with him in the wedding session.
