12 November 2013.

CHADEMA came up to CDA.

.
Elizabeth Joseph, Dodoma.
.
The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), has risen to them in court.
The Capital Development Authority headquarters (CDA) for the offense of demolishing the houses of citizens.
Compensation.

That decision was presented yesterday by the director of operations and training.
The nation (CHADEMA), Benson Bana, while addressing the citizens in the meeting.
A rally may be done in Mkwajuni, South Africa in that province.
He said that recently, the residents of those areas were not allowed to be demolished.
Their houses and CDA on the claims that they have set aside them.

Kigamba, wanted the citizens that live in those areas.
Names of them.
Through that party to be able to look for a lawyer because of putting the objection.
Stopping the demolition.

Kigola said that CDA was going to work to improve the city.
To leave the same way until today is still in Dodoma.
And oppress the citizens by removing them to them at a price of an amount.
5 million at the time they need plots and sometimes to be removed from the land.
What have imported the bodies of their daughters, an issue that gives them rights.
Own their land.
So in order to defend the rights of citizens.
That does not see it is good to join the citizens in accusing that authority.
To know the difference of the residents of this province.
He added that even the party.
Power (CCM) has been having an eye on the problems of the citizens of this province.
Concerning that authority, since the report on CDA is known but it has been known but.
It has been opposed by the decision of removing that authority to enable them.
To be able to know the solution of life.
In owning land that were sent away without being paid for compensation.
In addition, he urged the citizens to collaborate together.
CDA issue of breaking their areas without compensation and joining the party.
To defend their rights so that they can live in peace in the land of their country together.
He wanted the citizens to remove flaws in the parties so as to make that issue.
A resident who introduced himself by name.
Mussa Ndembeji in Mkonga ward said that the party is in power.
It is leading in stopping the purchase of contraception?
Citizens about the ownership of land in the country.
While visitors were given priority to that issue.
