
Minister Masha does not turn out of her leg inside May 31, 2012.

The Minister of Internal Affairs, Lawurence Museru who will be forced to take a decision to resign or being forced to resign as a parliament will be satisfied that he has intervened.
The recent information about the National Identification Authority, reports indicate that Minister Masha is in charge to resign before being attacked by a stern warning by members of parliament or waiting for the attacks within the parliamentary hall, as the debate will be transferred to parliament.

The reports indicate that today Wednesday, Minister Masha has been called before the committee on foreign affairs, defense and security committee headed by the member of parliament for Meleba South Constituency, Wilson Masinga, that deals with him regarding the allegations of an indication that it will be forced to submit it on that issue, then the committee will be forced to submit it on that issue, then the committee will be forced to submit it on that issue, then the committee will be forced to submit it.
That system of an interview that goes to you will succeed in order for the one used to be used during the parliamentary investigation of solar energy company.
Masaudi, told BBC our citizens in Dodoma yesterday, on Tuesday that it is true that they've appointed Minister Masha for interviews today and that after that, the issue will take this course.
On his part, Masha confirmed that he was called by that committee of Masaudi, saying he has been given a report to be called and he will be able to get in details about that issue that will involve security documents.
Last week, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, speaking to parliament to answer questions about identity cards that there is a problem in the Ministry of Internal Affairs that there's a documents that he had been sent away from one of her colleagues in that ministry.
However, he said they should not get married to the documents it is not a primary issue but that the foundation problem is beneficial to the process.

Pinda told Doctor Wilison Slaa, who was questioning the identity process during the interview questions there and then he had been happy about the issue because the process of the tender is still the end.

He advised that it is good for the process to arrive at the end and that is when the Minister Masha can be held well that he has done that process or not.

However, there are a huge contribution to the issue being discussed in parliament due to the claims of the existence of good illustrations that he led the chief secretary Philemon Lihanjo, who is alleged to have written about him by Minister Masha has made a decision without supporting him as the minister of the concerned ministry.

Minister Masha is alleged to have given a letter to the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda being criticized for him that he has done a decision by giving instructions to the secretary general of the ministry of internal affairs, without being informed.

Some of the challenges that are used to parliament issues are explaining that maybe this issue is expected to complete the step of the establishment of a chosen committee of parliament which has the authority to interview people in the electronic system.

In a normal procedure, who is called to be interviewed by a chosen committee of parliament is forced to eat the oath and was revealed that it can be prosecuted.
