If you go to Grind.
In Dar es Salaam province, Alhad Mussa Sale has urged various government officials to continue to maintain peace and they have touched me, he said that the government is required to control all acts that have lost their symptoms of peace and take legal action against our journalists and that he has prepared a statement.
It is more than four hours now, from the coming from different statements from religious leaders, politicians and even the government to condemn the trend of religious faith, while the issue is allowed to do that we are communicating with the religious leaders.
Following that situation, a long time has been a long time ago and we shouldn't know if the collapse of peace in the country today, the celebrations were to be used by Alhaj Mussa Salum, has talked about that issue and urged religious leaders to put aside the basis and responsibilities of their followers and their family to a Christian, there is no problem.
Without the same thing, that issue is in a community.
So as to prevent them that Christian colleagues have been found.
Most of us have ceased to make sure that this issue is unacceptable, he has denied all those who want their colleagues in using different ways including.
The big leaders of the Christian do not know the one.
The big leaders of something does not know the one there.
There are a lot of things if we will go to there, we will learn a lot of things this is a problem that we were misled.
Religious leaders, those who we know if they are big people do not love the country to speak to our believers.
Eventually, those who may understand that they are small, are the ones who are leading our community below in which way.
We should not hesitate to move from.
They are unable to do.
When you look well and you can cause effects to the community even so, he said there is a shortage among some religious leaders in educating them.
In order for the second issue is the problem.
The late God is a problem and has contributed to a large extent.
The late God has contributed to a large extent to bring problems to the problems that are continuing to request the government to be such as soon that without stopping.
Mrs. which has a natural Chinese to be sent in peace when we have been handed to us Swahili saying what you do not know the truth.
You will destroy the wall of Mufti Zubeir, Shabaan Saeed, has already announced to be a panel of Islam where they will meet with various religious leaders to talk about or passport.
Acting director.
