With albinism here in Mwanza town, clapping as a cry in these floods, like this, I think about the elderly in this area, the year was officially opened with one day, which is expected to start his freedom.
He was found and brought him well.
But I live here and now every year we have returned to Dodoma, I have lived in Dodoma.
Previously when I told him, it revealed that you will be in a Pop month of one year early.
We were when we got.
The late God created me in this year, the lives of their family is a house which was built more than fifty years, it had been operated on and Shigella.
Although it has taken a penalty up to these hours to look for faith that he will live with a two tourists.
Two question is the groups heading to you, even if it is not a day when I saw it, there was a very big person when I saw them, but we saw the person getting into the house as a lot of water they don't know where we were in the house as a big number have mud inside.
Others have left water not to live in their houses.
And others have decided to live with water and life.
Other four months ago.
Up to today, it has ever been infected with floods, three times at his home but now she feels a amount of fire.
I've heard, I was surprised and I found himself.
Water.
The second one was also a speed of us Mwanza.
My right now on how to improve more than Christmas and commissioner for Christmas did not understand what we leave the road on the road we were going to me.
A small bridge of Latin this year and sometimes the floods will be near here.
Thursday, the chairperson of Chakwama, since they love you.
Let him hole.
John great back.
Lady Jay Z a lesson on the location.
You look at a look if I would like people to find out the weeds.
The ones that were left are still in Dodoma and the drama is where they are coming.
However, the money given, we shall look at, we can visit, but if we go back, there is a lesson that had been put there by my father's father, how you will go to three and what you want to come from different places even what you want.
Even when I get the late God, it will start searching for money from the same way for a month, you will find that you will find many Christians the bridge is there and the child is not unyielding, west.
You come back, we have fake phones early Pope Benedict, but it finished in France, then got there.
At Texas, you know that the wife clapping is the new loan from the bridge.
It has been claimed that the plane can grow further, every kind of going to see him have to go and go to bring effects on houses where there are there.
The committee's committee.
