Four workers were misled.

It has been written by special writer, Songea.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

Eight servants of Tunduru District Council, Nyasa, Namtumbo, Mbinga and Mbinga province have been suspended for investigation after doing work without considering the professionalism of their profession.

While giving a report to journalists yesterday in his office in Songea town, the administrative secretary of Ruvuma province, Hassan Bongole said that those workers are required to lack professionalism from their profession and also lack of public funds to the council.
He said that due to the previous investigation that took place in those four councils, it has been discovered that there is weaknesses in the control of government funds including the internal auditors of the internal auditors and the officials failed to fulfill their responsibilities.
He mentioned the servants that were sacked from the district council in Tunduru district and their positions in brackets as the Controller Auditor General (TFDA), Allan Kijazi (supply) and Juma Kassim Kasoro (the treasurer) and Juma Kassim Kasoro (the treasurer) and to reduce the cost of five million shillings.
He said the legal price of the gas of gas is among them to enable them to reach 55,000 shillings in Songea, but with the bad intention of serving the council they went to buy in Dar es Salaam at a cost of 962 shillings to 100,000 shillings, he mentioned other servants who were sacked from the Council of Nyasa to be Joseph Ngonyani.
Batakanwa and auditor general of the Local Government (T), revealed those servants saying it is false on the legal reports that they presented recently about the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).
In addition, these servants have made an offense of borrowing from Amana fund to an amount of 220 million shillings without showing the ways that they have used to return the situation that caused the issue of inspection for another offense was to lose 23 books of collecting revenue from the District Council of Nyasa to ensure those involved have moved out of the country.
On the side of the District Council of Namtumbo, Bambucha has said that those who were suspended from work is Kekeletse Phoofolo, (the treasurer) and Robert Maasais.
He mentioned the mistakes that he described as lack of directions by the Parliamentary Accounts Committee and the Local Government Authorities, causing the council to be able to move forward to prepare reports from carelessness.
Furthermore, the Public Service Officer of the Council of Mbinga district, Emanuel Kapinga has been sacked because of carelessness and failing to supervise the ghost workers by considering the system of payment of six workers without mistakes.
"The act that what has done the service officer for a period of six months has caused the major disruption of these six servants but failed to register their government," he said.
Due to praying for those servants, the administrative secretary of Ruvuma province with the authority, he urged several workers to fill the position of servants that were sacked.
Those that were tested in Tunduru and their positions in brackets is Emanuel Nyami and the treasurer from Mbinga District Council, Paul Rupia (the Head of Internal Affairs from Namtumbo District) and Miss Ikponwosa Ero and the treasurer of Tunduru District.
On the Namtumbo side that were tested in place, Marcela Kombo, the Marketing Officer of Tunduru district and Peter Tumaini as the treasurer from Songea Municipality, also Lewis Hamilton have been killed from Tunduru district to be the service officer of Mbinga District Council.
Bambucha said that Ruvuma province has already made a team of four experts to conduct a crime and being shown as an act of discipline that will take a step immediately to all that were involved.
