
Wednesday, September 24th, 2014.

Employers are able to learn through the BPS project that depends on and growing the skills that are not official?

The World Health Organization ILO, in partnership with other jobs and employment stakeholders here in the country have started training of its own kind to recognize and grow their skills that can be given officially and there is need to get training that will improve their skills so that they can work with their skills in order to perform their skills.

Statistics show that twenty percent of people who have the ability to work in the country, have been employed or be self-employed in the private sector etc, we are told the people who understand or be employed in the sector like transport, construction, small businesses and so on, they have added that the private sector is a big pillar for the economy of this country.

Moreover, the areas that are leading in the growth of the informal sector in the country according to the Ministry of Labor and Employment, Dar es Salaam (6 percent), Morogoro (6 percent) and Arusha (4( 2) of these statistics is for the year 2012 that were donated by the department of statistics in the country.

Their skills that doesn't jump and skills that do not meet market needs.

Because of the cost of the official training, the big number of citizens who do the work of looking for income in the private sector and informal sectors, will get the opportunity to attend the training that will enable them to get skills through the employment market.

Bad luck is that there are a lot of employment opportunities or even to be self-employed, which these people with skills have not qualified, for example the tenders for a good environment or a little income because their offense was to have skills that have been identified.

Likewise, on the other side, there are many who receive an opportunity to attend the official training with skills that do not have income which is expected to participate in the employment market because their skills will not be able to attract more skills in class and if the skills will not be able to destroy their skills easily as it is expected.

Yes, he said that the skills involved in the employment market does not give a real needs of market or not to be heard in the market and we never met there behind the importance of employers to cooperate with employees in solving this challenges together.

The training to welcome him as required to solve the challenges.

The World Health Organization ILO, in partnership with other jobs and employment stakeholders here in the country have started training of its kind of killing to recognize and grow the skills that doesn't know themselves so as to solve the challenges.

Through the special training that is called upon as she was given out (hip-hop), which in a big part is given at the place of work, your employer is found with a friendly environment that has been launched by the Vice President, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal, September 19.
2014, Kunduchi Beach Hotel in Dar es Salaam City.

Speaking about the training, the Executive Director of Creativity Projects of the World Health Organization ILO, here in the country, Mister Willy William Ruto, says that these teachings are intended to build a bridge that goes directly and vocational training, with other working environment, the aim being to allow the student to be recognized by their skills.

Mister Pengo, says that this project will help him to get the skills that will make him know more, in a better environment, because of having the real needs of the market in a working environment, which many times fail to answer the real needs of the market.

This training be run in partnership with the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) takes place with an agreement between you have benefited from (Mwanacht) and its employer and therefore making sure that the skills of doing so by the supervisors are concerned with any time for employees who do work for many hours, it has been resolved.

Likewise, anyone who doesn't know that with certain skills, for instance the technical bench will follow up and so without caring about it, it can send the request to make their skills to be taken without getting training, then the officer added that their skills by using the picture or other ways that are not accepted.

That candidate doing well, can be given an official certificate of not knowing without being forced to get any training, he will have to learn that skills outside the official system of training for a period of three years.

Benefits of knowing the skills that are not official.

What are the benefits especially for recognizing the skills that are found through an official way?
The great benefits, according to Mister Coutts, is to allow a technician who has a habit of giving out a certificate that will join training in universities that were identified by the government by doing so, youths who previously would be employed in a better environment of work such as foreign companies.

Likewise, even to those who like to be self-self-employed, this plan to realize that the award is enabling them to expand more opportunities of entrepreneurship for example, a lot of big companies are given to people with skills that do not be afraid of those skills, they have found themselves due to the opportunity to get the tenders.

This project will help them to make sure that they believe more and thus it's more better in their work.

On the side of employers, to recognize the skills that are not official decided to increase the income of products or services because of using people with skills that is confirmed by the authorities that are made.

The project has started and the field is currently?

This project has started a step in step by preparing the curriculum improvement program that is in line with the real environment of the employment market to align the way to identify the criteria of skills in sectors that were transferred to now, five sectors have been presented in this program (1) and 4 technical training) of vehicles.

One project of the company was launched on September 5, 2014, at the Erick Holder and the secretary general of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Honorable Luhaga Mpina, speaking at the two-year training, those targeted in the tourism industry and therefore increasing the efficiency of services in the tourism sector.

60 percent of the training has been provided in the real environment of work and 40 percent of the ones that were given to the normal system of class in the University of Tourism and finally, after the qualify, the National Housing Council (NACTE) and so as to enable them to develop themselves in other colleges as they do not like each other.

These teachings are supervised by the supervisors who are given training and recognized by the National Tourism College, in a way that will enable them to continue with responsibilities of their employment opportunities including the project is in Dar es Salaam and Arusha.

This, for sure, it is a good example of how the class in class is able to send themselves closely and working environment and therefore to reduce or eliminate the problem of tribalism and what is needed in the market.

Without doubt, employers and other employment stakeholders and work they can get important things through this project that is being implemented in partnership between the World Health Organization through the Ministry of Natural Resources and Employment, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
