
You fear for them about agriculture.

By Charles Kimei.
The state of worried that caused the farmers of Miraa Cararea, caused the ban of that product in England, is expected to start being implemented tomorrow, Tuesday.
The leaders together with the farmers of that product have no way but to ask the government of England to postpone the ban, which contributes to a sum of 2 billion shillings in the income of this country and is expected to be postponed and more than 500,000 Tanzanian shillings in five districts in Tigo Pesa, and Igurubi County.
Cargo contributes up to 80 percent of the income of the residents of those areas followed by tea which is growing up in the East African Community and Igurubi County, South Africa.
That product is popular among the residents of that area, because it is involved in every part of their lives, culture and politics.
Politicians who wanted to be supported by politics is a must that they buy the leaves of that product so as to attract the voters.
Those who look for forgiveness is also a must that you get married to their parents' bunch of Miraa Cargo, a gift that is known as Barakah da Prince.
"If you will get the parents of her fiancée Miraa Cargo, they will not recognize the parents of her fiancée getting tired, it is an indication that it cares for them," said Jennifer Kotta.
In Kathmandu, he said that women who are not employed from that region are depending on their businesses to save life and even take them to the fundraising for the women.
He says that Cargo doesn't have effects on male energy and it's not common for sex among the men.
"I was when I saw many people since they are young and now they are the elderly and many children of this area is among the areas that have a big number of people in the country," said Mrs Kathmandu, who has three acres of their lives.
Farmers of hip-hop farmers and Mutomly that are producing 60 percent of that product which later are being transported to England, now do not know their fate if the ban will start being implemented.
