
Lowassa got the winner.

June 11, 2013.
The Prime Minister who is also the member of parliament for Monduli, Arusha region, Mister Edward Lowassa, has urged leaders in the country to stop complaining instead they do a quick decision by solving the problems facing the citizens.
Mister Lowassa made those remarks in parliament in Dodoma yesterday, while contributing to the development program of the year 2013 / 16 and insisted that currently, everyone he complains about this situation which is difficult for the nation to move forward, "said i Bwiru, but he violated the results if the unit has the ability to make decisions so as to be able to work well.
"The aim of this program to make sure the speed of life has been found to be used to the citizens and different sectors is good but it is a must for leaders to make decisions so that the income can be available and otherwise," he said.
He added that in his opinion, the plan has many priorities but there are three factors that are supposed to be looked upon which are employment, education and central railway.
He said that if there are funds that were set aside, those priorities are good when they are being viewed more so that can be supervised instead of electing many and failing to implement it on time.
Speaking about the employment, he said that the problem is big thus the program has failed to make sure that the availability of employment to the youth who have a good education but they don't have a good education but they don't have the report of the commission of the prime minister so that the process may be taken to the education sector in the country and to look for what to do.
He said many students that complete the universities are not sure of employment as a result of education given so we should not look at the East African Community together with South African Community (SADC).
He congratulated the Minister of Construction, Doctor John Magufuli for managing well the construction of road construction in the country but those roads have been built very fast as a result of vehicles to carry weight in the neighboring countries of the United Republic of Congo (DRC), that we will make sure that we have been involved in large numbers from South Africa, Mister Lowassa said there was no need to deal with President Kagame's market because if they have decided to go to South Sudan, Tanzania in East Africa.
