The Mabina does not want to go back to Mwanza.
Mlabu all, 2014.

Land conflicts are supposed to continue being a threat in peace and stability within Mwanza province due to the directors of different levels not fulfilling their duties well and therefore causing conflicts that are not ready of land, our citizens have noted.

In Makaka B Primary School, that is in Sumbawanga ward, in Mwanza town, the citizens have organized to deal with the person they are accusing to own a area in their neighborhood without caring and some of the local government leaders have no faithful.

On the other side, the family of Rodgers Kadyage has lived for fear of being attacked by those citizens due to that conflict of land that involved the family and those citizens, while the relevant agencies get taken and take action against the danger that is against that family.

For example, the previous day of the end of this week, the citizens of the area met the area that had an aim of controlling the weapons of traditional weapons, Brendan Rodgers who is accusing to owned up the area that involved five mountains in that area.

Already the citizens of that area have been forced to reduce the area of conflict and breaking the defender of the defender in that area, while completing trees and caused the area with a size of 28 kilometers, 373, while the owner of that area was not yet to do.

According to the residents of that village, that area is the wealth of the citizens and they had agreed in their meetings to put up the purpose of the mining of stones.
In this area we know all the years of our country, today suddenly I came out, he claims that he had at the area, then he is seen in this area where he stopped him, "he told Lennarth Hu Omary, a resident of Msepwa.

He added, "this area since we started using them, has had a lot of robbers who had a lot of people to live in this area which we did not have a surprise of robbery like this."

The chairperson of the Youth Union of CCM in Buharamulo district, Bahati Said, told Bongo Five that the person who claims to own that area is alleged to be a citizen of Burundi, who has been forced to win that area and owned up, but the area was' wealth of citizens for a long time and that used them have arrived.
"The citizens have been told the end of being bullied." We have decided to go to "vie," (front) to defend our rights and I cannot see my party being faced with him because of one person, while citizens getting a huge problem of land, "said Bahati.

The executive officer of that ward, Benedict Liwenga, (CCM), confessed to serve that conflict of land saying that on 28 October, she did not leave this, he received a letter of complaints from Rodgers Kadinda, he complained that his plot number 932, Jichunge.'

But when those citizens came out that Kadinda has been forced to leave that area without following the procedure, he himself Kadyage has said that he sees it.
