What is the meaning of a Tanzanian?
Mpozi from 1st, 2013.

The death of our child sponsored by Christopher Karege, that was caused by the diarrhea disease, February 20, 2013, has made me about the speech of retired President Benjamin Mkapa, to the citizens, July 31, year 2004, a speech that explained the danger of malaria disease, that disease caused many people more than AIDS.
By Yusuf Makamba who was the head of Dar es Salaam Province, at the time he added that the road accidents are causing many people more than AIDS.
Nasir added that the diarrhea disease for small children uses more than AIDS. Or I say these diseases are treated more than AIDS.
I remember another analyst added that even with the bar of hunger, it is dangerous and can cause many people more than AIDS for other words, without a good order to improve the community, everything can be dangerous.
It is the responsibility of the government leading in implementing policies (if they are) of the ruling party to provide services to the concerned community.
The government officials of Ethiopia have continued to have their European trips to half time and the analysts have continued to build a luxurious houses, continued to build their children outside the country by using the income of their nation.
Further, he continued to use the money for their nation to buy weapons to protect themselves in power while the citizens are continuing to go to power while the citizens are continuing to die with hunger.
God rest different from here in Tanzania and we were faced with a problem of hunger, which amount of people will die?
Retired President Mkapa, in his speech left the nation that, half of all the deaths have been caused by diseases that are caused by diseases that are caused by malaria diseases, is equivalent to killing one person in every 5 minutes.
Statements like this, he would have met with the leader of the countries that are developed, tomorrow, the media would have filled with reports of wanting that leader to resign. It's impossible for the countries that are developed, the country's leader will succeed that 100,000 people have died every year for the disease they're treated, he continued to rule.
We must talk about many questions, because the government did not plan to fight malaria what is why the government did not provide insecticide nets and drugs because the government did not educate citizens on the danger of malaria diseases.
Everyone would have reduced the government's budget and look at what it was given a priority and be unable to ignore that vehicle, the allowances for leaders and other non-communicable diseases every year is most of the leaders not to be responsible.
The government officials of the European countries have a good plan to address community services, different from the leaders of Africa and African leaders, they are looking for their shape, it is not aware of the private sector.
