The league board, TFF comes out this problem.
Mr 11, 2015.

One of the things that contribute to any soccer league in the country to succeed in his work, is together having a good program because of the schedule.
In that system there will be no blame and even if there will be an change, they will not be afraid that if stakeholders are involved in every step and not otherwise.
The pension fund of Tanzania Mainland Premier League, has been caused by sexual violence in the country and there is the main aim to change every time because the involved in making the schedule did not know that there are some events to be responsible in that league.
Apart from two seasons, the schedule of this season has not been completed within three times, a situation that has seen some of the teams to oppose that action, because there are some teams that have decided to be silent because they are required to work because some of the teams have decided to sit down because of the implementation of the program.
The league board (TPLB), is the supervisors of that league as an instrument that was appointed by the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and their management has taken a lot of questions against them and TFF since the beginning of this season.
That instrument was led by the Chief Executive Officer of this year's Chief Executive Officer, Bernard Konga, who currently has completed his three year contract and therefore releasing that position.
After the year 2004 to finishing his term in the seat, TFF under his president Jamal Malinzi has appointed Festo Kiswaga to be the acting officer of that board.
Before this year 1980, there was a certain situation of disagreement between him and Malinzi and after disagreeing with some issues including the amount of five percent from the sponsorship of the premier league that goes by the premier league clubs.
This year 1980, he doesn't know that and he was supporting the team's side up to the last minutes before the completion of his term in that institution.
I will not hesitate in peace with the side of Malinzi and / 09 / 2017, but in the whole of this year, there was no boundaries that builds self-much as it is now.
Many leaders of the premier league who loved this year's performance in their performance and also in important things, the situation is now seems to be a procedure to supervise the rights of Ukawa continues to cause procedures in the institution.
This is not something to be proud of even a little since they can give you a lot about it more and eventually bringing to the development of the soccer of this country, which has been affected by a long period.
Last year and even in two seasons, there was a schedule of schedule, but the situation happened this season, there are some stakeholders who succeeded to say that this problem continue to be trusted instead of looking for alternative ways to solve.
It was just the day before yesterday where Yanga who complained of their rivals scoring two players Ibrahim Ajib and Abdi Banda in different times that had three yellow cards every one.
Simba have said that they wrote a letter and got a permit from the league board and that for now, there is the law that allows for a matter like that.
What raised me the other teams to give Simba is the lack of official information about those changes, which however it has ever been recommended.
There are some of the teams that for now are if they have lost faith in the current leadership of that board because of the trend of doing things without involving all stakeholders.
This is a big challenge to Malinzi who is required to work, before the wind has not yet been getting married and I don't know if the senior stakeholders who are the premier league teams have decided to boycott some of our soccer teams.
The league board is supposed to know that the management of the league should not be taxed.
One of the things that have been blocking the soccer of this country is together with religious leaders, there are those who don't know what they are leading in soccer but also there are those who do a habit for the benefit of their lives and not to promote football.
When he got a quick answer quickly, it is a religious leaders who for now have been handed over from the league board, but the foundation of Malinzi has work in this.
Faiza Malinzi is an expert leader who can't be avoided even a little in its decision on this issue, this issue is a small issue that made him to use the great strength in order to move forward.
