
Disasters by Doctor.
Pregnant, comes back, another person has dropped, he removed the generation for lack of services.
Daniel Chongolo, The Citizen of Mkwajuni, annamatinde @ gmail.
Dodoma / Moshi town at the time the government hospital is expected to be blamed by giving better services to pregnant women, the provincial Referral Hospital in the province of Dodoma has faced with the scandal after a mother who was waiting to give birth, died in the surgery after lack of support by the specialist doctor.
Apart from that death, another woman has been affected by the bladder while led by doctors after the efforts of getting through a phone doctor were unable.
These events have taken place a few days after this newspaper reports on how many women were found in number 33 ward of the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), after our reporter entered the ward for two weeks.
Those two bad events have never been done by Doctor came from the end of the week and a woman is very disturbing, was forced to be transferred to KCMC Referral Hospital for emergency.
The chief medical officer of Kilimanjaro Province, Doctor Doroth Mwanyika, confirmed the occurrence of those events.
"The leadership of the hospital together with the concerned department are in an emergency meeting to discuss that statement (issue), then be praised the leadership of the province and the Ministry of Health, then ministry is also spoke," he said.
The Deputy Minister of Health, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangala, who was at the parliament grounds in Dodoma yesterday said he was not a report of the incident but he added that the government will follow up on those reports.
"I think I have no information, but that is how it was done, there was a lot of time to listen to him and I promise that the government will take a step as we shall get to the incident.
The appeal documents from the referral hospital to KCMC Referral Hospital which this newspaper has seen, shows that a patient is very disturbing and the bladder while he underwent surgery on 4 o'clock in the morning.
The doctor of Doctor who entered the documents, wrote the reason to take him to KCMC Referral Hospital as a result of a specialist doctors.
The doctor has written in Tanzania, saying that we are good reasons professionally - the specialist doctors were wanted and they did not be found.
After being taken to KCMC Referral Hospital, doctors did not work hard to save his life by releasing a child who had already died and through that mother, who currently has been admitted to the parents' ward as he continues with treatment.
In another event, pregnant women who died in the world wanted the service of a specialist doctor.
It has not yet been known because the absence of a doctor who is supposed to be called for emergency, especially considering that the hospital had already been reduced and to be an appeal.
"There is a lot of carelessness, because this one was very disturbing and the bladder while there is no doctor, there are only two doctors," he also pointed out a nurse.
That nurse claimed that the problem in that hospital is some of the doctors to value more that are outside, seminar and meetings and to see their responsibilities that need the expertise.
