
The hospital will be fined.
By Mwangi, professor.
Kiwuyo, a resident of Kipuyo has said the Kiroboto has said that Kiroboto has been charged a fine of 3,000 shillings following accusations that they failed to be responsible for the patient who passed away.
In that fine, the surgery doctor who came to the patient will pay 100 million shillings, to the board of doctors here in the country (KMU), while the hospital is sold for 250 million shillings.
In a session of the six-day committee that was organized by the director of the medication, he said that Mister Patrick Maranga, said the lady who was identified as Mister Patrick Khajida Kopa, the lady who was identified as Mister Patrick Kengele posing for a mistake of not discovered that the problem of his client, Mister Henry Gwao.
Research after being touched on the research on information about its problem which is needed to use, it was being treated.
The board officer of that board Mister Daniel Yumba, said that the hospital requires 30 days from yesterday that it has paid those fined shillings.
In that case, Mister Gavyole said that he is said to report to the hospital in a critical condition on the night of November 19, 2010 with a bullet in the stomach.
But the doctor was alleged to have without any research on knowing where the injury was affected by the body and he was trying to forgive him, he died.
"The relatives of the deceased presented their daughters in that board and the investigation has been done since the time of the results were made in Wednesday," said Mister You.
Mister Khajida Kopa, the one who was the leader of the squad of surgery doctors about the source, was found with a case to answer, but he decided to sign him a permit, but he wanted Mister to give him a permit for going for a period of 14 days in the coming days.
"The decision by the board is that, despite the procedure of treating the patient, there was no doubt, the strategies should not be poor.
It is in that situation where the hospital was found in a crime and that the doctor is prepared and accountability by leading the activities that is causing the profession of preventing and status of the hospital in general.
In addition, that hospital came out by signing the record of its customers through the professional way it made the government to prepare the book of its customers and place the communication strategies between the hospital and customers.
