
Kikwete such as Santa.
May 24, 2012

There are approximately 65 days in the world to appreciate your Christmas season - day to remember the birth of Jesus.
One of the recent posts and all over the world, that at the end of that day, the day of time comes, is Elder Fumbuki Lumbasa and others want the call from Santa Cemetery for the evening time of the Christmas season (December 24).
In that evening, Father Fumbuki Lumbasa and Santa Ciano speaking in his official honor, and then they face off in the streets while carrying different prizes at the streets and found the groups of children or youth who are standing and started selling different prizes.
Others see if he is lucky to get a big gift and others that do not have luck, it usually comes up with each other that she is doing everything up to all the prizes will be compensated.
History shows that the culture of Father Harfanti from Santa and distributing gifts in the evening of the Christmas vigil started in the past 10, and its origin is Holy Nicholas Kay, who is saying that she was a person who can give them, so I can thank you and listen to other donations to others.
Later in the 19th century, the culture was spread very fast in the United States, Canada, where the person is called Santa and elsewhere in the world where that person is called Papa Wemba who is even here in Tanzania where a person has already sent away, because that person has already lost consciousness and Santa as a week for the Christmas season.
Although there are 65 days before we celebrate Easter holidays with this year, various promises that he made by the presidential candidate on the CCM ticket, Jakaya Kikwete, in his campaign meeting in the provinces where he told me the coming of Christmas and therefore the arrival of Father Christophe Henning spoke.
Such as Father Filbert Mponzi and Santa Ciano, the presidential candidate Kikwete has carried out a great contribution of "the gift of the promise" which gave them every time when they go to provinces to address a campaign meeting, but President Kikwete has a good thing, but President Kikwete has a great opportunity to give him presidential votes, October 31st.
Luck have been given, the gift of the promise to be used for modern port at the airport, road roads (with black patches) run away from Lake Victoria to produce tarmac roads, to pay tarmac roads, which were paid by corruption, etc.
Those who don't have bad luck have been affected, "the gift of a lot of capacity in secondary schools has been bought by grinding pieces of the boreholes, is bought for houses for patients and others.
And as it is for Father Christophe or Santa and maybe Kikwete will continue to give "the gift of the promise" until when he was impressed me, the districts that have not been reached and have not been reached and have not been reached and they have not been reached and have not been reached and have not been reached and have already been found.
Last week for example, JK was in Mtwara town where he was addressing a campaign meeting at the Union Stadium, he refused due to his promise to return to the provincial hospital as an appeal that I don't know where how many hospitals he promised to increase the status of appeal, but is really terrifying.
It is clear that, because people believe that the hospital has been officially announced to be an appeal, therefore, suddenly I will have enough expert, drugs and modern equipment! It would have been easy to that amount, then Muhimbili could not be easy for that amount.
My brothers, I have been asked without getting the lasting answers, it's why Kikwete continues to educate, "the gift of the promise" every time when they go, though all of us know that the state of the economy of the country and the world is not good and therefore the possibility of the implementation of all the promises is small?
In my talks of looking for the answer to the question, I have collapsed in two reasons that involve the presidency (constitution), and therefore there is no one who will not ask for what he did not implement those promises.
But he can also be his second year, he announced that some of the promise made by the campaign will not be done on Tuesday, and there is no doubt that we are going to do about it, if we were not something to do when Mkapa announced that the manifesto of CCM that happened in the State House.
Secondly, the citizens in the villages and provinces want to listen to the presidential candidate saying they will help them to solve their problems with the president, and not to be given the policies or manifesto of the party, they want to be given hope to be taken to their problems in a short period of five years.
Therefore, because that is what they want to know, even if the possibility of blocking that is small, President Jakaya Kikwete is what he gave them!
Therefore, as he was given out in the provinces "the gift of the promise" in the style of Father Saed Kubenea (Santa CPA) and citizens are complaining and cheering because it had no opportunity to ask you, where they don't have an opportunity to ask for them, so as to complete the implementation of those promises in a short period of five years.
It is surprising that even CHADEMA who have been carried out by Kimbari.
"The gift of the promise" that was a meaning in the recent days we should witness its presidential candidate, Doctor Slaa and when they met this time and what every time when they go through, although he was happy about the promise he is not big like his opponent.
I know there are some who will ask the president so that Kikwete and Slaa do not know what at the campaign meetings if not wanting voters to bring various things?
My friend, Maggid Mjengwa, got thanks on his newspaper about this newspaper that his political party will not recognize the citizens, policies and responsibilities in their campaign meetings and he said that a good gift that the winner can give citizens an opportunity to agree about the direction and agree on all the direction that have been promised by the candidates for free.
I don't understand that the environment that involve the citizens, especially the provinces should expect "get a gift of the promise" from the presidential candidates, but more I agree with you and let me see the father of parties and the election manifesto, regarding the importance of having a new constitution.
But there is a problem that I believe in, we are happy that we are the main cancer that gives them to Tanzania, and that without the same problem it needs to be dealt with - should be a new constitution or it should be an issue of the party or it should be a matter of the party or it should be a whole issue.
The big problem which is looking for many of us will not hesitate to accumulate 41 points, it is a erosion of ethics and lack of integrity and other words, the problem of corruption they believe in every corner of our lives.
When you do not leave the crisis, a community of the community from the family level, village, ward, district, provinces and the nation, to understand that all others that they will not be successful or even a decision about the new direction of the nation.
All those will be affected by the corruption in all levels. For example, if it is an issue of having a new constitution, the truth, Pope, when you see that issue because they are supporting them, therefore the national debate of the country we want to build.
When it comes to the issue of implementation of the projects that have been promised by the presidential candidates, it's therefore its implementation will be affected by the corruption network from the national level up to the villages.
For example, if the province has been promised to be used in the modern port, then the province has promised to buy money for that project from the national level up to the province, and its results which will be built will be poor.
My brothers, I want to explain that here is that Tanzania we have a big problem - the problem of corruption and raised them with our leadership ethics, because there was not less than they witnessed in the opinion polls of CCM in the process of getting his parliamentary candidates.
The leader is determined through how it can help them to supervise good development things we want to do so that our country can move forward?
The answer is that he cannot get that is why there are good laws that are being supported by the Parliament (including the cost of election), but corruption has caused the management of its implementation because the law are those who will support them and those who are supposed to be managing.
That is the reason why you will solve this problem, our development speed will also be like Kobe Bryant, because our leaders are not only came through the constitutional process of corruption they will also get ethics.
For sure, the leaders in this way can't stop corruption because I would not allow me to inform us the poor of this country, and we do not think so much to remove the rich and the poor is not possible if the country will be led by the president with a goalless draw.
That is why personally, I believe that the president we need for the coming five years is the one who will do a job that he has done to Yohana Mbani, a actor of cleaning the way from the coming of Jesus.
We thank the president who for the next five years, will attract integrity and managing lack of leadership and who will do that job without fear and without considering these friends or brothers.
If it does not make sure that work in a period of five years and the country will come back in the right level, and it does not have conflicts between corruption, then, that's when the lady wrote a relationship to lead our country for our salvation, "it doesn't take a chance to CCM, CHADEMA or CUF.
In short, the president we need for the next five years to bring down the corruption network in the country, to restore integrity in the society and make sure we lack leadership so that the environment can be successful in front of the journey to succeed.
Without therefore, the policies, notice, great progress we are expecting to follow the reduction of the gap between the rich and poor households, and they will not be involved in papers and there is no clean leaders with a true intention of fined shillings.
My brothers, if I look at the presidential candidates we have for this year I don't see Doctor Slaa on that responsibility of Almighty God, an actor of cleaning the country against corruption, not this one does not have a gift of the promise "such as Father Arsene Wenger and not Professor Lipumba.
And at the end I conclude by saying that there are people who want him to prove that I have written this column because I am self-employed and Kikwete. I didn't understand that, I am a very normal citizen that is living in the market, I can have a lot of hatred "and the president of the country?
Recently, the United States who identified himself, Cynthia Gordon and his economic policies to Manufacturing Company has moved out to power and the union of political parties held by Lib, Dealm, had a lot of hatred and Gordon.
Recently, the journalists that are continuing to make sure, President Museveni said that he is the country in the political administration, they have a lot of joy and Museveni?
I did not believe that.
Therefore, what I write I am not about Kikwete like Kikwete if others see me and we see me is about its performance as the president I wish you a lot and pass, but Tanzania is not true!
There was also a president, and it has criticized for several issues, but today he is not in the State House and instead he is Kikwete, President Kikwete will finish his term, and he will leave the State House to answer another president, because Tanzania is not true.
Therefore, when my answer to those who are telling us that I have written this because I have a lot of joy and Kikwete, gets to be like that Brus us had given Julius Cellphone Company.
Before you read the soul, Julius Cellphone Company, who did not believe that her friend Bribius is involved with the plan of killing him, let me let us? (Even if you're us us).
Baraza Ditto also told me, "I don't love Cellphone Company, but I would like to say that I'm Kikwete, but I would like to say that I'm Kikwete more than Kikwete more than Kikwete more than CCM.
I know!
