
RCC Lindi, parliamentary debates.
October 11, 2013.

Liwale District Council, Lindi Region, is in a trap after the Parliamentary Committee on Local Government (Corefa), to give out different instructions which have already been taken by the Advisory Committee (RCC) of Lindi province.
The parliamentary committee, under the chairperson of the committee, the Member of Parliament of Bukavu (CCM), Selemani Msam, was in the region going on to inspection of various projects in the districts of Lindi province.
The conflict of those instructions between the Parliamentary Committee and RCC are related to a special project of corruption, on the construction of irrigation dam at Ngapa Ward, Kibondo District Council.
While the Parliamentary Accounts Committee has ordered that council to make every effort to look and get money with the aim of completing the construction of that dam so as to save money that will be played within the project, the Advisory Council of Lindi province, had given instructions to the council to stop the construction of that project.
The launch of that big irrigation project in that village was done by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda on November 14, 2009, and its construction was expected to be completed within three years since it is complete.
At the moment the project has run its construction and it has already used 1 billion shillings out of 114 billion shillings being used to be used until the completion of its construction being under 50 percent.
In his last session in December last year, RCC of Lindi province stopped the connection of that project after realizing that the amount of money that had been already had already been boycotted by the use of those funds.
That project of construction of the irrigation dam, intended to cater for the rice farms with a size of 500 acres.
"Money used here is for the citizens, but you have no benefits because there is no reason for the meaning that you can be able to find water and why it will be heard saying that it will be used for a long time," he was heard saying that for a long time I would be heard saying the water engineer of the council, Ramadhan Madabida.
In order to answer the motion, Engineer Manyanya made the blame to the government for taking a little money, together with the Irrigation Office, it was alleged to contribute to some weaknesses that arose in that whole project.
He said that in the first phase of the construction of that project, the contractor had already been paid by that office, and therefore, causing the contractor not to listen to the technical information which was caused by his office, and instead of listening to the instructions of the Ministry of Irrigation in the region, which is expected to contribute towards 700 million shillings which has not been released until now.
