
I wish you a lot of love.
Tomorrow it is Christmas, the day that is being waited by Christians, it is a day that lovers are happy together for a long time after a celebration, it is a person to look for opinions of his lover even before getting a gift.
"It is important for someone to get the views of his fiancée before going to the shop to buy a gift, a lesson that gives good flavor to the love," said Mrs Njenga.
This expert has said that in order to make sure they are happy about the celebration, they are forced to listen to each other, including when they are inspiring.
"And by doing this is important to consider the views of each one, many of you missed this season for making their lovers to accept their views," he said.
Richard Attribution, an expert of Essar said that lack of her colleague has decided to inform your views and to make it a joy this season of celebration to endanger the love.
Mister Atlabara has said that most of the people are usually recognized by invited guests to go back home and forget that their lovers do not need this season of celebration.
"It's not good to join a family of family or family friends at home for Christmas celebrations but there is a need to have their time themselves," he said.
He wants you to inform the visitors that you want to discuss and discuss the type of visitors that will open his colleague.
"There are people who give birth to friends and their parents more than their lovers this season of Christmas celebrations which is long period every year, this is a big offence that is easy to use love," said Mister Avit Nyambele.
He says that those in the family do not support them after separation of the whole year due to work performance, "the family sessions is part of celebrating especially in African countries," he said.
Miss Njoku has said that during the last celebrations of the year, it is a good time for Tanzanians to prevent them to prove their love for parents or their relatives, "many lovers use this season to make sure they love their lovers," said Mrs Njoku.
Loneliness I have warned that experts have warned against Altay FK, last season according to Mister Atlabara, to see her lover on the threats of loneliness this season is to bring down love.
"It is easy for a person who was left out of loneliness he is not born. Therefore, it is important to have a good plans of releasing his lover and sign your love," he said.
He says that the fear of people about life is different and everyone used to recognize and respect the habit of her lover.
"There are those who are happy to be the chest with a luxurious gift and others do not like.
There are those who like to go to entertainment areas and others from churches, and there are those who love home, "he said.
In his book about the love relationship, writer, Peter Bulugu, who is the expert in matters, when she explained that people who use the season of celebrations to fail, they do not have a good opportunity to enjoy the life of marriage.
In that book known by the name Dassa in the High Court of Zaire, "Boznia said that this is because of these celebrations, the hearts of many people usually have joy and agreed to fail their lovers come from the bad behavior of love.
When they agree with Sedoyeka, Miss Njeza, says that many people have written by voting for Christmas celebrations. "Later you believe that there was no love between them but it was just sexual excitement" he said.
