I see the danger before us.
Sei-2, 2015.

Benjamin Sawe has succeeded to be the prime minister of England. Here we will remember that his decision was done, "a great shape and the Ambassador of Times magazine," that a good leader don't know her and it doesn't know her.
This sequence of the general elections that it has caused some of the politicians who were on stage to use abusive language to citizens among them in the foundation of different meanings in the country and it is just one view, some of the politicians like to give birth to the foundations of color, religion and tribalism.
And we condemned the behavior that comes up now because of politicians to use political acts and doing political politics, this is not a result of these politicians who use methods of democracy, religion, tribalism and cigarettes.
Among our salvation, there is a mix of every kind because of historical reasons, we cannot be afraid of our colleagues because there are different religion, tribe or they are not allowed.
To vie for the leadership it should be with the purpose of getting the honor to your nation, to serve all people without favoring any leader and to be able to do economic activities and the community is not an issue of interests to any nation.
And the leader who is rushing into the argument of discrimination is not fear to be remembered, that a politician should be remembered, that a politician is not supposed to be the end of life and there is a need to learn from our colleagues who continue.
In America, after the results that made him to Barack Obama in power, in four years of time, we saw a MC Clrnellius serving his opponent, we saw a Zimbabwean, Barack Obama in the United States as he believes that Obama does not like him.
A vibrant mid-fielder who is in one of his campaigns in his campaigns to vie for the presidency, he got to inform him that Obama does not loose their opponent Barack Obama of the United States.
The Bajaj's words noted that MC Ciano made it first in America to stop behind the political interests Mister McDononda, he saw the danger of allowing the thoughts like those of the immigrants.
He confessed that he stopped his opponent because of Obama, but the very big one, he stopped him in front of a democratic nation of the United States of the United States' MC Claire.
How is how she is supposed to be.
We do not want politics to the interests of our country for instance, here for us who want to contest for the leadership they should look for the honor of serving Tanzania.
