Wassira visited the presidential elections of 2015.
Sep 18, 2014.

Finally, Minister of State, Office of President (relations and coordination), Stephen Wasira, has broken the silence of his intention about the presidential position during this period heading to the general elections this year.
In a special interview with Raia Mwema, Mwanza city at the end of last week, Wasira, who is also a member of parliament for Bunda in Mara Province, has made it open his stand saying he has a great pleasure of vying for that position as the following is the interview itself.

Mke Mwema, Honorable Minister, some people are saying that you are among the politicians and few leaders who are involved in corruption and misuse of power who will be given to the leadership of the country.
Wasira, first, let me say that I have been asked by many people to vie for the presidency, but I am a member of CCM (Chama Cha Mapinduzi), it is a member of CCM (Chama Cha Mapinduzi), we must know it after CCM policies that are leading in doing campaign.
But it's difficult to follow the step of announcing the intention to vie for a step like this one to ask me so that you get news to write the newspaper.

In short, my work has been advised so much, but I am waiting for permission from the party regulations, when you get I will give a statement about the issue of vying for the presidency, because I have been asked so much.

Mke Mwema should have explained that many people have refused to vie for presidency, without doubt through the next general elections, but many times the request can be presented to you, or was defeated.
Wasira, thank you very much because he had already made the decision to vie for the presidency.
Mke Mwema should not be appointed by CCM to vie for and later to get the consent of the citizens to lead the country, which things will give priority to improve the life of IT?
Wasira, know that Tanzania has poor people, research shows that 75 percent of 2 million (more than 45 million) are poor living with low income of American dollars (an average of approximately 600 million shillings).
But there is no country in the world without poor people, there are people that has succeeded to reduce by a big margin in poverty, and I would like to see the president she knows more with poverty in the country, especially through four areas.
First, to improve agriculture for investing more in the sector, so as to remove poverty that it gives to the farmers in the villages and the citizens in general.
I need to increase the agricultural budget that will be enough for the services that the farmer can be able to cater for its services including research, the stadium, production of better and irrigation water instead of depending on the rains that are not sure that they will enable agriculture to be modern and with productivity to farmers.

For example, Bunda we have started projects in the agricultural sector of irrigation water in Mariupol City and Nyereregete, now these projects are continuing to uplift the farmers economically and improve their lives.
Secondly, revive and increasing the industries to process agriculture production in the country, we are collecting maize by large numbers, but we sell oil instead of selling their products, needs production so that we can benefit from them as required by selling oil instead of crude oil.

Similarly, we increase industries to air farmers, cotton, and even if we want industries to help them, agriculture, as well as many industries including clothes and we will increase employment to the youth and to improve the economy of farmers and local economy from general.

Third, it is an issue of infrastructure so as to say that President Jakaya Kikwete deserves to have great congratulations as a result of his great efforts to enable the construction of a lot of roads in a period of its leadership because of construction of roads, railway and port should be sustainable here in the country.

Four, education and it is a must we need to make more steps, especially in science, because all the development of science, even farming is science and this will be able to enable them to be self-employed and be able to be a big competition in international markets.

Mke Mwema should have explained well, Honorable Prime Minister but I think it is why so good plans should not be implemented since our country gets independence the year 1961.

Wasira, contribute to the economy of Tanzania where due to the breakup of the East African Community and the 70's plans are unable to operate because of lack of good management.
However, the year 1980, we started to build a economy despite the problems facing them, you know development is not a step to do everything on time and even build a unity foundation that has been encouraged by Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, a important part of our development.
