
They were buried next Saturday at the Bambini Journal.
And listen to me.
The late Raila Odinga, her child the former boss, Raila Odinga, who died on Sunday, Saturday, January 10, at the farm, his grandfather was known as Nyota Ndogo has been buried in Bondo area.
The chairman of ACT Patriots Party, John Mbijima said the family of Mister Odinga decided that they were held at the Maragarno which was closed down in the Bambini Journal.
This happening took place while the relevant bodies were operated on and experts discovered that what caused his death led by Mister Raila Odinga, which took place on Saturday January 10, 2014 at the Bondo area, "Mister Mbughuni said.
There was found in bed and there was also died after arriving at home from leaving with friends. Some of the last people have been sacked by police.
CCM secretary general, Abutalebi will help youths to be calm, so as to give them the burial of honor.
"I urge the youth to maintain peace, so that we find the opportunity to give them the funeral of honor," said Mister I see you in the Twitter message.
President Uhuru Kenyatta was among the famous people that gave him at Mister Odinga, to fall in his home in Karen.
The results of the investigation on experts is expected to be released on Tuesday night after passing by the verification of a family doctor.
Yesterday, leaders continued to use a family of Mister Raila Odinga with their condolences, following the death of suddenly in his pregnancy, the Governor of Siang'a ward said that they will use the time with the resources that is needed to give the burial a case.
"On my behalf and of Siwema who is sending our condolences to the family of Mister Odinga.
We have tried to join these news that are a great loss to anyone, he said Mister Boers.
He announced that he has constituted a committee of organizing a case for the burial, he said that he had planned to receive the mourners from all over the country.
The Governor of Vikuruti, Mister Moses Sethole, said that the high death is a huge loss to the family and the fellow nation of Henet Ward, Cyprian Akitanda, said the death group was a blow after the complainants won after the death of former Senator for Vermont Bernie Sanders. "
Other thoughts were scored by Senator of Miguel, Machage, a member of parliament for Freetown city, George Simbaegypti.
The reports of Benson Bong, the Apollo are in the Apollo are, Jichunge.'
