
The government continues to work with him.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The government has promised to work on the issue of members of parliament by using a fox which is done by the security people when they enter parliament, something that is to those who have faith in Islam.

The Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Mwigulu Nchemba said the foundation of faith and security of all security is important but the government has given a request or advice to go on work so as to get a decision that will bring benefits to all sides.
Mwigulu Nchemba answering a question about the increase of member of parliament of Tucta, Rashid Ali Abdallah (CUF) who asked if the government can have an alternative way of inspection instead of using a dog since other people with a fox will answer you.
When we go here in parliament, we're being elected by a dog, this animal is "I will give me even so as to prevent it, to remove it, it's impossible to have another procedure," he asked.
Responding to the question, Mwigulu congratulated that member of parliament for considering the foundation of his faith and promised that the government has received advice since they face members of parliament that is defense and faith, therefore they are working on it to see alternative ways.
In a primary question, Abdallah wanted to know a good procedure used to strengthen security in parliament.
Responding to the question, Nchemba said that there is security of using modern equipment like the CCTV camera, is in security that are not seen by the police force and the wild animals since it's impossible to use security of one type.
Responding to a question by the arrest of the nominated member of parliament, Nicholas Kay, Mwijage (CUF) who wanted to know the government has decided to strengthen security for those affected by the earthquake in Kagera province who are sleeping on, Mwigulu said security has been destroyed in the concerned areas with the aim of the government to ensure that they have effects arising from their properties.
