
TBL Group is not accepted to the strategy of industries.

The 29th September 2016

The Technical Director of TBL Group and Industry of SABMiller, East Africa region, Gavin Van Wijk, has said the strategy of the fifth government to prevent Tanzania being a country of industries, can implement it and bring great development to the country.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city yesterday, Wijk, said the TBL Group company has started to show a way Tanzania for industries is possible due to its industries to produce beer that are in the country to be among the best industries that are leading in Africa on the production of SABMiller company.
He said what's required to be done quickly are to learn from countries that has succeeded in the industries sector and using the systems of building industries by productivity and efficiency in the countries which has enabled to have a stable industries.
"For six consecutive years in Tanzania, they have been awarded various quality awards and be a threat to other industries in the African countries and this year, the second position is held by Mwanza Factory at the second position which is held by Mwanza Factory at the second position is a threat in the international markets," he said.
He said the secret of these achievements is to ensure that the system of production of productivity is followed by its results is being available in production with productivity and international standards.
"TBL Group has called a program of building industries to the success of SABMiller company which is known as four cases which are not available wherever they must be found," he asked to talk about them.
He added that it is happy to see that we are careful, to learn in different programs to bring success and expand its great keenness and that the TBL Group factories have continued to be a threat to the quality in Africa and other areas in the world that are led by civil servants in these industries which are affecting them.
He said other achievements to industries are due to the investment that is taking every year at the machines and modern tools where the company is using more than 14 million dollars in the investment of modern technology, investment which also is in hand in hand and investing in training for employees so that they can be able to bring success.
"We have been running within and outside of our employees to time for the purpose of enabling them to go hand in hand with the international systems for production of productivity in our industries," insisted Wijk.
The training that are getting various workers is to help them to bring success in their industries, he said they can help them to follow the schedule in the implementation of their daily activities, to consider safety and other people, the importance of doing exercises and other things.
He also said the company is implementing the objectives of the Capital Development Company and to bring sustainable development that are along with the goals of the United Nations and its implementation has shown to bring benefits to all areas where factories of the company.
Some of the goals was mentioned that they are supposed to maintain the environment and water sources, to enable producers who are denouncing the natural resources, increase employment opportunities directly and that are not only one.
"The company has been successful by enabling farmers who are denouncing the natural resources through the program known as the Go Farming program that continues to change the lives of farmers to be better.
We have begun with the barley farmer and affordable farmers, we will make this plan that will reach many farmers in the country, "he insisted.
In relation to the issue of security, he said that it has been given a priority to its industries and due to workers being given security training immediately because of accidents reduced, but even to the contractors who are doing industries and to visitors who are doing industries.
"There's an issue of security we have won different awards including the award for road safety, Wash your best award in the international tourism industry known as BISON," he said.
The motivation of workers said that it is one of the issue that the company has become a great importance.
The system will enable us to get great success and has led to the company to win the award of the best employer that is given by the Association of Tanzania Employers (ATE) and the award for the best producer that is given by the Federation of Industry in Tanzania. "
He emphasized by saying that the company will continue to create strategies of continuing to perform well in production and in markets and to ensure that its investment has been beneficial to the nation by contributing taxes for industries and other institutions that want to learn systems in industries by following the systems that bring productivity and success.
