
The call of Dominica is a voice of Kenyans.
And put it in eternal peace.

The slogan is the matter which is holding back, they said that there is a matter.
Already the Union of Clay Tanzania being led by Mister Raila Odinga, has confirmed that it is ready to bring about Tufani 'so as to convince the government to prepare a national debate about the challenges that are facing the country at the moment.
The truth is that it is not a matter that can be taken, therefore, since the era of fighting for the second liberation of this nation, most of us know because of politics.
Ninety years, especially before the resignation of section one of the popular constitution like 2A, we witnessed many political parties that left many and permanent injuries while others get the police force and prison cells in the country.
When a mosquito bites from a snake and for sure he sees Yesuu! They were shocked.
For many years we have witnessed the political demonstrations, its results were not only to destroy the business of here in the country, but also making investors and tourists to leave the country for fear of their security.
The symptoms of the rains are palm, it's just the day before western countries which were given a warning to its citizens to visit Kenya because of security reasons due to the terror attack of the Alonso minute.
On the other side, instead of Diamond's government insisting on how to obtain their leaders and go to the tea time in the State House, it is a must you know that there are many things that have gone to the blast, or in our nation.
Corruption has talked about the government and is continuing to chew a nation, while leaders including gear used to reach 4 billion shillings to the companies that were accused of switching off 4 billion shillings to the companies that were involved in many years about the debt.
It's a true fact that it is the one who has contributed to the order of paying those money or a girl, Deonice Chamwamba during this week by officers of the commission of ethics and fighting corruption, we cannot loose our news and the authority to run our nation using their power.
The most important thing is to see how our leaders try to find each other, who use the law and their lives every time try to enable Kenyans believe it by revoked the law that broke the laws and abiding to their community.
A good example is the Lord, what is facing the Minister of Ugandfather, Anne Semwenda.
If he has no qualifications or not, that can be decided then instead of using misleading reports.
The voice of citizens is a voice of God.
Because Angel d wanted the national debate so that all of us like the nation so as to discuss the challenges they face, the government does not have to prepare for that debate.
The Kenyans have been focusing on some of the issues that Correa scored about some of the issues that Beauts want to give birth to him and it will be affordable as stakeholders who will partner in order to find those problems.
If you know my, President Kenyatta is that you should not be afraid, some of his partners who are involved with things like corruption, as he wants Kenyans to continue having faith in his government.
How many gods are inspiring.
