To meet the need of signing, but why is it.
That was all the real competition and that is why we say it is enough for the time that we have found themselves in a very high level, the game that we see that the first leg will be filled with basketball so that he can't inform many people who have a lot of pain.
They look at a sister why you know what they look at as the center without the provinces, will do women to be taught.
However, if we find ourselves more in which way you will not end the same way, what is the expectations of most Tanzanians in the whole country because all our efforts are there because many youths are playing because if you look for many years ago and now.
Heavy Fuel Oil-five at these hours came into a very high level, but the patient is supposed to return the procedures to tell ourselves that I have to be released, we must make procedures and listen to me.
What will it be from now.
We need to know and read.
When we speak to collapsed.
Our case is the international competition that we are not conducting well.
And another evidence are the city competitions that ended the other day here at the national stadium and I believe that they witnessed all the matches you think about the problem when I come to International Airport.
For sure if you check for example the competition will follow everything that we have contributed to so much.
Preparations were poor.
Q-my, because the team has arrived in that camp it is.
There are poor preparations while it is known.
But it is known here is the competition.
It is a problem, you know that the government has removed games of sports and I was the problem of the leaders who were in power.
In which way women have believe there is a mistake.
And a rumor of the truth, they received because of.
The problems of or leaders at the deceased, there's no one that can lead his brand.
The party that we have problems in which we have problems.
What should I believe that?
For now.
For now, because we are prepared, we are supposed to do a lot of things to pray for Mbezi up to the streets to combat these statements that it is her.
We got the very well known to the Ntasoma Hotel this meaning that we see our network of the whole year, and if possible to play the league that we will be in the region and later the ones that are coming directly from who for that, there are good good people that have no good people.
We are required to cooperate with all stakeholders without caring about the personal interests which have been a great impetus in Ras Makunja in many parties of the game.
The sins that comes to the competitions of city.
Every time they have not seen even to arrive at the field and made even the jersey.
They have a office to listen to the word.
Almighty God rest.
The late?
When I was very much when I think different from them and how the real situation was in the competition.
This competition is not the host of the competition.
Almighty God rest his dreams and on it, you can know that we had bought that competition was a very big competition to have never happened so much by the competition and we went well so that I would like this one day.
There was only there.
If you have been affected in these competitions, we were not found to come up in the competition when we were with them but until we are going to the field there will be a lot of problem and there is no problem when you go down.
We should know what you are supposed to be a person who was supposed to be forced to sell the jersey of the field on time to be able to go down, you cannot attract someone from the private problems, but we were able to get back, but we have decided to get married, but we have decided to get rid of our team.
Compete are ready for competitions but we have done this problem which is very difficult because we can be able to get that money but we can make sure that we get married but we can make sure that we get married but we can be able to make sure that we are not knowing if they are not knowing what they did not know what they are not for you.
