
They went to Mwanga and Saiwa?
By Tomas Rosary.
The awards that have a huge number of decency in the world, Scotland, has finally been issued on Sunday at the Blacks group, Los Angeles, America, together with the event to be previously, the article of 88 years has caused a lot of joy.
This is because of a period of two consecutive years, actors that were seen they were seen while the competitors in different sections were people with color, they face the whites'.
While the names of those contributes to be announced last month, there are some of the black stars who promised to boycott the event and for sure they did not reach the list, there are names like Lupita Nyami and his wife, Jichunge.'
However, the recent event, this was witnessed by a small number of Black Americans like when they arrived in Freeman, Kevin Hart for mentioning some of the black person Chris Brown was a Zimbabwean, he arrived and gave a stern warning to make sure that they take place due to the open discrimination.
At the end of the day, I would like to hear of you, the actor, don't have scored the best actor in Covenant Bank, while the SCE will win the award of best film of the year.
But on the second eye, there are some of the films that were done by black people and shivered but they have been forced to look for those awards, by relying on some of the sponsors and those of the films that were not there in the Republican Party, 2016.
Attribution, lack of those awards, but those who don't have sure that he had not been sure that he had never been able to pay for better actors after a big percentage of acting Beauts' number.
In love, there is no one who believes, who's father are Msalika as the father who in England, did not be mentioned soon because they do not know her for the awards they did not see Hango.
But despite her acting, the courage to make that film or the one of his fellow star Abraham Atlabara or even the film itself were not able to get her back to Sweden Stars.
But his lack, Scotland and he doesn't show it to be very fast since Idris Sultan was sold to be the best assistant actor of the Sporah Show of Activity) through that film, this film was sold to be better in the section of Freedom of La Liga Music Awards (the free award for forgiveness).
2 days will be aired by Conservancy from Confucius Philosophy will be accepted as a surgery expert in the body, there are many who identified himself as an expert who made more than 42 million dollars (42 billion) it will not accept it, because it seems not to do justice.
4 years, Samuel L Jackson (TFF).
Samuel Jackson is another black actress who had its contribution to make the start of Onderstepoort city, despite being the chief player who helped the club to bring income of 16 million (6 million) which was paid in S / = shillings, that won in section 9 of film.
The film Artist in the country has said that the vehicle with his 10 lness is yesterday, brought back with three hundred thousand shillings, it's also known as an actor of color, 'Rambo', who was appointed as an artist of the black star, "said the film, name to see light.
The film that brought an income of 1673 million dollars (168 billion shillings).
The Boyd KMet Office, should be a shame to have a shame to be Miss Tanzania, I did not see a big contribution that was presented by Michael Dearharm during the work or even blocking the film itself in any section.
According to the TPL Board of Tanzania, it has extended more than 7,250 million last year, Hasanoo has succeeded to be on the edge of his best film in his list of taking the second position.
Michael was sold at the best employer at the time of the Ambassador Black Americans' Caspian Awards yesterday, while the film is sold to be the cinema halls in those awards.
That match that had been encouraged by five political parties was mentioned to vie for the section of 'Best Saints' which were selected are Jonathan Herman and Bergh.
What happens, the truth is that despite the film making a lot of money to the Box-governmental organization (20202), being an important sign of its success, still they could not be careful.
