
The athletes in Kenya poured.
By Bernard Membe.

The year 2013 is completed in 2014, it's a year that had success to the athletes in Kenya who used to compete for the series of bacterial infections which is in different competitions in the world.
Despite continuing to rise in polluting the reputation of the athletes in Kenya in the final matches of the last year, it will be completed, it will end a memory where the athletes live in different articles starting from the Euro 2016 race which is the first in the schedule of the premier league in the world.
The athlete Dickson Maimu has emerged the winner in the race after completing the period of 2 o'clock (5-42) with his fellow candidate listening to a third position by registering a 2-0 win.
Although her sister did not do a lot well, Lucy Kabudi, was able to take the third position after signing a 2-0 win of 16.
His colleagues Caroline Ranaldo and Janet Jackson were able to take the fifth and six chance to leave the race.
London Marathon in the month of April, some of the others played in the field of the London Marathon race because they did not qualify for the heart as they were able to move forward.
Former mid-fielder of Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon, joined his colleagues in winning the victory after registering a 2-0 win, Mrs Touré Lobbo Traoré, taking the second position with a 2-term position of the first half of the second term.
In the unit of her sister, they were able to do well and take the first position.
The champions of the world just two times in those races Edna Mdoe will be able to take leadership when they register a 2-0 victory, after Florence Mwanri, had been satisfied with the second position after getting a 2-0 win.
The month of April also many Kenyans were in the Boston race in America where they were able to return.
Three times for the Amnesty International race Adelina Geffi, will take a certificate of money for getting a 2-0 win including Mela Hoya.
Another Kenyan Victor Wanyama has been able to take a third position after registering a period of 2 / 08 / 50.
In Boston, a sister unit, Rita Juffali, will be able to defend his title and won the race by registering a better position of 2 of 18 and 57 goals.
A Kenyan Victor Wanyama has been able to take the fourth position after getting a win of 2-20 members.
In the month of August, at the African Community competition, athletes from the country were on the medal as Stephen Magani and he was able to register a draw of 2-11 members after taking the second position.
In the new unit of her sister, Flightlink Mister Cheupe bus station, led in the race to register a 2-0 win, Caroline Kilimba will take the second position and a period of 2 to 27th of June.
In September it was married and is good in the history of Kenya since it is in Berlin Marathon where the new record was found.
A Kenyan Victor Moses, was able to be buried on the previous day and set a new 2-0 win by 57 goals and that can break his new record within one year.
He didn't read very close to Emmanuel Mutta as he was able to register his best time of 2 - 03 / 13, while Geoffrey Kamara and Eliud Mvella.
Other main race was the 'Chicago Marathon which also Kenyans were seen to go down here because Eliud Tawi Nyauhenga was able to perform well in the men's side after getting a draw of 2-0 goals.
Sammy Kitwiru, was able to take the second position by registering a 2-0 win as the winner of the Euro 2016 race, Dickson Pickup, and the third position by registering a 2-term contract by registering a 2-0 win.
In the mother unit, Rita Juffali, will be able to win those races after registering a 2-year-old player, Florence Mwanri, taking the third position and a period of 2 is 25 against 57.
New York Marathon Kenyans won last year hard to rule in the New York City Marathon in America.
Wilson Massawe, held the race and took victory by registering a win of 2-10 members of 59, although there were a big competition.
The side of her sister led the status of Kenyans, because Mary Magdalene Jesus, was able to take the leadership and register a period of 2-25 members of 2007, Jemina Turner to register a 2-year contract to be behind him.
Without doubt the athletes from the country have done well this year although there have been a big competition that most of the people have a must for winning Kenyans.
For now the athletes in the range of shortages are when getting in the next year's schedule, while those who have hope of participating in the Kilimanjaro Marathon race are continuing with exercise.
