
I have heard of Speaker Makinda.

July 31, 2016.

The Member of Parliament of Chakrabary said that in Tabora, Dombeni with Hamis Kikula has said that she still has an intention to communicate with the argument of finding a lesson to the speaker of B, Bihagaze, Anne Makinda.
He said that rumors has done that his argument has been placed on the directive by the Revolutionary Party (CCM), it has no truth.
Doctor Kigwangalla made the remarks at the end of the week at a public meeting that included the residents of that province and their neighborhoods that took place at the National Park stadium.
In that meeting, Doctor Kigwangalla was asked a question by a resident of that province as true he is the Adam's rib, who is from his party.
"The honorable member of parliament, I request it does not end if you have the ability to prevent the speaker of parliament (Makinda), like you announced the intention of wanting him to study in parliament so that the parliament can arise.
"By how we do not know the normal procedure of CCM, you don't know the mother of doing so, it means that it was very happy," said the citizen.
The citizen added that, as usual CCM has a procedure to prevent different steps that he wants to be taken by its members so that he used by sending the Kigwangalla, to stop for themselves with that argument since he is not the Adam's rib,.
Responding to the question, Doctor Kigwangalla said that it's not for sure that CCM has a procedure to remove it in mind, something that did not agree with that issue and explanation that, it is currently in the final stages so that it can be taken to parliament.
"This issue of preventing the speaker of parliament, I would inform you openly that it is not true that they can win as a motion was presented by Mrs. Makondo to continue with because I have decided to continue with because I have presented all procedures.
"Recently, what we speak, my motion has already brought to the first step by meeting all the criteria for now, the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights and Human Rights Commission, will decide my motion to parliament and be able to undergo a decision by all the members of parliament to vote and if he will win or listen to him, that is another thing.
By sending, Kigwangalla said that the decision of a love comes or not from the speaker, is proud to talk or a student of his fellow members and insisted that CCM cannot prevent that argument without being given a decision by all members of parliament.
Responding to a question that deals with money for tax for the services that were given by the gold mine of Gold Mine that is located in Nzega district, Doctor Kigwangalla said the money were paid in special accounts so as to enable our development bank which will be paid for our development bank, "he said.
He said his aim is to ensure that those funds are being used well in order to help the citizens of Nzega District to change their lives where people should be able to purchase the roads and the member of parliament of Tabora Town, Mister Ismail Aden Rage (CCM) and the member of parliament of Tabora Town, Mister David Kafulila (NCCR-Revolution) who claimed to be supported by the member of parliament of Tabora Town, Mister David Kafulila.
