When we live in Dar es Salaam, you will see that, and they said so much, I know you for now, you know our are our salvation, her mother has been destroyed so far from work.
Absolom went to you.
But your photos were written with a lot, if you can look at the internet you can see where I don't know what those who don't know what those people were with all the other all of all the other.
But you will work you are doing a member of parliament to stop using your meaning because it is not there, you know now they are using there.
Ears and I have written, but it is going, we will look at the end of the previous days to be withdrawn to enable him to be good, I said that I don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they don't know if they
But I would have told them to follow up there and it's not one of them.
Jussa stated, when I look at the number of releasing the late God, but now I don't know what he was not present because he had a girl to look at all times, but now I don't know what he is doing well, "I don't know what he is doing well.
I don't have a foolish thing, we have been shocked.
The late Mzee Jichunge.'
The Almighty God continue, the Lord will be known as a prayer for what?
Yesterday.
And up to being found found, I was not like the truth but the day I did not think about those things.
I am surprised many people that I have seen if you go to music, I believe it is for the girls of the school, I said I believe only let me go to them but I didn't know what you had already lost.
