
Their opponents collect data to the growth of the economy.

It has been written by Maulid Ahmed, Dodoma.

It has been published by 2 percent of November.

Despite the recent statistics, to show a nation's economy and the National Revenue have been growing very fast and to make Tanzania be one of the countries with great economy, the opposition camp in parliament has claimed that Tanzania's economy has reduced.

That camp has mentioned some of the areas that prove that it is loans given by the business bank in the private sector that it has dropped from the first half of the year 2016.
The deputy minister of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Halima Mdee said the loans have reached approximately 16795 billion shillings compared to an increase of 1,551 billion shillings in the year 2015 in the same period.
"This means that the private sector has 60 billion shillings in the first half of the year 2016, this situation has done the electronic card and one hundred thousand shillings in July 2015 and reach 67th percent in July 2016," he explained.
He said in accordance to the report of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the development of customers in the bank lost from 20,052 in December 2015 to reach 2024, June 2016.
While contributing to the recommendations of the development plan, the Member of Parliament from Sikonge Province, Joseph Kauzela (CCM) said statistics show that 53 percent of big industries in the country are in the provinces of Dar es Salaam, Kagera and Arusha, the ratio that is not good and urged the industries to also be in other provinces.
According to the statistics that were given recently by the Executive Director of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Doctor Albina Chuwa, in the second phase of this year, the National Examinations Council has continued to grow fast on 79th percent compared to 59 percent of the second quarter year of last year.
The governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu said that the growth of the National Identification Authority in the first half of the year January to June, has increased by 67 percent from 57th and 7 percent for the first half of the year 2015.
