The news of these awards that are located in Kibiti is there, you know that there is still a soul in getting the Saba Saba 'show and then it has taken a lot of company because it comes with a new phone that you can be released later through here and then your phone is in the region if you talk to them.
Do not understand.
The phone that has witnessed, I'm in a lot of things, still there is true that the very modern communication has come and talk with the stakeholders or those who have a lot about.
Welcome to you.
In front of it becomes known by the name, Jane Matinde, the marketing manager and distribution of the mobile phone company which is a new company to let me see a mixture of phone company which is capable of providing phone services and the meaning of phone.
And together with ninety minutes, the only new company who has come to do a lot of revolution in communication, we want Tanzanians to know that most communication and communication is something that everyone has to be with it.
To see that it is not a cost and we have come to do revolution in a great country that we want.
It is for Tanzanians.
If I performed poorly in three countries starting from Burundi, Uganda.
Matt is a company at the Aga Khan Foundation.
Therefore, it is a company that is a new company if you will use Aga Khan Foundation, themselves like the citizens do not like to make it like business to get profit.
On the side of East Africa.
He believes two big things.
Tanzania and WhatsApp are better and it will not benefit us because it's not a time for Tanzanians that I will go to know their marriage with South Africa.
That is why farming has come to ensure technology of communication.
When it reaches every Tanzanian, every Tanzanian shillings at price which has every Tanzanian to get, told your prices to be there.
The very big difference is under it is under what you believe that is why I believe that communication should not wait if we want communication every one to be.
That's why we have been able to come up with deaths associated with two hundred thousand shillings and nine of them are small businesses that are there before doing badly, what I say is.
It is impossible for you to know Mister each other for other companies do not tell him to shoot the network to the network and to another network.
Again you get data and things that are not normal but do not have come up because we can say that we can say the phone gets a good way and I got them to tell you for a good example.
This is a phone.
If the team spread of stem cells that use them are those if you see you, you feel you're getting in the ears and technology which is why I want to get married, the person knows it is same but it's not a long video, you can't recognize them, "you said.
To run the whole vehicle and a phone that you will talk to the ears of your brain, you will talk with the phone because a big revolution that you can be able to do on the end of the pavilion there is no one that we should not enter inside the stall.
Like that phone of his mobile phone and there is another team that has been infected with aculence.
I became two seasons for if I will be a small, then I will be given that is why it is.
When we talk about that we have made great revolution in a good example, if we think it is two to sell to a Tanzanian at ten o'clock and put in the hall and sometimes the preparations have lost the body and I have lost the body.
How was it?
It's a phone that has two sim cards like I said I want to leave and carry cargo that becomes a phone like it is here but already there is two sim cards at a small price.
If we say in a Tanzanian.
Using the phone and communication with normal I have heard the cost.
I wish you that I will be known.
The boundaries is that someone is going back.
It has talked to you a total of nine people.
That you will be able for ten best minutes to five down.
It is increasing such as a family, my family that I have decided to remove it that at home you will face one sim card.
Her father's father are using one that they decided to go for five days ago, they will communicate with the whole day without he will give it the reason every time he spoke to the family and time.
Later you give me what?
