
CCM denies reports of members to be sworn in to Maalim Seif to be the president of Zanzibar.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has denied reports being spread through social media networks of the members of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CUF), Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad to be announced as the president of Zanzibar.

While speaking to journalists in his office in Kisuma town, the Deputy Secretary General of that party in Zanzibar, Vuai Ali Vuai, said they have received in huge shock the reports he termed as a rumor.

He said his party is not ready to break the constitution or regulations as Maalim Seif will be announced, because the elections that was already opened by Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) through the government's newspaper.

"Social network explained that I am the deputy secretary general I want members and all the citizens to donate to the members of parliament to donate to the members of parliament to be sworn in Maalim Seif, while I insisted and urged all citizens to come out in large numbers in the celebrations to be sworn in," said Vuai.

He added saying, "apart from that, the reports were given a lot in him, it has said by urging citizens to claim that Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein will be the first Vice President of Zanzibar just after being sworn in to Maalim Seif as the president."

He claimed that all the reports are believed that they have been organized by a special group of wanting violence (CCM) and its members and also to disrupt the solidarity.

He said they are expecting to meet with the lawyers of the party so as to do research on how he gave those reports and where it is discovered that legal action will be taken.

On the side of talks of writing a volatile situation in Zanzibar, that is going on between Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein and Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, Vuai said, as a party they ask for all the strength.

He said that it is their expectations that those talks can bring productivity to the community and the nation in general while insisting that those talks will not be alternative for the law.

He clarified by saying that those talks will not be able to go against the law of the country by continuing to be announced the results of the elections that was canceled but it seems to have an aim of maintaining peace in the country to those leaders.

He said that for now, their party is preparing for all the efforts in participating in the repeat election and said that they are ready to vote at any time.
"Our party has not been in the process of going back to the elections just after the commission was unable to announce," he said.
