The great intention of having many people, we see that the small neighborhood has risen up and long because if the other colleagues started listening to I think this year, we should remember that the election is still unknown.
They love Michelle.
Citizens do not know who to go and go to you and go to vote tomorrow, they should not be allowed when they do not depend on how to go to vote.
In the picture.
Behavior.
If they see if you were found, you will be given news from until they are required.
Doing it is happy to help people during voting but it's said that it was confirmed to do.
When I met in the network to talk and make noise, I explained how it cares for someone because it is like a person to enter or get your number?
Your thing and the foundation of theft of the votes are there and they are still planning.
If you look for a lot that took place in this decisions, if you feel it is in your government and we go back further, they will take them more to their interests because when the sun you know, she doesn't know it.
Therefore, as a way it was announced I have not heard about the top of them but the fare know what they are doing.
Little for the time they agree.
We agree with that time, he also said that.
The truth.
Most of the colonial history.
The opposition parties have great strength, the government will take the responsibility of doing things quickly.
And the board there is something that has gone to the end, later the committee of us we have been doing so inside here and it has said that the theft of the votes is drinking and if they know it is only there.
In my view, I see Pascal Malesa, even if he invented the ball to do when you go to the picture, I do not see what I want to use but I see what we get to them but I think that what should go to do but do not get income but to see what we get to them, "a total of chicken you can have.
In public, I see if you are doing so much.
I don't know if there is things we will look at least they do when I'm shocked when I was shocked and this is here in the city.
Do you have reached where we are going to Kawe fans but one way he has done what is the first lady to get money without buying when I got it, I would like you and I'm going on until when he has told me that you are ready to come.
By voting.
At the end of his gift it was lost and using a system and you have said that all the head would have said, he would say they don't know when education is the answer.
