
Maximilian Arnold about the law of safety taking place.
By Charles B.

Basically, the attorney general (AG) Professor Ignas Rubaratuka, is an chief adviser of the government concerning the constitutional issues and that it is the lawyer of the government when it comes up with case of the court in the country or international ones.
And he is interpreting, especially in the whole process of improving and writing the government's bills before being presented to the ministers' council and finally the parliament.
Listen to me, before all the bills passed in parliament to be presented to the president, it is a must to give a lesson to the group of lawyers under AG leadership.
Under a shadow of this section, I have been announced by the statement made Professor Muchi, that he did not participate in the production of a special police force which is currently the law although the main court has stopped implementation of eight hours.
He said that those laws are their dreams of efforts in collaboration between the government and the parliamentary committee on security, where the government's chief lawyer, Njekela said that.
He explained that those laws were written and he had been caught up with "other activities," that did not be noted.
And if you read it by claiming that he had not registered the whole exercise of writing that law.
But I have put this opportunity to be surprised by Professor Muchi, it was easy to support those laws despite the opposition leaders, the Tanzania Law Society (LSCA) and the national commission for creating human rights and freedom of the media and freedom of the media.
In my opinion, Professor Mkomagu led us to make him play for me if Kenyans had put his responsibilities given to him by a constitution that I have explained above.
Security is a very important thing in this nation because we have seen the economy being affected because it has dropped by security due to disaster which was caused by criminals with the terrorists.
Therefore, it is a mistake to the attorney general to inform the Kenyans that he didn't be involved in the production production of controlling the lack of security.
That the work he told politicians (president and the parliamentary committee on security led by the member of parliament for Vaccines, Asis Kamara or is an assurance that Professor Idorous.
And on that, Professor Muchi, without doubt, he wants to resign or be unable to work immediately and not implementing his responsibilities.
, you shouldn't give me a lesson so that Lowa.
