It's only ten thousand in the period of two thousand and ten thousand, I don't know more that wherever you are starting from the constitution where members of parliament are continuing to discuss different issues concerning the draft constitution where members of parliament are continuing to discuss different issues concerning the draft constitution where members of parliament are continuing to discuss issues that will be able to grow the economic growth of this country by two and ten thousand.
Five thousand as a period of two and twenty thousand, you can't see our camera, when you read it, you will read our camera, when I heard yesterday, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, saying what I think is where I saw it, can get to be assisted by the countries of my nations, to give them so much here to agree.
What he said smoke has cautioned that we must have a modern economy of the nation.
Which uses Santa.
Therefore, it is the first one for that meaning.
There is no one, it has said this alone but no.
First happens when I'm talking about this issue.
We must have.
First, if you don't know that the class one until now I don't have fear even those who are not there.
We should be in view.
Technology and true education in Swahili don't allow men to be touched on time so that it will not be afraid of the computer, it is the first one but the second in the field of the area which have been forgotten.
In that sector.
It could have been done in my own kind, and I am very happy because Mister their wedding has been seen, we have been seen to take place a good place but for All Trust, a whip, we will remember well if you do not have a mistake.
You will have written there.
.
The condition is.
Hard.
So as to make sure.
Our country's economy should not be afraid that our country is very delicious with me not to talk with me when I'm talking to you.
Our in every sector has taken a chapter, it is a probability of a person to refuse.
You give you an opportunity and to give them him in the middle and there is no car that does it mean?
His life is difficult even or to take that offense, it gets that the doctor is putting you when the doctor is told when the doctor is told.
You must my blog that does it mean?
There is that meaning.
First, so as to talk about you, I'll leave you to go through a good procedure of being touched by what we will talk about how we will talk about how we will talk about how we will talk about these issues but we will when we complete close to my heart.
