
Stop using yourself in maize class.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.

Due to the existence of information about production that do not meet the quality of maize flour in some of the areas in the country, Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) has urged producers of those products, to consider the procedures given by the concerned authorities in its production.

This newspaper last week made news reports about the production of cooking oil in several areas in the country, which seems to have poor quality, a step that has brought a big debate.
On his part, the Union of owners and non-communicable diseases (TELC), has insisted that the flour involved in Tandale at the Tandale area in Dar es Salaam city has reduced a high level of quality.
In the last Saturday, this newspaper clarified on controversy in its production environment, it was alleged that they are lack of required procedures, especially for producers to fail to follow the required regulations.
Speaking to this newspaper the day before yesterday, the acting director of TBS, Egid Mubofu has urged those producers instead of complaining, to consider the required procedures.
He said that the breast cancer products is one of the products in charge of the TBS, before getting into the market, he added that the level should be used in testing the quality of maize flour is 328 Tanzanian, 2014.
The acting director added that for now his office is continuing with the procedure of giving out a seminar to those big producers and urged producers not to stop the training.
On his part, the Union of owners and non-communicable diseases (TASWE Saccos) under its chairman, Oscar Munisi, speaking on behalf of the maize flour teachers in Manzese and Tandale, he said the biggest challenge is not quality, but it is the production that will be done in that area which is the residence of people.
He clarified that the union has caused the area outside the capital city of Dar es Salaam, which is in a village of bed sheets, as a way to improve its production.
He said that the decision was as a result of the advice that was given by Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (SUMATRA) that wanted to ensure that they are looking for a friendly area for the production of food products.
The chairman of the Disciplinary Appeal Committee in the union, William Simeone has noted that during the maize season of June and July, they have approximately 300 kilograms of maize that are proud of them, taking them down and loss.
The union asked the government to recognize their position in maize flour and providing employment to many youths, to improve the better infrastructure for production of those products, especially in developing their areas to him so that eventually, maize flour and strong winds have been advised by TFDA.
The spokesman of TFDA, Gaudensia Simwanza says that his office is making great efforts in making a better and friendly environment for those producers and then they are giving the seminar for time to time.
