
Karrima Carter during the era of Malindi, small, Simba.
In the last month, Zanzibar got leaders of leading soccer in the islands after a long time of conflicts.
The conflicts that were caused by a large extent has dropped by that soccer an amount of removing Zanzibar on the map of the games in Tanzania.
The leaders who entered into power is Rwengenyeza, who has won the presidential position of Latifa, while Ali Mohammed Ali, introducing the vice president of Pemba office while the Vice President of Unguja, is Mzee Zam Ali.
Zam was the general secretary of ZFA who for many years before retiring from accordance with the service laws in the government, because they have already taken that opportunity to be appointed by the Government of Zanzibar with the employer.
The elections have been done in a bad state in leadership that it has shown that the party had a lot of conflicts that doesn't have already been sentenced in court.
There have been words that the delegates of the general meeting as well as using their right to elect the leaders they want, and that step has sent back to power leaders with a scandal to chew the party.
No one doesn't know that for a long time now, Zanzibar has lost direction in soccer. Zanzibar is not the same time when his teams were tested in different areas especially the East and Central Region.
It will also be remembered that there was a lot of teams that were in the same minute, Shishiyu Ward, Makandege, Simba in Malindi, Black Falcke won't happen again.
I think those who have hatred and leadership, do not give them on their condolences, and leaders who are in power, not to partner with each stakeholder's goal is to see Zanzibar, it is able to return the days of success.
After the spread of the leaders, I desire to see the era of my fellow musician, Salim Turky, Abdul Razaq Badru, Ibrahim Lipumba and others go back.
These are the soccer clubs in Unguja Island to avoid sexual violence, and even the teams were meeting with those of Tanzania Mainland the fire that had a big competition.
Who was not know which way in the union league was to have a huge success, and especially when that league was to be played at the peace stadium, Unguja and who we shall understand that there was a heated match against Yanga being the last game that was like the finals of the year 1992.
All the people of Zanzibar have seen to join and make sure the championship is to remain in the islands, all of these have been affected, a history that is associated with soccer.
I believe the leaders who entered into power they will stop stuttering and forgetting all that have been affected by partnering with one of the soccer stakeholders to look for, where they are where they are going.
In the whole of Zanzibar I believe he wants to see that when they go back to sexual soccer, sponsors and the sponsors, the best players' players coming from Simba and Malindi, Yanga and small, Simba the fire is available and now we are happy to see though the past half but by leaving the shoulder what is needed.
