

By Leonard Mao, (IJ), Dar es Salaam.
China is one of the nations that received great steps economically compared to nations like the United States, Germany and other nations with economic muscles.
The economy of that nation has contributed more on agriculture that contributes up to 9 percent, the sectors of the 505 percent and the industries being contributed to approximately 5 percent.
It is mentioned that the nation that led in the manufacturing of products and the head of products that are made in that country to go to the markets of various countries in the world.
According to the International Monetary Federation (IMF) of the year 2015, the economy of that nation is estimated to be paid by 69 percent per year while the income of one person being explained to reach 239 million American dollars.
It was not a easy job to reach that step was taken as a nation that was one of the nations with a small economy until the year 1960.
It informed the voters and start the fight to look for those achievements that are seen now among the entire world.
Tanzania is one of the nations that produce a lot of products from China does not have to learn some of the issues from that nation of China.
The language as the main source of communication between someone and a person in any kind of life may be an obstacle between the two sides that deal with there and it can agree due to the difference of the language.
When it comes a situation of this kind, it is a must that among them to learn the language of our colleagues in order to communicate more easily and on the side of cooperation, the ones in the country will be forced to learn from what they passed due to that you need more.
As a result of Tanzania depending on a lot of business issues from China like vehicles, aspects of various machines together with agriculture equipment, and the construction does not have to ensure its citizens are learning the language of that nation.
In ensuring that Tanzania has learned from China, the leadership of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), is expected to start a diploma and degree and degree courses to enable Tanzanians to ease communication by using opportunities offered by the country and outside the country.
The Deputy Head of UDSM (profession), Professor Florence Mwanri, says on the teaching of Chinese language will enable many to cooperate with China in various economic activities as business.
He says that as a result of the most Chinese companies to invest here in the country, to know the language of giving an opportunity to the benefit from those companies.
The Director of Constituent Institute (MARI) at the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor Zhang Jihadists, says that for now the Chinese language is a bridge that causes the economic growth of China and depending on products from the country it did not allow them to learn.
"You cannot protect the Chinese language because Tanzania uses many products from China from being sold at an affordable price compared to other countries especially in Europe and America," says Zhang.
