And someone who lives with his opinion, but for sure we were understood.
Groups.
In the streets or you want the whole of a union is a good thing, we were waiting more stories about the United Nations in peace, instead of writing the holy martyr.
The late people are concerned with they can move in order to join and join and be human beings.
And this can be eaten by because it is a whole process of time people want to be very close to our cooperation today in the age of age.
Twenty-0, and they continuing to close to each other, even if it's true the money we had with God but for now the hole he had a small girl and therefore they eat with a large extent that you are supposed to do so that I can be able to increase the speed of peace that is meaning.
Greste, has already been involved and it will help him.
And her sister could have reduced it by the government.
We were with one government of East Africa something that is seen to know in the world.
That for now fifty years now, who only are only ten years to save.
Since the same time, that is being done by Zanzibar to be one thing.
The late God bless you for now, I urge you to ask for what we have seen within the bad time when he was coming back and we are not seen to be using it.
But the Almighty God is suffering from water there is a must that you do.
Which for fifty years, we have a sustainable country and we must know how to live.
But there is a thing that she has seen as you are.
If a scholar has seen him as a wisdom and maybe maybe that is the reason the late does with a group of people who have also been questioned for them as a very high level.
It is looking at this condition as it's true he can love you.
The aim of God in our country was right now.
We thank him a normal citizen.
For Zanzibar people and they are very normal, I don't talk about who at the Magogoni grounds who is on parole.
That the clove farmers in Wete district when I went on Sports, there were some drug abuse so that they can be used and already it is found.
The age of rice to be blamed so as to make sure they thank the provincial commissioner of Mbeya, we've heard for you for close collaboration between the community and therefore he can vote for you for the end of these vehicles, while the shops that sell many foods with a lot of experts.
To know the cook of people to enjoy food yesterday, yes, we can find you a great success.
The names of the passengers that live in Zanzibar and that is being done by the union.
The dangers of.
Your problems are there.
Yes, the big problem was a problem.
Due to the reasons.
Meaning?
The development of the economy of their nation and how it can make others be able to make others follow up with the father that it is possible for this service after losing the child up to seven or it has not given him a lot of contribution because it is, which is ongoing and that is needed.
For him, we have faith that the government should work in increasing the speed of taking development to the citizens but the second problems must be sorted out by discussions with an agreement of records.
A woman is happy for me.
