We are ready for the East African Federation?
Dec 21, 2013.

I have ever released the article on how Tanzania was set aside by his fellow party members of the East African Community (EAC) and how President Jakaya Kikwete had seen in the community due to the state of being able to kick off.

Some of the journalists, politicians, and those who call questions started to achieve this situation and the one of the year 1977 and when the EAC is unacceptable, due to political conflicts and wise among the leaders of three countries that were members.

At the same time the presidents of the EAC are not able to meet because Mwalimu Nyerere refused to stay in one table with a quish Iddi who saw the rapper. "

The leaders of Kenya who we love "Nyanga or" do not agree with our policies of socialism and self-reliance because some of them did every efforts to take the community.

The results of EAC performed well for a long time without the meeting of presidents and he had a documents that will be beaten by three presidents so that it can be.

This situation started in 1971 to 1977 when the community was announced officially that it's not present again.

It was not a easy job to visit the community that has died, especially to resolve the way the resources and debts that will be divided among three countries.

The current community is different, because there is no ministers from member countries who were chosen by their presidents to work at the headquarters like in 1967.

At the time the presidents did not match completely.

Instead of different meanings in politics, this time to be open up and not to agree between President Kikwete and President Kagame.

The history of Nyerere and represented by Amin came back to Kikwete, when he gave him "advice" to Kagame to do a conversation between peace and those who carried the killing of Kimbari in Rwanda, in the year 1994 and then rushed to DR Congo.

Kagame was not satisfied with this advice and he gave them on the same time, those that we were involved the illegal immigrants were expelled from Tanzania and among them being the Nyamwezi, something that will continue to resolve the political situation between our country.

They don't understand that being sacked from people who were from the neighboring countries is against the aim and the policies of the EAC we want.

Others have said to dismiss the teachers from the neighboring country because his immigration certificate has already closed for its time, is to control the relationship between our citizens, especially because we are heading into consideration to the political federation.

Our colleagues we ask, "how can President Kikwete know that Tanzania has a good intention of strengthening solidarity inside the EAC and then he cannot change the people of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Kenya which have lived in Tanzania a long time?

We have no sure that if it was seen in Tanzania, it was contributed by the same "advice" President Kikwete or and this is wrong-criticism that has been married even by some of the ministers of Tanzania.

Maybe it would have been good to be done on research, so that citizens can be discussed as the real reason of being left in Tanzania, so as to avoid these results like this coming days, it's good to learn from the mistakes that came recently.
For example, it is an unusual thing that even this dubiety of EAC in Arusha was unable to explain reasons for your country.

The secretary general of EAC, Richard Sezibera, he was asked to say that the three presidents' meeting had an aim of increasing the implementation of the projects that had been made by EAC (not true Tanzania and Burundi) refused to agree with Sezibera.

The meaning of now is that the community is back on his normal state after Tanzania was involved in the meeting of the presidents of the EAC that took place in Kampala, the end of November.

According to the agreement of EAC that started to be implemented on July 7, year 2000, we are supposed to have any interruptions (TIN) among our countries this week, followed by the market market, then the European Union and the end of the East African Federation.

Customs union started on the first of January, year 2005 and is complete on January first, 2010, and then the agreement of the joint market was started to be implemented in July, in 2010.
