Without the right time, the constitutional parliament should not be stopped.
Jide 31, 2014 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

August five this year, Special Constitutional Assembly (SCA) is expected to continue in accordance with the schedule that was announced by the chairman of that Parliament, Samuel Sitta.

With great disappointment, the environment in the moment have done it difficult for any appropriate time to be reached by two major groups against the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) and the Revolutionary Party (CCM), have been unable to agree on how to move forward.

If the cross has been extended to recently, the issue of a new constitution will be done by more than any other than that same as it was.

We do not see a reason of continuing with BMK in this environment, so that everything in the constitution takes place through national consent and it is not supposed to move forward.

Mwema, we see that the right way from here is where we are and going to front of stopping this parliament.

We believe that we have no quick way to go back because here is our because we have no reason to enter the parliament where there will be no appropriate time.

We would like to urge the politicians to stop using this constitutional issue to destroy the citizens in the basis of political parties because the constitution does not have the party or ideology.

It will be a big offence if we will check the issue of a new constitution as well as required to meet our short term and political issues and forgetting the broader interests of this process.

To be the first time on this issue and that is when BMK started afresh and any efforts of wanting to get a constitution without an appropriate time will be similar to lack of water into the machine.

We can't have money or a period of losing due to the poverty we have, if there is a period of other resources, it is important to have been used in solving the important problems in the country.

We want them to take money and long-term plans to do a special assembly and any reason to be taught and protect themselves from their leaders.

First time and then the new constitution to follow me.
