
Mwigulu Nchemba giving explanations after being interviewed by TAKUKURU.

The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mwigulu Nchemba, who is also a member of parliament for Iramba East has congratulated the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART) in Singida province by giving him him that he is the main responsibility for the foundation.

Mwigulu said this while giving an explanation on his speech by the institution about the allegations of violating the law of elections and laws of preventing and fighting corruption in the country.

He said that as a government leader, he has no reason to congratulate you for fulfilling their responsibilities as required because the institution has been receiving accusations or any complaints, it should be questioned, investigate and eventually getting appropriate measures.

However, he said that he has never received bribery of any kind since the process of the elections started in Iramba district and claimed that he is tired of the citizens.

"Even if I would not hesitate to do a campaign, I have an assurance that I could make three quarter finals in every ward because it is not well for my region."

He said that he is one of the people who have been on the front line in fighting corruption in the country, therefore he does not have any reason to give bribery.
"Even the reason for giving bribes I don't have my work well in the province and everyone knows me," said Mwigulu and added.

"This is what we did is a good thing.

He said that in any election, it is a must that there have different challenges, but on issues they are following up with his fellow candidates, basically they had agreed at the political committee of the party even before the start of the process, therefore he is surprised his colleagues that he got into.

"For example, we agreed to have a car every candidate for the purpose of advertisements, I am my face, they use him and have a speaker.

"Sunnis with a paracid issues where a team without shoes is crush using the game up to their colleagues that give them shoes that we go playing (that is," we do not wait until you and you do not get shoes, "he said.
