Commotion of the contract in Arusha.
Sep 25, 2014.

In a black bikini has risen up in the process of getting away by collecting revenue from the City Council of Arusha after the committee of the council of finance and economy has urged the work to be made by the Surface and Licensing Agency (PPRA).
For more than four months now the City of Arusha has been unable to announce companies that participated with various tenders for collecting revenue from the council because of being explained that the process of being attacked by allegations of corruption, corruption and conflict of land.
Accusations of the existence of bribery and corruption in the process have been reported having Good Citizen in his past issues of August this year.
However, at different times, those accusations have been aired by the concerned parties including the director of the city and the chairman of councilors who is also the mayor of Arusha town that they are not any truth.
It is said that there has been a high tension between the director and experts of the council on one side and the delegates of the committee on finance and economy (councilors) on another side about the company that is supposed to be given the tender.
That tension has caused a reduction in the process of getting it by the foundation of every side, it has been fighting for a company that has interests with the law and regulations of procurement and ignored.
Among the tender that were identified as well as the tax for vehicles, vehicles, tax of posters, the tax for bus stations, tax for small buses (buses) and the modern stations.
Other collection is tax for markets as the central market of Arusha, the Kilombero market, the central market of Cheketua 'market and the Marketing Manager of Santa together with taxes in the toilets that are owned by the city.
According to statistics of funds, the council of Arusha City shows an amount of nine billion shillings from its domestic sources which essentially has been the source of conflict, wisely, in the tender.
The budget of the City Council for the year 2014 / 15 is estimated to reach 53 billion as the salaries for workers and development projects in the education sector, health and water.
The committee of councilors.
The session of the finance and economy committee took place on September 18 this year at the city council hall and attended by all delegates of the committee together with the experts of the city.
In that sitting, it has been explained that after the tension that lasted for more than three hours, they were told that the tender to tax for vehicles in the areas of the city have been separated by PPRA so as to experts of that institution to make the last decisions.
Those councilors had discussing the names of two companies (names are reserved) which has been called in the process of the contract in all the previous steps, one company has given an amount of 212,150 shillings and 46,500 shillings.
One of the delegates of the committee told Good Citizen that tension due to the step by the director of the city, Idd Juma, and its experts refused to give some of the documents used earlier by the team of evaluation, together with the board of tenders so as to obey them and members of the committee.
"The director claims that those documents are secret and not supposed to be removed from the councilors and on their part, the members and they refused to approve the company which the director and its experts joined," added that statement.
"What happened is not knowing among the director and delegates of the committee on finance and economy, who also some of them are accused of fighting for the interests of one company between those two," he added.
