Salma Kikwete waving to Rwanda.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

The wife of President Jakaya Kikwete, Salma, has been questioned by some of the media in Rwanda that he is a brother who was a former president of the country ever ever made by the killing of themselves by themselves, the late Juvenal Utafu, who killed by using his plane by rigging.

As a result of that, already the government of Tanzania has given a report to announce that Salma Kikwete (in the picture), has no any relationship of brotherly; it has been reported in some of the media stations earlier this week.

On various social networks on Tuesday this week, there was a report that he claimed that the wife of President Kikwete is a cousin of President Kikwete who was killed on April 6 in the year 1994 to the accident of Rwanda.

"The government of Tanzania has denied all strength those claims by the media stations that have been distributed on social media networks all over the world.

The wife of the president of Tanzania does not have any brotherhood, apart from being close to the late Mgoda.

"This rumor is another part of a lot of hope that is being spread by President Kikwete and Tanzania in general.

"This is the right time for now has the aim of wanting the president and his wife in political tensions among others that our nation did not be involved in it.

"Our request for those who are spreading false with abusive language against President Kikwete, his family and Tanzania in general is that those efforts are unsuitable for our country's efforts to help peace in our country.

"The advice to President Kikwete (the Kagame Government) meeting with the rebels of FDS) was brought by a good intention and it is not given under the table or following up to him.

"It is our hope that all those with the claims like this would have come out in public and not knowing the truth instead of switching off and spreading hatred and false accusations without reasons," said the director of the department of information (details), Assah Mwambene.

Those news of supporting Mrs Salma Kikwete and Habyarimana was coming first on the News network of Rwanda Group and the network explained that it has taken those reports from the Wikipedia network that was founded by a journalist and international relations, Julian Asser, citizens of Australia.

That network claimed that they were forced to take information from Waja Spirs who scored one of the people of Diplomacy, in the United States of 2005, where he created a man, who has contributed the claims.

The highly accused is alleged to have given those claims when President Kikwete for Americans during the period of heading to the general elections of the year 2005 that brought him to power the president of Tanzania.

The quote of Salma Kikwete says soon as for a long time, Kikwete has been known as the champions of the Hutu community in the Great Lakes region.

Maybe this is coming from his marriage to a cousin to Juvenal Utafu.

We want to thank the wife of Kikwete, mother Salma, "says a section of the criminal document was reported to get through Waja Spirs.

In the politics of Rwanda, Surbana has been reported to be involved as the head teacher of Kimbari of the year 1994 and this like this against the president of Tanzania, they have the aim of wanting to deal with that brutal act that had brought in the Nyamatala, Rwanda.

Last week, this newspaper exposed how some of the press in Rwanda are doing so that President Kikwete and his wife of the killing of Kimbari, Leberata Mulamula, due to his action of wanting the illegal immigrants to leave Tanzania.
