When you see CCM 2015 is caring about it.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2013.

Opinions of the readers of my last week, that was carrying a news reporter, the problem of CCM is Kikwete himself, she has been able to continue with the debate on this second part, due to the thoughts of some of my readers on the fate of our country outside the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
My last article I wrote, I commend the habit of leadership of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete, to fear fulfilling his presidential responsibilities because he told them the directors of his party in Dodoma that for his presidential position, he gets information of bribery actions and lack of power inside his party.
However, together with the chairman Kikwete, recognizing the bribery agents and an amount of bribery that were issued, I said that he has gone up to speak, while welcoming other hundred thousand people, while Philip Mangula and Abdulrahman Kinana promised them to know how they love their discipline on behalf of him, because he is not worried.
I put on my last article on last week by told the chairperson Kikwete that he is capable of reducing CCM against abiding by the year 2015 and to stop his behavior of preventing them.
I said that it's better if the chairperson Kikwete has no reason to be given today by those directors, its directors, and some of him will get when CCM was unable to entertain its hands, after the general elections of 2015.
I heard this by considering one of the vice chairman of CCM (Mainland), Mangula, who has been awarded a club by chairman Kikwete to deal with bribery, one after another, he is the chairman of the ethics committee of CCM, the instrument with the responsibility of attending to those who will be satisfied by the receiver on the party.
However, according to the regulations of CCM, the ethics committee does not have any authority of Plasmodium falciparum.
Even if in an interview you will be evidence to arrest him as a suspect, the ethics committee does not have the authority to give punishment to each other to take legal action, that is the executive committee and the executive committee (NEC).
In those sessions, it is expecting a suspect said he has prepared himself well as if he did not prepare well and therefore lack a large percentage of defending champions, it will help them, but if he is organized well and to get many defending champions, he will also go well.
Therefore, the performance of the ethics committee of Mangula, is different from the performance of the chairperson of CCM as an institution as the chairman of CCM he will have the authority of the party and the chief supervisor of the party and the second as the attorney general.
The chairman of CCM, has given two main authority that can be able to use corruption in his party and in his government, without being interviewed by anyone, without being questioned by any law or any law of his party, or of the country.
Chairman Kikwete is understand that, but the fear of the one to blame is the main problem and that's why they have faith in CCM about the fate of the leadership of this country, they did not hesitate to tell him the truth that if he will continue with the behavior of the leadership of this country.
My dear reader among many who added and gave advice to my last article, who without doubt is a leader or a member of CCM due to the photos that got from his message to me, he wrote recently.
"Said it's true that leader, look for Nape (Nape NMnemba) and those who lost their differences as the ones that are inside UVCCM, CCM, UWT, and parents.
I have heard the chairperson of CCM, the secretary of CCM, all the directors and members of the party, we should think together with the logic which is within the short message of my reader in order to answer his question.
Those who came to Nape are small secretariat in the executive committee of CCM and the ones that are in UVCCM, UWT, and parents are known as so that they can attract the Tanzanian to look for him, so that the Tanzanian who was given up with this party, returning to the show afresh?
Let us start with Nape and this politician, a young man has changed as the discovery of corruption in the CCM party but it is known that corruption have great strength inside the party and in a short time, is like getting the party at more than 60 percent.
