
Registration should know the players who are in the market.

It are signs of registration which were started to hold the speed and already some.
Players who finished their contracts in various clubs.
To live in the market for the purpose of preparing to be given new contracts.

The winger of Azam, Uhuru Selemani in the end of the week.
Wrote on his Facebook page when he wanted the stakeholders to help him.
Look for a team to go to play next season.

Uhuru wrote "today May 24, has attained six months.
Since I met Azam, I request that you can go to Coastal Union, Simba.
Or Azam.

And the striker of Kagera Sugar, Yasin Lodhi.
He said his contract has ended and given a chance to the club.
They have been attracted by his level so as to make the fight.

"I finished in the contract with Kagera.
It is a right time for the teams that are outdated.
I register themselves, "said Felix.

That same time, the defender of Azam FC, Said Mshilili.
Told the Citizen that his contract is close to the end of.
Ready to join another team.

"My contract with Azam is close to the end.
Now he has emerged several months before starting the end.
The team wants to register I welcome him, "said the defender.

Also, the players of Simba, Ngalema Paul and Abdallah Juma have decided to cut their contracts of serving that club.

Ngalema said he decided to stop the contract.
As a result of the mix up between him and the leaders of that club.
He has seen it cannot continue serving the club more than check.
I do not lie!

Deputy Chairperson of Simba, Joseph Itenda, ".
Amiss Tambwe has confirmed to receive the letter of those players to stop the contracts.
Them inside the Simba club, where Ngalema had died.
Two times when he said his contract is ending in December this year.

Other players whose contracts are there.
He is the goalkeepers Juma Kaseja to be the contract in December this year.
Hussein Sharif of Mtibwa and Deogratius Munishi of Azam FC.

Others are Beki of Simba.
The beauty is celebrated on December this year, is also Amri Kiemba, Juma Nyari.
Haruna Niyonzima, Ramadhani Chinaand Abdallah Juma the contracts is there.
At the end of the side of Yanga is Hamis Kiiza.
