
I was surprised by Wama, APR, 2016.

The leaders of Africa and the statements are Never Ending.

On April 7, 1994 to 22 years ago, according to Rwanda, together with African citizens who follow the issues of this continent, that is not a day of knowing where you get even a little.
It is a day that the killing of more than eight hundred thousand people, most of them being the Ugandan origin, had been killed by a tough stand known as the killing of Kimbari which they shaken Africa and the world in general.
These murder that started after the president of Rwanda, Juvenal Utafu and Burundi president, Cyprian Noma, killed after their plane was opened on April 6 in 1994, were at a period of 100 days since the whole world failed to return to another side and not taking any action of preventing diseases though the ability were with them.
I don't know if they heard later, but several other leaders of the world who had the ability to prevent those killings but they did not prevent them, "insisted that it will not play again like this, because they were held and the world did not involve Muslims.
Last week, our President John Pombe Magufuli, has added that the number of leaders who visited Rwanda and the chairman Paul Kagame to commemorate 22 years of the killing of Kimbari that took place in the year 1994 and Magufuli insisted that the actual killings of people from other groups should not be allowed to get married.
It's a statement that we have already heard very much and that it has a very big meaning if we do not like, I thank the citizens of Rwanda and we believe this statement is true we are preventing the killings in our African continent?
Nashon has been explained so much by the way of African countries, especially our leaders, they were not very difficult to understand their promises, and forgetting their duties to the community that happened in Rwanda they've shaken the world to an extent that every person gets to violence, then it will be done every way they are supposed to intervene in other countries.
Yes, I have collaborated with Burundi Honorable President Pierre Nkurunziza started a great shape in Burundi, his leaders were against him because their leaders themselves have numerous problems in their countries, and therefore he has a great joy to have been a great difficulty.
I remember that it's only one leader who had the courage to stand on public and said that what is happening in Burundi will make the killing of Kimbari and that the world is not supposed to accept this situation to make sure that the country has reduced, due to another human being in his gallery.
