Our members of parliament and an eye for us.
Petit 25, 2014.

The budget of the budget is heading to the end where we have heard a lot and learn more, we have talked to our members, others opposing them, others opposing them and others who were using its sessions.
A big percentage of the members of parliament we have talked about the government by "an eye for us" and that the water projects, agriculture, roads, hospitals, schools, and others have been implemented because the government has become an eye for us. "
We have heard some of the members of parliament for being unable to build a health center, school, roads in their provinces and others make desks, beds, hospitals and making water boreholes in their constituencies.
The government that involves taxes, the government that got a bond of stealing and leading the country, instead of fulfilling his responsibilities, it does not have an eye for us, "it is forced to deal with one member of parliament to help his region according to the way he is giving his cry for what does not want him.
We have heard many times honorable members of parliament saying that, the honorable prime minister, I don't know what does not care about me, I request him to thank their member of parliament by bringing up the roads, water and electricity so that all that can benefit from the tax of citizens and the national resources.
My main question in this article is, we should be identifying the work of members of parliament and do you know their work and their responsibility?
We can do the work of member of parliament by checking the work of parliament, because the member of parliament is the representative of the constituency (CCM) in parliament, "the second part of parliament will be the University of United Republic and its institutions in the implementation of its responsibilities according to this constitution."
Article 63 (2), also, article 64 (1) have explained the parliamentary work on making laws and therefore the member of parliament is the representative of his constituency in the University of United Republic and its laws in the implementation of his responsibilities.
If the work of the member of parliament is happy and to advise the government, because my member of parliament is possible that even citizens think that the work of a member of parliament is to build water, it is also to bring water and to build a school.
That is why don't give priority to citizenship, it is not aware that the government will make this cry and put all strength in teaching education of citizenship, it is important before the year's election tomorrow all citizens together with those who are announcing the intention to vie for the responsibilities and work of a member of parliament.
In the 2010 general elections, I was lucky to get a member of parliament to vie for one parliamentary seat that was prepared and explained the various donations he made through her boyfriend.

"I call on access to fishing tools together with transporting the deceased from my district who had received road accidents in Dodoma town to address those injured in order to get quick treatment.

I followed the reputation of the body of the late Mathias Kasele from Dar es Salaam city and helped a lot in the possibility of air transport together with the air travel vehicle from the airport to go to which he had.
I issued a bicycle with a physically challenged person, a car worth 500 / = shillings with 100,000 / = shillings to buy another black person in three days.
I gave him a woman the whole person to get his rights in Dodoma that were in danger of its disappearance.
I helped me Salehe and his friend (views / =) for the fare in Dar es Salaam who were stuck on there.
I left the transport of two youths from my constituency who registered in Dar es Salaam after being transported from Dar es Salaam they could be given employment.
I commend his legacy of the child of an elder of the court of Mwanzo Kigonsera, who was reading the ward secondary.
On the 24 / 6 / 09 / I arrived at the funeral of Mzee Mighty One, who was buried in the neighborhood and contribute to 100,000 / = shillings as condolences.
I went to transport bodies from the Party of Revolution, Paul Makonda who died in the month of seven 2009 to Mbeya and buried in their village in Kariakoo, together with many costs that I have for, he also contributed 50,000 / = Tanzanian shillings.
I stopped Brother Saidi a resident of Nyamilima primary school following a donation of money following the death of his house.
I am sure I have given many other contributions to a human being with other people who do not go back in my region, "Nyari said that if you see me of others I have seen."
