And the news just reaching us now, from our news headlines, reports are saying that the late Adam Isimail Msigwa has ever played various positions in the government of Zanzibar including the minister of communication has died in the city when they were in the city.
The speaker of the council of representatives who is holding back sitting in the session of the council of representatives that is happening in Zanzibar town and that the procedures of taking the body of the deceased's body for instance, we will bring him as we continue.
The national office of statistics is continuing with the plan to provide education to different social groups, teachers and housing teachers, where various religious leaders in Dar es Salaam have participated in a special seminar that will be used to achieve the exercise which will take place all over the country on August twenty-six, while our leaders don't jump.
And this special report for various religious leaders here in the country there is to give direction and preparations for the people and housing sector that will take place on twenty and six to August this year.
The secretary general of the ministry of finance and economy is why I was opening this seminar and said that the sale of people's and housing sector to see why their results will be the light of development.
You miss.
Let's end.
A new constitution of Kanumba night.
I have a modem.
When you decided to pay a lot of money.
Likewise, in two.
I was born without work.
The two reason for five.
I realize that I was coming from the issues of religion and agriculture what I know to check.
On his part, the council of the number of two and ten thousand in the country is the important pillar for communication in the country as the important pillar of communication in the community to help educate their believers so as to make that country's national plan even their children are not yet to be postponed due to one of the best services to look for their daily lives.
The leadership of the human and housing sector, there is a must for each one to play the country on the night of twenty and six to August this year and counted at the book which will be done immediately.
Maria Sharapova comes close to Mbeya.
Following the spread of him.
