
Happines is supposed to think about the effects of.
And Mary Lugusi.
The statement by the leader of the opposition, Raila Odinga, about Angel di's plans to prepare public meetings across the country in the attempt to convince the government to prepare a national discussion that has raised various feelings among the citizens.
This is after the President Uhuru Kenyatta refused to refuse to refuse to move to the United Republic of Busquets in accusing the government to prepare a national discussion about the challenges that are facing the nation.
Mister Odinga, who was going back in the country on Saturday from America, has announced that Cord will start a public meetings across the country starting at the Toninga Village, Mombasa, on June 15 because of forcing the government to prepare a discussion.
Some of the issues that we want to be discussed include lack of security, corruption, togetherness and the nation, discrimination have been kidnapped by the IEBC, in line with other issues.
Although it may not be dealt with by Fadau has the good intention of wanting to be a national discussion, because they give them the ones that used the meeting being questionable.
The special issue that comes up is, Cord is aiming to fulfill what is due to preparing public meetings across the country but instead of organizing meetings across the country but the opposition should be able to provide a lot of solutions to the challenges that are facing the nation by maintaining alternative means.
While many Kenyans believe that they have put up a matter of a political campaign in at least five years, it is unacceptable, that some of the political leaders that are supposed to bring themselves popularity, they have bought Kenya to be a political leader each other.
Many Kenyans are not guilty, they are continuing to suffer while the political tensions continues to withstand fire in the tourism sector because it has been able to control their lives and continue to register their lives together or to support the efforts of the government to improve the interests of the citizens.
You shouldn't know how they missed him, "he wrote.
