John Lukuwi Pickup, who was the presidential candidate in Ghana.
May 29, 2012

You can appeal as the former player of the national football team of Magula and this journey, votes are enough for his part after vying for the presidency of Ghana for two seasons without success.
Once you were defeated in the presidential race twice, all the times, the president is completing his term, John Fisher is who was doing his first time since the year 2000 and the second in the year 2004.
Vied for the ticket of the National Revolution Party (NDC) has won the former President of Ghana, after losing two other candidates, in the elections that took place at the end of last year.
Earlier on December last year, the general election in Ghana was held and at that time, Atlabara Club had a few votes compared to the candidate of the ruling party of New York (NRF), who were in-1-Adnani.
However, Ao-Adnani has not been announced as the winner after the votes got into 50 percent of all votes like the law, he wanted that therefore, the elections are forced to enter in the second round.

It is in the same month of December, the election was done by that, where Atlabara Club emerged as the winner.
John Atlabara Club is getting into the state of Ghana when he was 64 years old, is not the guest of honor to lead the country and this is not yet confirmed.
He has been the vice president for three years, from the year 1997 to the year 2000, it is a scholar with the same level of Professor Lipumba, he was surprised more than two big games of Magunga and swimming.
He was the Vice President during the administration of President Jerry Rwena from the year 1997 to January 2001.
Maybe that relationship is that made him that one day will be elected as the president of Ghana, then he will be forced to get advice from the former President, Rwangisa.

However, last year, a distance between him and retired president, it will realize that he started selling his former boss, because of criticism he insisted that Rujuguru said he has been responsible for his political party.

During the election campaign, different from his opponent from the ruling party, who was using more posters of advertisements in areas of gatherings, Atlabara Club, started the campaign without a result of being completed and the ones that are still needed.
She had a small man with a text messages or the slogan that was not easily read, I have faith with Ghana?

She was trying as a lover of democracy who did a lot from the position of the first President of Ghana, Charlize Theron who was sacked.
Therefore, how he started his campaigns, the new President of Ghana, who was born on July 21, year 1944, in Tarimba village, west of Ghana.
He graduated under the law in Ghana University in 1967.

Another job that he did is together with being the tax commissioner during the leadership of Rondo, before being taken to the level and to be the vice president.

He is a vibrant player in the Magunga game, and the certain time he was reliable in the Magongo national team.

Atlabara Club is the husband of El Jestina George, a teaser sin because he becomes a lady but before this success of going to live in State House, El Nino was the director of education and advice on marriage issues.
