
Mkapa desires to do a better environment in Africa.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Retired President Benjamin Mkapa has urged African countries to make big environmental changes in investment so as to bring development in the continent.

The retired President explained that while speaking at the occasion of the Institute of Investment of Africa (MARI) to celebrate the results of 73 army projects that is aimed to make Africa be a better part in business.
Mkapa is the running mate of the board of 'Sura Sirambi' was established so as to confirm that the investment environment can be done quickly, by using a little money and bring great results in the private sector, the government and the country as a whole.
"We have done this issue," we have explained that it is possible for now, is about the African countries to follow this example of sending and putting great changes in investment environment that will bring development to Africa and grow the state of entrepreneurship for its people. "Said Mkapa.
Those projects that were implemented between the year 2007 and 2016, has enabled many business people to be signed, to pay their taxes easily, to resolve business conflicts, passing cargo through customs ways, easy and open.
Easily and success helps to increase the speed of economic growth and eventually change the lives of millions of Africans.
If you have done African countries and the government of 21 countries, three organizations and private sectors so as to put system of registration of business and provision of licenses through the internet, to put one electronic system system so as to ease the system of goods and set tax systems.
The chairman of the board of ICSIDO, Neville Isidore has mentioned the important areas of success, being together with the establishment of nine East and fourth courts, so as to resolve business conflicts with transparency.
Also the introduction of five computers together with business so as to improve the purchase of goods into the important port of Africa and six tax systems through the internet that was started in order to reduce the time and cost of business that are reached to reach the taxpayer.
He said if you have helped several countries to form the electronic registration system, to put the electronic systems of selling products, and grow the ability of the government to cooperate with the private sector through the private sector and the private sector.
