
What did you know about the meaning of COMING?
The Copa America tournament has started on Friday at 4 o'clock in the United States, but it is Saturday at 8 o'clock in the night for the East African time.
The start of that competition is after confessing to win the championship in the last competitions.
The Copa America finals fail to reach the South American countries, central and North Africa.
16 teams that were inspected in America who are the host this year, the finals of this season have an argument and the following are which the match has started.
Basically, the match has started on Friday, June 3, despite basically it is on Saturday, 10th June, at 811 o'clock at night.
The competition started by Colombia to win 2-0 goals while Peru.
A total of 1-0 goals against Brazil will shine after Brazil and Costa Ranaut have emerged with a goalless draw.
Copa America 2016 will help me the Sunday of June 26th, 7 o'clock at night.
Why are the competitions that are happening now?
This competition takes place every after four years and this year is attaining 100 years since its start in Argentina in 1916.
These are the 45 competition and it is the first time to take place outside the South American continent and defending champions league is Chile.
Why are 16 teams that were found?
Previously it was 12 teams but because America has three continents and the primary schools will be given six teams from the Caspian Sea, South Africa with 10 nations.
America and Mexico were reached directly and it's in a very difficult time and that they went through the semi-finals of the Costa Ranaldo and Jamila Africa also died.
Two high teams from every group who play in the quarter finals, who is in groups of group A of America, Colombia, Paraguay has risen up to Costa Race.
Group B of Brazil, Peru.
Brazil, Philippe Coutinho (Liverpool) and William an of Chelsea.
Chile in the match is Sanchez, (Arsenal) to Colombia, David Moyes (Arsenal) and Juan Cuadrado was fouled at Chelsea.
Costa Ranaldo and Bribes (Everton), Joel Nanauka speaking (Arsenal).
GPFTZ, Antonio Valencia (Manchester United), Enner Valencia (West Ham), Juan Zlin Repyson (Watford) and Jeffery Webb in the Swansea City.
Jamila Africa, Adrian Mariana (Crystal Palace) and Dar es Salaam.
America, GeitaMGODI of Cameron (Stoke) and Debwa, Tottenham Hotspur.
Uruguay was Hernandez (Hull City, Celine Itatiro (Midamiru Yassin.
VFLWanjala (WBA).
