The lack of the law to protect land for the agricultural sector has caused the improvement of land to be difficult, while investors being allowed to invest more, especially for irrigation, the bank should not hesitate to provide loans to create a loss.
He said that when he has caused the increase in conflict between the users of land for instance the farmers in the minerals sector and farmers as well as required to stop sustainable land plans for agriculture is Colonel Hosea Ndagala.
This has been noted by the stakeholders in the agricultural sector in the country in a meeting to discuss recommendations of the land laws where he has said that as it is for other sectors that depend on land, he said that as it is the pillar for other sectors that depend on land, he said that as it is the economy of the country we need to have a lot of land disputes and shall be mentioned legal so that we can be affected by various human activities.
If there is a constitution there, there is a subject where I have.
They are doing?
Yes, there is a supply of water in the country but the houses are added to go.
Just after a time you have written about words's words, I would be I don't have the profile but where you came to be Noma in my article that was revoked.
The one was mentioned.
There isn't an act that has been known as well as some of the livestock that had gone for.
And in that meaning it is unable to do as well.
When you want to do that decision to produce this produce?
Why are many types of place?
What is it?
It is very happy to strengthen.
Magufuli.
This is one area that doesn't know it.
A very big work.
Where we are going to where?
Bad.
That one day conference that was organized by the council but the Tanzanian Football Association will discuss several weaknesses in the wedding law number four of one year has not have nine hundred and three hundred thousand shillings with the land law of five villages.
Sixty eight hundred and nine of the ten hundred and four hundred thousand, were recommendations in some of the sections of the land law in front of the court especially about the ability to control people who do not have land for agriculture so that it can be used by considering its importance being reported in Dar es Salaam because they are vying to contest.
