
600 who had qualified will be presented to study in government secondary.

While the questions sank is among some students who succeed to go to secondary without knowing, in the lake region more than 600 children have been registered in secondary schools without success for the primary school exams.
The investigation of this newspaper has shown that, some of the head teachers in those secondary schools are believed to be paid between 100,000 to 600,000 secondary schools in order to register their government schools.
In implementing that goal, some of the head teachers have been looking for a transfer to students who are in private schools and get them in government schools, while procedures and laws do not allow the procedure to relocate students from private schools to the government.
Other ways that they are using is to collect students who did not be elected to join any school in order to register their schools, where some of the parents have been able to pay their students, whereby some of the parents have been able to help students.
Another system that has been used in registering those students in those schools is for the head teachers to come out in their schools on the excuse of involvement them from other government schools but the schools are alleged not to be registered and they still unknown.
At Kipala Primary School located in Mwanza town, a total of 48 students have been registered in that school despite not being elected (success) to join that school, the reports indicate that, the department of education projects in the lake region continues with investigation in that school.
The head of that school, Sabina Kibacha decided to be ready to talk about it, instead he praised the news reporter to stop his office and to leave them, therefore, some of the teachers admitted to be there in that problem at the school.
One person who is a third child in that school who is also on the number of children who have not succeeded, says it will hear of the children who did not be registered in that school and he is going to know it is a new procedure for the government or it is a system to improve education to who failed.
I am pleased that here there are children, I will put it more than three hundred thousand shillings and I was not registered, I believe that the government has decided to put a new system but I was not happy, "explained my mother who did not want to be mentioned in the newspaper for fear of being known by the teachers of that school.
The inspector of education in the lake region, Edith Mwijage, told Citizen newspaper, that the problem is big in his region and that together with the efforts they have been doing to inspect those schools and give information to the concerned authorities, there is no action taken.
Together with forcing the existence of that problem in Lumato Primary School, Mwijage has told the newspaper that the problem has already brought in his region and they have been fighting with it sometimes without getting enough cooperation from some of the concerned authorities, to an extent that even discourage them in their work performance.
According to the Chief Justice who deals with the provinces of Mwanza, Mara and Geita provinces, there are more than 600 students that were registered to work in 60 secondary schools in three districts in the Lake Region which were working on the previous inspection and discovered that they did not succeed in class seven examinations.
He explains that they played 20 schools as samples of inspection from every district in Sengerema district, Magu and Geita where they met with the problems of students not having the record of the school they took place in their primary education and even if he is in the list of students of the school, they are alleged that they were in primary schools.
In Geita District, we found 220 students who are legal and they have been put in the secondary without being elected as 107 have no forms of 9 schools, they are supposed to fill in the primary school, the forms made were not legal, "he explained.
In Sengerema District, they found those who were registered contrary to the procedure in Nyamkazi Primary School, Nyami and Ngolly Mbiso during the village of Magu Primary School, Ngaka and Lamadi County that had a problem where more than 400 students in those districts were put in Jieun Park.
In addition to those problems, Majani ya Chai Secondary which is in Geita district, last year they found students who finished form four days and others in form one were that they are registered.
Mwijage says that this situation has contributed to a large extent, the congestion of students in class and to weaken the status of education whereby a class that is supposed to have 40 or 45 students is growing up with more than 60 children, most of them being stolen from that school.
Some of the students that were interviewed by our citizens believe that lack of names of primary schools they read and others do not understand or they did not understand what they had given the Tanzanian forms.
When he was asked for that inspection, it will help what as the situation is so that and there is no action taken against the situation, he said that as a step taken against the situation, he said that as a step taken against the situation, he said that as a step taken against the situation, he said that they are required to inspect the education sector as they are required to take action against that situation.
After the inspection they were given to information and advice of directors of the concerned council and the office of the ruling secretary of province taking action to deal with the problem.
"Something sad is that I talk with sadness that since last year (2011), the councils of these districts with problems have not yet answered or explained what is going on," explained Mwijage.
The information from some of the schools that are accused of having a lot of money from this system by partnering with some of the leaders in the education department of those councils and others from the district education departments and those provinces.
This "those who do teachers are the procedure that killed our education but they are not yet alone.
He also explained that the county schools have been used more so as to make that plan because people do not overlap with the other leaders they have not just after the schools have problems and therefore there is no need to follow up.
This newspaper looked for administrative secretary of Mwanza Province, Ayubu Sebabili, whose office is the authority of discipline for the heads of those secondary schools, however, Guninita was not ready to talk about the issue.
This issue should ask the education officer of the province, he is the one who will have a report, "he answered me in a short time.
On his side, the Education Officer of Mwanza Province, Khamis Haji, confessed the existence of that problem in his region schools but he said they are in special steps that are being taken against that situation.
"This problem is there, what we speak and you have made a committee in every district that involve secondary education, primary education officer, district safety officer, and the police commander in the district to inspect and inspect them, we will take action," he explained.
Speaking about Mpilipili Primary School, he said that the issue has been heard and that there are also people doing the work of inspecting and action will be taken after getting full reports.
"Even the ministry has directed to make that investigation, we have made a letter on 26th of June (2012) and we have ordered all the districts to take the inspection up to July 30th, after that action will be taken.
