
Wednesday, December 31st, 2014.

The mental growth and mental growth of the child of 0-0.

In this article, we look at short issues of the child aged one day up to 36 months, we will look at the primary issues that show the growth of child growth in large areas; therefore, there is no growth of one area that does not depend on another area.

The growth of the body.

Normally, the growth of the body for the first year may be very fast for example, while the child is born with an average of 394 months ago, within six months and to reach 12 months ago, but as he knows it, it starts from night as it is normal of many.

For all the first time of the first three years, in general, the child is still preparing to face environmental degradation and use them easily so as to deal with environmental challenges and use them easily so that he can be able to deal with environmental challenges.

It is in this period when a child can have the use of her well, hands and doughing, and so when he takes six months you usually have the ability to relocate its direction and rebuke me when she fainted often.

After completing six months, the child starts to sell the teeth because of two two clothes starting from the lower level and then the first time after the first 6 months of going, and eventually take the first step before or after the first year.

We are told by the experts that the child takes place early and good environment to boost their homes in order to succeed in a certain steps for the growth (SMS), usually in the front of his colleagues who were left to get those actions as well as an example that involves itself, walking, walking and so on.

After the past 12 months, the child usually have the ability to sign in its own organs so as to allow him to walk it, to try to leave it as he is taught.
However, this is the period when a child gets a lot of accidents and break the equipment's home because nobody would be able to be assisted by being given good equipment and the ones that are forced to be assisted by being given good equipment and the ones that are forced to be assisted by being given stable equipment that broke down as plastic bags, iron sheets and so on.

He is heading to the second year and third in the speed of growth is reduced because of many activities, therefore the increase in many games is the increase in houses and close supervision, therefore that you get the freedom of the child is an important things in this age.

In general we can say during the first three years, the growth of the body that is growing very fast may be able to learn and deal with the body organs so as to allow the child to learn and deal with the brain among the growth of the body.

However, the growth of the body is a area which at a large extent is about the ability of the mother to ensure that the child gets a good food to build the body, the responsibility is to make sure that the child gets to work according to its age so as to get a donation of experts on time when the child will be seen behind in its growth.

The growth of the body.

The mind, a child is born with the lung infection, so as to allow you to understand its environment and therefore build a memory of the issues he meets with without depending on the teachings or any instructions.

In general, in the first six months, the child is usually have a big activity of building a lot of experience as well as part of the film as he could face those who have lost their environment.
The increase in pieces of the film in your knowledge that are making them to build a relationship between events and as it increased, it helps her thinking to participate in what is happening in his environment including her body and she does not have the ability to understand what is seen easily.

Likewise, the doors of what you want to do the ongoing work is the same as to help the child to build a lot of knowledge, and that the ability helps to take action against him and that the ability to remove flaws in his environment by the ease of freedom.

Inside one year, a child can make sure the presence of these things does not see him and to confirm that his record is strengthened, in this period, we have the ability to look for and identify the voice of people that he believes are those who sell their environment.

Another important event of the mental growth is the use of the language in communicating with those who live in the 12 and 18 months, the child starts using words in communicating with other people, although it is true that the number of more than 200 words used to do the language without inventory.

The increase in the ability to build a group photo spoken without support of the presence of a short message and to understand what this period is a period when a mother can sign him, a short message of other factors to understand, discipline, discipline and others so on.

Because of improving the ability of thinking and question, up to when he attains three years, the child usually has the ability to ask for many questions that they kill him in his environment as well as to attract things that do not overlap.

Click here to economic growth being involved with an issue.

A fools should be hostile in the 93rd minute, AT threw out 970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, a period of 93949 in the past.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
