Natural gas to save.
December 17, 2014.

The city of Dar es Salaam, only is estimated to have costed more than 50,000 and 60,000 shillings per day which is equivalent to approximately 50,000 and 720,000 shillings for a year, a high speed that is currently paid for forests in the country.
Urban areas are big users of Zaire, therefore, he requested other towns councils that have remained in the provinces of provinces, district and small towns that are estimated in the country every day, the level of solar energy is increasing.
The statistics that were given by the national system of the Tarangire National Hospital is to live in the air and destruction of forests by the Director of forests from every year in the country being between 35 million shillings of forests.
The lands officer of Mbeya, Joseph Butiku has said it is saying that the statistics show that between 16,000,00 Tanzanian shillings were lost every year in the country, and in that province, he says that it is between 18 hectares to 35,000 tons annually.
It has been the presence of various plans that concern the infrastructure and even out of the country in dealing with the danger of disappearance of forests, but still the speed of buying trees due to energy has continued to use it.

Among those plans are together with the ones that order to be emphasized by the experts of forests in the country, regarding the use of easy technology where it is believed to reduce the use of solar energy to fifty percent.
In one of his interview with Raia Mwema, one of the delegates of the panel of experts who follow up on the trend of climate change in the world of East African Union (NACC), Professor Pius Yanda says.
"We cannot prevent the use of hunger in the country, but it is possible to reduce its use by using an easy technology that may increase efficiency, for example, creating a few hours and the use of laboratory equipment that can reduce the use of charcoal a long time."
However, in the recent years, especially after the discovery of a big gas reserve in the country, the hope of the forest resources in the country have increased more so that the use of gas energy will reduce dependency.
Experts of forests and gas in the country have noted that the natural gas will be able to reduce more than 50 percent according to urban residents, the plan to distribute natural gas for the use of homes and institutions will succeed in all big towns in the country.
The use of natural gas.
The research that was done by the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) has revealed that the presence of great benefits at the natural gas is used in homes and producing electricity.
"By using the natural gas, the nation is striving economically and as to reduce the reduction of trees because of energy, it is clear that the step that will bring in the environment," says the managing director of TPDC, Yona Kilumbi in a special interview in his office.
It is the research that took place in the year 2009 / 10 of the problem that the city of Dar es Salaam only uses various crops on a day, a level that for now is added to reach 50,000 dollars, while the price that was there at the end of the end of the end of 104 shillings was 50,000 shillings.
A resident of Dar es Salaam city, who identified himself by the name Mrs. Cathy Ulbrahim and himself about electricity prices will enable them to reach 50,000 shillings in the end of the end and that if it will use that money that will be sold at each other.
Using the energy amount of "Gissela Akoth famously known as compared to the use of hunger and the natural gas, the professionals are discovered to be in the end of hunger, which at an average are used in urban areas, it is equivalent to the natural gas of that amount of energy it has been sold to 120 billion shillings.
According to the research, that consider more than 1500 users in the end of the end, the user will be forced to use 880 votes compared to the one with the natural gas.
In the production of electricity, the research has noted that the nation is being used more costs due to the use of fuel that had been ordered from outside the production of electricity, whereby the National Housing Corporation (TANESCO) will be forced to buy a 45 million American dollars to one unit instead of eight billion US dollars.
