
I was written by Mr of May, 2016.

Jew from the past up to the main market of business.

By the ministry of natural gas, (OPATA), Dar es Salaam city.
In the recent years, the instrument has been encouraging the investment for investment in various countries in the world.
Tanzania is one of the countries that are in hardship areas as a result of the weather so as to grow their farms for agriculture.
On an average, whoever doesn't live in 13 up to 14 years, whereby its leaves can reach 200 to 300 products and can be used to make different products such as summoning demons.
As the age of this year, it is increasing the value in the production of its products by using science and technology, which will produce different products in the machines, communication, transport, oil, agriculture and agriculture.
This is as a result of the use of controlling and causing the international market to depend on great needs of that product.
In the previous years here in the country, bird feathers had gone into two provinces compared to the weather in the relevant area which is Morogoro and Tanga.
At the moment, that product has already been fast and started paying off in the district of Shipafu, Shinyanga, as their business of different business and previously where Ukraine is the main market of business.
Suzan Jongo (53), is a farmer of that organization and not the owner of that product from Kishapu district, Shinyanga province, says that their product has increased great success to the farmers in that district.
He says that he is a mother to home, he has been married and has six children, she has thrown out that product since the year 2013.
Earlier I was previously, I have bought normal harvest, but when I started doing this business to prevent it, then I have done great success, "he says.
He is saying that when he went to three quarter finals to buy and buy the virginity of the small-scale farmers for the purpose of production.
He says that for a year he can increase 10 tons and sell in the AgriProtein company where one acre is sold between 800 to 1000 shillings and if an illusion.
I commend the OXFAM organization through their projects that it has given us a education on this projects because our land is very fast, we had to get losses and make economic development to go back every day, "he says.
The farmer says that at the moment they aren't useful in the middle and they mix up with other crops like maize, spirits, and nuts.
Jomo Kenyatta said that the organization through its experts has changed its lives by giving them a machine to process the machine to ease and get more education on that farming.
"I have succeeded to buy farms, educating children together and raising my child suffering from breast cancer.
"I have not have teeth.
On his side, the Acting Director of Agriculture, Irrigation and Manyoni District, Godwin Evarist Ndikilo says the OXFAM organization was in their district in the year 2009 to start its activities in 10 villages and later on increasing the speed of 30 villages by educating the community on the use of their crops.
He says that, people were using that product as the boundaries to separate a farm from one person and another but after being given education they have been able to make steps from the boundaries for their business.
