
Tanzania is taking 13 positions for service provision.

October 19, 2016.

A new report has noted that Tanzania still holds 13 positions in the Southern Highlands Region by giving loans.
That has been revealed at the report that was issued by the International Institute of WEAGI, a report that will follow the indicators of criteria for the three quarter finals of the year 2015.
That report was launched recently by the Board of Finance and Economy in the country has revealed that the countries of Rwanda, Zambia and Kenya that are leading to give loans.
The research that was done by Pan African Development has been released by a great stakeholder in the economy of Oxford made a real picture of the regional performance in economic issues by checking more than Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast, South Africa and Angola.
By using a series of reports of doing business in the World Bank, the results of Rwanda shows that the country led the countries of the Sub-Saharan countries for the provision of loans.
Moreover, the second position has already taken place by Zambia, followed by the country of Kenya, Ghana, Mauritius, Uganda, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Ivory Coast, Tanzania, Ethiopia and Angola.
Also, Rwanda has made various improvements in order to enable access to loans in a period of 6 years ago thus helping to hold the first position.
Kenya has also improved the availability of loans by making laws to prevent the bank to provide loans and interest of more than four percent of the high level of the Central Bank.
The countries of Angola that has been the end of the standards of loan services, has improved only one level for a period of 6 years in the issue of availability of loans.
Although the country is the third for laying the biggest system of banks in the Sub-Saharan countries after Nigeria and South Africa, is still a small part of its people to identify the bank and the few traders to ask for loans.
In general, South Africa in accordance to the report in the southern region of the Sahara Desert did not do well.
Compared to other regions in the issue of availability of loans with an average of the distance of a distance to each other (DPO), a non-governmental organization (5-9).
The total of Duwe has shown a distance of the growth of the economy and the use of better performance in the whole samples including 100 points that are up to the end of the amount.
The total marks of Duwe has shown the difficulty of availability of loans.
That report also shows that the East African countries have been able to buy financial policies in a period of one year when East African countries have invested the financial policies in an effort to destroy the inflation rate.
Moreover, it has been revealed that the cost of borrowing, Kenya is small compared to Uganda.
Rwanda and Kenya have improved the growth of economic growth and to get the national income (GDP) of the 73 percent per year, and 59 percent of the year up to the first quarter of the year.
Uganda revealed a reduction in the growth of the national income by 364 the year up to test for the first time.
