Nasir taking back the port to remove bad agents.
Autoworks and 25, 2016.

Deusdedith Kakoko, the Executive Director of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), the head of Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (Nasir) may have been banned by non-governmental agents who drive their activities at the port of Dar es Salaam.

This step has come after realizing that some of the agents have been not faithful because they have been getting rid of bad thoughts about the port of Dar es Salaam including putting off the documents and increase its customers to customers.

That has caused many customers especially those who are involved in the neighboring countries who produce their sales products and procurement of products outside the country threatened and others to stop using that port which is relied upon by all countries that are affecting Tanzania if you remove Mozambique and Kenya.

Those agents among them are in special operation of cleaning the performance of the port of Dar es Salaam and the whole authority of the port that was done by the new government of President John Pombe Magufuli.

That transported the success resulted from the result of the directors of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) who are involved with tax issues in the port depending on the appointment of the director of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) and his hand in his board and removed from the manager of the port of Dar es Salaam.

The head of Nasiri Bakari has been faced with different stakeholders of the port for a long time because many have lost faith in some of the agents who want to benefit themselves with bad qualities that go to the port.

A few months after being sworn in, President Magufuli has ever been sacked by Nasiri Bakari and the decision also seems to be supported by some of the stakeholders that use the port of Dar es Salaam.

The executive director of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) Deusdediti Kakoko has said the port's goals is to provide reliable and affordable services by using modern systems and to check the interests of the country.

Speaking to the editors from different media houses last week, Kakoko said those fears from saying that the problems of performance which were made at the port have been made and the situation that caused those affected with cargo.

One of the port is saying that the County's stakeholder is saying that the main agent in charge of the ship's procedure to get into the port of Dar es Salaam and cargo from outside the country is a permanent solution to the improvement of performance and build faith.

"Many agents are not faithful, they used the execution of performance of the port to have cheating, a situation that caused the disappearance of faith in some of the customers, especially those outside the country," he said.

January this year, the sailors in the country (JMT) have requested the government to resurrect Meshark Bandawe, so as to have a national income that will supervise the interests of the country in that sector and avoid embezzlement being done at the port.

The chairman of that community, Frank Mvungi, was quoted saying embezzlement cannot end the port because there is no national park that is in charge of all the ship that enter the market and therefore it's difficult for the nation to have the real statistics of the ship and the correct number of cargo that were carried in that ship.

"At the port there is a great importance, and you shouldn't be afraid that every ship has an agent who is alleged to be carried out, but if the country would have an opportunity to manage all that ship, it is clear that no embezzlement had come from," said Lira.

The number of cargo.

Kakoko has also noted that starting in the year 2010 / 11 up to 2014 / 15 that had an increase in cargo and revenue, but the existence of a shortage of cargo in the year 2014 / 15 compared to the year 2013 / 14.

In the period of 2014 / 15, a bag has been served by the port of authority was 9707 million tons, which is an increase of 57,963 million or 36 tons compared to 4 million tons used to be served in 2013 / 14 tons.

Statistics show that in the year 2010 / 11, last week at the port of Dar es Salaam, including inside and within the neighboring countries, it was 99 million tons, equivalent to approximately 4 million tons in the year 2014 / 15.

Areas where a cargo fell for the year 2014 / 15 and 2013 / 14 according to Kakoko was the one for Zambia for the age of 54th, Burundi with 58 percent and Malawi by 345 percent.

In that period, a cargo of the country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has increased by 21 percent and 5 percent, Uganda cargo has increased by 41 percent and one of Rwanda increased by 64 percent.

However, together with the drop in cargo at a small amount of one million tons, still the income in that port have continued to increase.

"We have received the directive from the minister for inspection because of the reduction of cargo cargo and take appropriate measures to ensure that goods is increasing so that we have a step to ensure the campaign to look for markets is being implemented as required," he said.

In the period of 2014 / 15, a total of 4200 tons of 732 tons of the neighboring countries were served by Dar es Salaam port which is equivalent to 3239 percent of all cargo.

In a period of the past five years, cargo of neighboring countries have been increasing at an average of 1665 percent per year, from 394 million tons in the year 2010 / 11 up to 4732 tons in the year 2014 / 15.

On the side of bags of vehicles, the number has increased to approximately 3,749 vehicles in the year 2014 / 15 compared to 75,273 vehicles in the year 2010 / 2011.

With a lot of cargo, it has been served by the port and the Financial Unit (TICTS) caused an increase and reached approximately 67,888 trillion shillings in the year 2014 / 15 from having 46,000,000 shillings in the year 2010 / 2011.
