
The discovery of Tanzanian shillings to be used.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

The government will start using the laboratory equipment of a new science books whose solution is a Tanzanian, Ernest Maranga (36).

That statement was given the day before yesterday by the deputy minister office of the president, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi), Selemani Jafo when he visited the program in front of the panel of experts from Tamisemi.
Maranga, who is a physically challenged person, said that the launch has been verified for the verification of experts from universities and research institutions through the Ministry of Education Science and Technology (COSTECH) and being signed by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (COSTECH) and signed by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (COSTECH) and signed by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (COSTECH) and signed by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment.
"A device is determined to be an opportunity for the previous trials, to aim the department of foreign affairs to have a device that can verify their movements, behavior, results, and knowledge of all the natural resources that are natural gas and the behavior of energy and land disputes," he said.
Jafo said that the discovery was done for the first time with a vibrant mid-fielder of New York, but Maranga has shown to bring up many things and wanted the citizens to value their colleagues.
He ordered the experts in his ministry and those in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to ensure that the device is starting to be used in school together with giving them the owner's book, urging the experts from the Ministry of Education and Tamisemi.
"At least let us start with 20 schools so that students do not have their studies in actions, this issue is big and is important things, it is a responsibility of experts within five years to ensure that big thing is done due to the discovery," he said.
The head of Vocational Education and Training Authority (Vida), Central Region, Ramadhani Mataka said Tanzania has many talents but were not on paper because of the education system that is in the country.
Doctor Jane Mboma, who is a language expert in the office of President Tamisemi, said that renowned expert has come with a good thing and that one research is not a sin and it is what is required to happen.
