
The ethics of some of the open sores.
By Antoine Griezmann.

The ethics of the leaders of Mauritius have been buried after the body of the attempt to be found in the sleeping position of a woman is said to be a believer in his church.
The body of Geoffrey Maasais who was the age of 70 years was found on the sleeping position of that woman at the Shangani region on the 19th of February.
The police said that the body was found without any injuries, it has not said that the coordinator who will participate in the Church of REDEOA Juma Duni is requesting the car in the shop of Mpunga Relini area where he went to home for that woman.
The woman aged 40 years he told the police that the coordinator had gone to pray for him and believe that he was a patient.
He told the police that he fell hard and died and added an eruption of controversy that but being very disturbing, he was a friend and that is why he attended the prayers together with the neighbor to the woman confirmed that she was announcing to visit the time for the woman.
The incident was impressed by a huge crowd while some of the residents of the area saying that they may be the death of the disease due to the use of drugs to increase love for love.
The neighbors claimed that the woman who represented the coordinator where she had her husband following the family conflict.
Police have criticized the woman that questioned him about that incident and they put him later.
The body was taken to toe.
The believers of the church of REDEOA Juma Majjid, arrived at the area to remove the vehicle.
The archbishop of the church of REDEOA Juma Duni has praised the coordinator against blame that he was killed and drugs to increase the male strength saying he was honest.
He said the coordinator went to the woman to do a request.
However, it was not yet known because his body was found in the same way to the believers of the church, they also congratulated them, saying they left for the high level of ethics and unholiness.
In another incident that led news headlines, very disturbing of the mosquito, was found in the hotel hall in Karuma town, with a woman's wife.
Pasquino has talked about the South Korean church from Kenya Assemblies of God bless God, had survived, the husband of that woman has completed him in that hotel the day before yesterday was said to be the husband of that woman who found him while the movements of his wife.
Later, the man was forced to kick off the race because he did not have any woman but the head of the church of TAG told him that he had gone against the regulations of the church.
Bishop Moses Muchi of the Eastern region of Kenya Assemblies of God, who appointed him that he stopped him for a very long time when the investigation was done, "following that incident, are very disturbing when they could not continue to lead the church activities.
In he stated that he has gone for a woman for women who wanted a preacher who was forced to buy a student of Kugunduliwa school and later sending charges of killing her mother to arrest him.
Being led by the representative of women Zohra Moore (WHO) the chairperson of the development of those who were given that they are Sarah Ky and Irene Magula, the coordinator of the famous church Global Education Link wanted the police to stop investigations so that the famous church for the famous church in the north of Ranaldo and Minnesota.
