
It has been thrown out.
Mister Blue has been found guilty of violating the constitution, violating the law of importation of public products and the law of the management of public funds.
Senator of Eucharist celebrated what he refused to vote with his fellow musician Barbosa from MOI to vote for opposing that step.
While presenting the report, Doctor Khaled who said that the 11 party committee has confirmed that Mister Blue has violated the law of importation of local products through the purchase of maize flour, vehicles, renovation of the National Sports Council and the renovation of the Manugu stadium.
"The committee has been satisfied with that Mister Okoye did not follow the collection of importation of public products that sell the maize by 35 million shillings.
Apart from that the seedlings were fake because 20 percent did not expect the purchase was done against the law because the tender is given one company and there was no competition, "said Doctor Khaled.
He added that as a result of that offense, the residents of Navy Kenzo who depend on agricultural farming, were affected so far and now they are faced with the danger of gun shots from the mosquito to millions of public funds without involved a committee of the tenders for the contract of the deceased.
The Deputy Chairperson of that committee, Allen Killango, said the step by Mister Blue has stolen a mistake that took place under its leadership, especially concerning the provision of the tenders for the number 73 number of the constitution of Kenya.
Therefore, it shows that Mister Blue has denied the joy and accountability at work as the executive officer of he said that in accordance with the constitution, he is an appropriate one to be blamed or not the officers who are under him, "said Mister Avit Nyambele.
Mister Onesimus Laizer, he added that the step of the parliamentary seat he clarified on the mosquito of sending away it does not mean that when he gets into the system so that it can attract citizens.
In addition, the majority that contributed to that argument, they said that being evicted, Mister Pengo, is an indication that he was unable to implement his responsibilities.
The majority of the leader in the Senate's parliament, Professor Ruth Kiango, told all the chairpersons of the Senate that will protect the representatives of the council to be used by the representatives of parliament who will be used by "the enemies to protect him," added Mrocky.
"We would like the governors who are doing work by considering the constitution and laws they should not be afraid that the parliament will protect themselves against the people who want to resolve the accusations that are not primary," said Professor Kiango.
