Lowassa would you know this in China?
Brightiles 24, 2015.

Philemon Ndesaburo, the member of parliament for Moshi town, is among the members of parliament who attended a report of a chosen committee of parliament where it has reduced the process of the tender to produce special power plants which gave victory to Richard Miles, the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa to resign.
Ndesamburo told the parliament, a situation where our colleagues in China like China, follow up on this way it is not aware that they are discussed, they are touched in public. "
The corrupt people are guided by China, China released the judgment of Liu Lihamile by February 2015. Han had 10 trillion shillings, the Telegraph newspaper of the United Kingdom of February 9, 2015 reported that Han was arrested, 2013 and death after being found guilty of corruption.
Accused of the army Hx Hovind, has said that it is a very big operation in China to take a lot of corruption, it's very popular to China, Australia, Australia and elsewhere in China to answer the charges of corruption they had already identified himself.
Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, the chairperson of the committee presented a report of Richmond Development in February 6th, 2008, the committee stopped Lowassa together with other things to break the law on claims that TANESCO had warned the responsibility of looking for electricity production.
Minister of Energy and Minerals, praised the secretary general of the ministry on July 13, 2006, "I have talked to the Prime Minister (Lowassa) today, on the price of the machines that Agnetta.
On February 7th 2008, speaker, Samuel Sitta, gave Lowassa the position of defending himself when Lowassa had more than 14 hours to answer Lowassa instead of her to answer Lowassa who could not vie as an artist of parliament keenly as women Mwakyembe?
Lowassa claims that he wanted to break the contract of Richmond Development, it is not true that the newspaper exposed the scandal while Lowassa claims that he wanted to break the contract of Richard explaining his colleagues "about the newspapers reports." He felt the things have been said.
Lowassa, with his aides, you want to make sure that he is a difficult decision to believe that Jakaya Kikwete is the one who had the authority to break the contract of Richmond Development, when he saw that Kikwete does not sign the contract because she didn't resign as a chosen committee to resign.
Lowassa's efforts to be able to come out in the JayMillions Promotion that made the nation a loss of more than 152 million for a day for two years will be dealt with, James Lembeli and his fellow opponents who were in parliament on February 6th and 7, 2008.
War by Richard has many fighters and therefore let me use other important things to the first, integrity of Lowassa is faced with many people on September 15, 2007, Yanga, Temeke, Dar es Salaam and with great courage, Doctor Slaa told Lowassa in the list that he termed as president, though in a few hours, he had been rushing to court for a few hours.
The editors from some of the press who met with Lowassa in Dodoma recently, have also closed down and questioned his wealth, Honorable Lowassa asked him to be careful so as to get rid of visitors when they see them, "this is something that was not signed.
Lowassa's changes have been forced to oppose the theft of public property, "he said that when I am poor, it's in the poor.
There is no one who loves the rich and those who received their money in efforts and legal ways, they protect the tax and have never tried during the public offices.
Billionaire, Philemon Ndesaburo, for example, it's a long period of people, there is no one who dies with his wealth, a respected person is Doctor Reginald Mengi, a lot of rents to the press. It's impossible to believe here in the rich people.
Secondly, contrary to his legacy and its aides to be careful, it is a difficult decision when Lowassa is a great solution to the law and good administration.
