When you go through right you'll be careful, what should be done so as to communicate with Mister Yasir De la shillings, I would have requested the party to come from the ministry.
At least one beginning to look for the newspapers you get the devil of the newspapers so as to marry off his name to end up and there as we know patriotic games in Karume, to find children with excitement.
To start being one of them to pay the name of the church, it is continuing to be there by Diamond but also.
What should there be?
Their detention.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, there will be a goalless draw or a penalty will have different work of coaches and players who have shown a contribution to this nation for example, I don't know the person of the community is called Christopher.
Sendeka is arriving here in Egypt.
He scored a goal that was scored by Simba more than one hundred thousand Tanzanians attending to all, but we see Christopher Alex she will not know if he started fear the reason when the fans of Mbeya City when they arrived safely when they started fear in East Africa and technology especially with a message from the studies.
To take water they are waiting to inform many others but the players look in life living in life, in a period of two thousand, it doesn't see that if we are able to see if we have already started the million American dollars to see these names like women.
When Manchester City (shillings will be there tomorrow, even if he didn't leave Real Madrid and took him the same person getting two other people before I don't come back to the chief speakers.
Russia is believed to you are the bodies and I cannot expand the left leg close to you ready to take them.
They would like to contribute.
During the launch.
The international coach, Marusu.
The first in order?
That stadium who is using it has been found.
You can't have a good preparations and to talk about the ability from the internet.
March Instagram.
Where many young people from there will be one of the drinking water even when they do not happen to today, due to chew this match, we can be heard this (not pictured) at the water stadium in that way Tanzanians can be careful because the people can be dealt with by that way.
Thank you?
If you get married today in a topic, I would like to advise my to advise him to fill in the gap, I would like our member of parliament that we would like people to come out more tomorrow and that we will also have a heart to supervise if he used to promote our colleague.
So team we will not continue with the youth.
You should do well in that games to have peace and supervise if he used to do.
