
Karume was signed, the presidential candidate of Zanzibar represented by 1st, 2012.

The president of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (JET) Amani Abeid Karume has started farewell while there is no problem about its political goals in the Revolutionary Party (CCM) which he is the vice chairman in the islands.
While addressing at a celebration of 46 years of Zanzibar at the grounds of Pemba Island yesterday, Tuesday, Karume started by explaining that this is the last year term of leading Zanzibar, and he thanked the leaders for their cooperation during his leadership.
During that ceremony Karume inspected a official parade of security forces and later to address the citizens, while some of the citizens were seen outside the time the prime minister, two-thirds have when speaking to give an official speech before Karume started.
These celebrations have been concerned with Karume's report to be given time to be availed to election this year to give an opportunity for preparations for the national unity government after his intention by the secretary general of the Civic United Front (CUF), Seif Shariff Hamad, but CCM through its leaders said it will not be able to marry off the presidential time for three months.
However, some of the people close to Karume have explained that the politician has no plan to vie for the presidency of Zanzibar but he plays political parties in Zanzibar with an aim of seeing that are measurable.
In addition to wanting to change, there are also reports that Karume has been looking at the possibility of being the presidential running mate of the United Republic of Tanzania this year, and that decision will benefit from improving its political parties in Zanzibar.
The great fear of members of CCM of Zanzibar and even in the mainland, is that they feel as Karume has a heavy secret of the leaders of CUF after his talks with Hamad.
The Deputy Chairperson of CCM Mainland, Pius Msekwa, has been quoted saying that party is led by red according to the constitution that has shown openly that the president of both sides can hold that position for two years every time.

"All the two constitution that talk about it, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and Zanzibar, we know that our country is headed by this constitution and law, therefore, this issue did not be in doubt if the constitution will be maintained," said Msekwa told the Parliament of the Tanzanian government today.
Msekwa said the procedure to change the constitution will need to involve the council of representatives of Zanzibar and the parliament, whereby two of each one on time will not be able to discuss and pass a decision and even so, it is a must that those party activities will be able to be heard.

Some of the popular politicians of CCM and leaders of the opposition parties including those of the Citizens Party (CUF) on the side of Zanzibar, gave recommendations of President Karume to be given a presidential term that is in accordance with the constitution this period that is this last year.

The debate started following recently in a meeting organized by the Research Institute of Democracy and Education (TET), and among the reasons which were mentioned by those politicians, he told President Karume for bringing peace in the islands and its step to advise the creation of coalition government who will involve all political parties in the country.

The director of internal affairs of CUF, Ismail Jussa said he was quoted saying that there is a need for the leader to be given time to address issues of peace in the islands.

"There is no reason to give him a chance to conclude that which he started, also the constitutional issue is important than even the election, because we have been a lot of time, but it has also been quoted by the press in the country.
