
The Prime Minister wrote issues and "he refused.
Sei 15, 2016.

The Prime Minister of the United Arab Emirates, speaking with the president of the Union of European Union in the country, Donald Tusekile Mwaisege and on the left is some of his certificates, as an eruption of things.
London, England.

The Prime Minister of England, similarity between Theresa May, found himself in a difficult time while running the eyes of the sitting between him and the president of the European Union, Donald SACP, arising from the documents that he won.

In that session of Thursday last week, Donald SACP, wanted the similarity between protecting its country in the European Union (EU) after the British citizens vote to vote it, it will be careful.

The Prime Minister was wearing a brief certificate (wearing glasses) with a division on the thigh of the left on the front side and in his talks with Tusekile Mwaisege to be forced to remove their hands part of that division.

But in addition to his efforts to fill in the hands of his hand in the short time, Tusekile Mwaisege, given a lesson to a lady who is 59 years old, which is equivalent to the same time.

It is expected to think that in talks between those leaders, there was no doubt of 100 percent about the what they had explained in Africa because of the involvement of the prime minister, who when they want to resolve the division of the honor, his fellow minister, who had an eye for him.

The meeting of the leaders was held at the similarity between Theresa May for approximately 75 minutes, earlier this morning.

This is not the first time for a musician or who will join the talk about his talent in the month of March this year, on the budget of the budget, while the minister of internal affairs gave a brief advice to check up on social media networks.

In another step, the President of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe, recently gave a answers of the spider plant to the journalists that asked him questions about her health after the existence of rumors that it was a very patient, he told the journalists that - he was surprised by the journalists.

President Mugabe has been writing the talk in her country that it was alleged that he has been suffering from time to time outside the country for treatment, more information has explained that she has been operated on.

There is a rumor that was spread in that country that the leader aged 92 years now died.
"It is very true," said Mugabe is happy and added that "I was born and now I have written about, as usual this day."

I will end.
