
Retired or billions equivalent to the ministry.
December 25, 2013.

The law for the benefits of the public leaders of the year 1999 has signed by the president of that time Benjamin Mkapa and have been done on June June, in 2005, it continues to bring success to the retirees.
Sure reports that got to this newspaper shows that for the next financial year, former retired prime ministers who were nine and four pastors have been set aside for 12,02 billion.
By concentrating on that number and the level of money they have been set aside, it gives out the accounts to each head, each one will be able to get approximately 40 million shillings for a year.
Retired leaders for now are Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Benjamin Mkapa who were presidents in the second phase and three others are retired prime ministers, Cleopa David Salim, Joseph Warioba and Edward Lowassa.
The analysts have been touched by that law is the father of the nation, Mrs. Maria Nyerere, of Mzee Domonica Meena, of Emalahleni municipality, Doctor Omar Ali Juma.
According to the documents that our writer has been seen, the parliament has already benefited from that amount of money that is expected to be more than the budget of the East African Community led by the former speaker, Samuel Sitta and the Ministry of Social Development, Gender and Children headed by Sophia Simba.
Those ministries are however not presented their budget in parliament and the budget is expected to be presented on May 10 this year on the side of the Ministry of Social Development, Gender and Children and on the side of the Ministry of East Africa, its budget is expected to be presented on May 24th, this year.
Reports that have not been officially explained that the Ministry of East Africa has been allocated a budget that it reached 10 billion, while the Community Development Bank, explaining it is not the children that is expected to increase the budget that it has reached 13 billion shillings.
The law signed by Mkapa.
For now, it's like Mkapa is getting fruits after the signing that was allowed to strengthen the law of public leaders of the year 1999, passed the year 2005.
In that law the level of the benefits to the concerned leader are supposed to take place by using the rules of a percentage that will be done by the concerned authorities.
On the side of retired presidents, apart from getting their work benefits, they are supposed to be paid every month of 80 percent of the income of the president who is in power and said that 80 percent of the salary of the president is okay and said it gets 80 shillings for every 100 million shillings.
Another service that was given by retired president is together with defense, the assistant secretary general, health attendant, a cook, and the guardian of the internal servant, the Registrar of internal drivers and the cost of the funeral when he dies.
It is also a decrease of soybean seeds if there are diplomatic struggles, together with his husband or her husband, in line with the purpose of treatment it should be inside or outside the country.
It is given a service to use two vehicles with a weight not less than three tons, which are usually given by the government and it will be changed after five years.
Retired president also have been set aside a new house, with great criteria, which is at least four houses, two out of those are must to have all services inside (SELF).
More criteria for the side of that house are mentioned to be the office that was completed, a special residence of its employee.
Vice President and ministers.
Different are just a very little between the retired president and the Vice President, and different from them is that when the retired president comes a house, on his part, the vice president is not expected to be given one car.
The mouth and the audience.
That law also recognizes that to pay the materials or members of the national leaders as the president, his vice president and the prime minister.
Retired president celebrated the world, a wife or her husband is given to a house, the allowances of 40 percent of the income of the president in power.
In addition, the widow or a vibrant listener is set aside for treatment in the country and the renovations for the vehicle he was given by the government.
It was also a yellow card as a driver and a driver and a professional servant in the country and is given a transport of going to a place where he will live in his own life.
