Wash your thinking is killing him.
APR of 18, 2013.

At the time Tanzania has given more than 20 years since it's based on political changes that caused many parties of many parties, there is a need to do at least a brief evaluation so as to do the changes to be productive to our country.

Among other publications that follow the issue of political changes in Africa, it is not true that I was quoted by Professor Aidan Baher, that is called the God's politics of TPL Board of Constituent.

In research that took place in seven African countries (and those who have been discussed at that book) several issues "no one has revealed that those issues are together.
First of first, the ruling that was in power (at the time of changes), members of the members of Directors of the board, and his ruling results have continued to introduce himself, stigmatization and their opponents hand in line with the voting process. "

Secondly, they thank the support of various institutions (public and private institutions) to be removed from every person seen to be close or supporting their opponents, and this has caused the economic ability of the opposition parties especially for business people to move to the chairpersons of the leaders "when they be able to help the opponents.
Three, the ruling party to get rid of opposition parties in different areas, especially from the media stations and security institutions (that despite participating, "insisted" the results of various elections have also been encouraged to protect their opponents.

Four, the election system of "the winner will take all," (5) has been an obstacle to the opponents where the number of seats that are in the elections do not coincide with the division of the votes.

Five, by praying for them to participate in the elections under the system of many parties, opposition parties were thrown out to take an important opportunity to claim the constitutional changes they would have helped to run political activities when they would have helped in political activities when they would have helped in elections.

Six, the political processes of opposition parties depending on the donations or control of them from outside.

Although the book that was sworn in the 15th of last year, those involved have been done in Kenya, Zimbabwe, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa and Uganda, approximately all sections, the situation is in home.

During different elections that took place in Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa can give different pictures to an extent that makes it be presented in the book, what is going to conclude that in our Tanzania, the situation is heading to carry more than I was clarified.

I put aside the ruling party of the first phase and second (at least be approved by President Benjamin Mkapa, and the current President Jakaya Kikwete, in a large extent have been dominated by activities and intentional strategies is not only to weaken the opposition.

However, different from what happened in Mkapa's past, their opponents will continue to keep in mind his great speech against them, as well as summoning demons "which he did is easy to release his responsibilities because he doesn't know her responsibility because" we believe it is not a shame to be a politician to give birth or passport.

But if there is a era that our country has also witnessed very dangerous politics then it is that of the chairperson, "said the national member of CCM, that is now Jakaya Kikwete has been surrounded by people with great joy against their opponents, it is difficult to conclude that with them.

I request for you to get out of words, there are three politicians who are close to President Kikwete in CCM, they have not been unable to do every country to buy the opposition parties especially the parliament, but also they can be able to perform in our country in trouble, because of their politics, hatred and those are Steven Wassira, Nape Nnauye and Mwigulu Nchemba.

Wassira said famous as Tyrese Gibson, has been an important thing to CCM against the opposition, maybe if he was there before going back to CCM, the position that I gave him in this article is not enough, he will leave before the next general elections.
