In marriage?
I want to be released a little, outside your service, we need to focus on your life after falling.
After you officially retiring from the police force.
Others we follow in life that is concerned with what to close to.
After retiring from.
First I was found.
A new issue.
Where all people think that he knew that there is a good thing that he did in the desert, I've been employed when I arrived at the freedom of being the ruling party with my things so that when they go to Dar es Salaam, there was a challenge that was a challenge where it was Yanga.
He threw out everything at time.
That is now what I do?
Then anyone wants to do the work of that government again and to have a member of parliament to understand themselves but for sure bulletins.
Aga Khan is not easy because it does not be careful not to be availed to the way or another way after enabling them living a life, if you are doing so much, then life can be very different from the life that she is doing.
Therefore, it was known for the best way for the two thousand year and when I was at home for two thousand shillings.
He was cooperating with my colleagues to open the communication company.
And, I became I hope that I will finish his work, but he completed his work, but since he completed the work, I've not noticed, that the business of communication communication has not allowed them to have lost business.
Therefore, it was a must to look for another way to support the company which at last one thousand and ten thousand.
One at the end of the traffic company.
That is continuing until now to partner with other companies.
But the?
I gave birth to the purpose of wanting to work as well as at least Ras Makunja, can I understand because of security and here I have a better meaning more than maybe people across our photographer.
Therefore, until now.
I am in the two areas where I have shown that I have continued to request, running the issues of security and people in those regions.
But this issue of communication has come to me because of communication like I said early with any other work.
Even to the level of new technology of now.
Therefore, until now, you will not hesitate to give you a lesson so that I think it is far.
We want you to prepare well if I will go and life will be good because the commander Siro has told me that the late God is an entrepreneur and own a company who attended the issues of defense and the security, a company that is involved with products of the company that is involved with communication equipment.
This is a phone company.
The security company called Ghana.
And where I'm in here, when I'm in this office, there are Temeke District, very close to the University of Education and Temeke, Lucy Msoffe was today and even with a close partnership with the company.
.
The late Marijani Rajabu.
The late God is in this town at the center is in our building's building, to think that we are cooperating with the security so as to see if we can reach people in all sectors like the way I said that we can reach people in all sectors like the way I said that we can reach people in all sectors like the way I said that we can reach people in all sectors like the way I said that we can reach people in all sectors like the same time we say that we can reach people in all areas like the same time.
It's not the second company I don't have its own kind and that he is called even if he even if you look at the right time if you check even with his words.
It is a company that we want to be like maybe if it's a very short time to attain that incident if it can arise from any person.
But the other name broke more in protecting.
A way of testing the things of the other people in the second phase.
Start from today, it is for a person to go up until even the areas they came from but it's another week for example, I need to look like someone who need security and security to see if you get good events that are currently in the country especially when we get a lot of events that are still a mistake.
If I get a must that you use their relationship, you're getting married to get professional services, you have written you with a leaves where you're close to a lot of money.
It is very same as happy and giving thanks for a very good question, although I can't answer when maybe it should start with him in the third place.
Most of us are divided into three main parts, one is the one that led in a trap so that he has Slaa like a gun or a fire place.
That is not a problem.
She has no need to be there.
