Now, we should put up on the birthday of religion, I know how can be able to maintain the ten houses and someone considering it.
That this has not been released yet, he has not been married and to maintain your efforts, Ephraim Kibonde was still still there.
They do a mistake again.
.
That love again if you have written the meaning of the public of ten houses.
That is a bond when I'm in ten houses to give my condolences to the government when we know your holidays and be there, we become a leader who has already been found well because one person who is a leader of ten houses is called which they were appointed and who will be appointed by the citizens of the area.
.
But the?
You go back on time.
Network.
A certain thing is that together with a member of the ten houses.
You know my three brothers, a journalist has released.
It's something a luxurious thing.
Apart from it, I have not been able to set aside information that he had the tenth houses when they give you a chance and start a program.
You are but when they come up to recognize that it is a slave in the ten houses and it was removed there will be no weaknesses.
If you are.
We live in first weight to the delegate, that is why we are not aware of people who require the visitors to get that money you want to thank you, you know what to the visitors.
You know you?
No very difficult time we see when I become a terrorist depending on the areas they have problems of the house, it is easy to know who's just a solution to me, there was only easy for us to know why all the drivers are still unknown.
In the district of Bagamoyo to go to look for what he was going on January he is going on January the morning he is going on January this morning, it is supposed to see that a delegate is hard for people who are saying that there is need of you to get a place so that we should be done so as to maintain those who are saying.
.
Education and to continue is why I don't know what we have to go and not because during the end of the day you will have these things we have managed to come, but you know you will know what's only the father so as to live in ten houses.
He talked and we saw a problem when he was speaking when he was speaking and when you say that she knows us so that we should know yourself and do not see me when you go to the same time we should go together so as to see you.
