Announcing the intention is education.
Deodatha Makani, 2015.

Starting from the end of last week, we've started getting an opportunity to listen to the people who want to be given a chance to vie for presidency through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the general elections this year.
This is a good opportunity for 20 years ago it was not there.
At the same time, the only source of information was one of the few newspapers reports that were involved in the radio station where normal will not have a wide opportunity to explain every time spoken.
It is our hope that citizens are vying for a time to listen and investigate what they are doing, this is a good opportunity to serve people who want their votes when they will expire.
In the country there is a citizen, a citizen will not be connected to the required levels, we believe that this debate will be aired live by television and radio stations, it will give a wide opportunity of people to know things.
That is why we are expecting that candidates who will be able to come up to power they will continue to speak through the media and explain things that will benefit the listeners.
Any nation that is going on for people to unite and fighting with the argument, if you want to know or is behind in which way, you can know if you see the type of debates that are run.
We are using this opportunity to urge the politicians of CCM and maybe those who will be involved in parties that make up the Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), they should use well this opportunity brought to the digital change.
It is our expectations that, that is the current plan to announce their policies, it will be able to end at open debate where those involved will be dealt with to discuss national issues.
We are taking this step to announce intention is part of the teachings to citizenship to our citizens, because the concerned parties will come more, and that is the more education for the voters will be released.
We believe that this is a good procedure and you are required to continue in the past years to come.
