The members of parliament thank the agricultural activities, fishing.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The members of parliament without caring for their ideology, have praised the government to submit to parliament the bills whose intention to bring revolution in the agricultural and fishing sector, saying research is everything in the development of those sectors.

The bill that was presented to the day before yesterday is the one that aims at the establishment of the agricultural Research Institute (DPP), but he warned that together with the good intention of the government, it will not have a reason if the law will be prepared, but the concerned institution did not have enough money.
They said this at different times in parliament the day before yesterday and yesterday when contributing to the discussion of the law bill of the agricultural research program of the year 2016 and another of the law of the Fisheries Research Institute of the year 2016 that was presented yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba.
Doctor Mukangara has emphasized that the bills which are needed for the making of laws that will supervise the development of those sectors according to the time that is facing the member of parliament of Liwale District, Zitto Zuberi Kabwe (CUF) despite thanking him, he said that it will not be a reason if its implementation will be reduced, emphasizing in the moment, research is needed so as to improve the agricultural sector.
Mbozi Constituency member of parliament, Paschal Haazu (CCM), praised the citizens saying that the problem of Tanzania is not law, but its implementation has shown the fear in availability of funds to run those institutions which he insisted is very important to the economy of the country that they will work implemented.
Richard Miles, (CCM) congratulated the government and said on the direction on the economy of industries, Tanzania has every reason to come from it as a result of good land for agriculture but also a broad range of land is a savior since it will increase the economy and increase the scope of employment.
Bahati district member of parliament, Junction center (CCM) advised the government to help solve the agricultural sector, livestock and fisheries, it is good for all the research institutions to be built under one institution, with the aim of reducing the cost of running many institutions.
