Mrema congratulated the members of Ukawa to go back to parliament.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The chairman of the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), Augustine Mrema has congratulated the members of parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) by deciding to abandon the parliamentary sessions to ensure the deputy speaker, Tulia Ackson, when he resigned from being removed from that position.

The strike caused the members of Ukawa to participate in the budget of budget, an issue that has led the government's budget for the 2016 / 2017 financial year to be discussed without contributing to their ideas in parliament.
According to his letter to the speaker of parliament Job Ndugai, Mrema has explained the effects of the strike of Ukawa as a result of the government's budget to be discussed with ideas of one side of the ruling party.
In addition, it explained that the thoughts of the citizens from the provinces that are led by Ukawa members of Ukawa are missing, therefore, making the members of parliament to send their votes, because they make the representation of the budget of the budget.
"The budget of the budget is a very important session because it cares for revenue and use of the government in the concerned year, which does not concern it to the citizens of Ukawa to boycott the budget as a result of their ideas which would have been given and to get a better budget for the benefit of the nation.
"Sufiani said that the budget passed is bad, but the existence of opposition members will help them to improve so that it can be better for the benefit of their voters who have been able to manage their homes," he said.
He said if the deputy speaker had problems in his work performance, but Ukawa did not want to boycott the parliament meetings, instead they would send a solution to the issue by following the constitutional ways and legal procedures including using the regulations of the parliament. "
He said by strengthening the parliamentary sessions, Ukawa have led great effects to the citizens especially their voters, that can't end up and they can destroy the mistake during the next general elections of the year 2020 because the citizens registered themselves so that they represent the parliament and not to boycott the parliament sessions.
"We should see that Ukawa have thrown out the opposition instead of strengthening the opposition as they claimed, because you cannot strengthen the opposition by boycott the parliamentary sessions especially the budget of the budget," he said.
He said that Ukawa are supposed to learn that to resolve the sessions is not the solution to solving political conflict, but political conflicts are resolved because of the sessions not only because the budget for budget has already been completed and it did not be allowed.
