24 October 2013.

Hamis Kiiza gave thanks to Yanga SC.

Simba SC takes place at Mkwakwani Stadium.

And our journalists.
Striker, Hamis Kiiza of Yanga.
Yesterday gave thanks to the fans of that team after scoring two goals.
Three months in the Vodacom Premier League match against Mkamba Rangers.
Tabora.

In the match.
That was played at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
Dar es Salaam, Yanga fans were seen to buy.
Showing up up due to the results of Sunday after giving a draw.
3-3 goals against their opponents Simba.

Yanga started getting a goal.
In the 12th minute that was scored by Kiiza, after receiving a clean pass from Simon.
Msuva, who scored a cross on the entrance to the army to contest for the first minute.
Both teams played the game fighting and making it to produce, while Yanga is.
While doing a surprise attack.

On the 43rd minute.
You missed the open goal through Msuva, who defeated the ball after being given.
A good work with Mrisho Ngassa, who yesterday played with great efforts.
To make sure his team comes back and asked him in the second session.
For Yanga to enter and are greedy for wedding, where the 48 minutes I have a frog.
He would have won that team but his previous shot.
And Yanga defenders.

Kiiza was making it making Yanga.
An open goal, after being found with a rhino Rangers' goalkeeper who scored the ball.
I hope that Yanga went to another goal in the 70 minutes after Mrisho Ngassa.
Great and give a good pass from Kiiza who was a big one from outside.
The goal goal.

Frank Domayo applauding his wife.
Yanga is the second goal in the 73 minute after receiving a good pass from Ngassa.
He was coming down while looking at each other while looking at the 77th minute, Yanga added a goal.
Three goals were scored by Kiiza who after being given both sides with Ngassa.
And Hamis Miraji, from Tanga.
That Simba yesterday went with Coastal Union in the league match.
That was played at the Majimaji stadium to pray for him for the match, Hamis Kisiwa of Simba lacked the goal in the 10th minute.
He is expected to release a stern warning from the Coastal Union.
The 18 minutes of the players of Simba.
They hurt me.
Until the 18th of 18th, Hamis and was unable to break the ball.
After being in the good position of scoring in the Coastal Union, it played for the 19th minute but its striker.
Uganda, Yachery.
While in the 18 minute he was unable to wed after his shot.
Outside the goal.
Another match that was played at the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya town, Prisons.
Was forced to a draw of 1-1 goals against Kagera Sugar.
