
240 workers in Katavi participated in the training for health services.

Rashid Mkonga.

In Dar es Salaam city.

The province of Katavi through the health sector has donated various servants in the health sector to give them the employees of that sector on how to provide medical services of AIDS virus from the mother to the child.

The chief medical officer of Katavi Region, Doctor Yahaya Ali Mufuruki has explained that the 240 servants who were given training is equivalent to 100 percent of the aim that was put to give training on the service in the province.

Explaining further, Doctor Egid Mubofu has said that by June 2014, a total of 61 centers are equivalent to 89 percent, the aim of the 51 stations they produce this service in Katavi Region.

He has said that in order to achieve the goal of the World Health Organization (HIV infection) to the child, the Ministry of Health in collaboration with development stakeholders has started a medical services of preventing infection from the child.

"The women who have shown that if it is discovered that they have lost in the AIDS virus, will start the permanent treatment" he said.

In addition, the province will ensure that this service has been provided in all stations that offer health services.

About the services that are given, he said that it is good for the health team in the province and councils in collaboration with development stakeholders in the health sector Walter Reyels, will continue to follow up with permanent supervision every month.

On his part, the Technical Director of the organization of Walter Reading, Doctor Joseph Kiwanuka has explained that his organization in collaboration with all the stakeholders of the province, district, district and Mpanda town are helping the government's efforts in the fight against AIDS.

Doctor Ambwene Mwakyusa has appealed to the father to test their health and their wives to build families with better health and reliable health, where he also urged parents to stop the bail they have about involving their children and AIDS virus.
