
Bayport is making access to 300 plots.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

The financial services of Bayport Tanzania has enabled the availability of more than 300 plots in various areas in the country since the start of land loans for one and a half years now.

In addition, the company has been increasing taxes by the government to reach a total of 56 billion shillings last year, with customers who use 55,765.
In their meeting with the editors from different media stations in their office in Dar es Salaam city today, the Chief Executive Officer, Ally Abdallah said that since their disappearance of land loans, they have given certificates of plots that were surveyed more than 300 houses in the Coastal Region, Dar es Salaam and Lindi.
He mentioned the areas where the borrower will be given plots as Kibaha, Chalinze, and Bagamoyo in Pwani province, Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam and Kilwa road in Lindi province which its cost should be at 1000 shillings per hour to Sh.
"We have started this service in May last year by partnering with big land owners where we have had bought those plots and requested them to sell our customers for loans and others make them pay for more than 300 billion shillings for the construction," said Abdallah and added that the project had cost 35 billion shillings.
The chief executive officer of Bayport Tanzania, John Mbaga said that until now they have 57,65 customers and this year they are expecting to reach more than 60,000 customers because there have been an increase of customers by nine percent.
Mbaga said that Bayport which was started in the year 2006, is giving loans with favorable terms to construction, agriculture, livestock, education, business, food and fishing, and that this year they are expecting to give loans worth 60 billion shillings.
Until last year, they had conned 3,092 million shillings, he explained that the level of interest in the loans of the company is affordable and that they have loans at each month to 60 months.
The Marketing and Relations Manager, Ngula Cheyo said the company has been participating in contributing towards community services including teaching primary schools in Kigoma province, to fund their studies for students of the University, to distribute books to three classrooms in the administration office and the construction of orphans in Kibaha district, Pwani province.
