
In city, they are forced to pay interest during the market that he continues, as it depends on top of 21, 2014.

The construction of Mwanjelwa is in Mbeya town has not been completed and for approximately three years now, the action will enable him to save the city in a loss of more than 15 billion shillings to June this year.
The loss due to the interest of a loan that was taken because of the construction of that market together with the loss of revenue from that market not to start working.
The progress of the development of that market show that the city is forced to pay more than 25 billion shillings as interest, and at that time they got approximately 13 billion shillings which was paid to pay as the market could start being used in January 2012 as it was planned.
The acting director of Mbeya City, Mister Samuel Sitta, explaining that the presence of that loss and added that it continues to accumulating wealth because of continuing the completion of that project.
"The market did not affect the money but the city is going to pay interest, again this is outside the interests," says Mister Lazaro Nyalandu in a special interview with Raia Mwema.
The acting director reveals that the city's expectation was to collect 360 million shillings every month from that market, which was expected to start working on January 2012, and until December this year it had 36 months equivalent to a collection of 12,096 billion in the three years.
The market depends on development of the city of living in that market not to start working, at the moment, the development plan has been affected by a big level and now some of the residents and his councilors have got in and fear of weakens to several development projects especially the roads of the road.
Some of the councilors opposed the statement on the current step of construction work of the market to be handed over to another contractor as they feel it's about the previous contractor to be handed to the court before he was given his payment.
"We would like the market to change as soon as possible, the problem was a case in court, I am a councilor and a member of the construction committee I don't have an official statement," says the councilor for Somba, Geofrey Mwashiuya.
However, their fear is more in losses, which they are saying the end of it is popular while the citizens from that city is to be used to pay debts that come from the management of that project, thus, affecting other different projects that are facing them.
Among the projects that are affected by that market is together with the roads, where in that city, it intends to build ten kilometers every year at different levels, due to its sources, the plan is explained to be bullied.
As a result of that market not selling, the city is forced to use money from its other sources to pay interest resulting from the violation of the project as planned.
"At the moment it does not happen, but we have no interest, we are using money from other sources, it's a very big loss, and if all citizens could not know how many citizens can buy," says Kajege, in his interview with Raia Mwema, he also added saying.
"We planned to build ten thousand kilometers every year, but now five can't be taxed, they would have reduced the loan from the CRDB Bank to be implemented on February 25th, 2010 in a loan from CRDB Bank of 107,967 billion shillings without an increase in the previous market in December the year 2006.
However, the construction of that market that was expected to use 18 months, was not completed as it was planned and until August 26, in 2011, it was to be handed over by 80 percent, a step that is available until today.
The Acting Director, Doctor Lazaro explains that the violation of the construction of that market has been contributed by the contractor who is not operated on according to the schedule of work as per the contract of the project.
"When you go to the contractor that he does not work hard to make corrections, we added me three times and all times he did not complete," says Doctor Lazaro.
Several steps of deciding to decide that project was taken including the establishment of a committee of helping and the contractor to ensure the construction is complete, but it did not succeed and that's when it was decided to give the contractor to break the contract and work given to the contractor.
"We decided to give him a surprise before the game, but before we vote he wrote on the letter," says Doctor Lazaro.
The new contractor was found on January and this year and he was supposed to start working immediately, however, before being handed the previous contractor as Tanzania building and put off the project to be given another contractor as he doesn't know the fate of his claims.
However, according to Doctor Lazaro, March 13, this year the court threatened the objection and urged the company to pay the costs of cases and therefore giving an opportunity to the city to hand over the project to the new contractor from NHO company, construction.
The contract with the new contractor which is given out by the city's fund, after being forced to add more money to complete the market's economy, where the remaining work is estimated to cost 53 billion shillings, this being without paying the cost of compensation together and requested the engineer.
The new contractor that was given the area of the project last week and is expected to complete within eight months, a step that builds the hope of the residents of that town about the completion of that project, but that time being baptized do and get into the project by being implemented by Mbeya City.
