
I remember Tabora Boys, I will answer me a lot of patriotism in.

Let me start this article by going back to the card that I used by one of the readers of this newspaper, the reader who by bad luck, has never been touched by the reader said that he was very happy with the challenges I have given to our Tanzania's department to bring in our Tanzania that led to them in the country.
But on the other side, that reader explained his fears that she desires for himself as a probability that he desires to do with this article (and the others who are talking about how to kick off.
The reader said that he does not understand that though he recognizes that maybe I think about what I wrote on home, it comes with a problem of my nation but he told me that they were behind there to many who tried to rebuke evil deeds in our community.
He explained to me about the leader who had called "the true child of Tanzania" that is the former prime minister, Edward Sokoine, who according to the reader, he believes that he stopped the lives due to the interests of the corrupt people.
Meanwhile, he touched on what is facing one of the best writers of the investigation by the late Stan Katanga, and several times, the writer does not give him a lesson that has no difference with the brutal act of those bacteria, Said Kubenea.
He also told me that in this issue (I have heard this name), as an offense of Doctor Kebwe (Steven) there was no reason to fulfill his responsibilities as a leader of the community of doctors and its results, he refused to resolve it, that reader said that he did not understand that on this words (I am understood).
"Because you are there in Europe where its problems are not like us, then I advise you to do everything that we have written in Europe, but I don't thank me, but I'll thank you for what I wrote.
It is true that I have a problem with my country, and if it is a offense, "you will cost me in the future, then I request that I have a pain in my country, then I think that I have a pain in my country, I believe that I have a pain (or love) in my country more than other people.
I believe that it is the responsibility of the origin of every Tanzanian origin.
Maybe it is good for us to explain what I have been touched by the trend of things in home, if you follow me, this year when I was chosen to join Tabora Secondary School (Tabora Boys Secondary School), this school has a great contribution of "to produce" the leaders of our country.
When I joined that school, it was a big army plane, if there is a big benefits I have got since the student is elected as the police commander, "the police commander said that the police force is not known as the police force," the police commander said that the police force is not known as the police force, "the head of the army" said that the police force is not known as a police unit.
Before starting the studies we were given what was called "close to school" which includes the army clubs and other steps they get to the end of the year, students of form three and five students we were taken to training for war crimes.
After retiring from there, followed by the National Housing Corporation, where in that time it was a must that (according to the law) it was good for a short time after joining JKT I was chosen to enter the group that is expected to receive the pilots and the aircraft of the army.
When it is taken to JWTZ camp in Kunduchi, (R4C). When I arrived there, I was given the name "patriotic," that is people who we got to our country and I did not succeed to be a pilot, "the award is called" the best to be, "said the award."
Few years later I signed with one institution that is not only in order to join and have a lot of patriotism but also it remains to love and serve my country with all strength.
As it is for the profession such as teaching where at the moment, the teachers are supposed to be with ethics of teaching to clean up, training and work experience that I got from that institution, it makes me continue to have my responsibility on all his strength.
When you go back to write the article that is talking about, because the aim of this column is to talk about the important issues concerning our country, but I have been forced to write this so as to eliminate the painful truth that maybe I have hatred and certain institutions or "according to those involved, I have done incitement.
There is one of the primary issue that supports our resources and the corrupt people in general they need to maintain peace and all of us, and in one way or another to us, and in one way or another one is person or people who are related to him.
It is important to understand the place and we make your opinion polls to meet our responsibilities, the government and the nation in general, but everyone is waiting to inform our leaders such as Mzee Hans Kitegu, the former director of the Department of National Housing, who once apart from politics is one of the victims of disputes against integrity and advise the right way to save our nation.
Same, if he wrote the reader who uses email news, others, we are apart from home, and it is true that you can't see our colleagues, "we should not recognize that we cannot kill us," we should not recognize that we cannot kill our votes.
I have been able to finish this article to a lesson on history, although there are pregnant women in America, but when that nation has a black president (Barack Obama). And although Boers were able to join Nelson Mandela for several years, today South Africa is under the rule of Black Americans.
It has been faced with the afflictions of the affliction that are facing Doctor Ulbrahim and a lot of events to people like Kubenea, and "poison that brings us to our country as Mzee Kitwiru, which does not allow us to avoid evil deeds and claimed that the British can be used by money (the taxpayer of Tanzania).
And to the reader who aims to be careful, despite thanking him, I would like to inform you that I have not qualified to participate in these processes of protecting themselves.
Philosopher Plotemy of Chinese art (arts of unity) Soudy Brown is giving a word "if you get a member of Zanzibar," God bless Tanzania (and you could not recognize the ones who could not lie!
