
It is true that you cannot get a cow.
Jide 31, 2014.

To date, it is written this article, it is possible that we should have lost completely hope of getting any medals in the African Community competitions that are going on in Scotland.

For the preparations which the nation made this journey, will recognize that our sportsmen will be able to return their hands as they are in our fees in recent years.

For the first time in a long period, Tanzanian athletes involved the camp to prepare for these competitions outside the country and again for a long time.

The government stopped his responsibilities and maybe the players have already succeeded in accordance to their ability.

Maybe, this and this is a very big offence if we want to save our cows on the auction so that they can be able to know and be good.

At our home in our homes, fruits, cows that seem to be done well and they can eat well for a long period as you can't look for a long time.

You go to you who came out on the way, they are starting to ask you, whether you sell your cows.

If you know the farm takes well for a long time and then it took it to each other day, that auction will make sure, you will get a solution to each day.

It is same as a bad car, even if it contributed to an amount of one million shillings and then he's and Lewis Hamilton have not come into a box, if the problem will play down in a box, then it will emerge with Benedict Liwenga.

Hanif it is a cow or a bad car and it doesn't know.

Yes, our team of Tanzania are in Glasgow.

It is very happy that Uganda and Kenya are doing well in these competitions more than Tanzania because that are affected every day.

Athletes in Kenya and Uganda that do well in the international competitions are not good because their government has a lot of money more than us or are preparing well more than sportspeople that went to Scotland.

To say the truth, our government has got a huge cost of this year than all the government of the neighboring country even if some of the costs were done by our host, there will take their players.

Our problem is in a cow "and how we consider or eat it themselves.

Take an example of Abraham Matic, Uganda who won a bronze medal in the Kilimanjaro Marathon race in the middle of the race, he explained and ended down while Tanzanian Fabian Joseph got married.

Now you are listening to the stomach, after finishing the competition and take his medals, "I heard I told me that I am a man and we were unable to go on the month but I wanted to go back to the month but I used to go to the star.

His coach, Apollo are in the country, that's the same time he has been questioned by the Ugandan media and he said openly that he has not been happy with the results. "We have lost gold medals here."

I went to listen to the words of Kiplent's words, I remember them very much and I remember that the decision by the former President of Tanzania, John Stephen Akaro, who completed the competition running down and explained to the press, "my nation has been able to end the race."

If you sign up women on these days there is no one thing to make a good person to take him out of the country, it is another important thing to make someone with patriotic and wanted to win.

We have been told that our boxer, Selemani Matola has said that he was sent and therefore he did not fight even the contest.

If he is swelled, he will be born or would go back and go back to our weakness in our weakness.

It is a must and go back where we came from, we should learn how we got in the Bayoyo 'team and Juma is surprised when these people were forced to go to school a distance of more than 10 kilometers from their homes.

We saw them when we saw these women was surprised and when the infrastructure was very disturbing, what would you make sure that women John Walwa appeared to be worried about how they see the 'BayArena field?

We are also the teachers in which way they teach our athletes for these teachers, it is same as women who go through it and anything than a medals?

Or our teachers are not satisfied and do football and traveling is our players doing badly on the competitions they are told what to make them be better in some people.

Good teachers are same as the same as the same person, such acts of scholars, like a whip, there is how the teachers she is supposed to look at the best player who is under him.

But another primary thing in taking our athletes in the country is to view various things that are there, the countries that are developed have been prepared to have the weather that resembles that one that caused Glasgow.

So, people who were giving exercises they have.

So, in the past, they were studying well and moving as required if they were waiting for a long time, what would they get enough education to know which one should be from them?
So, the sportsmen that went to inform us were true and the standards of participating or that is the case for a car, I have told me the beginning.

If the best player does not have a level, even when you look at what exercise, the food to be given to you will not be able to care for what, it is still a player to be ready and it is a player to be ready.

If a player wants to arrive in the month, following up on the star he will not have a problem but if a player wants to arrive in Scotland and a person who is not ready to go with the difficulty of what?

We don't know that you must and register things that are good, we have already been in the past.
