
It is a country of complaints, even those who are supposed to do with them happens.
Fly on 1st, 2012.

Recently, we have heard the head of the country, President Jakaya Kikwete, who complained, for another time again, about the increase of bribery inside his party, CCM.

President Kikwete, who is the chairperson of that party, complained about the increase of bribery when closing the general meeting of the Union of Women Association of the party (UWT), in Dodoma, October 22.

That election of UWT, as the floor of UVCCM and many others in that party, is caused by bribery.

Let me say that, it is not the first time for President Kikwete to speak about bribery inside CCM, and even inside his government he is leading.

Surprising thing is that every time he complained about the effects of bribery, it did not tell the citizens that it does not finish the problem, and instead he knows it without giving a solution to the problem.

For sure, when you listening to President Kikwete what she complained about the increased incidence of bribery in the country, you can build an assurance that maybe he is a head of a country not to know the strength of the authority that can make them lose hope after he thought the problem will start soon after he complained.

But even when we put him on President Kikwete, while under his leadership of the condition, the situation is that every person complaints about bribery they even with a bond of fighting with the problem are complaining.

Several times I have been able to listen to the head coach of the anti-corruption institution in the country (TAKUKURU), Edward Hosea, being interviewed by television stations in the country regarding the increase of corruption in Tanzania, Hosea Ndagala, as they were awarded other fellow executives in the government, often during that interview he went to him in a way it shows signs of giving up.

Talents the questions about the shortage of law, lies on the words of being led by the Office of Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) and other things are not in the whole period and said that he will leave the level after some time if the situation will continue being so, therefore, it will be enough!

But also, I have been able to listen to the authority to address those issues that Colonel Hosea complained about every time like the DPP office, but also they have been people of complaining just instead of dealing with the ones that Colonel Hosea complained about the death of his performance.

My dear brothers, I urge you to explain that here is that our country has changed to be a country of complaining, each one he complains about people are complaining, and even the leaders we gave the authority to do, led by President Kikwete, them are complaining.

However, President Kikwete and Hosea Ndagala who at least they have the courage to agree in official sessions (as the UWT) party, but other leaders came out in the field or at the field or in their homes, and again seems to be sure that their complaints didn't be for, in any way they are forced to do a lot.

I have been able to write, for example, speaking to one of the national leaders of CCM when we met with him in the bar, one day and asked him about the complaints by citizens that CCM has committed the corruption.

This man also, despite the important positions he had in CCM, he threatened to come out and confirmed that he stopped his colleagues in the executive committee that they don't have a stand.

I talked to you more and asked him if he was unable to ask for change in those sessions, and he also told him, "Mbwambo, things are not easy to that amount inside CCM as you see them."

When I went to him that if a situation is that, why should it be released, in that party or at least release the leadership more than to sit in the party when your colleagues did not believe again in what I believe in me, "the lady asked me to know how he loves me."

If you are happening, the last statement will see that it has called on the fish, that is in protecting the personal interests, and that is the biggest problem of our leaders.

Using their application, they are getting great salaries and payment of their allowances, then they will continue being satisfied and he insisted that the leadership even inside their hearts know that they do not change anything because the system that is causing you to make positive changes.

Now, you can remain in that country a peace and continued to fight the things that it is understood, but it doesn't be understood, but the person to remain in that country had peace, "and then covered in that meeting is the first to listen to the veins.

That is hypocrisy that goes with the selfish ones and it's why they are forced to release that opportunity, that is why they are forced to release that opportunity, then they are accused of honor in this event or even when they were interviewed by the press.

If you are people who are inside the official sessions of the party or the government did not want to open mouthed and to explain their opinions from the president or their fellow leaders, today being thrown out of the leadership, that is where the complainants won't been thrown out of the government and that of the party.

However, we can inform these people who are in the sessions that are led by President Kikwete, they don't have the courage to write a matter, and instead do not wait to listen to the headlines or when they were interviewed by the press.

We can also inform these people who are oppressed, outside leadership so that they can continue to complain about several issues like that of farmers, killing of employment in the youth sector, lack of employment to youths in the country.

But if you have been asked to thank President who also comes to me, if they saw the other leaders and citizens in general they have no great strength to have the authority to change things?

For example, President Kikwete wants to complain about the increase of corruption in the CCM elections, and even inside his government, he is expecting to complete that problem?

President Kikwete receiving him as we know about the lack of employment to the youth in the country because it is a bomb that is waiting for the time to explode, he is expecting to be another person to show a bomb that is not a bomb.

For other words, if the president they would like him, he complaints, citizens should leave you again to finish their problems?

For sure, we have gotten a place where we have enabled us to be in a series of complaints, the citizens are complaining, chairman of the village complaints, DC complaints, and even president he complains about each one with the authority to do, he will not turn up but he went to complain!

In the environment like that, do we ask God to ask God to understand us from all our problems, so that he will liberate them and lead you, "he did with Israel people.

My answer is no 'God has given us the mental ability and ability to do, and therefore it is our responsibility to use it stuck because of continuing to complain.
My brothers, when it has come from a series of complaints in this circle here, the complaints had started doing and move forward.

I am not given up because I believe that behind this situation there is sun, and there is a day that you will leave and the sun will leave!
It depends on.
