Elder Kamillius Aniva who is an expert who is an expert, found himself with a friend of scholars.
October 11, 2014.

In a period of these articles that concern the biography of the presidential candidates in the next general elections, today we are going on in the next general elections, today we are in the city of Mtama, Lindi province and the minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation.
If we will be told this analysis, this is a short history but rich in politics of Tanzania and international politics.
In this analysis, I have used different sources of information, including different publications within and outside that came about Membe, an interview with some people who had received and working with him, the report of his professional development in school and colleges where they read and report of the implementation of the CCM manifesto at the Mtama ward.
Moreover, in the preparations of this article, I got lucky to do talks between him and yesterday in Dar es Salaam.
Birth, upbringing and family.
Benard Hopkins, Membe was born on November 9th, 1953 in Rondo, Chiponda village, Lindi Rural district, being the second child in the family of seven children of Elder Kamillius Anton Ntachile and Mum Cecilia John Membe.
When Membe scored a young man and singer, Richard Masaudi, has reached 6 months, and they have been born with three female children and one of the female children.
Membe we can say he was born and left in a state of normal Tanzanian life, who was born in the village where he was born in a village where water was problems and therefore forced to walk for a lot of kilometers to follow the water so that the situation works on Saturday.
There was no hospital and therefore, it does not depend on more than the Almighty God and wisdom, and the brain of parents and other elders in the village where basically this is life which attracts most of us especially in the years where Membe was born.
His father was surprised when she was forced to be so that when he was still a small-year-old child, while on the side of Elder Kamillius Anton Ntachile and she came to have a dream of owning a gun and became a famous man, and later cut off his family to be a famous lover.
Therefore, for these days of these days in Tanzanian politics, you can call him Membe to be the first child.
His father, Membe died on the end of 1987, in an accident where there was a bomb accident while he was in a lot of medical services in America, due to lack of medical services closer to President Membe, this is the situation that happened to fight for the presence of the District Hospital in his region of elections.
Education.
On a large extent, Membe has given a normal risk to read for him, starting from primary school to the University of primary education in 1962 primary schools, instead of seven years, who are the normal age of starting that school in Tanzania.
This is the normal state for many who are born in the villages and secondary schools were forced to study in Mkonga area (1948) in the year 1972.
Perhaps, one thing that most of us want to know before Membe got learning from several months before joining Itonya from China's economy and the development manager of the Mtama ward, Songea.
However, after the form four results from Membe was among the three youths who passed well, because this was the former bishop of Mtwara Province at that time, (now the deceased) Maurus Libeneke, decided to return to Itonya about form five and six studies.
