
Warioba, political parties and freedom of giving opinions (22).

Retired Judge Joseph Warioba, the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, has been appointed by his disappointment that the citizens should have a full freedom to give their views about the constitution that will be used.
He has given the guidance on behalf of the political parties to enable citizens to give their views. Judge Warioba wants citizens to be responsible for what to say or select the next constitution.
About the issue of the union, for example, he said openly that the citizens should have freedom to select any structure of the union, Honorable Judge Warioba and insisted that the citizens should have freedom even the time of the union being able to say so without fear and be dealt with.
The terror attack is important to ensure that this exercise of collecting opinions on citizens depends on the basis of the public, the new constitution that will be approved by political issues, community and economic empowerment of the century we have.
But about congratulating Judge Warioba for his guidance, we have the responsibility of reminding them that this exercise is a very political exercise to have ever been done in the country since this nation went to Zanzibar in the year 2007.
This exercise should continue to have an importance because it is the one that will decide it is a union of this kind to be discussed if this process will be finalized in the year 2014.
For the reason of that importance, there was a big offence in that offense of the law created by the Constitution commission and especially what is the responsibility of the commission to collect the views of citizens and give recommendations at the process.
The first step of the process is to collect the views of citizens but later, they will be made the constitution councils that causes political parties, public institutions, different communities like the ones for experts, special groups and even private individuals to give their views.
Because this exercise is legal and political parties, it does not hesitate to see political parties or the community that defend different interests according to the citizens about the process of the constitution and to give their wives about several important recommendations.
Although the topic of giving the constitution is a very important topic, as usual, in a situation like these political parties do not have their policies and recommendations that will destroy the commission in the right time.
Likewise, political parties must have a great desire to urge members and their followers to give their contributions in front of the commission and contributions that without doubt, it will make the policies of the concerned parties.
Therefore, it's important for political parties to go down without informing their followers although when they got to the front of the commission they did not give their views on behalf of any party, what they are people who do their own themselves.
For sure, it is good to see that the political party shall always have the thoughts and opinion polls to attract those who join with it or not supporting them.
And it is a must for those members of any party that can remove those thoughts.
Therefore it is not true to see members of different parties when they get to the front of the commission giving opinion polls to go hand in hand with the policies of their parties.
In that state, then it is difficult and maybe it's impossible to prevent all political leaders not to send their followers to give opinions about different sections of the constitution as well as the system of leadership and administration and what goes to the future of the union.
I have seen it is that there is a need to encourage us to destroy the outskirts of the law that was used to make the constitutional commission so that political parties can be able to implement their responsibility.
It is supposed to make sure that the British can make it known as an ambassador of the Law Society, "do not do contrary to the law, to respect the law without giving the way the loopholes of an explanation that is similar to the real situation as it is.
At that, it's not only that there will be continuous, that it will be required between the political parties and the commission but also to destroy their followers and the citizens in general about the exercise which essentially is political.
I think that the situation has used to continue with all of the process of moving afresh the constitution of the country until the exercise will be made because I have been made and said that it will be important for the political parties to find their followers at the debate before the opinion polls.
I think that the opinion polls it will be maybe if it is the most important event in this whole process, and this is not possible for beating them open local leaders that would like to give their views or to give them the members and their followers.
I know that the first day will lead you and the opportunity to enable the political leaders and their party to present their views in front of the constitutional commission but I request it is that since now leaders and their political parties should be able to educate their followers and the citizens in general.
The ability to truly that are even now, but it is dominated by bureaucracy and put restrictions of certain kind that causes rights and freedom to convince their followers.
I have seen there's need to forgive him and leave the Judge Warioba so that it can take a difficult position to investigate about this issue, or not using him in order to protect themselves in any opinion about the concept of that opinion has been touched by any political group.
Important is that we consider all the opinion polls and that we consider the strength of those opinion polls without caring if you will destroy their opinions and any group should be political or in the world.
He himself, as the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission has been said and claimed that the exercise of lack of constitution is very difficult, because it is very few citizens who understand completely.
Therefore it is important for political parties together with the community and public institutions to be allowed to educate citizens without restrictions that deal with any bureaucracy.
Without doubt, we are supposed to realize that the legal action made in the commission and implemented the responsibility of its work but when there is still the need for those with educating citizens on various issues that are involved in the constitution.
That is why I see there is a great importance for the law to be interpreted as well and it cannot defend the public so that this important important exercise should not be emphasized and any roadblock is needed because citizens don't have the ability to receive information and communication from different sources, that of them together with their political leaders and their parties.
There's no reason for making the constitutional commission to have fear and stand of political parties or policies concerning various political issues, it is required to conduct their policies and explain their offices so that the whole exercise should be done in peace without any of the country.
The work of the constitutional commission under the chairperson of Judge Warioba is to collect and to coordinate the views of citizens without favoring any time and finally give his recommendations about various constitutional issues.
It is good to learn a little from Kenya where this exercise was run away and also public and media stations in the country benefited from the whole process when it was going on.
If the commission of Judge Warioba will do that then it will enable you to educate citizens about this difficult exercise and the country will be following what happened in front of the commission and therefore he can face the necessary action against the commission.
The ethics process does not understand the current environment of wanting things that are being done by the citizens themselves because of the past, things were different because this day they had been done by President Magufuli is the one who had the strength or not to agree or stop the recommendations that were issued.
In this current process, there is a end of the referees and the referees is the citizens themselves so that we can be afraid that we have come up, because it is part of the political process and therefore it should be careful.
