One is.
You should not forget yourself when you go back in the morning, small tribes to listen to the newspapers together.
Following different media houses.
The biggest thing is about what is being done in parliament in Dodoma yesterday.
Is the minister of issues of the country Benard Membe.
He was able to give words about.
If you know the teachers of sending him that he was given out before the opposition in parliament in the selling of crude oil between others and we tell me there were more effort to reach the opportunity to reach the best government here at home, when he stretch them and talked about it about God.
International speech, a speech by the spokesperson to play in Egypt who started there the day before yesterday, I met and continued to end the youth have been bad luck and it's not the same time to stop and instead get a big way to vote this night because of people to vote this night.
And father and joining the small number of the deceased.
Being it is playing with a fire news.
Being elected to be in Egypt who has come instead of being evicted of Africare, at the beginning of last year and who we have been looking at things similar to one person who had already been looking at this time in the same day, he said that in this day it is my friend.
Male who is a contribution in the world with international things that are usually related to politicians joined very close to politicians.
Thank you very much.
Maybe be it?
He was a lesson.
It does not lie directly.
Again an invitation.
What is your evaluation in elections?
I have been able to know your place and it started to be completed and it is expected to be completed, but it's not the reason that I have given him, even here, different from what will do.
My evaluation about the elections of Egypt like you said it stopped for Monday.
It is expected to end today after losing other day.
If you have ever happened the first elections since he released from power, the first leader.
A democratic elections has not seen.
Lucy comes from the difficulty of the forest.
But it is also taking place in a situation that is mentioned to be used in a very competitive competition will know that you are in the seat.
It is two people who was the head of the army and as the one who was sent up to up to the top position.
In those levels, that is not the eyes set for a story together with another political leader of the left defender.
Welcome him to be.
This is a call from the children and the truth is that there is no one who is mentioned if the leading in elections are required to consider.
The late God bless democracy because it is openly known that I will win this election without doubt and even this one, Mister Aisee Mjengwa who participated in people feel as the first president and he suggested that we should be the first five hundred thousand president, but the third issue is that Egypt gets more than fifty million votes.
To elect another leader from the army of the army to enter the field.
It takes place in Cairo with eating.
We will remember that you are tired of the claims.
Its one who passed away had gone into her body one hundred and two hundred and two were removed.
Graduates and we can flirt-scale farmers since the era of pregnant women and non-malarial in the age of mothers and non-communicable diseases until Doctor Tausi Kida said in Miss I told Miss I told another one who can say so, he can be made elections and leave another police at the state house.
The purpose of getting married is that we are going on is that there is no competitive competition in the election despite that and we hope to have members of parliament to be a democratic elections.
The decision to increase one day for people to vote.
In promoting the western countries, he wanted to show the western countries for what he has done on July ten thousand, in the past five thousand, but it was not a very easy way about power but he believes that there was a small number of people like this one thousand and ten thousand, it gives him a small number of people like this one hundred and ten thousand.
The income of the Bible to be true that it was elections for justice and democracy, because the big part of the teeth that are owned by an incident that there was no doubt that many people were ten and six who are going to vote for me.
It is a historic election but the end of that same day in the basis of people coming out and also for us, we have been.
