
"Tanzania will grow fast in industries.

It has been written by allegations.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The religious leaders and the believers of the Catholic church have said that Tanzania will be growing very fast in the economy of industries because of the speed of performance and the truth of President John Magufuli has for the nation.

In addition to that, those believers have been asked for a nation of peace, calmness and integrity so that the objectives for development can be taken to them.
While leading the special request for the nation yesterday, at the Catholic church of the Catholic church in Dar es Salaam city of Emam, Ubungo, the investor from the Catholic Church of Manzese in Dar es Salaam.
Mbehikya said the speed of performance he started with President Magufuli, explains openly that the goals to reach Tanzania in a great economy of industries will not be reached if God will be given the first position in enabling it.
"Since the first term, arrived in power we see the great speed that he started with this which shows that the industries that had died and changed pregnant for youths who walk with certificates without employment," said Mbelemba while leading the request.
The guest of honor at the request, the deputy minister of information, culture, arts, and sports, Gloria Maboya, said that the only request is that can continue improving the country safely and to avoid any violence.
"A nation without integrity is free, where there is a shame, a continuation of resources there is nothing to remember the conflicts between farmers and pastoralists so it is important to ask God about integrity of the nation, peace and development so that issues are not seen," he said.
He said that the government has continued to put priorities in community services and to ensure that the rights are given through the court and insisted that for it for it to be better, there is need integrity.
While clarifying about the growth of economy and complaints that money are not seen in the pocket, Wambura said it is the fact that the economy has been by 79 percent and the money has been directed more in the services and development of the community where the beneficiaries are from all.
The Director of Public Relations in the Central Region of Dar es Salaam, Padre Thomas Kilimba, speaking with the journalists, he said the conference takes place every year in the day between 17 to 20 and is set aside for a special day to pray for the nation so that God can change in peace.
The assistant chairman of the committee that is organizing those meetings, Ludovick Mwananzila, said that they started to prepare these meetings in the year 2000 and every year, there have been a special day to pray for the nation.
