The delegation from Mrs. Monica Mutoni, Director of UNESCO for the international day of eradicate violence against sexual violence on the 25th of November.

Violence against women are a huge number of human rights and a threat to millions of girls and women in the whole world, approximately one woman among three women in the world has been being beaten, forced to do sex, or guardians in his life.

The whole community has been affected by the violence that you can be in body, sexually transmitted diseases (brutality is forced or accumulating wealth, as well as summoning demons.

In this international day to eradicate violence against AIDS, UNESCO will give changes to the behavior of the country with the shortage of resources like the reasons for preventing violence against women's home, in the estates, during the modern disasters caused by the behavior of the country.

The changes in the country depend on a threat in the world that can increase their talents and lack of residence for people and contribute to the availability of crops or floods, increase in home and in lack of livelihood.

Research shows that women changed to 65 percent of food production in Asia, by 75 percent in the Sub-Saharan countries, by 45 percent in South America.

Many times, it is the responsibility of a culture of women that will place in great danger against the effects of climate change in the country - and therefore they find themselves in a conducive environment that goes for food, water and wood or after lack of houses or getting poverty from disasters.

Lack of ways of looking for livelihood and poverty can also cause violence in home because of the economic growth, together with continuing with a long time depending on the movements of women and early marriages.

UNESCO is participating fully in strengthening the courage to deal with behavior change in the country, to support the privacy of sexual violence in all their performance.

By using the cooperation and creative plans, UNESCO has advanced the thoughts that it claims that women and girls are important in dealing with climate change in the country, especially for example, plans for managing the water and importance of dealing with disaster.

Make sure that production of gas is that we are affecting the world.
We are supposed to believe that climate change are affecting the lives of girls and women in the whole world.

When we are ready to start implementing the legality of the state of Paris, and prepare for the success of COP22, there should not forget yourself of the number of our people and their ability who represent Tanzania.
