The cold is living under a tree.
Memba, 14, 2013.

In the Makondo village, Simanjiro District, Manyara Region, today morning of March 7, this year, the Mwasamniotic fluid.
It fell under a big tree that is in the middle of their residence to get married when the author of this newspaper of Raia Mwema, when he was arriving at their home.
This is a family of the breeders of the Maasais' that are in the outskirts of Jichunge.'
Different from other families in the country is said that this family of 14 people including the young children last night, were waiting for a big tree after their homes and torched in the fire by people alleged to be soldiers of the Nyamatala, Kondoa District.
Inside this area, a situation is why there is no house, any house that can destroy the children and women due to the state of rain and clean environment that comes from BADEA.
An attack.
According to the chairperson of that village of Jichunge.'
Selous Wildlife Conservation Area is in Kondoa District, which has joined with part of the forest resources of Simanjiro District, which a big area is born with the farmers of Maasai clothes and other communities of breeders.
Mwasamstated that through an interpreter, there is a shame that made it found on March 3, this year, out of eight at nine o'clock in the afternoon.
Where people who are alleged to be soldiers of the wildlife who loves several things and taking them down.
"Police with weapons (gun) arrived here at a trap while asking an old man, where we stopped the responsibility to not pictured.
They did not lose the time they performed well in two houses that caused him to be in a hole, "he said.
According to Mwasamit, in the houses that had been destroyed, there was a loss.
Food, clothes, livestock and different media stations that he cannot get that value.
"I have been married to this seven years ago, and the information that I was found here is that this family has lived here since 1970.
And he has not been seen to have any problem, "
"For now, we are celebrating under this tree, our fear is that our children will be affected by bad cold drinks, especially because this is the rainy season," says Mwasam.
Another victims of that event are David Balton (52), who says the day of that event was on his activities.
A report of the operation of buying residential houses that were implemented by those officers.
"When I went to my home, I met a big destruction everything.
It had been listed in the fire starting from food, medicine, livestock and family clothes and unfortunately, there was no great person at home, he explained with sadness.
He said those police claim that they have been living in building their homes.
Selous Wildlife Conservation Area, without considering the truth that they have lived in that area many years ago.
Claims of bribery.
The police involved in that operation have also been accused of claiming the bribery from those farmers so as to remove them down.
The claims by those police have been killed by Maria You (50) who even their homes.
He didn't be burnt down, different from the breeders and that step is due to the promise that they have given them money to those officers.
"We came to me that you want to give 500,000 shillings so as to read me, I told them that I don't have money.
We agree that they will go back to follow the money after three days "he claimed.
A mother is saying that many who were identified himself is why they have been unable to give bribes or not there in their homes.
While the operation is done.
The chairman of that village of Maasais', Daniel Melisa, told BBC Afrique reports that the operation that he called on the brain, has left more than 300 people without shelter after their homes were burnt down.
"This area is part of the Makondo area and more than 775 households have died here for more than 40 years in their activities.
Farming and little farming, the operation that was done here is against the law of the country, "said Melisa.
That chairman said the law that started the Selous Wildlife Conservation Area, explains openly that the sun will be area of Kondoa District in Dodoma province and not otherwise.
