
CWT has criticized for teachers a lot of teachers.
Mister el Chidawali about the Citizen that was unconscious.
Dodoma where the teachers' association of Tanzania (CT) in Dodoma Municipality has warned that the management of form six exams can involve teachers in groups.
The warning comes from the claims of the teachers who attended the form four exams last year, that until now they are expecting a lot of money.
The chairperson of CT in the municipality, Samson Mkotya, said yesterday that due to the claims of the teachers of last year, there is a big possibility that were borrowed again.
Mlote said that the millions of funds are believed to have teachers in the municipality and there is no reason for one way and when they will be paid their rights.
"It will be a great issue if we will decide to pay the supervisors of form six exams while those of grade four are not paid and there will be causing conflicts and classes but the debts will be a mountain," said Mkotya.
While giving an example of those allegations, he said more than 100 teachers in the municipality claim that more that they were paid 320,000 shillings each one which is equivalent to eight days for the level of 10 million shillings per day, while in some of the exams took place for 19 days.
He gave an example of Mwedo Girls Secondary School, that 13 teachers claim 2,283 shillings.
The education officer of Dodoma province, Juma Kaponda said the claims was of last year, while it is alleged that there is no teachers who will pay for the examinations of this year because the government has given all the funds to the teachers of the municipality starting to be paid yesterday.
Kaponda said the reason for the debts of last year were resulting from the examinations plan to have many days ago, he made fear from teachers because their allegations were known to the government and that it is the right time.
At the end of last week, the Deputy Minister, Office of the President (Tamisemi), Seleman Jafo told the parliament that the debt for the teachers who attended the examinations were close to 17 billion shillings and the government continues with verification so as to start paying other debts.
Speaking at the commemoration of the World Women's Day that took place in Dodoma town, at the end of last week, President John Magufuli said the government is continuing with the verification of payments for its workers in order to be satisfied and to be completed, they will pay all the concerned parties.
