Is Lowassa or Magufuli?
On October 14th, 2015, by Mke Mwema, entertainment and games.

Competition Mkali in this year's elections you make her person to know if the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere would also support the candidate who is'?
Although every presidential candidate you want to build it up by the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, in one way or another so as to attract enough votes, some of the political issues in the country are saying without doubt the teacher entered the side.
The three presidential candidates, Doctor John Magufuli of CCM, Edward Lowassa's member of parliament and Anna Mghwira has of the ACT-Wazalendo party, all of them are using Mwalimu Nyerere during their campaigns.
On the side of ACT-Wazalendo, has officially announced that it is making the policies of Unyiaga (Nyamiyaga) and in order to implement that has announced the stadium in Tabora province, which was the basis of the ethics of which the late Mwalimu Nyerere.
CHADEMA and especially his candidate, Lowassa, has been using Mwalimu Nyerere's statement that he made in the year 1995, while speaking to delegates of the general meeting of CCM, heading to CCM's general elections that they will look for CCM presidential campaigns and join CHADEMA, where he will be appointed to vie for the presidency after being named CCM.
When Lowassa was prepared by the teacher's statement, CCM apart from being expected in the teacher she made during the CCM general meeting 1995, that the best president will take a speech before Lowassa was born by Mwalimu Nyerere at the election of 1995.
When the foundation stone is not yet known, it's good for you, among the candidates who are in the presidency, can they know that the teacher gets a teacher by checking the basis of his own.
Mwalimu Nyerere, a nation.
Today it will celebrate 16 years since died, he had a great desire to decide the winner of the first general election of many parties in the year 1995, by putting foundations and reputation that the president of Tanzania should be found and warned that there are some of the candidates who are feared.
During the book of our leadership and the fate of Tanzania, the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, made it up with the issue of warned them, "Ole Gabriel of Tanzania, Mobolaji Dawodu.
Getting rid of the fate of Tanzania, and the importance of protecting the gift of the nation, something that can be a good position for the presidential candidates in this elections, if they can fulfill the dreams of the nation.
He gave that advice at a special issue, but when considering his intention of since Uhuru is building a union of unity, the advice has the importance of its own kind in Tanzania today.
In his speech to honor, on the 29th of July, 1985, before retiring from sharp teeth.
At the time Mwalimu Nyerere was satisfied that the work has been done so much and it is something that if a nation can be proud of, "I think today I can say without hesitation, because we have the nation with a union of unity," he said in his speech to vie for the parliament.
10 years later, when the nation is heading to the first general elections under the system of many parties in the year 1995, the teacher had already seen the truth that they were able to bring down the union of the nation.
He emphasized that the leader of Tanzania must make sure that when they go up with bribery, that people as they look at the eyes of religion, mentioning the truth of religion and tribalism.
"Someone who wants to go to the State House to get any benefits at the state house where I don't know you for a very long time, I am in State House for a very long time, you cannot go back to the State House when you cannot go to the State House when you cannot go to the State House when you cannot go to the State House when he asked the teacher in one of his speech.
