In the strike of doctors, the activists, where a mistake is forbidden from the government?
Mr of 15, 2012

I am saying that these players who call the activists in defending human rights, Doctor Nyanga said that they are unable to supervise the rights of people living in human rights and this is the first right for human beings to win, "President Kikwete speaking to the elders of CCM of Dar es Salaam city, on Monday this week.
Among many things that I would be able to condemn their views today is this issue of President Kikwete to decide to bring back the government so that it can be a solution to the specialist doctors in the country to stop claiming that it is to defend the deaths of patients.
I don't know why President Kikwete has reached an issue in that way and I am worried that there is a must for listen to a motion even one of the activists, I believe if there is a activist for everyone who are insisting.
First, they were involved in the government to address the claims of doctors and especially the view that the government had a number of people to do so that many activists are led by Doctor Helen Kijo Bisimba, she knows that the government is not same as claimed that the government is not same as claimed to have no longer.
The activists believe that the biggest regulations is that a strike is not seen as a result of various executives and therefore the activists also understand that in order to continue the strike not to continue and bring effects, then the government moves down immediately to address the problems of doctors.
The second issue that the activists did not put for the right time is that they told President Kikwete to work once for the minister and his assistant so that doctors can be able to return to work because the big part of the doctors was caused by other leaders not to be a lesson to other leaders.
Again we can build a argument that the activists had a strength to say but Kikwete if the president had the strength of doing it should be remembered that there is no high level of discipline against the minister or deputy minister but the activists say that the strike is caused by the ministers and therefore the president should not be allowed to be seen that they want to do people.
Another argument that can be built - although we build up a little fear since we repeat the way by the president, that if the truth is President Kikwete believes that they had an accident in these parts of our colleagues who says that their rights are outdated, and the activists had where they were close to close to the whole month of conflict?
Your question is wrong, wisdom, give birth to me, I have said there is true that we have the ability to make noise just and talk to anyone who don't know what is not seen if it did not expect it?
If it is true that the State House or other people in the government wanted to prevent a strike not to intervene in one time, if the problem was happening and Nkya is true, we believe that these are not getting the lives of our citizens who died because of lack of that service because we were not given right information? "
But we can try to ask another question like that, these ministers do not pay the life of our ministers what they would have resigned immediately and seen that they are in the office while doctors have said they are not ready to give the cooperation of "private or work"?
Now, doctors have come back to work but they have said openly that he can lead the doctor to work together with the complaints they believe that the lives of patients have high costs more than one week because the doctors have come back to work or have come back to work or have come back to work or have come back to work.
Private I believe that President Kikwete has lost a good opportunity to show the leadership by being given weight to the claims by doctors instead of giving them bad names and order to be responsible for an issue even one.
