
Better leadership in sports is able to reduce.
The best leadership in sports is the ones that would be able to improve the sports condition but the games can be avoided if the leaders are holding to that authority for the purpose of benefit for their personal interests.
The leadership of football in the country is important to have integrity in the game that you get improving and that it is supposed to be allowed in games and international competitions.
The former chairman of the Congo Boys Secondary School, Hassan AGAPE, claims that soccer in the Coastal Region and other parts of the country have been destroyed because of the poor leadership.
"There was a high level soccer in the Coastal Region and other parts of the country, but due to bad leadership and having leaders with need for personal interests, we cannot continue," said Baamar.
The veteran wants football leaders in the country to have integrity and those who will go to the game and they should not be able to benefit from their personal interests according to their personal interests, "he said.
Bhebey Ndey who was born in 1961, is proposing to be transferred to a center same as Youth Olympic Center in Pwani province so that the upcoming stars can be appointed and form a stable squad that will be able to play the national league and the Kenya Premier League (KMU).
The Jaguar type has been saddened by how the football match are developed in the country to be worried that if you are not done quickly, you will affect the grave.
He praised the citizens of the former soccer leaders because they were doing to plans that they are producing fruits and wanted to lead soccer officers to manage different positions in order to improve the condition of the game.
"It is a great shame for our part in the Coastal region to have the team to pass only one in the premier league.
In the past we had a lot of teams including Liverpool, Feisal, Lake Warriors, Western Stars and I have been forced to do a special report, "he explained Bagigi.
The former leader says it is a must for the Coast club to get the sponsors so as to withstand the national level league.
"I'm pleased by seeing our teams looking for sponsorship and that it is in danger of getting into that league," said Baamar.
That veteran says he was one of the those who agreed to take power to upcoming youth clubs with an intention of leading to ensure the youth are doing the progress of development and not to lead the club for benefit.
Bhebey Ndey is proposing to be open up with special plans for youths who are under the age of 12 to 16 that are still plans to travel up to the countries of Norway, Denmark and France where they should be involved in the youth competition of that age.
"Competitions for youths help to increase a huge level to improve our upcoming stars.
Why do we feel that our teams in the Lord's Cup, Draw, and other things, "he asked.
He believes that the government will look at the importance of football game without doubt the state of football in the country will improve it better that there is a partnership between the leaders of different levels and those of the club.
Bhebey Ndey has also urged the local government in Pwani province to put procedures of building for playing for soccer at the soccer game because of them being in place well, the players will be able to protect themselves and there fans will start going back again at the field to witness all the matches even the previous matches.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
