The police who received bribery in Zanzibar was taken.

October 4, 2016.

The police force in Zanzibar have started to take disciplinary action against its officers, numbers of 18 to 16 Sergeant Samuel Kassim Majaliwa of being accused of receiving bribes from foreign citizens and its reports to be distributed on social media networks.
The incident happened at the Mkandamizi police station where that police introduced himself by the name Ally for the visitors and claimed that he is working at the Mahonda Police Station.
Speaking to the journalists, Zanzibar's police commissioner, Hamdan Omar Makame, said that the act that was done by that police is for criminal offenses, close up with that army, to resolve it due to the bail they were given by the government.
He said the army revealed that the action that was done by its officers, disciplinary action have started being taken by congratulating the foreign citizen for giving information of the incident.
"I request the community to know that, an act that was done by that police did not be careful so that the whole of that army is because the appropriate action of disciplinary action will be taken to eliminate the concept.
"There is a big possibility that if they are not allowed to visitors alone but even if we do not give information to the stations, this situation contributes to increase in these actions," he said.
He added that the action of the citizens not to give information about evil actions being done by the police force causing conflicts in maintaining the mistakes that later cost a nation.
Commander Makame urged citizens who use actions against the law, to ask and give information to stations that are close to them or to the leaders of the army.
He urged the communications company of mobile phones to revive the system of making calls by using an emergency number to be able to ease the citizens to give quick reports when they get criminal problems or to be dealt with because of the values of the police or other servants.
