Tanzania, Burundi are holding the stand of the EAC?
Sei, 26, 2013.

The issues of issues has continued to be volatile in East African Community (EAC), after Tanzania and Burundi wanting details from other countries to three, members of Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda which started a new partnership (Niche) by checking the two countries.

In a period of three months ago, there have been a series of events that indicate that Tanzania and Burundi have been built with those three countries which have started a new partnership between them Hinterland, contrary to the contract that started the community in the year 1999.

The current union was born again today November 30th, in the year 1999 to involve Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya, while Rwanda and Burundi were welcomed later in the year 2008.

That new community was born after the previous day that was started in 1977 due to what is explained that it is unable to agree with the heads of the country members at that time, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere (Tanzania), Jomo Kenyatta (Kenya) and Idd Amin (Uganda).

Recently, the recent news that had been found from the EAC are saying that Tanzania and Burundi have been charged with a step of the country members, their fellow members of Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda to start the process of starting a political federation without stopping those countries.

Tanzania and Burundi are saying that through a session of the ministers that took place on August 31, this year, in Arusha town, the deputy chairperson of that council, Shela Bagashe (Uganda to give information about the steps of those three countries to do things that are going on against the contract of that community.

The reports indicate that even Bagdad has not been the appropriate answers about that step and that is where the two countries tried to allow a lot of answers about the issue in the future session that will take place in November, this year.

Together with the issue of starting the process of the political federation, those three countries have also been explained to have agreed to start cooperation in the area of collecting taxes (high) in Dar es Salaam.

Other issues that explained are not important to the countries of Tanzania and Burundi is a step of agreed to have one acre to tourists who will visit the countries, to strengthen infrastructure especially the construction of railway from the port of Mombasa, Kenya up to Kigali, Rwanda.

One of the EAC officers who are a Tanzanian (name is reserved) followed the newspaper of Good Citizen that state in the secretariat of the community is bad and even servants from Tanzania and Burundi have started getting married by their colleagues.

"There has been no fear among the top officials in our community, the servants of Tanzania are like we are involved with our colleagues," he claimed that the servant without explaining more.

During his meeting with journalists last month, the Secretary General of the EAC, Doctor Richard Sezibera, he denied claims that situation is not well in the community that he is leading.
Doctor Sezibera, he was quoted saying "situation is safe in the community and everything you will go well according to the contract of different communities that came up is normal in any community of people with his thoughts."

The reports indicate that in his defense, Bagdad who is also the Minister of East Africa in Uganda, explained to the participants of the session that the meeting that brought together heads of those countries was coordinated by the ministry of foreign affairs in the concerned country.

That minister explained that as usual those meetings are related to issues of East Africa being attended by concerned ministry in every country, but the issue was contrary to that, it would have been an appropriate time.

"As a result of the conflict that have emerged, the message that has emerged in Tanzania's message wants to be informed in the future session of the ministers that is expected to take place earlier on November 30th this year, before the general meeting of the country they will meet on November 30th," says our news source.
