
Security camera shivered.
December 17, 2014.

Security agencies have reduced the traffic camera (CCTV), from Arusha gemology station, shortly before the bomb exploded and injured 15 people.

That bomb occurred in the famous bar in Arusha province, on Sunday April 13th at night while customers continue to check the English Premier League match, between Chelsea and Swansea teams.

The reports followed by Mke Mwema, several sources are indicating that the police force in collaboration with those of the National Security Department have reduced part of events of those pictures, before the bomb exploded.

Those reports are indicating that part of those pictures show that two people who were involved in the fund (the bag) is seen to put that fund in one of the areas of the bar and short time later there was a explosion.

"The possibility of the event is supposed to have the security camera is very big and we can realize those involved even in their differences because pictures show that there are two people who were seen as a black scheme.

Moreover, something that is believed to be a bomb that is discovered in another city of Washington in the neighboring country and the main bus station for the city of Arusha that day, on the night of five o'clock.

Speaking about the event in his meeting with the journalists yesterday, Director of criminal Investigation (DCI), Isaya Mungele confirmed the arrest of the traffic police in the bar.

"It's true that we have taken all events that were recorded by the security camera, but we are still in the first step of our investigation, we cannot be able for now to announce public that we shall reach," said Mungele.
He said that in that event, 15 people were injured and out of seven have been allowed to come from the hospital after treatment while others who died are getting treatment at the Mount Meru Hospital and Saint Elizabeth.

He said that the previous investigation shows something that led in the bar as a bomb attacks in Washington, and even if it was discovered in Washington area, it was also a bomb attack in Washington, although it did not explode.

"We request that we benefit us, we understand that people are not seen to know who are behind these events, police together with security agencies have great efforts to ensure that the perpetrators are arrested," he said.

Regarding the army to be unable to arrest the suspects in events of the previous explosions that happened in Arusha, Mungele said that even the criminals who are in the past, these events are illegal and mental disabilities to evade the support of dollars.

"Even in the past, these events include mental disabilities, but we will look for them and take them before the support of laws if we will be arrested," he said.

The incident at the end of the week is four hours for a bomb that was started in Arusha town where in the first event, the former secretary of Bakwata, Arusha Province, Abdulkarim Shah, while carrying a bomb aimed at least in the near future.

In the second event in May last year, a bomb that was being thrown in the Catholic Church, Joseph Haule, the parish of Olle it where three people lost their lives and more than 60 others being injured.

In the event, the ambassador of Vatican in the country Bishop Fransico Kimaichako said that the Archbishop of Arusha Constituency, Josephat Lebulu did not get any effects.

Another event is a bomb aimed at the campaign meeting of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Soweto grounds where four people died on the world and more than 50 others being injured.

Until now in all those events, there is no one who was arrested and there is no any group that had ever announced their involvement.
