
Prime Minister has ordered the loopholes of theft of oil to give them.
The Prime Minister Honorable Kassim Majaliwa has urged the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) and the electricity agency (TPA) to make sure the crude oil in the country are being transported and needed easily in order to enable the government to get correct tax.
While speaking at the time of inspecting the systems, receiving bribes, transportation and distribution of oil is used in the country Honorable Majaliwa has emphasized the importance of government institutions concerned with the issue to save revenue that can benefit because of theft.

Moreover, he has ordered the pipes for transporting oil to the road accidents in Kigamboni area not to be supervised by TPA to be released on a period of one month.
In the short time, the registrar of treasury at a partnership between the government and the Proin Promotion Company, that the government should have its company itself that will receive and sell oil instead of the current crisis that is run in partnership.
He has ordered from now the procedure of transporting oil from the ship to go to the investor from all business people should be connected to TPA.

On his part, the minister of works, transport, and communication, Professor Makame Mbarawa has assured the Prime Minister Majaliwa that TPA is prepared well to ensure crude oil in the country are being transported and tested for a new plant in Kigamboni area which will transport and test all the fuel which will begin in March 2016.
In another step, Minister Professor Mbarawa has visited the University of Dar es Salaam (DMI) and insisted on the importance of the institution to increase the opportunities of students and they registered themselves so as to attract many people to study studies of civil servants and services of the ship.
Professor Mbarawa has directed the college's acting head, Engineer. Mafanikio that will enable the university to build modern buildings that go with the modern machines that are in teaching.

He said the forum will give good teaching machines so as to work opportunities for students and teachers so as to improve the service sector and the management of the country to get many experts and grow the economy of your university and we don't know it, "said Professor Mbarawa.
Moreover, he has urged the university to have a good relationship with the universities in the world so as to exchange experiences on training and benefit from the professional.

Minister Mbarawa has emphasized the importance of announcing the courses that are provided in that college and its benefits so as to attract many youths to study the profession of that ship.
DMI college which is in Dar es Salaam, was started in the year 1991 in the year 1991 according to the 22nd law of parliament and contributes to primary education on water and distribution of the ship in a certificate, diploma and degree courses.
