
We should go to the content of the constitution of the United Republic of the year 1977 to May 30th.

They have been able to have opinions from many people that we benefit from many people do not know the content of the constitution of the United Republic of the year 1977 it is clear that for the citizens who don't have enough understanding about the new constitution, especially about the shortage, so that they can give opinions about the shortage.
I met I was supposed to participate fully in the process of preparing this new constitution in 1977 due to the purpose of this article, it is giving a brief explanation of the things that are in this constitution, one point after another.
The meaning of the constitution of the country.

The constitution of the country (any way) is the law of the country involved in the constitution, it is impossible for the law that had put universities in that country, together with identifying the structure of those agencies and the constitution also reaches the power of every one of those equipment, and a relationship between them.
The constitution is why it continues to put official procedures of how the leaders get in the school they will play and how it can be removed from power.
Therefore, the constitution explains the existence of political parties, together with other political parties and therefore the right to select the election candidates, it gives the rights of people to vote in elections and government leaders in different levels.
But the constitution of the country does not deal with any way and competition of political parties in the elections and the competition is dominated by election laws, which are the ones that are supposed to put an exercise that is available for the competitions.
In general, the constitution is able to put a whole process of how the country is dominated by because it's the proposed constitution to put universities in country administration which will be known by the name "said the government to contest for the constitution and court.
In that state you cannot make sure they did not make it to the constitution of any country.
The content of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania has a total of 152, (section of the constitution is called article 7, different from the normal law, which are outdated.
The first chapter.

The first chapter, has divided into three parts, with 32 article 10, the first part has a total of article five, this article explains the right to vote for each person who attains the age of 18, according to the election laws in the country.
Also, this article explains how the implementation of the country's activities are run by the government and is giving the right to vote for every Tanzanian citizen who has attains the age of 18 years by following the requirements for the election law.
In his second part, article six to 11, article these are discussing "the important goals and the basis of the direction of government activities," because our government will be the foundation of all the authority, and that the government gets the authority of all the authority to the citizens.
Therefore, the government is responsible for the citizens that is giving a broad way of word.
"The government has said that its meaning is the government of the United Republic of Zanzibar, the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, the local government and also a person who will implement power or any authority on behalf of the government.
His third place is article 12 to 32, article these are speaking about the following things, the issue of "human rights and important responsibilities," every citizen has mentioned the rights for human rights and equity before the law.
We are also speaking about the right to live, or the right to someone to be careful, speaking about the right of freedom of a private person, especially the privacy of someone who does not know her, freedom and freedom to participate in the public activities.
After that, this part explained the right to work hard "you will explain the right to work and the rights of owning the property and the right to get rights and responsibilities of the country, the responsibility of protecting the public property and the responsibility to participate in the security of the country.
The second chapter.

The second round of the constitution is the one of the American dollars that is called the government of the United Republic of Tanzania, this article has three parts, with article 33 up to 61 percent.
His first part has article 33 up to 46B, article that will start using the existence of president of the country, and that he will be the executive President after that, this section explains the procedure to elect the president and the qualifications to be elected as the president.
It will lead the oath of president after being elected by the rules of its work, he also explained the authority of the president and to announce the intention of electing the president's authority to announce the charges against President Magufuli, by running the charges against him in parliament.
Two government structure in the part of the second part is the structure of two governments in our union, that structure has been set on article 34 (1), which will be easily read.
"There will be the government of the United Republic, which will have the authority on all the United Republic of Tanzania (whole) of the union and also about all other things that involve Tanzania mainland," after that, the second part talks about the presence of vice president.
It should remember that there will be one vice president of the president, then it explains that when he will start holding his authority, it gives the oath of vice president and the time of the vice president's vice president.
History of this issue is that the existence of the vice president only came into the constitution for the first time in great changes of the country's constitution, where they were left with the Prime Minister who is also the vice president of the United Republic of Tanzania, he continued to be the Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The 11 changes of the country's constitution that was done in the year 1999, is the one that led the president of Zanzibar in the first position as the Vice President of the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic of Tanzania, where the president comes from a certain party, but his vice president comes from another different party.
On that reason of wanting the president and his vice president, the changes will remove the president of Zanzibar in the position of vice president of the United Republic of Tanzania because there was a possibility of the president of Zanzibar from different party and the president of the union.
But for a long period before yesterday, our constitution had two vice president, starting the constitution of one party in the year 1965, where his 13 article will be easily read.
"There will be two Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania (who will be called the first Deputy President of the United Republic of Zanzibar, and another one will be the deputy president of the United Republic of Zanzibar, and another one will be the deputy chairperson of the Ministry of Ideology and Publicity of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Nape Nnauye as he was the deputy president of the United Republic of Zanzibar.
