
Look at the right time the player does love?
Having a lot of questions that gave him, it's a period especially a player is to have a love if he has a match in front of one person or the team of this article to do love after the match.
The most importantly they do not have that education and remain every time, in which way we should know how they are important matches?
He said that players do not love this night before the game, but they are saying that it was also known as a player in the camp, he does not love me because he has a relationship with me, there are many artists who do not believe, "it will help a player.
Other times you are saying that a player does not love one day or two in the match because more than that, it can be a player who failed to do well in games.
However, Freetown city is adorned with the expertise to discover themselves in the 19th century, he says that doing love is a dangerous act that is supposed to try a person's procedure.
Scientists are now holding on actions of doing the act, his relationship with sports especially soccer and it has been taken to participating in the Olympic games and that there is no reason that says there's no love before the game goes against a player.
A philosopher-scientist a expert of medicine to sportsmen from the McGuvnor's University in Canada, has come with another research and said, "the issue of contraception is like a player or failing to perform well and to fail to perform well and to fail to do well.
The joy of the body led to several factors that affect the body being in a certain state including the need of doing love and sometimes it makes him a player to be in a speed and they play soccer in a high level if he does with sex.
Doctor Kizza Byrant, a special adviser on the relations issues in Italy, about sex with the level of performance he says, "sex is doing a player to remove the fear of the game, body and friends.
The former boxer, Muhammad Ali has ever said that on his part, he had seen him a few weeks before the contest.
Some of the team coaches have faith that they do not see a player and said that a player should not get love until his main match ahead of him.
There are some sportsmen that like to do sex with it will be remembered that the former Real Madrid player and Brazil, Ronaldo, Lungangira said that the player did a love tonight before the match, it helps her to play in their friendly match on the field and made him to do how.
There are three things that are mentioned in relation to the love for players (1) "to do a love before the Marathon race for example, it makes them contribute to a fast rate."
That is the sponsors of the University of Oxford, in their research, they reached out to 2000 people and discovered that the athletes in London Marathon that those involved do not have a speed of more than five minutes.
2 percent of "do a love on the match, there is no one that will try to try the level of a player."
When Tmy son, PHD is a member of the competition can have a bad results. "
This group of researchers from Geneva, Rogasian Kaijage, who was sworn in his research and said that they are looking for the athletes that did the love and those who did not do it is clear that they had a same standards and there is no one who engaged to his colleague.
3 times, "do not love two or three hours before sportspeople get 16 matches for different games, and decided to make love where they have a match.
The results of the repetition showed that they distributed the importation of scientists, played their games under a level.
The research of the University of Cub of Ciara and they did not like that and got results similar to that players doing a love, it is playing under a level.
Basically, it was reported that the researchers have that, for the best player to do love, can be able to reduce the ability to play after two hours after doing that act.
The action of releasing the only thing, you love their player and reduce the anger of the game and made a player to play under a low level.
However, research has failed to show if a player is losing Stamina in the field.
What should one which have a research has been contested for research, now work for players in weaving or the truth.
