The sponsors of Tundu Lissu.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

The Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court in Dar es Salaam is awaiting for the member of parliament for Singida East, Tundu Lissu (CCM) who are going to go up with incitement cases, returns from Germany to explain what he did not arrived in the court without giving information.

That court also had warned lazy workers of Lissu and urged them to make sure that they are supposed to court in court when it was mentioned, that they will do that on bail or being defeated in prison.
The chief resident magistrate, Thomas Simba has said that today when that case was mentioned to be mentioned in the purpose of Lissu, explaining what he is not given to him because of not getting to the court without giving information.
In addition to being required to arrive in the court, Lissu did not arrived, but his sponsors Ibrahim Ahmed and Robert Katula arrived and explained that the Catholic church will be treated in peace and peace for treatment.
Judge Lubuva urged them to explain why they are not allowed by being unable to implement their responsibilities, those sponsors claimed they were given a report that Lissu has agreed to court the day before yesterday, but he got an emergency to travel and also requested the court to prepare for time so that they can be prepared.
Senior lawyer of the government, Mutta said that up to me who did not have reports from the small business, they were waiting for the day before yesterday, he was expected to meet Lissu as an officer of the court he made a procedure but if he will continue so, to present his documents.
The lawyer of Lissu, Peter Kibatala claimed the sponsors have implemented their duties by giving information on time, and promised something that it will come out again, therefore he requested them to wait and confirm that journey together with the treatment report.
Judge Simba said that "what he did is not the first time, sometimes the case has already come out as a result of another day, but we believe that everyone can get an emergency, but the important thing is to provide information and because of what happened, they can increase the conditions on bail and to present him in court the documents.
