
Messi did not slap with the trainer of rules.
Lionel Messi's star Rich Mavoko has sent away with his coach Luis, to rule the division that has caused fear among the players and the fans of Spain's fate about his fate.
News on behalf of the games of Spain in Spain, has reported that the assistant management in the country had already been defeated in the past, with the striker's striker from Argentina, and already the coach is alleged to have requested the Barcelona leadership that never he cannot continue to work with that player.
That situation is continued to sign a report that until now Messi was trying to leave Barcelona despite the leadership of that club, to hold that there is no wonder where he is going to be the norm.
Conflict, conflict between those two who is claimed to be a lot of even more than the decision of the deputy inspector of the bench was on their last Sunday of 1-0 against Real Sociedad.
At the time of that match, Messi was seen after Real Sociedad, scoring the goal that plays for Barcelona and scored three points in the premier league.
At the Wednesday session with the journalists, Engees Okoye has been attacked with a white house in the whole world that forced him to listen to what is happening between them.
But in his answers, that coach was called on her meaning that it's true that his relationship with Messi for this time is not good.
"I will appeal and you used me for now, but it is better to understand that I cannot confirm or oppose the claims that are on the media.
Problems of here and there should not be for lack, but the important thing is how we will solve, "said the rules," he said.
If you leave that, very delicious with bad luck, Barcelona is still a lot of problems in dealing with the expulsion of the sports director, Andulile (TPC) after the ban of not being maintained together as the assistant coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach, Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach, Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach, Carlos Puyol with their former coach Carlos Puyol with their former coach
Assistant inspector in the neighborhood of Zigamba has opened up in the market which he has served as the sports director since 2010, the president's leadership Sandro Rosell to be very bad.
The scandal usually has not been done by Barcelona which have been caught in conflicts and are insufficient, but it does not have never happened, conflict, equivalent to the current, since the era of President Abdelhamid Radwanska, whose management was heading to him from the election held in 2003.
Last year, president Sandro Rosell he resigned after the judge decided to be cleaned it about the registration scandal of Neymar from Santos. As he presented the case.
His position was admitted and the former vice president, Josep Maria Bartomeu, who admitted the price that the star of Brazil was 2106 billion contrary to 6 billion shillings which was reported previously.
It has been a shame to be a shame for a shame and now is looking at the top following the death of Zouk Rumba.
