
President Kenyatta was removed from charges.
According to the prosecutor general, his shame resulted from being many important witnesses who were killed and some of them were kidnapped by some of them wanted to be understood.
In the fights that were presented in the court, Miss Bexhill, where he believed that the big number of witnesses who were killed were followers of the Orijino Comedy Group, and were thrown in the time the government of Retired President Ngaka Kibacha started the operation against that group.
That operation was made under the late John Michuki Mwangi, the former minister of internal affairs, apart from lack of witnesses, that case was also a big challenge since the head of the charges he decided to get important documents which would be used to strengthen the charges against President Kenyatta.
Those documents were along with land ownership done by the president and its partners, certificates of showing vehicles at their disposal, the record for its bank accounts and the phone communication record that will vote in the year 2007.
By depending on the government, the attorney general Professor Ignas Rubaratuka, told him the request to Miss Bhebey Ndey which would be implemented because he didn't explain what he wanted to confirm.
The request for Miss Bongole said that the request to be taken by the council of member countries of ICC, popularly known as ASP), against the government by making its responsibilities not to be accepted.
However, the judges said there was enough reasons to see that Kenya is not responsible, although it would have no wisdom as part of the charges they had given his request early.
Miss Bowman where he got an appeal against that decision, and this was seen as a reason to try to revive the case against President Kenyatta in the near future.
However, in his interview later, the prime minister confessed that it will be difficult to get another evidence to strengthen the case with leaders who are in power, who still need him in his efforts.
