Fastjet has changed the ball.
October 20, 2016 by Mnkeje.

Dar es Salaam City.

After doing badly in a business for approximately four years ago, Fastjet's aircraft has decided to leave a big plane of Airbus.

Those changes comes after realizing that, those planes are very big compared to the number of passengers, a situation that causes the company to continue getting losses every year.

The Marketing Manager of Fastjet Tanzania Lucy Mbogoro has said that the problem facing that company is a step of using a big plane of Airbus (A319) that have been run at a high cost.

Speaking to Good Citizen recently, Mbogoro said that organization has continued to get losses because its planes do not have enough passengers to fill in all seats, a situation that is not good.

"Business, a plane is supposed to leave which has reduced the passengers for all his trips, and when the passengers are few, then it is a loss to the company.

"We know if an affordable plane is supposed to run our services by filling those planes every journey and without doing so, we will also run it in losses," he said.

Mbogoro noted that after knowing that the use of big planes of Airbus still caused a big loss of the company now, they have decided to look for a small plane, with a capacity to carry 40 passengers.

According to that officer, up to the end of this year, that organization will have three new planes.

It has been reported that Fastjet has now decided to leave its planes of Airbus A319, being its new business strategy.

Until at the end of the year, the company has planned to sell only three planes of Airbus and to sell the three small planes so as to reduce 15 percent of its cost of running the plane.

According to the officer, the process of switching off two types of airplane has been used to collect the number of 80 people up to 120 percent.

However, the head of the business unit of that company, Richard Kayombo, where he was quoted saying that Eastleigh aircraft will be the best player.

Up to now, one plane of Airbus A319 has been removed from the number of planes of that company and two other cargoes that were opened up to last month.

One plane of A319 which was the audience.

He said the organization has now been charged with only one plane of Airbus in Tanzania, which is doing all trips including those of going to Mwanza, Mbeya, Kilimanjaro and Johannesburg.

Until August this year, the accounts show that the loss of Fastjet airplane has increased by 300 percent in the half of the year that started in June this year.

However, 84 percent of its planes were forced to land for a long time set on the schedule, or under 15 minutes for the planned time.

Reports have shown that the loss of the company was increasing up to reach 31 million dollars for the first half of this year, while the number of passengers has been increasing at 9 percent up to 3949 percent in the first half of this year.

Nico Rosberg, who was appointed in August, this year, said the period of the first half of this year was a big challenge to its company since he was appointed has decided to change the system of Fastjet's business so as to improve business.

"The first step I have made is to improve business, to reduce the cost and make sure that we become a plane we can move to customers, including its number of aircraft," he said.

For approximately three months now, the passengers of that organization that did a lot of trips in the country, have been getting difficulty after being postponed for time to time for the journey of that organization.

Speaking about agriculture and postponed the journey, Mbogoro said that due to various changes that they are implemented currently, and even when the journey is postponed, all passengers who were affected are based on the fare for free for a period of three months.

If you have changed the cancellation of the journey facing passengers, especially in the Mbeya, Dar es Salaam, Mwanza and Kilimanjaro.

October 5 this year, hundreds of passengers who were passengers at the organization's plane from Mwanza to Dar es Salaam at five o'clock at night found themselves at the Mwanza Airport for a period of four hours due to getting married.
