When we get to know that the domain is to see if what has been light on which he has been living in towns between Malezi ya Mtungi 'that is being sitting for a short time.
For a whole year, because I was very big this week and faith.
They were taken a whole year for example, it would have given one year for example, it would have given one year to come up with a small child since last year and we can say we start fighting every people and their religious denominations to understand the capital to succeed.
As it is.
For a long time, their lot of time and now in two months by Ambassador Seif.
Its meaning is that time is that time.
But we are where our bodies are in.
The opposition parties as a human being is about Tanzanians to know more on God's trials?
But not for a long time.
Those minerals will take the headquarters of the opposition party to look for some.
Leaders who are in the dark me will benefit from their differences if you will take it to them.
The regulations of many parties and a contract to come out and announce to contest for seven seven presidency.
If you remember.
At this time it is also possible.
Maybe the entertainment.
Therefore, it is heading to big leaders because if they are able to have a great talk about it because their reason is not to see someone who are there and so my people who are proud of giving that opportunity was not behind anything related to I see something that is behind what happens.
To ask for the villages and we are looking at the villages and we are looking at the field but for the maize, I have told me I think that operation to help professionally as the theft is this time to choose himself to maintain the village while our parliament are in Musoma.
In the earth, there is still a little time some time you get.
It will be a must for the challenges that they go through the child a cup for their studies without knowing that today mobile phones can vote without these who voted for.
Here is it?
Several story of time have not found to be with them.
When it reached during the election period.
The government living with himself has not been abducted.
You get a delegate who for him because they have been infected with Lowassa, but there are more investment and three but if you get married, we don't see that if we get married, we don't see if we get married, but if you find him, he would have been forced to get married, but if you get married, we don't know what they have been infected with the old man and two times so we change.
I see you.
And the assurance that when they implemented Azam in eternal life?
