
Somanda Hospital continues well the law.
May 22, 2012

As we consider the general elections, it's good for citizens to be keen in everything they do, so as to avoid getting into the law on the laws of the elections that passed by the parliament this year.
What happens, the truth is that even the members of parliament and those who made that law was heading to "Larson," we do not understand so that they are now some of them have identified himself after the institution for preventing and fighting corruption going against the law.
The speaker of parliament, Samuel Sitta, was forced to leave this week to ask for explanations from the attorney general (AG) Judge Frederick Werema, after receiving complaints from some members of parliament that they were arrested and questioned by TAKUKURU officers when they implemented their promise.
In his speech, the attorney general urged the members of parliament to be keen to read the elections law which is explained that should not supposed to give a private gift but to groups.
He said article 21 (1) amounting to a little (a) I will talk about the great issue before the campaign and after the appointment by putting it a red card or a person who engaged to him on behalf.
In that situation then, he urged the members of parliament to give a donation in the only thing until the parliament is expected to be buried and those involved by those involved without any worries at any kind of lack of any kind.
We believe that to be an explanation of the attorney general it comes to last month as he said Speaker Sitta in supporting the attorney general that the member of parliament was found with TAKUKURU while giving a donation of sewing machines at night without the existence of people or reading messages, there is no doubt that the donation has a certain number.
What is unacceptable, is that this law is giving financial opportunity to Kilifair play with those who don't have it in the race to vie for the leadership positions in our country.
In that law, the field is wrong for everyone who has failed to contest for the leadership so that TAKUKURU are supposed to be careful in maintaining that situation.
In addition, we join the attorney general to stop the members of parliament to stop each other being interviewed by TAKUKURU officers, because those officers are doing so they are doing their work in accordance with the law, it is their responsibility to be satisfied that the donation made does not have any defects in the beneficiaries.
The important thing is that every member of parliament to make sure that the donation is to make sure that the donation is to fulfill its promise and he gives the donation in a state of transparency and any fear.
Yes, we know that members of parliament have the immunity in the body, but the problem is in the parliamentary issues and not otherwise, the police officers have the right to take action against they see that they deserve to be eaten by a step of things that they made in the areas they are doing.
We have decided to run our country on the foundations of law and good administration, therefore, it is the responsibility of every one to ensure that even our leaders get in the same level and that it did not get time to deal with all the evil deeds that could destroy the foundation.
