Controversy of the commission of Warioba.
Memba, 26, 2014.

President Jakaya Kikwete has shown the official guest of the commission on constitutional changes in the step that has been transferred to members of the commission, has been known.
The report of the arrest of that commission popularly known as the commission of Warioba, that was under the chairmanship of Judge Joseph Warioba, was distributed yesterday Wednesday and the State House explained that the president was posting on Wednesday night on March 19, just one day after addressing the constitutional parliament, the draft constitution, in a speech that explained the transparency, together with other things, the problems of the union that come from its structure.
In a report with the news reporter, the announcement of the government about the killing of the commission on constitutional changes, directors of communication of the president, State House said.
"Honorable President made the commission of constitutional changes in accordance with section 5 and the 6 of the law of constitutional changes, only 83 percent of the government's plan, I have 110 acres of the year 2012.
The commission made opinions and organizing a draft of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania which was presented at the special parliament.
According to article 31 of the law on constitutional changes, the name of 3, the president has been given the authority to break the commission of constitutional changes after the draft constitution presented to parliament.
On the 18th of March, 2014, the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba presented the draft of the constitution at the special Parliament because of that step, and according to article 31 of the law of constitutional changes, the president of the United Republic warned the government's commission with 81 percent on 21st March 2014.
Therefore, through that order, all the activities of the commission of constitutional changes ended officially on the 19th of March, 2014.
On Tuesday this week, Judge Warioba told Besson that they did not have official reports of having his former commission earlier, and we were forced to listen to him at the State House after seeing them on the internet and some of the journalists to vote for them.
He said Judge Warioba, "up to now (7 o'clock this afternoon by Tuesday), we have asked after listening to him and I think it is like you have and a letter from the State House to explain that.
"We have the responsibility to hand over because here we have many national property, but there are also workers and vehicles, all the delegates who have vehicles, and those who here in their homes were very few.
One of the delegates of the commission, Professor Sospeter Muhongo told Citizen newspaper, "I believe that I am the first you told me that the commission is stolen from the yes, I believe that they will be satisfied with the law, but the decision took place when I was not a report."
More information concerning the commission explained that many delegates were not satisfied with the decision made by President Kikwete in the opinion made by Judge Warioba in submitting the draft constitution.
According to those reports, the views of some of the commission was to get time to answer some of the issues that he had raised President Kikwete so that they should be understood well.
"The law on constitutional changes did not give the president the opportunity to do what he did.
"What he did President Kikwete is like that he has defeated the parliament, a incident and the procedures were planned so much in the country, where the constitution process has had problems since in Kenya where the draft of the constitution had problems to the citizens so as to be voted for.
Another member of the commission speaking on a condition of not being mentioned in the newspaper said, "after the speech of the president, he revealed his thoughts in the session of completing the incident.
"For now, it has been that many leaders do not know so much the members of the commission, but they can't answer the delegates of the commission, but they should not tell you that they will not be remembered, then you will not tell you that it will not be heard, then you will not tell them, these issues have not been done well."
