
That drive out thinking of thinking has caused the film business in the country.
If you Tanzanians would know you to ignore good things like we are doing here in primary issues then this country would have been far.
When a lot of pain when you lost in things that have no meaning, I don't have a need to fulfill our long time and money.
Lovers and film stakeholders when they were looking for noise about the future of that industry, those involved will stop every one he made is to fulfill the film record.
Many artists, themselves to think that why the film is growing up every day, but the mental disabilities sat at the side of noise that the way they were given is not correct.
Others involved in various training, but they satisfied themselves that what is preparing that training is not popular as it, how can it mean that he knows more than them.
However, they were organized in the film concerts that they've seen, they seen him about everything that is why they did not see the importance of following up on how a teacher is okay and said that what they did is needed again.
Many artists at the moment are not present as a question like many of us of hunger in other things, when they are lucky now they are doing their business those who go down and there to fight the few films that are ongoing.
Now, if you are called to play basketball for upcoming artists for the income of 150,000 shillings they are going, they can do what they don't like.
All of all the natural resources of the film market in the country is the artists themselves because they attacked them, they could not continue to see that they can be able to leave.
In work or business, there is no reason that can remain very fast, it will not have good plans that you have not been possible the film market even when people are, what is happening is for all years.
There is no doubt in an entrepreneur, we have found Hollywood, then we get your quality and it's not known as the word of God.
There are people that make the head and work hard so that they can continue to rule.
Others are doing good research so that they do so that they can continue with us intellectually and the film, Zohra Moore (40 )-day-day-day-to-day-to-day, but at the end of the quality that will take place tomorrow and the Bongo movie producer.
The problem is not supposed to invest more in primary issues and artists started getting money through the film was the first of their problems.
