Stigmatization that poured.
What is the important news.
Thus, he is also home.
Honorable secretary general.
And you can make us explain the delegates of the main committee and various religious leaders, they have been standardized as summoning demons.
Tumsifu Jesus Christ.
Brethren, I have standing here for our party to my party and my government to explain the implementation of the election manifesto of the revolutionary party.
Dovutwa is representing the minister of water.
He said that in the ministry of health, we have the responsibility of making sure the manifesto of 66 candies which are implemented by citizens living in the villages by the year to get water to five percent.
And to the citizens that live in taxes so that they can get water to ninety percent and five percent will be made by the government of the revolutionary party.
And because we are working and.
That is why we have no agenda to implement the election manifesto.
Therefore, we have good plans we are given to I don't see if you are enough but I want to advise the Tanzanians.
That we are prepared to implement different projects let me start by Bapa Ward, Singida Singida.
While we are able to request for two thousand citizens.
The production of this place has paid four million shillings.
But your government on Sunday of the revolutionary party.
It has invested the money by being forced to set up a second goal after improving water services in the Singida municipality not to follow it.
These funds want to have twenty-four wells and maybe the seven minutes, the commission ended up for eight hundred thousand shillings per day, enough to visit the wells, but also eight million shillings for water will be self-employed in the Singida Municipality.
Therefore, it is not good.
The work that took place have been built, faced with great impacts and at the moment, the contractor has started to take action against the contractor that he has started to take action against them, he has ordered the water authority here in the country to complete that job quickly by getting water to sure.
While the documents used to complete the project at any time you are able to build for enough councilor that is not true, it is not true that the water problem has never been made in collaboration with parliament and encourage the government to complete this water project in Singida Municipal who has been given a member of parliament in collaboration with the government.
Honorable.
The general secretary wanted also to explain the prime minister for permanent registration of the government to ensure we use water to historical plans as the idea, but he also decided to make all Tanzanians the issue of water concerning the manifesto of the party and he has no responsibility to the secretary general, we have different projects.
Nine that come from the lake's water have reduced because of your information at the moment, these water is only ten percent but we will send to them from the modern shop in the next few years even in Dodoma, Dodoma and elsewhere, we will use the lake water.
I was found.
There is a water project at Ihanga village, who was the easy way to visit this president is the chairperson of the revolutionary party not to know that it is the stakeholders of the revolutionary party not to know who there are six months and we're getting in the next few weeks when we read it in the next few weeks.
