Nyerere passes away, today we are.
Brightiles 14, 2014.

It has several important things to think about this time in which the union of the countries that are not acceptable will not be paid by any other day (IBCLA), Vasco, next year (2015).

Yes, Prophet Mohammed will do his 17 meeting after the 16 game that took place in Tehran City, in Iran, starting on August 26th to 31, 2012.

If I have explained, there are a lot of think since the establishment of Prophet M in Beliebers, in the year 1961-Bells which is under the headquarters of Iran, that won the chairmanship from Egypt.

Tanzania cannot sit down in this matter of POM by considering the several issues that are going on in the world, among them the argument being aimed at giving direction on friends, should be a friendship in sponsorship, donations or investment.

The age of Prophet M is to be like the age of former Tanganyika and therefore, it is correct to ask ourselves what's the dream of the founders of the NAM-fielder Hulk from Indonesia, it Jawaharlal Nehru, his dreams have been worked on, it is in which way?

It is true that in the life of Nakheel this week, including a lot of countries inside the union, a few things to get that song include the one of hostility between the members of the party like India and Pakistan or Iran and Iraq.

Basically, your name is not a union to be taken to and without doubt, the keenness of the political parties should know this issue and maybe it is not true that there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is no wonder, there is

There are two major reasons that can confirm the strength of Prophet M can be very dangerous for the interests of the biggest nations in the world. First, it is true that Prophet M is a union that will involve two-thirds of the countries of the United Nations (UN).

In a continuation of this debate today, we can also ask ourselves what has contributed to the conflicts between the party members of Prophet M I have been careful, analysis of those conflicts in example, Iran, and Iraq or Pakistan to India - or only we are showing reasons that were announced by the media stations in great nations?

What happened, especially the ones that succeeded in Malta and Msamus to remove his membership card of the year 2004 and joined the European Union (EU), Dudu Baya has been only in Europe to continue being a member of NAM), weaknesses, weaknesses, and unify us from their membership.

And so, why does not loose its strength despite those two seasons, I have never heard that, that is the presence of two-thirds of the UN members and more than that party, it should be remembered that when a group is political, economic, economy and diplomatic struggles.

It is clear that by concentrating on several criteria, including that I have noted that the strength of Prophet M is a threat to it is a threat to it is a threat in which it also used more energy to listen to the basis of the start of Prophet M.

It is a threat to some of the cases of great nations like the United States through the United Nations (UN).

Prophet M can swell in the UN and in managing a big issue and keen on how it reaches the world a safe place of living with other countries, without doubt, it has been a result of a huge system of investment and climate change which would be found to be stable.
