
Tanzania not receiving donations with conditions.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Deputy president, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said that it has come for Tanzania to be independent in the country and that the country is not ready to receive donations with conditions, not the body and the traditional foods.

"We do not receive donations which have difficult conditions, we change and continue building our Tanzania, after a system of building our Tanzania, we should collect income," said the Vice President yesterday while speaking to various groups of the residents of Dodoma.
Deputy president said time has come for Tanzania to be independent, although it has not arrived 100 percent of being paid to at least 60 percent.
"We say we are running this government for our local revenue authority to use for many years when I think we do not know what we are doing so as we see our brothers get married and we see our brothers will follow here," he said.
"We have started improving the law of procurement and not this way to make sure that we get the way so that they do the purchase," said the vice president.
He said that Dodoma is enough money, if the executives are going on well.
"Directors to help to fill the loopholes of collecting revenue in Dodoma there are enough revenue, if we stop" long hands "we will arrive in the collection of revenue," he said.
Also, he emphasized that institutions to work together so that the intention of the government to move to Dodoma can come so much, "the government will come up, it will make sure you get a government well, it will make it work in collaboration," he said.
He wanted the Capital Development Authority headquarters (CDA), to change and the leaders to look at the institution for three eyes so that the issue of work hard in order to work hard, "CDA, as a minibus, most of your workers are supposed to be looked for others," he said.
Minister of State, office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Youth, Employment and Children, Jenista Mhagama said the work to coordinate the activities of moving to Dodoma is going on well and it is possible for all the government to be in Dodoma before 2020.
