
The young person who doesn't know a light of her colleagues with talents in football.
And Pauline Kasilati.
The youth of GSaro, a fashion model for Germany including Aisee Mjengwa (a red card) who has started a project of soccer in the country.
We have said that many of them don't know after his story came out on August, this year, due to its contribution to ensure that the soccer talent in the country have gone down.
Meet with their patience, Obrey Chirwa, a class six student in primary school in Germany, who despite his age of ten years, already he has started to have a good name as the player, but also as the sponsor of growing talents in the country.
Already he has started the projects of helping boys from Makadara Primary School, where the project which she started in the year 2012, it was blocked to help youths who enjoy soccer by giving them their devices such as a draw, the pillar for a goal and balls.
The other contribution that was directed at the Honorable James OAFLA, which was completed on December 24th, 2014, "he explained.
It is a project that has been able to resolve it through the team's coach, Sammy Molel ("among the people who are unable to make sure this project is together with their mother, Mister Samoa Island, together with the parents of his fellow players who are mocking him by providing these equipment," he explained.
Apart from this project, OAFRI is also an expert goalkeeper because despite being in class six, already he has been taken to a team of soccer team in the school.
His talent in soccer is a high level to an extent that it is also the squad of the upcoming club soccer club, though they are on the 4th position in the German premier league of Bundesliga league, "Nonga who is in the second class in the German Soccer Premier League," Nonga and when they are expecting to be given more training to be the goalkeeper, "he explained.
I feel extremely honored as the best goalkeeper in several matches, apart from being given an event of the best player of the best player of Miss Tanzania Football Club 2014.
He started playing at the age of four years after being identified by a veteran coach of Italy, Guillermo Oreo ', and was not a time before they were involved in the upcoming squad.
At the time he was dancing in all the field before the mother took him to school's training to be the goalkeeper, "I have been attending the training two times a week while participating in various competitions at the end of the week while many of our club was the first time," he explained.
In the year 2012, the mother got a work tour to relocate in Munich City and therefore they are forced to relocate to Bambucha area, "the time I was playing for a small club for two months before the Sporting Lisbon Club of Bundesliga, and therefore joined the club.
Earlier he was playing in all the positions but in August last year, after his contract started afresh, he was given to his position as a goalkeeper of Bayern Munich in Germany, "Masau boasted.
Although their team involves more than ten years, many times they found themselves when they injured their colleagues that there were 24-1 goals, but a difficult thing is that we continue doing well in school or else we are removed from the team yesterday emerged victorious in the third position among the students that did well in science subject.
He says that if other industrialized countries in Tanzania's soccer club, Kenya has the ability to have a popular project, there should be the foundation of promoting talents recently from the poor standards.
