
The networks of social networks are spreading photos and sex with the sex of sex with the attempt to pay for 10 years or a sign of shillings.

Criminals of the network together with misuse of nude pictures and sex relations, distributors of false statements or abusive language and other people who are doing cheating related to the computers have been banned for a huge law that is expected to go to prison for 10 years or pay a fine of 50 million shillings.

Among the laws that will be presented to parliament by the government this week in this town, it is the law of the network of the year 2015 that has aligned different crimes that are being done by the citizens in this period where the use of the computers have increased.

Some of the mistakes that have been affected in that law are mutilated with computer issues, cheating compared to the computer, low-naked photos, abusive language and sexual abuse, killings and violence through the computer network.

In that law, a person will sell into consideration the children through the computer network will be responsible to pay a total of 50 million shillings or three times a profit that is available contrary to the law or a period of seven years in prison or all.

Mkingie has also ordered to pay for compensation, on the side of spreading sex with abusive language, whoever will pay a fine of 30 million shillings or go to prison for 10 years or all.

But the person will produce naked photos will pay a fine of 20 million shillings or go to prison for seven years or serve all the punishment for together.

Also during the bill, a person who gets information, data or information through a picture, text, and other types of kind being found guilty, he will pay a fine of 3 million shillings or serve for a period of six months or all.

On the side of discrimination, the law prohibits a person using a computer network not using abusive language with an aim of listening to and if he will be forced to pay a fine of three million shillings for a period of one year imprisonment.

Also, a person who mocked, another person through the computer system on the direction of color, tribe, origin, in America or a certain religion is known as an offense of a fine of three million shillings or a period of one year in prison or all.

Also, the law prohibits someone with printing or causing actions that involve the killing of Kimbari and a crime against human beings through a computer network.

A person who was playing so that he will have committed an offense and it was known as an indication that he will be able to pay a fine of 10 million shillings or serve his sentence of three years or all of them.

Also, the law on law gives a person not to start the distribution of reports that are sent without consent, and in the moment it will be fined 3 million shillings or three times a profit that is available contrary to the law or serve for a period of one year or all of them.
