
07 / 2013.

Simba SC scored against terrorism against Ashanti.
By Ester Maasais.

Simba team yesterday completed.
First of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League in a landslide win after being demolished.
United, 4-2 in the league match that was played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.

For the results.
That Simba has attained 24 points, being the fourth position behind Yanga with points.
25 years, their attackers scored 10 goals after scoring for that team.
In this match, it is in the stand.
That league, Azam FC is leading with 26 points equivalent to Mbeya City.
And it has a number of points like that, except it is successful by scoring.
Being defeated, while Yanga had seized the third position by having 25 points.

Simba.
Yesterday entered into the field if they are greedy for goals scored the first goal in the minutes.
Saba, through its dangerous striker, Ramadhan Singano 'Messi' after being released.
I hope that the defenders of the ball took the Ashanti United after being beaten.
The goal was scored.
It was able to come up on where the 22nd minute, Said Maulid lacked the open goal after the same minute.
Remain with the goalkeeper, but they failed to wed.
Maulid did not want it.
Ashanti goal.
On the 31 minute, after getting a good pass from FGM?
That veteran striker who failed to stop the ball during the Simba team.
An attack carried out by garnering 13,276 votes in the 37 minute,.
Kiemba got the open goal after getting a pass from Jonas Mkude.
3rd minute.
He made Simba the open goal after getting a good pass from Tambwe.
But a shot by the striker that was being faced by a goalkeeper of the game, the Ashanti player entered that goal in the 45 minutes.
For Hussein Sakali, after using the good position he got.
The second half.
He started with Simba against the Ashanti goal in the 54th minute, Tambwe.
He got Simba the second goal after being connected with a cross of Singano.
Yesterday he was a star for sports for the 49 minutes, Beauts.
If the defender enabled Simba a third goal for Simba with a cross-1 goal.
In large numbers of right.
Maulid has said.
Ashanti United the second goal in the 52 minutes after competing with a cross that was found.
One by the net and leave the Simba goalkeeper, turned down there without a bomb that was done by Simba finished.
The fourth goal in the 60 minutes to the head leaving with a clean draw of the right defender.
As Haruna Shamte hovers before the attack.

And Omari Masukuzi.
He said from the Mabatini Stadium in Mlandizi, the teams of Mtibwa and Ruvu Shooting were scored in a goalless draw.
Those league matches complete the first round.

That league is expecting to be played again today where Yanga will play with JKT.
Oljoro at the National Stadium, while Azam FC will host Mbeya City.
The Azam Complex stadium of Chamazi located in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam.
