
CCM members of parliament are expected to sign in America on May 31, 2012.

Some of the ministers and national leaders of the Revolutionary Party (not members of parliament), have started controlling in collaboration with some members of parliament to arrest the members of parliament in the next general elections to vie for a parliamentary seat on the party ticket in the year, new citizens has revealed.

According to several news sources, ministers and deputy ministers that are in that strategy are those who took their parliamentary seats, although not all of them in the group they should allow him to vie for the elections in the elections.

More news say that for now some of the big politicians have been keenly preparing to prepare their team's team that it will help them in the 2010 elections and also to form a good team of the government after the election.
It has been explained that even some of the politicians have already prepared to arrest the members of parliament who believe that they are marrying them or do not support him, a situation that it has been explained that maybe it may cost them, in that election due to members of parliament who are supposed to move forward.
Some of the ones being mentioned to plan the strategies that are facing members of parliament who want them are politicians that were affected by the current parliamentary system including those who lost their positions due to the decisions of the parliamentary debates in the recent period and therefore preparing to make sure they recover.

Ministers whose member of parliament are for special seats is together with the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Shamsa Ford, and the minister of state, Office of the Vice President-Environment, Doctor Batshuayi, and the minister of community development, gender, and children, Deo Sitta.

The deputy ministers whose parliamentary candidate is due to special seats is together with the deputy minister of education and vocational training, Mwantumu Mahiza was the colleague in that ministry, Gaudentia Kabaka.

Others are Deputy Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Aisha Mashimba, deputy minister of community development, gender and children, Doctor Lucy Nkya and the deputy minister of infrastructure, Doctor Lucy Nkya.

More information say that one of the ways used by some that is looking for constituencies to achieve their intention is together with using government resources that are arising from their opportunities like the national leaders to visit the regions where they want to serve them.

In their tour, the leaders have been building a victory network in opinion polls within the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the year so as to vie for the parliamentary seat on the party ticket.

It is said that together with the leaders to arrive at the stadium, "a permit" to make the implementation of the CCM election manifesto of the year 2005, but they have been using part of their time to strengthen the networks by using various ways of leaders of CCM at the county level so as to strengthen the relationship between them.

More news explains that those ways are also involved some of the national leaders of CCM, who have been arriving at the regions they want to fulfill the aim of starting or launching development projects as well as party branches.

It is alleged that one of the leaders of CCM with the direction that intends to take one region in Morogoro Province, is estimated to be paid 100 million shillings for CCM to invest in development projects in that province.
However, it is alleged that the current member of parliament of that province has warned the existence of that game at the official meetings of CCM.

In his warning, the member of parliament has been mentioned to have enough understanding, he wanted that situation to be handed over to ensure that if it will be released, then he will use its financial ability to be made by the fellow candidate of CCM who is a national leader.

And the members of parliament of the province that have been informed of their national leaders to use their national power to build on social media to arrest the networks and he has emphasized that those leaders have used badly on their power and that it is good for waiting for the campaign time.

But apart from those leaders, their parliamentary candidate is for special seats, some of the members of parliament of special seats have shown an intention of wanting to vie for a parliamentary seat in the regions.
The real situation explains that CCM will be faced with a difficult state to select the parliamentary candidates on the party ticket in the next year, due to the competition expected to come out in that party.

The previous symptoms shows that as CCM, it will not be keen to select people who are well in the provinces and instead, it's only a probability that some of the opposition members have the ability to defend their member of parliament if they will be dismissed from opinion polls of CCM.

The announcement of ministers and deputy ministers whose member of parliament are due to special seats, the number of members of parliament for special seats in CCM has reached 59.
More information of this strategy also shows that it is not the members of parliament for special seats' to sign him to vie for a special parliamentary seat, but there are also some members of parliament to be appointed by President and even some of the politicians in the country.

A group of members of parliament to be appointed by the president, who some of them want to vie for a special parliamentary seat in the country that involved Al-fielder, Yusuf Makamba, Zakia Meghji,, Thomas Mwanazuo's Mwiru, Sophia Njome, Sophia Mjema, Sophia Mjema, and Mohamed Aboud Mohamed.

More investigation of Good Citizen has revealed that approximately three leaders of CCM have been using their long time to prepare for the next general elections, especially in the party's process of giving candidates for presidential positions, especially parliamentary and councilors.

It is alleged that for the leaders who want to vie for a parliamentary seat, they have been trying to get close to councilors together with other leaders including the chairpersons of the villages and estates, with great strength in the areas where they are leading.
Some of the leaders are alleged to have started helping those high-level officials in the race for local government elections that will take place later this year and in order to help in the general elections of that party from other branches, district, provinces and the nation.
