

Elias Kwesi.
For more than two years, there have been reports of passing through billions of dollars in the Switzerland Bank and other countries in the world.
Earlier, when the previous report when they came out by the bank's report of Switzerland, they showed that there is more than 300 billion shillings in Tanzania followed up in various banks in that country.
Recently, the recent reports were given by the International Network of Inquiry (IRCI) have shown the presence of 99 points who were given a sum of 5 billion shillings in the company (SBC company of Geneva.
Speaking to our writer, together with other things, the ambassador of Switzerland, Olivier. I have explained.
A question is for more than two years, the media stations have been discussing billions of Switzerland. Another new news has come out recently about the (SBC company of Geneva, what's your opinion on this?
The first answer, the news about billions of Switzerland that got two years ago was attributed to the report of the Switzerland National Bank (TELC), that the report explained about 97 private banks in Switzerland without stopping the amount of money for its customers from the concerned country.
The debate that was going on in Tanzania intended to be put on open by an amount of those funds and if those funds were owned and put it legal.
The news of Agnieszka Radwanska has been a very big difference, due to a big amount of money that concern them about 458 customers of the TIB Corporate Bank (Switzerland) between the year 2006 and 2007.
The reports were approved by Director Herbert Falcao who was the engineer of the computers of that bank and later tried to make them in the European Union so that he will fight with tax evaders.
France made the statement and taking them to their famous newspaper, "Le Pen" and later they distributed to the international network of research of research (IRCI) that involved 55 media houses in 65 countries in the world that made investigation on those reports.
The report of 'Master J's report about' Siri ya Mtungi ', showed the existence of 114 million American customers who had flooded an amount of 114 million American dollars and among them 17 were seen to be the Tanzanian citizen while others being linked to Tanzania.
Therefore, the two news are different from the first time, it is the report of the national bank of Switzerland that have passed every year Nay wa said the second is the report of 'Master J not about the reports of the customers that were stolen from the' SBC company SBC only seven years ago.
And then it was not easy for Director Herbert Falcao does not affect the reports that he had been stolen from the European government, because the major reports were not allowed in the law and that is the government being worried about buying their tax collection.
However, the year 2008, the year 2008 was Tanzania's economy in the world, therefore countries in Europe were seen to have the collection of tax is the main cause of the whole issue and eventually the countries were given to a low level of buying.
