
Six regions of Kagera to opposition?
May 22, 2012

After CHADEMA announcing the presidential candidate through that party, there is a big possibility of six provinces of the Kagera region to opposition.
Those regions are Karagwe, Biharamulo, Bukoba Town, Ngara, Northern District and Bukoba villages.
It is my faith that even other provinces in many regions will go in the hands of their opponents due to the great influence of Dongo.
It is possible for Doctor Slaa's possible, they would like President Kikwete in the general elections because our election law is waiting for a lot of votes as the winner will have a lot of votes, but it is clear that the opposition will have a lot of changes in our nation to bring back development.
And this is what we need to be a reason because one party cannot bring development and one party will not make the picture of democracy we will fall in our constitution.
Sihana Nkinga, this article explains that I have birth to a certain political party or I have a lot of hatred and any candidate, and I write by looking at different times and contrary to the whole issue, our nation needs positive changes in order to bring development to the society.
Pretending to be our nation when we deal with our nation, our family, our brothers, our friends, and put it the whole nation is no sin?
Thoughts that there are human beings who have the right to live and enjoy the fruits of this nation, more than others, also it is a great sin.
Tanzania is us all of us, it is our responsibility of us to love, allow them to serve all our strength.
As after the speech of President Kikwete of that parliament had gone into the general elections, it was clear that CCM could not get a lot of votes for him, but the act of CHADEMA decided to suspend him by the wind.
CCM cannot succeed in a landslide victory if the elections will be free and fair.
Times of times are continuing to show that people have started selling her eyes and to see the truth.
The analyst being keen, it is a must that even inside CCM, things are not safe and to put President Kikwete without a human being does not have groups and tensions but they fear coming out.
These, they will come out "silent because of the votes where there is no possibility of knowing who is it to them.
Because Doctor Slaa is a good person, the patriotism, a scholar, Mcha 'Vialli' and the possibility of CCM members with a pain in their party they should talk about how they are going, and called Dunga together with other candidates that he will face.
It is bad luck that we are getting in the elections without a free commission of election, and without having free candidates, it will be free and free candidates would have explained by 100 percent that the six regions of Kagera province will be in the hands of opposition that would be able to win in these regions.
Now because the commission is that one that was chosen by the government in power and to a large percentage are ensuring that the government of CCM is difficult to say it is sure but all signs show the opposition to take over six constituencies in Kagera province.
When the people decided to cater for their votes themselves and to ensure there is no cheating in stopping the votes, the results can be good for both sides of the opponents and the ruling party.
It will not be a new issue among the regions of Kagera province to opposition.
Different from the turn came, will be a lot in Kyerwa district, Biharamulo, Northern Region and Bukoba town, which will fall in the hands of opponents and later.
"We've been redeemed by the" all that have been redeemed by, Kyerwa District, your way is in danger of going back to the opposition and increase other debts.
Furthermore, it will see why the member of parliament of parliament, Mister Katoma, has a great opportunity to win the opinion polls of CCM after two candidates who are on a certain extent come out to deal with Mister Katoma, but there is a big possibility that two two people get votes and Mister Kataegypti.
However, the contribution of Mister Katoma, in various development projects in his province, is big by the solar company is giving great contribution by buying coffee at a high price and to ensure the farmers get their money on time, he allowed the construction of the teachers in his election region.
People believe it is a person who came up to my region, he should be district.
Karagwe district can go to opposition as we not less said on the last week ,-finals in the opinion polls of CCM is between Karim, Blu Dar es Salaam, it is clear that he has a good position inside the leadership of CCM from the district to the country.
Karim, is an economist of CCM in the district and the position is doing to have a good position inside the leadership of CCM, in the district to the nation, Professor Innocent Ngalinda and he has been of great help to the party from the district to the nation. However, all of them is no one with the attempt to fight the fire that he will rule.
The Council of Karagwe district is inside a huge scandal while some of its directors, among them the council members have suspended themselves on the accusations that were given by the selling of ghost workers who have no reputation (poor households), the salaries of more than 46 million, using power generation and many others.
Citizens are waiting for answers of these accusations and the steps that will be taken and I don't see the government to succeed in those things before the general elections.
All of us know that together with Dakar, Slaa is raising issues of corruption, bribery, and laws that are unable without vigilance, he has become the chairperson of the Local Government Committee of local government and he knows all the insects in the local government.
He has all statistics and examples of life.
While being standing in Karagwe, the candidate of CHADEMA and showing the way CCM has failed to lead the council of Karagwe, it will be a surprise for the candidate of CCM to win.
The problem of Karagwe that can be shaken by Bukoba town, although CCM has given Ambassador Kamala without being arrested, and at a moment, Ambassador Mbelwa is accepted well as it was the general elections of 2005, still there is dangerous for Doctor Slaa to make sure Mister Lwakatare is on all strength by using the performance of the municipal of Bukoba town.
Donations from Ambassador Kamala that she gave out in his election region, he knows him as Msukuma and not like Municipality. Citizens would like to see the good performance of their municipality.
According to Ambassador Kamala is a minister, he did not get enough opportunity to focus on top issues that involve his voters, but it is still underway and he is continuing to Bukoba town with his energy, strength of citizens, the strength of the members of CHADEMA and the strength of the opposition.
The offense that will take place in Bukoba villages is returning Mister Karaagi, as the CCM candidate, although the candidates of CCM Bara, Karaegypti.
And symptoms show that the name Karaitakapotoka.
If the argument that he led by Slaa and his colleagues in parliament spread Karaegypti.
The late Ambassador Ngaiza receiving a bag of CHADEMA in Northern Muleba constituency and even the audience listened to Professor Manyele while there is no possibility of dealing with Doctor Slaa's candidate for the opposition candidate in that constituency.
In Biharamulo we witnessed the way CHADEMA appeared to fight with CCM during the small elections, while all the strength of CCM were used for research, we were used later explained that many citizens complained so that the election has been presented until the results.
Most of them are saying that it is not good for Zitto Kabwe, who asked the members of CHADEMA and asked the members of CHADEMA and requested them not to stop the results, blood could have lost their lives, because of the strength of American dollars.
If he is told, he will wait for CCM to vie for CCM in Biharamulo, a song that will be heavy by anything because the opposition has a great opportunity in Biharamulo.
In Ngara district even if CCM didn't return the professor being buried and there is no CCM candidate with great and big names, but they have not given a great contribution to them in Ngara district.
Farmers from the neighboring countries have been selling their livestock by transporting it and the government has been silent because there are robbery from time to time to citizens and they decided to see the changes of the NCCR party and the important part of winning in this region.
My point is that the general election of this year's election has a chance to show his contribution to our nation, for example the opposition got six constituencies in Kagera province and led the councils, it will be a great contribution.
I have faith that the opposition will get other constituencies in other provinces and how CCM are continuing to take them and deal with them that they want the opposition to change.
It is good for the opponents to take this opportunity and otherwise we will remain in the system of one political party.
