
The teachers of a student loss.

It has been written by our journalists.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Ministry of health, community development, gender, the elderly and children and various stakeholders in the country including the member of parliament for Chalinze, Ridhiwani Kikwete have come out and condemning that incident of violence that was caused by a student in Mbeya Secondary School (Mbeya) recently.

Other stakeholders who gave the statements of condemning that incident is the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC) and the organization of education rights.
Furthermore, the Ministry of Health has said that he has received with great disappointment the news that spread for the video picture, showing that event on September 28 this year at 6 in the afternoon by four teachers who were in training for teaching in that school.
The report by the Minister of that ministry, Ummy Mwalimu said the action that made those teachers witnessed the student Sebastian Chisholm, the form four years of children in school and the violation of the foundation of security for the child.
It has said that the teachers did not want to listen to the details of the child which were rumors due to the accident which he got and therefore failing to implement the punishment given by the teachers because of pain when he was a terrorist.
"That attack has been canceled as a continuation of various events of breach of child rights in various parts of the country.
This is as a result of the implementation of the child policy of the year 2008, the international agreement on the child rights of the year 2008, and the African agreement on the rights and social welfare of the year 2010, whereby in addition, explains the provision of right to live, be productive, benefit and not being discriminated against all the children, "said part of the report.
With the organization of Hazimat, education has condemned the incident and said that it is making schools not a good place and safe for students and therefore having a great importance in their efforts to learn through that organization has said that through that event, they thank the teachers who came out to condemn that violence that has come to them.
The executive director of Education Rights, John Kalage said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was giving a statement about the incident and asked the concerned authorities to take legal action of protecting the employment and even the safety of the teachers to entertain.
He said that together with the effective steps that were taken by the government in the event and also managed to enhance security for the importance of discipline in school and to be considered by all people.
He said it is currently the time for the government to start a special system of giving information against violence that are going on in school so as to enable students and other stakeholders to give information immediately when they meet such actions.
He added that, the punishment came out of a child to look for the way to evade the punishment and start lack of schools just after time and finally decide to stop at all the schools where there is to demolish more than building ways of building.
He said that the event of Mbeya has taken a huge debate in the country, but events of violence against students have been a series of violence against students that were a series of schools in the country for a long time.
It has said that the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC) has condemned events of the great rights of human rights that are going on.
The executive director of LHRC, Doctor Hellen Kijo Bisimba, said yesterday that when the nation has not been seen, where the researchers have been burnt down by the villagers of Iringa to Dodoma in Dodoma province by taking off the law, which happened the event of a student recognized by the teachers of Mbeya Secondary School.
"The Human Rights and Human Rights Center would like to congratulate you from the action of using good social networks to show solidarity and the courage to protest against violence that were done in Mbeya City.
"We request for citizens at any level in the community to avoid any actions that will destroy the collapse of human rights including taking action against the police at the same time when they arrested the defendant to give a report to the police station for the legal action," said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to give a statement to the police station for legal action, "said Kijo Bisimba, who advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action," said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action, "said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action," said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action, "said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action," said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action, "said Helen Kijo Bisimba, he advised the government to release a statement at the police station for legal action," said
Chalinze member of parliament, Ridhiwani Kikwete has said that he won the students not a correct way to teach students, he said this at the class seven graduation of Mlingoti Primary School.
"The teachers I urge you to consider the ethics of your work because there are procedures of giving your punishment and it is not open, but it is not aware that the student should be resolved and even if it is given a punishment to be demolished because it is not wrong for violence and which comply with someone.
