Wednesday, Wednesday, he explains that it has dropped by the world economy and the community institutions, has contributed to an increase of political suppression in the local government in the year last year.
That report of the ten thousand year report that was given by a big group of testing freedom and rights in the world.
It is listed the level of freedom in all over the world.
War against themselves as a result of peace and stability in many parts of the neighborhood has made that region to one of the areas where there is a critical condition in the world for a year.
The report of only two hundred and five thousand students explains that five and two nations in the world witnessed conflicts of political and economic problems that involve the collapsed building for political parties.
For the ten years!
Vanessa is a researcher in the group.
Donations are given.
After a person heading to Junction, we witnessed that various field of freedom is about the freedom of meeting.
The freedom of joining the party you want the rule of law freedom or as approximately everything in that profession that you want.
The research that was done by that group with its headquarters, the rebels have mentioned fifty nations that they are not freedom.
The directors of here more information has been explained is in a place like?
Others in that list are the biggest area in the world but also we know it.
Somanda Hospital located in the northern region.
Reports will clear that people in those countries have written as a situation that religious leaders will leave when they get rights of activists and criticism.
But in meeting the eastern central region, northern regions are listed there is very bad and he says.
We should be like we see there will be no east of the middle and that many of the long-term leaders are that many for a long time leaders.
That they have been put in power and even the others are quoted the western part for sure.
Therefore, the partners as a result of continuing being percent I think it will not be a matter.
The report of freedom has a status, I can use a democratic country that there is a terrorist group that has a huge number of immigrants to have ever happened, they will also affect rights.
That report even so, I have noticed that there are sixty eight countries that made development in efforts to increase the size of their citizens and the South African countries have been met with that.
In South America, there should be some areas where we witnessed in five years do not have the importance of the presence of suppression of true then for several times.
But at the moment we have seen in that trend, if you start to change, I wish you a big blow after last year in the world's hall and I pray to last month which is the size of the size, and legal administration.
