
Majaliwa is a must that the foreign affairs will be given.

It has been written by special writer, Dodoma.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has said he will follow up to know that it's why the fake products that were ordered from outside the country will not be taxed in the country.

The Prime Minister has given that promise the other day when speaking to the workers and leaders of the Premier League Limited that makes a red scarf after inspecting the factory that is in the outskirts of Dodoma city.
He said, "the second one (red) that is in Dodoma has a good quality like the ones that are based, in Lindi and there is no quality that is not known here in Africa, I have never seen taxes so that we can enjoy a good quality of other minerals such as coal in the country.
"I recognize that the director of this company will cause huge machines recently. I'm in a very high speed so that you can be able to buy equipment for selling these minerals.
He used that opportunity to thank the owner of the Sinyati Enterprises LTD, Addul Nangi who is one of the Tanzanian entrepreneurs that use a red card from Dodoma and bought various crops being left out of houses.
Nangi said that when he bought the ball from Dodoma, there is an average of making 20 tons to 25 tons per month depending on the state of market and order to its customers.
Apart from making ornaments has been standardized as a bomb that is used to make a flour of cassava '(Pop) that is used by the patients which were dumps founded as part of their treatment.
While reading messages on behalf of the leadership of Deloitte Company Limited, Mohammed Mbaraka said that they have done research and discovered that those containers of more than 3,000 tons are put into the country without being taxed.
He said that the stones of the motorcycle riders were mentioned in the Makondo village, Chamwino district, which is in a distance of 80 kilometers from Dodoma town.
The chairman of Mungumaji ward, Kambona, has warned the prime minister that the village has more than 300 residents who are involved in the mining of minerals but they are facing lack of market.
