
CHADEMA who brought Lowassa is for forgiveness from the grave of a politics.

Probably you have not been said, that of our forecast that if the members of CHADEMA will continue to obey the requirements of their leaders in the past, the old man will get them and CHADEMA as a whole now is heading to use.

-shirt, CHADEMA would have been able to build a culture of discussing every decision made by their leaders, they should stop or accept these decisions after the discussion that would have happened.

The action of CHADEMA welcoming the retired prime minister Honorable Edward Lowassa has spoilt the political state in the party.

I remember the words that I heard about the former secretary general of CHADEMA, Doctor Slaa, that the action of CHADEMA is same as summoning demons.

News that were unblocked on the allegations of people who participated in the scandal of money that were stolen has been stolen while the leaders of the scandal were close to Lowassa's close people's friends.

My son did not do CHADEMA to your union, I have decided to do a bad decision to recognize the party, CHADEMA have lost direction, since the time of Lowassa, the word of corruption has become a painful truth about the citizens of CHADEMA, they did not exercised again.

It's not Lowassa or Mbowe, who came out for the efforts of President Magufuli in fighting the economic growth in the country, it is not a surprising matter to them because even during the campaign they did not want to talk about corruption.

In this time that different crimes of corruption were kidnapped by many concerned, the ones being mentioned are people who have no time and others were present at the campaign rally for Lowassa's campaign.

That's a group of people with numerous acts of corruption, has gone to CHADEMA, without expecting CHADEMA have turned to be CCM of 2005 to 2015 which was accompanied by corruption.

CHADEMA will take a grant from now to prepare to receive a lot of attacks from the women Nape in parliament so as to try to receive him CCM will stop stuttering on Edenvale stadium and his group who received in CHADEMA.

In a short time, CHADEMA would have lost a chance to join CCM for any issue that you have decided to do what those who have made noise in CCM.
