
Kikwete should be given this award for now Sei 14, 2012.

On September 5, this year, President Jakaya Kikwete was awarded the special award of policy policy, food and leadership in the agricultural sector of food and Security Fund.

According to information that was given by the director of communication in the State House, that award is a sign of appreciating its contribution and leadership in the agricultural sector in the country.

It is an award that was given by the Institute of Network of evaluating the policy of agriculture and natural resources, and the natural gas Company which is taking place on parole.

According to the report, Kikwete is the fifth leader in Africa to receive that award as it was held by the former President of Malawi, Wiz Khalifa, who was awarded that award in the year 2008.

Others are Armando Guebuza of Mozambique (year 2009), President Hinterland, Pindani Nyalile (in the year 2010) and queen of King Ntapata Wapi 'in Swaziland.

In handing over that award, the Executive Director of TEN Tanzania, Doctor Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has claimed that the defending champions and an expert leader in the agricultural sector in Tanzania and African continent.

On our part, our Mwema, although we recognize that part of the efforts of the current administration but still those efforts are not of the level of making them an award.

It's not only earlier for the president to be given that award, but even the logic (the right) for the awards it is not small, the reports indicate that the award of the award is to see the policies of the agricultural policy without considering the implementation of the concerned policies.

In addition to that, it is possible to attract a certain leader in the criterion of good agricultural policies without involved with the implementation of the concerned policies what have been caught in the problems of hunger in this fourth administration?

How many times the government has been giving permits for non-scale traders from outside the country to deal with hunger?

On the other side, even Doctor Sibale has confirmed that in his details by knowing or not knowing that, that award did not benefit now.

The act of Doctor Sibale has told President Kikwete, to commend President Kikwete's use of user use of farmers from 10 kilograms of now, by 10% up to 25 kilograms, by the year 2015, it is evidence that those awards will not be given this time.

When we ask ourselves it is why there was a habit of giving out that award, President Kikwete while giving the awards, there is still a big challenge in the agricultural sector than success which is available until now, "we said that award is not at his time.
