
It is complaining or we want to make changes in 09 / 2012.

There are opinions that we expect the champions of complaining and children are complaining, different leaders are complaining and even our religious leaders are complaining, even our primary leaders are complaining, why my foundation is looking for change?

For example, it is why we have conflicts in our community?

Why we have robbers who are aired live in why we have been able to build the community living in doing rights, good and us? I don't have a need to write that until today Tanzanians are going on fire without change, the situation is going on how it will continue.

An issue to be self-scale, is that the signs of getting rid of the fights of snatching a phone and the Holy Quran and started pain during the economy of our nation, criminals who lose billions, they're getting to come out and this is dangerous because Tanzanians have the ability to protect themselves.

The history of us have shown that the ones who are oppressed, in collaboration they can deal with criminals of the economy, an event that is known as war because we change you, but you can bring changes in the community without a system or system.

So, which people should help us as to bring change is true that we benefit us! "We need us to change, we want others to change, but we want people to stop completely, robbery, bribery and so on.

So, it is a extent that everyone has given his soul on how to prevent him and if this would have been written, then it would have an interview him about what you are doing is going right to other people, good and me?
This could leave, then robbery and bribery have reduced, our weakness is that we want us to be rights, good and us of us, we do not take advantage of what we are responsible for others!

The person to reach a step of starting with his soul, must have been prepared, it is a must that he has been satisfied, it is a must that he has been living in a certain kind, it is a must to be satisfied with the lives of the whole community.

A person who's tasted the desire for salt in the neighborhood has made a chance to enter into power, he will ensure that he participated fully in improving the economy system so that people can get a habit of looking for salt in the neighboring country.

A person that knows how to be unable to pay for treatment, when he went to power he would like to make noise about better health services, a person who does not want him to improve transport services and so that she's not easy to tell me when she gets to the community more than the one who comes from others!

There is a saying that those planes are being affected together without the true change is that the aircraft should go together with our government leaders, our religious leaders, are not satisfied with all the problems that I was caused by what I mentioned is proud of, they have risen up to the community.
Let me concentrate on their society, being dealt with, as this situation cannot bring change!

Good governance cannot be there if there is no end, good governance and good governance is the only one that cares for the rights of citizens, the interests of the citizens or the nation and citizens to achieve their expectations, good governance and our nation decided to start a political party of CCM.

His long time, is the Chama Cha Mapinduzi 'Chama Cha Mapinduzi', has explained the word of Revolution to make quick changes in the system of community life that may benefit many people.

It is a party that was unable to eliminate the colonial system of discrimination, discrimination, groups and reduce the rich and those who do not have it.

The policies of socialism and natural resources was aimed to bring change to our nation, therefore we think about how the instrument they will help us make changes in our country, every person to help as CCM is clear that CCM has been unable to implement its goals.

Instead of saying that Party of Revolution, we look at the headlines because this situation is to understand the party, has given out a lot of problems in our community and bribery, it has increased and enabled us to identify the meaning of the word "revolution." The great percentage is the meaning of the word "revolution."

The goals of the founders of the party have benefited from the policy of socialism and natural resources, has been canceled because they had not had the ability to expand another system. I think about it is that CCM (I do not think about what they have today), can't help us to bring change.

Our religion has not been unable to make changes, or maybe I say that it is not the aim of these religion to bring change in our nation.

Kibana, this will be able to hear from his sin because there is no system to follow up, because there is no system to follow up, his life, his income and so on, he will continue to do his work of stealing a day when he was arrested and later on, he will continue to do his work, from the leader of the service to his family.

Our religious leaders do not use the salaries of our government leaders, why do not help a human being that is there between the leaders of the government and citizens?

Why do not interview various donations that are given by government officials to help religious institutions?

We wish you a leader that we see this, the leader with the ability to create a system and to make changes in our country, a leader who cannot be satisfied with the strength of religious leaders, who does not accept to write and make changes in every Tanzanian party and not to listen, but it's a cry for change.
