
Barack Obama's life after January 20th of January.

Finally Barack Obama yesterday was sworn in as the 44 president of America.
He is the first President of the African origin.

The swearing in of President of the United States is a big event that will attract the eyes and regulations of the world.
Well, President of the United States not like other presidents of this world, it is a very big person and we can't say that the president of America has a very difficult time to say it's just a human being who does not affect the world.
But the United Republic of America is a very difficult job to be the president of America on all his life is in danger of the fear of internal enemies and outside the United States, even before being sworn in to him, the lives of Obama was in danger.
This matter is due to the historic reason why Obama's reason to be given security and a lot that has not been released to any other president who passed in America.
Already there are reports that there are Americans who play bribes so that Obama does not end the first two years before being killed together.
It is clear that every reason for the American security agencies to prepare for anything that they believe in America, there are presidents and famous people who were killed in the past.
The difficulty of having an ancient attack in the United States is the truth that those who need terrorism do not have groups or networks that are understood in the United States just after being beaten by the president with a shot and maybe the person being faced with no other times.
There is still a memory of the killings of President Abraham Malcom Company who was shot in Washington DC on April 14th this year 1865 while that was the first president of America being killed by being shot. Barack Obama has decided to follow in the footsteps of Abraham Malcom Turnbull.
Abraham Malcom Turki who was quoted by Americans.
Obama also, as Jihadist has an intention to unite people in building their nation without caring about the differences in color and their religious, and it is in this time after that nation was facing a economic problem.
When we go back to check the records for the presidents of the United States that were killed, we see that the killing of Abraham Malcom Company was just the beginning in Washington DC and died on two months later in 191st, he was shot in Bambini Journal.
Later they were following the killings that had left the great talk until today, it was killed by being shot by President John F. Mlingwa who was released on Wednesday.

But when he was shot in the streets after his convoy comes back quickly and he himself being in the open vehicle.
Between 1968, President Robert Lewandowski will be shot dead and killed when he was coming from a hotel to attend the election meeting.
It's not only that in the United States it has also been there by the trials that has failed to kill the presidents. It will be remembered, since 1950, Harry S.
Truman Hassan had survived after two people with great ideology of the right to attack the attack.
In the year 1972, the presidential candidate George Masaju has been shot in that meeting that he had survived, but he abandoned his body from California.
At the 22nd of September, this year was a musician or another, Sarah Jane Remmy, who shot him to resolve it, however, Ford had survived without getting any injuries.
The last President of the United States being shot dead and it survives Reagan, was on March 30th, 1981 and a penalty that was scored by John W Hinterland, who before being president got a player who had survived.
All those who were killed and survived, were killing two Americans who were shot dead with their colleagues Doctor Barack Obama, for sure his life has been in danger of considering the color of her skin.
It will be remembered that, it is starting the contest for contesting for the top position in the world up to the time of presidential campaigns, Barack Obama had given reliable security than all his colleagues.
There was a time it seemed like he had not been the president in the way he used to have a big squad of the security people in the country but America was still more reasons for giving him Obama's defense and maybe it has not happened to any President of the United States.
The cause of this situation is a real threat to its life from the group of people with great political parties, politics from the headlines, political parties which are mentioned to be one of the groups that loves Obama.
For instance, Khajida Kopa, a group of discrimination is a history of many years in America, among them the major beneficiaries are people with color.

The members of this group usually swell parts of the group usually collect them and take their photos.
Kitegu has passed now in America, it is the process of security people to follow up and fight for any other trials which took place on trials that were taken against the leaders such as Martin Luaga, King and Junction.
However, after being sworn in, a question that was asked by many inside and out of the United States is, if Obama will complete even the first term of presidential running in the country but Barack Obama had been asked if he has fear from his life.
While speaking to believe in me, I don't have no doubt, I have the best security guards to kill him. "
It's true that Obama has not been given a defense force in the United States.
Follow up on every step I vote of Obama, but we follow up on the steps that are written by people who are close to Obama. These are also communication between them by using modern equipment.
And maybe the are people who have a very difficult time for now after being sworn in to Obama in their home, to be sworn in to Obama, there is a must for their task to be in a difficult time.
They don't know what they want to work at work. It is said, that even a dog by Barack Obama who was accompanied them at the "White House", they will be forced to learn his behavior and agreed to worry about that dog.
