
Nyerere was told Doctor Slaa or CCM?
Sep 19, 2012

In the edition of Mke Mwema, September 12, 2012, the 17 page, there is a human article who identified himself as a writer of the article who introduced himself by the name Nimelewa.

I agree with the truth that Doctor Wilison Slaa (the secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Maauni (CHADEMA) is human beings health care.
However, Doctor Slaa has never met with words or through actions, claiming that he is not a human being.

In the article that is unacceptable, there are some of the articles that know or by implementing the agenda that you know, they are correct for example, the writer is supposed to know that in many African countries, the results or a unsatisfactory performance of the general elections is a source of peace.

I agree with the words that he wrote from the article that ever been written by a writer, words that despite the fact that despite that of King Solomon, Tanzania would have gone into the chaos of politics due to the election being run. "

The writer is unacceptable, in his article, he did not show the efforts of providing them about what was done by the media immediately after the last general elections.
Haazu taking us for three days in a period of some of the media officers, they visited the Kilimanjaro Hotel of Kilimanjaro, they did not know before urging the Electoral Commission to give and announce the results of the presidential election in public.

I am sure he knows the article 7 (7) of the country, it says that the commission has been partnering to be the last winner is the end, it's like Catholics, "Roma has broken her."

In the results of the presidential election in the whole country, which agents of all parties were in, who urged them to prevent people not to enter the road to oppose the results of the presidential election as it is not Slaa?

Where there is a plain truth, the writer tries to put together the killing of three people who are accused by police on January 5, 2011, in Arusha town, and on the vigil of vigil at the National Housing Corporation in Arusha town, these events have been depending on the writer to prove to those readers.

The issue of claims by the District Commissioner in Igunga District is silent (during the small-election campaign) that it has been mentioned to be a series of examples especially in the effects of coughing, there is a saying that he has been a shame to be an immigrant, "that is believed to have seen him too.

The incident of killing John Mpinga (God rest his soul in peace), is sad, there are five people who have been suspended from charges of killings, the law should be opened its course but the leaders of CHADEMA who was opened up to manslaughter, which is different from the issue of giving life to someone.

The quote of the article is unacceptable, about the charges being linked to the death of John Mpinga, it is good to build a writer that, due to CHADEMA being a long distance of people from our country, I will not see a surprise of people or even ordered him to make CHADEMA fans with an aim to destroy CHADEMA.

Abusive language is not something to protect their honor to the community but sometimes the action of a person's disappearance is the cause of a condition of protecting its honor and agree that it is not easy to get married to be called Honorable.

But for example, Honorable some knows that to continue using the names of being touched by deception instead of his real names, Lameck said Mkumbo, on the day it is not many to go to the crime and they are saying if you want to respect it.

The article of fact 'is continuing to give the examples of showing the executive director of CHADEMA (secretary general), he gives the many claims by the author claiming that those allegations can be given the reputation of ghost allegations but let me stop the example of those allegations as a lot of debts.

There is a question that has been asked in his article on the previous edition of this newspaper that if the right time the CCM we know who is unacceptable, and people with ideas like him are saying the place to be the cause of violence in the country?

The violation of the promises that are given to the oath is part of the evidence that CCM can be the cause of violence and I will not receive or give bribes, "this is true that the party member of CCM are facing him and make the party be the cause of violence.

Another evidence that CCM is the cause of violence and its cadres not to investigate it in the election process within the party and therefore, the writer should know that CCM is a source of violence and even in peace to begin their disappearance.

Citizens who are supposed to be expelled from the land and their farms so as to pave way for people who are called investors is what is not the cause of violence but there are many witnesses who experience.

After the 50 years of freedom, it is true that it comes from a series of stealing water from the river that changed the Almighty God to be fined shillings.
It is a thing that if it is not the source of violence that can explode at any time?

The article of the writer is thinking of wisdom of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere denied the direction of insulting the peace of our country. I agree with it.

But I don't agree with the thought that the father of the nation have refused to inform Doctor Slaa and I am sure before yesterday, CCM and his government would have been forced to suspend and Nyerere.

Let us think about the fear of using the tax of citizens to increase pregnant women with pain and selling in three-wheeled motorbikes (service vehicles), with that tax payment is used to buy more than 200 million vehicles.

I'll end to say, where there is a fact that there is a fact that there is a fact that there is a fact that police are accused of killing a journalist, David Banda, who previously wanted to resolve the truth, saying that those who had previously wanted to resolve the truth, saying those who had previously wanted to avoid the truth, saying those of them are false.

A picture that has identified himself is involved in making noise, gets enough and read in CHADEMA.
They have changed the problem of some of our leaders who are looking for presuming and the reasons for corruption and bribery that were given within the CCM and his government, the sheep on the CHADEMA.
