When you go to the press you'll be careful, the Deputy Chairperson of the vice president.
The representative of the women members of parliament.
The executive committee has reported that the article of one hundred and ten hundred and three, the third article of the draft constitution by considering the recommendations of this committee is the same way for women and men.
A letter was given.
By considering the recommendations of the committee so as to set aside the foundation that we witnessed the other speech between the women's members and men as seen in the article of one hundred and twenty hundred and four.
The draft constitution in the proposed constitution have seen in the seat if the one with anything about now is to be elected to have reports of ten days of special parliamentary positions as one of the qualifications to be a member of parliament because one of the qualifications to be a member of parliament because of form four education is not a important criterion to have the reputation of being a leader.
Many issues are not present by many members after the special parliament and that the reputation should be able to know and write a Swahili or countries.
The committee of writing after receiving those recommendations at the end of one hundred and twenty-five, one of the draft constitution and now it is shown as seen in a one hundred and five hundred and five days of the proposed constitution but for the benefit of citizens, have seen some of the areas.
The third commandment prohibits us and environment.
West is the main resources for the purpose of development of community development and the development of the country and people.
There are some of the union of the union that put the best boundaries for sustainable cold drinks for the benefits of the generation and of generations to come.
All the close that is used and managed to be mentioned by the law that will be supported by the parliament by considering the foundations of the law.
What does it mean to tell me what he will do with the right to own land grabbing?
That child will be paid according to the constitution.
What's a person who is not a Tanzanian citizen can be in pain without using the purpose of investment and other economic development.
Third, the right to own water is to continue producing land for the purpose of various community groups, good farmers and small-scale farmers to produce a small-scale farmers.
I remember.
Again.
The bridge was done.
Everyone is a woman.
This will have the right to get ten weeks to use natural resources and supervise you.
And managing the east to other conditions as it is.
