
Low-scale farmers.
By Charles B.
Low-scale farmers in the country will be paid for a certain amount of money due to the criteria that they will be presented to the cotton industries from July this year, the government announced yesterday.
President Uhuru Kenyatta said that under that program that is known as' wasanii wa Mitego has said that the farmers will be getting a little money to cater for their needs before getting all payments due to their disappearance.
"Starting from July first this year, local farmers will not be waiting for six months or even one year before being paid money from their disappearance.
They will be paid a certain amount of money for those money so that for example they are able to pay for school fees and pay for other needs of basically, "said President Kenyatta, he is very humiliating.
Similarly, President Kenyatta announced that the government through the Ministry of Agriculture last week will give 500 million shillings to pay the farmers who were presented to them at the Ngerengere station but they are not paid.
"We have agreed with our agriculture minister, who is here in the country, that starting next week 500 million shillings will be given so as to pay the farmers that will take them to the sugar industry of Gervans home," said President.
President said that yesterday when he was arriving at the event to celebrate the election of the Provincial Commissioner of Mkwajuni, Mister Kenneth Lusaka.
That ceremony was attended by the regional leaders that were in the Western Region led by Senator of Bexhill, Mister Moses Wula and Doctor Bonny Mwaitege, who were members of parliament of that area.
There were also the ministers of Michael Kamoga or Transport (Transport), Felix Kifu (agriculture) and Stanslaus Mohammed (social welfare George Ichwekeleza).
To defend the president, for another time he stopped his action of supporting the authority, the ministry, he said that his intention was to ensure that the citizens get the main government services in various parts of the country and not to destroy the government's authority of the government.
"Shinyanga governor has his officers to run and supervise the responsibilities of his government from the high level up to the villages, why I am also the president of he said all from 47 have been able to serve the Kenyans in those levels," explained the president while listening to Doctor Khaled who are due to his step in order to maintain the law.
He urged the commissioners from those to cooperate with the chairpersons and other leaders in the country to strengthen their products in order to improve service to citizens.
In the country's leader promised that the government would coordinate the important road in he said that he was near the country to try to revive the Pan Pacific belt which is in Lumuli.
Moreover, he promised that the Kibondemaji, which is the head of the University of Mashada stadium will increase the status and become the University that is getting into the country.
