
Fraudsters has handed them to Arusha October 25th, 2012.

People who are responding to be officers from the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) and national security agents have condemned the employee of the mining of minerals that will affect the provinces of Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Manyara, which was known.
Already several popular people in the provinces are explained, "they have been hurt by fraudsters who aims at businessmen, government workers and public organizations and employees of private companies especially those of phone.
The reports that were collected for the whole week now shows that fraudsters have succeeded from suffering from those ways of threats that some of the servants of the public organizations and more than three businessmen in Arusha town only.
On the side of business people victims of corruption, they have been those who fail to set their businesses well, by being unable to pay the Revenue Authority (TRA) and on the side of servants, those who have been not less than their salaries.
Among the servants that were being conned is together with the three from the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), and one from the National Parks Agency (TANAPA), who however did not give money.
Reports that got to Raia Mwema, at the end of the week, explained that those people who loved the employee of the Tanzanite mineral companies were proud to be with them.
In that event, the reports indicate that those fraudsters who went to introduce himself at Mwibara Police Station after giving their identity cards and they were given one police who was unable to see him up to the office of the KOne One company that is in my village.
Reports indicate that after getting to the offices of the company, those people also identified himself as officers from those private institutions and they requested one of the managers that they need the employee who is in the mining sector in an interview.
"After being given permission from that employee who made that employee and left him and that her silence is that they were working together with police from Mererani Town," explained our statement.
Speaking to Good Citizen, the employee confirmed that it is true he was followed by those people who arrived at the company's offices and take him in an interview.
Previously I wrote me, he identified himself as officers from a good government departments and that they wanted me to see me in an interview after their phone, I saw them for my friend who is in TAKUKURU when he threw my friend whom he is to be careful, "he explained.
He said on the left at the company's offices by using the vehicle that you came to him and inside the vehicle started claiming that he is accused of making a lot of cash money thus he is required to give an amount of 1 billion shillings so that issue should not be reached by the law.
"At the same time we were inside the vehicle as the main road at the International Airport (KIA) while waiting for them that they were involved in the famous lawyer of Arusha who is competing in a large extent of money that took place with its income," said the employee.
He added that, "all the time they were forced to avoid opportunistic infections and stop every time they gave identity cards to be officers of a special squad to address issues of illegal money.
"Every time you tell me that it is important to give money to the big leaders in TAKUKURU and National Security they need money," said explained to that he does not have an amount of money and as a time you came closer to 100 million shillings and they wanted his brothers to get out of money otherwise they would be left to free.
"All the time they have already done my phone and they have the hopes of every phone or a message that goes through it, my friend of TAKUKURU was using a message that he has spoken to their offices in all provinces of Arusha, Manyara and the headquarters that there are no experts of the type thus I got strength to be fraudsters," he added.
He said that when they arrived at the Arusha-Moshi road heading to the small town of Ikwililo, Arumeru district where he was suspended by traffic police who wanted to inspect the vehicle but they gave birth cards to the police when she has called Watoto Wetu and they can be allowed to continue with the journey.
"Later they stopped the car on the road while I was going to fight for different people who are my friends that ask him to defend that way like one of the kind of pain or not knowing," he said.
"Every person who told them that she does not have money, when it was beaten two o'clock at night, I heard for an agreement that we can meet tomorrow at the EXIM Bank, Arusha branch where I would have received 5 million shillings," he said.
"We had to meet on Friday morning.
That employee ready to register his information at the Arusha Police Station, police have started a operation to find those conmen.
Another person who had survived, the ploy of fraudsters is a businessman of Tanzanite who was also known by those people and requested them to meet because of an interview but that businessman was advised and his colleagues should not lie.
The police commander of the Manyara region in Mpwapwa has told Citizen that he does not have reports of those people because he is out of office for some time since he is holidays.
"I am not in the office for some time I am menstruating, RCO is the one who plays for my position thus I request you to communicate with him but I am being unable to say it is that if there are people who are stolen, they should be given a report so that the investigation starts," he said.
On his part, the police commander of Arusha Province, Liberatus Sabas, said that police will work keenly to be careful on their new fraud charges and requested citizens to cooperate.
"First I would like to inform the citizens that those people are dangerous thus if there is a person who is followed by the police or TAKUKURU officers and is evident that its validity can be used by making calls or give information to the police station so that action can be taken to the investigation," said Commander Sabas.
He urged those who were found to come out and give information to the police which will help to follow up the names of those suspects and added that citizens are supposed to be careful and to avoid getting into a trap of conmen.
