
Wednesday, November 12th, 2014.

Upbringing that do a child taking care to me.

Research shows that many children are 'orphaned children living in their lives and we are not ready to know their feelings, and even our hope, therefore we will help to build a good relationship between us and children.

Parents on our part, we do not recognize that life has been a lot of times, things have been changed and therefore will need to use a lot of time looking for money to build their future lives.
We thank you and we are producing, we took the school to make sure they are sleeping and to live in security. In all efforts we are involved with our children in the future.

"Education is independent," what is affected.

Most of the parents we are waiting for children "to get mental disabilities, so as to start a official loss of instructions, instructions, instructions, congratulations and so, we believe that the child have learned from the official teachings.
"You don't know a child rate," we and we are happy about what we expected to respect the problem.

The effects of this view is that during the very important period of the child to learn, since it is born up to five years, we did not get enough education to get better education that will enable them to talk to countries and not that a human being who will live with his colleagues well.

We have forgotten that the period we have forgotten that the child is not covered, truth is that this is the right time to learn more than any other period of the life of the child.

It is a very important thing that a child uses a very close relationship with a parent, who is also the reason for the money that will be used in the desert.
Not supposed to be found during this important period, listen to a child and bring in what we want to sell in the heart of a child, usually increase the distance of the child and a parent.

By bad luck, this distance is involved in the mother and the child usually increased as the child she gets pregnant, even though the child starts to see a mother like anyone who is able to see her mother like anyone who is able to give food, fashion, and accommodation.

Here, if you go to learn more through television, friends, and other people like the teachers who are facing a lot of ideas which at another time comes without a report and the requirements of our parents.

This child is at the age of starting to do his things by freedom by using the education that he got in the independent system since he was born, again without an inspection of communication between the child and the mother makes him a lot of communication between the child and the mother makes him a lot of communication between the child and when the child makes him a lot of communication between the child.

We should talk about weight.

So as to avoid a friendship with a child in the future, we have been advised to we like the parents that we need to change the life of another person, because we are important for someone to change the life of another person because there is a only opportunity to change someone in this world.

Through the upbringing can invest, we will continue to create the direction of the child and even the Bible has told this issue well and that what you are putting on my life and even how you get such attitude.

Get to be found to the children, we communicate with their hearts.

We cannot communicate with the heart of a child without being found with them, to play with them, to visit and talk to them and such as a child is available and communicate with the heart of the child.

Although the current system of now makes us lack time to have one personal child and related to her heart, this is still a foundation of parents who are trusted and therefore having a chance to know the possibility of knowing the child and to take appropriate measures against the child.
How do we do this? We give our children a time to enjoy a relationship with we parents' personal '?

Think about this matter.

Recently on how life have been taken as a result of this way, parents get even ten minutes for a day to sit and listen to them and communicate with them and listen to them, there are no wonder because we live in Dar es Salaam.

We should be like we want to children.

The child have learned in a great extent through what is happening in what is happening in what we want to do so, we want the child to see what we want to do, "I would know what I want to do.
To be a love for him and my wife like I wants to be a person to love for people.

Likewise, I urge her fellow leaders and another day he threw out his colleagues and told me, to be a habit of insulting each other and told me if my work will face my behavior.

We do not lie!

When the child has decided to go a child as he is without caring what I have done, you need to understand the meaning of love and told me.
No even when I read it, when they err.
And sometimes we will not inform me, we have told me that we will love you like we will give them a gift doing well.

When they err so that we saw a lot of pain and sometimes we are building a lot of feelings if we get children,! We do not lose their behavior, we should kill them themselves.
This situation makes the children to be trusted and see themselves as people and the hearts are not seen to be paid the debt and the burden on the poor.

It is true that there are times when children are usually forced, and a parent will be forced to get him and marry off instead of thinking to use the child that she wants.
But it is good we tell you that the punishment and rumors is to be shaken by love and the environment for building a good behavior have no positive results in the life of the child.
Hitler did not know the child to build a good behavior of love and without considering that the child is not knowing that if we believe many parents, we are not pleased by the love, we are encouraging our diseases to children.
Sorry, and I wanted to say the real love you have contributed to the environment of planting behavior that were cast without waiting to prevent the behavior that are not fit, due to lack of love.

Let us learn from the value of our soul.

The working job needs a soul in a soul that doesn't look for peace in other competitions when I'm doing well, to know how difficult words that match in the age of the child.

It is important for us to like parents to deal with problems of our opportunities and to make sure that we are related to our hearts, so that we can be able to prevent our children through our children so that we can be able to make efforts to create good behavior for our children so that we can be able to make decisions to promote our children.

A fools should be prosecuted?

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
