Hashim Thabit, Salma Kikwete, Zitto Kabwe more than Diamond.
Brightiles 23, 2013.

He has because it's difficult to get an opportunity to meet and talk with President Barack Obama, Pope Francis, Beyonce or Lionel Messi, a gift, thanks on Twitter network, you can communicate with those people.

This is one of the various social networks that are in this world for now, this is the networks that people are meeting, to talk and contribute to news or information more than any time in history.

If you want to know the strength of social media networks, you are required to read this statistics. Users of social media networks are estimated to reach 1 billion shillings for the statistics of August, this year through the Institute of Precision Air Tanzania.

1 billion and 4 billion are the same number and the most black people in the world. It is a big number than all black people (not to Africa) who are in the world this year, it is equivalent to 11 percent of all people who are in this world.

At the past people were waiting for the newspapers or radio, these days get information that same time through this networks are two months ago, the institution of Brooklyn gave information that more than 50 percent of Americans get information that happened at the same time (breaking news) through this network.

However, in all social networks, there is no network that is growing very fast, but every famous person you know here on earth, is on this network today, I want to give you a picture of Twitter network here in Tanzania.

Who use Twitter?

Close to all the popular people here in the country Nmon this network from politicians, government officials, private sector, sportsmen, artists, farmers, teachers, students and people from all regions.

Twitter page is that you can be able to know someone with his activities. It will be able to know the person's lives and his opinion about different issues here, everyone is free to say when he feel.

In the research that I have enabled us for a few days ago (I will request to have more correct information), I have been able to collect a list of the ones leading in having many followers through this network.

Hasheem Mkonga (right) with my neighbor in Sinza was known as Hashim Thabit but has changed where he went to play basketball in the United States, Jakaya Kikwete (I am not known, January Makamba and Hamisi Kisuke (the FA).

Others are Joseph Haule (Professor Jay), Diamond, DJ China, Reginald Mengi, (that person known) and Mohamed Dewji (Mo Blog.

I have forgotten your followers on 2,200 immigrants (until Monday), while Kikwete with 4233 followers and Zitto Kabwe has 7734 followers.

AY is not only that he has led artists and famous people here in the country but he has the extra thing that he wrote on her biography (baby). While other artists went up to him and explained how it cares for his work through you.

Maybe there are other artists that are selling their work in the country but it is this child of Kinyagutwa, who has used this opportunity to confirm it.

It is not true that he is also among the few Tanzanian artists feared.

If you read the explanation of President Kikwete on his column, you will discover that her open love for the Revolutionary Party.

Private individuals who have been observing them are Tanzania ambassador in England, Peter Kallaghe, the Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu, Makamba and Mohamed Dewji.

All the people that he has been observing them or at close to them or still doing work with one person who has been able to know more, because his name is in the list of JK is the member of parliament of Kigamboni (CCM), Doctor Faustine Ndungulile.

Then, although children of Kikwete are Ridhiwani and Miraji, you are on Twitter, this chairman of CCM or we do not know if he knows it, but this is how he knows it.

By touching on names of the swim, two politicians - Makamba and Zitto Kabwe have built its reputation in writing things that educate them on all times, they have written their views about different issues and to quote the sources of issues from other networks.

A famous musician from Nigeria, Mwanaisha Abdalla said that she has called me with the number of tweets explaining about a person when he gets a message from committing sin - she is legendary who has been retweeting about 90 percent.
