

And whoever doesn't be George, Dar es Salaam.
Some of the government leaders here in the country, have been looking for the issue of cleaning the environment especially in Dar es Salaam city including President Doctor John Magufuli, who showed an example in the Uhuru celebrations where he joined them to do cleaning in different areas in the country.
Also, those efforts are seen to be sustainable where many leaders have been encouraging the issue of cleaning in different areas with the aim being to avoid diseases of explosions.
The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda, has urged the students of primary schools in Kinondoni District to be ambassadors of cleanliness and to stop shooting road safety and promised that he will not sign a dirty crazy.
Makonda made that statement recently, when he was handed over 500 desks worth 225 million shillings by Tigo mobile phone company, Tanzania.
During the handover ceremony that took place at Mlele Primary School in Kinondoni Municipality, Dar es Salaam city, Makonda said, "we would like to give our sincere thanks to the Tigo company because it is important for our efforts to try to reduce the problem of lack of enough desks in our primary schools in Dar es Salaam city.
"It is clear that this donation of 500 desks will enable hundreds of our students to get part of working and therefore get education in a better environment."
Makonda also emphasized the issue of cleaning to students where he says, "it is a shame for the students of primary school from Kinondoni District to be patient and fail in your studies, an issue that you see the cleaning on the roads and those who will be treated with me," says Makonda.
He says 977,886 students will benefit from those desks which due to its quality that will last new generation, therefore they want it to be among those who fail to reach the goals due to various challenges including desks.
Makonda says that the desks will improve the environment of learning for children in Kinondoni District and urged other stakeholders to support them so as to reduce the challenges of desks in Dar es Salaam city.
He says that the desks are divided into 10 schools which are Kawawa, Makabe, Upendo, Bunju "A," Solo, Malezi, Tegeta "A," Mbezi Ward, Mtongani.
Lack of desks in school is one of the challenges that cause many schools in the country together with that the government has had plans to ensure that every school has enough desks.
Makonda says that the cleanliness of the environment is a way to promote health by preventing human communication and the effects of those effects that are affecting their body, small-scale enterprises or chemicals to get out of disease.
