
Nchemba to Sitalike county will not tolerate their officers.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

The Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Mwigulu Nchemba has said he will not tolerate government officers in the country under its ministry which is revealed to be involved in evil actions including not the actor of smuggling and receiving bribes.

He said that he will protect the officers and the police who do their work hard, integrity and strong heart because they will return the honor of the army in the community by avoid acts that concern them.
Mwigulu said this while speaking to officers and police officers of the police force, Immigration, prisons, fire and Upewe Promotion in Morogoro.
Before speaking to them, the minister got the opportunity to have information of information from the commanders of the army.
He said that it is the responsibility for officers and police officers, Immigration, Prisons, firefighting and leases of switching off the honor of the army by doing their daily work in considering integrity and avoid acts that cause the army.
Together with that, he said that he will fight the availability of better interests with work equipment, infrastructure infrastructure and increasing the budget for money for the provision of services including investment, transportation and prisoners.
Mwigulu warned officers and those officers to be the fifth term government they will work together by involving the Ministry of Finance and Planning so as to see the primary problems they are given quickly.
"I have been told for this year an average of four billion shillings is expected to be presented to the treasury at the purpose of building houses for the police of our army in the country, we will have made great steps for a period of the next few years.
Apart from that he congratulated the officers and the police officers in the province of Morogoro to enable them to control crime together with the killings involved in the conflicts of farmers and pastoralists.
Mwigulu urged them to recognize that the responsibility of defense of citizens and their properties is not a debate on the debate, therefore their responsibility continue to fight the crime of those type and another so that they are causing the killing to be arraigned in hand with the law that could be able to be arraigned in hand with the law.
He urged them to address cases of land conflicts and others in time and ensure that justice has been done on his part, the administrative secretary of that province, Doctor John Mnyika said that the province of the province is working and enable to control events of big conflicts between pastoralists and farmers.
