Short signing up players of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League has been officially launched today for different ages of age, in the end of the country which will begin to kick off in September first this year in which there was a very difficult time because some of the phones have been complaining to know that other players continue to sign the contracts for more than one phones.
The scandal of registration was started by Kelvin Twissa and signing a contract with Simba and Yanga's contract by Ibrahim Rajab while taking the contract with Simba and it is seen in the incident of Simba and then landed in the funeral of Simba and he won.
Later on Ramadhani Kailima to the radio, who was postponed for seven years a year.
But now he is in Simba living in work, and it's true that he has been talk in the media houses.
As truth is why the soccer stakeholder and the leader of that game being as the secretary general of the Tanzania Football Federation, says it will begin from registration but it gives the directive to the hospital to follow the rules and laws in the world will bring him in the country.
Are there?
Two years ago.
Eyes too.
The father's father and Manchester United.
Manchester City are waiting to go out of Ferguson and got into several hours for several hours when I will give me what is there.
I come out that our newspapers are there and there is a rumor of the registration.
It gives the sweetness of football.
Why is it the rules and laws to be followed.
On his part, the teachers popularly known as a soccer stakeholder says that competition is good then it has no benefits to a player because clubs can be able to get drugs to increase their salaries so as to increase the income of the players it is something that is for the interests of the players themselves.
Ras Makunja would like to see you as soccer stakeholders because it is not only to give soccer but a book.
When we go to Dar es Salaam, we will give the interests of one players and we need our players to live well.
Former German international captain, which is currently the head coach of Mtibwa Sugar of Morogoro, says that to vie for the players' coach, I am not able to score, FGM because it gives up the star here at home then let me see who he does the crime but he did well.
We tell me that you are losing you by those people who are using anything they are coming, there they get money to welcome him do not have the value for free for free.
The Almighty God rest the ones that come from not knowing what they can here at home and good players and they can be able to confirm that it is why Mtibwa we become a plot and we are doing well and every year is not good.
You know what?
The late?
Therefore hypocrisy and we look at his part, we will know outside the ball?
How does the Almighty God do not have a speech from the newspapers?
After the closure of the series of misunderstanding that have been issued seven days of the objection, we have given twenty days and two this year, the law through the discipline and law will begin at night and every player will hold it next season.
Ras Kiduku was given three days recently when he was not present.
