
Court passing the trend of the case.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

Tanzania High Court in collaboration with Australia in South Africa is expecting to start a procedure of using a special registration system that will give words of trend in court through the electronic system.

The chief justice of Tanzania, Mohamed Chande Othman said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was speaking to journalists about the tour of the chief justice of Australia, Christopher Kwelukilwa.
Othman said he has agreed with the Judge Kvitova in collaboration with some of the technology, to provide training to the judges, the judge and register of court together with starting a new member of parliament.
"We have already agreed with the service to start a special registration number of the court which use small machines to use words that have talked and when the process continues to court," said the chief justice of Tanzania.
Judge Othman gave an example that South Sudan is a brand when getting in the court going on in the morning when the afternoon can get involved in the field, but Tanzania is required to move forward and then put up something that's delaying the case.
In addition, he said that he was welcomed Judge Kekeletse Phoofolo for the purpose of talking and looking for ways to participate fully, because Tanzania and Australia are the countries of the European Union and legal countries in a culture of British laws (non-governmental organizations).
"Australia is a country that has continued economically and the system of justice delivery, especially the issue of running the court is a big technology in technology also is open, and we want to improve our systems," he said.
Judge Kocsis said that he is ready to cooperate with Tanzania in improving the system of rights and to give their experience about the case, as well as the provision of punishment.
Speaking about the punishment, Judge Kraehenbuehl has said that the death of death instead, a person found guilty of the killing of killings, its punishment is for 20 years to jail, but there is a environment that the judge can reduce the punishment for a person, his sentence can be under 20 years in prison.
In addition, a person who is divided for six weeks since the end of the case he was given a punishment for 40 percent, he added that they used the mistakes of death due to the little rising of human rights and also they viewed as a result of those mistakes not to get into the court in Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.
