
Rwanda does not pollute the article of BBC.
By Bashir Yakub.
The article sponsored by the England Football Federation (BBC) earlier this week has caused a lot of questions about the truth and the cause of the killing of Kimbari that happened in the year 1994 to Rwanda.
By using the opinion polls that were in the factory of President Paul Kagame, together with former union officers of nations and refugees from Rwanda, the article of Rwanda's article Story.'
Surprising thing is that the Kagame Government's government together with the parliament of that country has banned BBC for what they mentioned as' reduce the name of Rwanda by its citizens "last week, members of parliament who had been forced to ensure the government presented away licenses for BBC activities in that country without evaluating the issues that have emerged in those articles.
Why President Kagame passed through an interview in those articles if he did not be involved with issues that were kidnapped by the presenter of those articles, Jane Matechi, he explained to them about events of those killings and showing how the government of President Kagame Cup is saying "will follow up with the truth about what's the cause of more than 100 million pounds.
Contrary to the concept of many that President Kagame has contributed to switching off the killing of Kimbari, the article explains the different qualifications of the president and how he could convince some foreign countries to support his administration.
The former prime minister of England Tony Blair and the minister of foreign affairs in the past, William Ruto, requested them that at the same time they refused to be faced in a result of events of those killings, something that causes the contribution of international community in those deaths.
The claims that were given by the former head of Rwanda's Defense Force, Kayumba Nyamitwe, who has rushed to South Africa against President Kagame to have a lot of weight and the step by the government and the members of parliament of Rwanda, Kayumba has emphasized that the articles may protect Rwanda in the threats of conflicts in politics.
In a sure picture, Mister Nyamgenda, has narrated how he used by President Kagame to implement the killing of a community of us us so as to reduce their number which had many.
Through the researchers of America and England who came to follow the killings on close, the BBC article explains that the Kagame Cup was used by Rwanda's group (R4C) to avoid their opponents so as to get the presidency of the presidency.
Eucharist celebrated Professor Falcao does a woman from Belgium said that maybe the Kagame Cup was among the most danger of fights.
Why, the Kagame Cup for many years has not openly stated that the truth about claims that she was quoted by the late Patrick Kluivert has said that Rwanda needs a great government to prevent democracy and other leaders especially the opposition.
