You're welcome.
Therefore, the voice becomes for the growth of the ones that is given here by Temeke or it is why we will give you a lot of close training if it has given you the legal committee to be given training for teaching in the levels.
And it was not the norm for renovation at the degree and diploma level after the next seven thousand year and one committee that was completed, the department was giving training on tourism and therefore, Temeke has come out.
Tourism, it's not true that it is giving training to generosity.
Customers of tourism reports are taken against them.
What are it could have happened in the end of it?
How many gods are there?
Credit are sick.
I have usually injected into all the use of all, it is as we follow me, the wedding is giving birth courses to women.
You want to run a car together.
Ras Makunja has been appointed.
Where is it.
During the campaign.
According to I, he was giving the first lady just because of tourism and that a group that I will be with the tourists are not from Temeke and given an official certificate, who is giving the reception of fans which has been being used by the reception.
All of them are available.
It has also been said.
How is it?
There is no place anywhere in the book of visitors, when there are students who have found themselves in the education sector when there are students who are vying for your secondary education together with those who have graduated from form six.
We are also receiving people who have not left the public on my car, even when he had already entered here.
Because of you will get into taxes, we are received with a level of success for those who has completed the purchase of a student.
The late?
He got five percent of the presence of a panel that made him close to other stations in the streets have condemned people.
That is the child of that group that he used to increase the message here, you have spoken.
We are looking at.
Moreover, Deo Filikunjombe in the country under private individuals.
Supervised by the authority for example an inexhaustible speed and there are others that are supervised by Patrick like the club we have never been identified and therefore you know it is that the authority has its needs to check the quality of so that drinking alcohol can be dealt with.
You can send all Tanzanians and here the university I know that we also get loans from the government maybe if you feel that they have to get loans.
Their music producer is doing that they don't know if he knew the parents or guardians.
And also to write this couple?
But students cannot get?
Mashauri that was released maybe there should be your money, the chairperson of the board even.
When I see other students that you would like to read it, but they don't have the ability to know what I met.
It is true that our students would like to come out to study but those who are found to pay for the cost of getting a government loan as it is in colleges so that I believe they should not get the ones who have come up with many complaints on time.
The spokesperson of that station has also been complaints by a team of affliction.
That most of the success when you go to when you go at times, you see that you have come out and sometimes you ask that they have no creativity, but you think we are trying to look at work harder but as a university you will do in giving them a lot.
To eat or we have died.
We are trying to see that taxes we offer has which quality, Mwanza we get the late.
Or the procedure that was put by the council of technical education, you can't know more than two hours every week in order to make sure that every service will be taught so as to make sure this service will be taught so that we can compete.
Credit are inspiring.
