The director of clean water and water boreholes in the city.
Callie Long has said that the authority is worth 70 percent and six out of water as a result of being unable to clean water infrastructure and therefore for clean water to the customers or the authority is not our journalists to implement in general he had gone to report.
The peace problem in the police force building and in a meeting with the press and the head to accumulate water in Kigoma province.
It is great because of various challenges including the increase of people together with the theft of water being done by some people who are not faithful, an issue that causes some people to lack clean and clean water services.
Following that situation, the director of clean water and clean water in Arusha province, Rebecca Malope, has said that many areas have no water which he did currently is to improve water services and ensure that it will be the Honorable when you know your well that is there.
It has water that is why you will control that there is a well they have dug with water because it's not a mistake of Msimbazi I was in the place he took our shape so that we can go hand in the world.
Completely can't recognize the call on water.
It is not known for water reasons for its disappearance and failing to reach some of the residents of Dar es Salaam city.
And my mother may be one.
There are things that we said investigation is the biggest reason for people who died from the law, human beings were beaten and drawing water.
Therefore, he went to there were many factors that can be used for many water which were used.
If you see you ask questions like.
It depends on a wall without being getting.
There is a must that there is a person who dies.
Some of the citizens are talking about the state of availability of water is a resident of Comoros, there is a problem of water I have been infected with a long time because we get problems.
We become a cosmetics in wells and I see the water we help each other.
The Hehe is looking at each other.
Sefue.
