Come back to Ole Sendeka.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

Among the members of parliament who will use extra strength to defend their states inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the general elections of the year 2015 in Arusha Province, Goodluck Ole Medeye in the member of parliament of Arumeru East Constituency.
Ole Medeye emerged in the politics of that region in the year 2010 with the guest of honor "by seeing the former member of parliament for a long time in that province, Elisa Mollel in the opinion polls in CCM.
That member of parliament also emerged the winner in the general election in that year by signing Mathias Chikawe, the former candidate of CHADEMA, and after the election President Jakaya Kikwete appointed as the deputy minister of land, housing and housing development.
However, Ole Medeye did not last in that position because he was thrown out of the changes of the council of the minister that took place this year where his position was taken by George Simbachawene.

That step by cancellation of the government was reported to the analysts of political issues in this province that it has given out a lot of politics that is found in order to get a big competition to inherit the referendum during the opinion polls.

Cadres come to inherit the president.
The news followed by our citizens from that province say that three officials have showed up "asking him that" Medeye said to vie for that position so as to fly the CCM flag in the general elections this year.
Those cadres, mentioned to be the chairperson of Upewe Promotion, Robi Mpozi from a famous business person in Arusha town and the councilor of Manyema ward, Mathias Manga, and retired head of retired Thomas Mountains.
"There is a big possibility for many to come out to vie for that position as the time you go back to the general elections this year, a situation that will make the opinion polls in CCM to have a big competition" explained our news reporter.
One of the biggest reasons that is mentioned to be Ole Medeye said that he will use great strength to defend his seat as a result of "voting it" and some of the party members who will help his campaigns in the year 2010 to win the opinion polls and later the general elections.
The action of stopping the cadres and members arising from various political and social reasons, especially the difference of the view, and groups inside the party.
The member of parliament has also been able to find out in the conflict by the councilors of Arusha Rural Council after some of them during the implementation of distributing land in the farm in the same time.
The project of distributing plots is part of the council of the Arusha District Council to improve the residence of distributing land for the farms which were for the age of 1960 / 70 which have not been used.

In that scandal, Salla said that using his position as the Deputy Minister of Lands and Human Settlements Development is alleged to intervene in the process, and causing a lot of councilors to cooperate with the professionals in corruption and instead that land was given to the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation so as to build the headquarters of the African Court.
Makandege.
Among the cadres, the ones mentioned to vie for that constituency through CCM are together with Mathias Chikawe, who is explained as someone who came out and made that member of parliament to win with easily in 2010.
The sun is popular as a famous comedian from the Tanzanite mineral together with having enough understanding, he also was explained as one of the political parties and the ability of leadership and its contribution seems to be used for his council membership position in Manyema county, in that region.
While in the ward the councilor is expected to be an example in development because of reliable water, good secondary schools and the clinic and other development projects that have been done under its management.
Speaking to Good Citizen at the end of last week, he refused to confirm that now "he has bought her to the song" someone who sees it is making a victory network in the year 2010.
I don't want to speak about that issue because this time is not a very friend, but my order is to say it is that the Arumeru East region needs great changes in the leadership, "he said.
Manga says that he has been annoyed by various community groups like the youth, elderly and women to vie for the parliamentary seat in that province and he is still asking the request for those groups.
"People are talking about me to vie through the party change, but I have not decided if I will not wait, I think I think about some of the community groups especially the youth, and when the right time I will see you," he said.
The other candidate who will be known as fever, "Medeye said Mister Robi MTVs who is also the chairperson of Upewe Promotion, Arusha Province, vied for the position in the year 2010 and held the fourth position in the opinion polls.
