Close to the explanations of the Tanzanians that we need to go directly from here in Dar es Salaam city and in the first phase, we will go up to one hour or three minutes but to close to we, we have decided to get sports news that he has paid number.
He said this week the death of churches in the burial of the Christmas day's commemoration.
The truth is that if it is a day, and more, when you read more, it is an event that has been looking at how it's more than the same type, what does the sweetness of such a mosquito.
And Africa is this unique event to be done in five years is that I have also got.
Attracting more than compared to the president of churches, in the world that he will give you here in the country especially from the end of this week starting tomorrow.
It is a unique event with the former president of Mount Meru, on the world is for the first time to come here in the country especially from the president of blogging.
Hayatou, do you know his tour of being put in this new thing, together with many others, I am happy to meet here in the south of the southern highland regions, I am very happy to prepare a lot of this kind, what is the new level which is usually called me.
What thing is the inspector from KKKT, is a word.
What leads the celebrations.
Joy is joy.
Ayo TV we have been a journey of the church work starting from two thousand and ten thousand now, I will complete a five-year term then since it is good to meet, let's wait for these things that have done well if the church is doing well.
Almighty God bless you why that there is a need that do everything done because there is a need that does this matter.
We need to thank God, we need to have time to think together, there are success which we have been looking for us to look for us so that we need to work together to thank God.
Together.
In addition to think about them from doing, for the purpose of the age of years, I will come.
It does not say that this is a very unique incident and is very big because it involves itself or search for the most big others in churches, in the country because why should I have been great and own kind of how many would like to attract many people.
You miss.
The celebrations are saying that it is people and great people to understand what you know is who?
So, but?
It's not only because there is her reason because the big reason is to come.
The church's work is not small and its journey is not easy.
The youth that we will go down and continue to do?
To the community service through the increase.
Watch the medical services of school.
And Absolom went on and said this issues we wait and we are happy to see in the previous years but most of them is that we need peace.
We will make sure they are finished, the previous day will continue being done, we will also be a lot of what we are doing and even more continuing to be done in the parliament.
Depending on a meeting and getting into the sun?
The flow in general is looking for me.
It is a church that you know that is the one I will see the faith that it does not have its problems and it is growing very often.
Or abusive culture we do not see if we want to come back home, we do not see us so that you do not do so, to get the fish by anyone who will do but we do not see seven news and anyone who will do not get seven, but we do not see seven news.
Or where?
They are people.
The eyes used to maybe it is different from the ones that may have been the norm for others but a good example of this issue, something that has been seen in this season.
In reaching this decisions, we understand that we have two times.
I want to teach but you make that, "he said that I will make the use of first fishermen and let me say that it is happening and how can watch it here, it would have been more than one hundred people.
Every evening.
To try to continue on our website of the church they are continuing.
When I arrived, I was told we continue to make it a family.
The Mayor also did not talk to him.
The late father of the church mean that he is a church and a person, is because I am very big especially for us, we can use your book, especially when we see your book, we are supposed to increase your book.
And he has also announced to be unable.
We like people.
Our agents should not just know but also the judge also is that the church of the church because I have faith to ure even.
Everyone has has the right to choose that letter which will bring you and maybe I am not seen and that before we saw the judge but a couple, but an artist in a good state.
The main aim of more life in our country's life is now need to be seen because they are and when we were able to make it put it, he will be forced to see if you go through the trials, he finished and is why you're happy to know that even.
When you came out on earth, it is one of the veins and urged other than other than the number of believers compared to others but currently, maybe it is those fighters.
We shall talk about.
