Azam, Kagera Sugar.

It has been written by Mohamed Kiganja.

It has been published on 28th October, 2016.

The squad of Azam FC, today will be arriving at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba town to play with their host Kagera Sugar in a match of the Mainland Premier League.

Azam winners of the last season have no good performance since the start of this season, they will hold the sixth position in the position with 16 points when their host Kagera Sugar are in the fourth position with 18 points.
The hosts Kagera Sugar will enter the game coming from receiving a shame of a shame of 6-2, from defending champions Yanga at home at the Kaitaba Stadium but Azam will play for a win of 1-0 against JKT Ruvu.
The tomorrow's game is expected to be difficult and in high level competition because every side will not have lost the game due to the competition that is in that league at the moment.
Coach of Kagera Sugar, Mecky Maxime, will not accept to see his team is looking at home thus he will do everything in order to get three points that can increase up to Stand United who are in the third position in the stand.
In last season 1980, he claimed that fatigue was caused by getting a draw of 6-2 from Yanga for now for four days the time they will have completed his squad and they are ready to face Azam and get good results.
The players Paul Ngaka and Green Themi Felix, are expected to start the first squad in that game after beating them on the game against Ruvu Shooting in the Coastal Region.
On their part, Azam FC is proud of going back to their defender of Ivory Coast, Serge, who was out for a long time carrying a knee injury that brought him outside four months.
The team's spokesman, Jaffar Idd, said that their squad is in good state to make sure they face the game so as to return to the championship race like it was in two seasons ago.
He said the victory that they got in the last game against JKT Ruvu has given their players a situation to believe in themselves and wanted to win in the coming matches including that game today against Kagera so as to bring faith to their fans.
"You know that before the victory we got to the last game against JKT Ruvu, we were able to play five matches without a win, it was very worried about our players but the victory it has reduced, it is clear that the Kagera game will play in themselves so that they can get a victory," he said.
The host Kagera is given a chance to win that game as a result of a series of attacks on Azam, but the field can be an obstacle to them because Azam seems to have a great experience in fake ARV in the day before Azam Complex stadium every day.
