While some of the youths while in town is everything, the situation is different from his son and he is everything.
Normally, what is something that is making many youths to go.
When you talk to him that maybe I wanted life life, we believe that your life in the village but your life wherever you are in the village, there is good life that you are involved in agriculture, can you get a good life and we will not get a good life.
Buildings can be able to build a result of the provision of traveling the first time I commend and sell it as the last season for two thousand shillings.
It is impossible because I would have used.
And her husband is all over you and sell it even so when you see the building where I have been getting due to them.
You shouldn't know the weather was not good but it could produce but it was not true so that we can get buyers.
We believe that next year when you want to finish up because he seems to be the father he knows the way together with the answers of Paulina Shao.
Eight hours together with.
Now I had to come up there and then it is good this year had many customers.
Yes to be able to sell two hundred shillings.
Two seasons for Esther five as repeat as one million.
Then one million and his shoes that I used to build a lot of sacks that protects you.
One million.
Now I asked himself.
Now if you get into power it is because the state of Italy is to me what should they do on how to do on us from Tanga since it is supposed to ask him as a step like this, let me know what we know, but not such as usual.
Despite some youths continuing to invest their energy in the great job that is in the village, there are our obligations in relation to great employment in the village.
.
For a great way.
Against issues.
I think even to do youths.
One is that agriculture that we do not do the great value of wealth creation in our villages is normal, just after the father of the need to be available easily.
Then the room for the best agriculture that has not been found is markets for the purpose of products and their property, they will be able to be used for agriculture.
If it was found on farming, they were admitted to farming because farming for a season, to pay a youth because he is enough for some time even if he does not have their property and when it is saying, there will be a long time when he is still there.
We are using modern tools that they can use irrigation which will enable them to produce all the next financial season and to release the second child is that there should be sure that we enable them to be productive in the activities they are facing and costs that they are getting.
Another one is.
Small industries to end small industries in the villages, but also in urban areas, you are required to strengthen the big industries that come from agriculture because of being used in industries that it can also help them, therefore, those children get from industries and also different like them as a primary school needs.
In agriculture for every corner, from every corner, it is between people and agriculture for the meaning of getting industries and industries we need agriculture for all, as we see that all of them will be an example.
Industries for clothes and clothes have needs.
Cotton industries fight.
And the farmers do you need us.
Secondly, farmers will need industries for drugs that will be used for the Apple company to control diseases and diseases in their farms, therefore industries continues to go together and take a relationship between these sectors.
For the agricultural sector of the agricultural sector, everyone who does work for example a person in the God factory will be sure and the number of a woman is true and that the plots are there and that the plots are there and even if it will be sure, I have so as to pay it.
Jembe FM, short, the farmer are proud of.
