
Citizens are requested to cooperate with the health and environment project.

It has been written by Raymond Mihayo, Kahama.

It has been reported, 19th October, 2016.

The non-governmental organization of World Vision Tanzania, has requested citizens and leaders of the Council of Kahama town in Shinyanga province, to provide partnership with the situation and property to make the project of health and the child of the child and the child in that district.

That project of four and six months has aimed at improving the mother and child services in the community so as to reduce the deaths, will be implemented in collaboration with World Vision Tanzania and is funded by the Department of International Relations of Canada.
During the launch of the project in a session of the councilors Council of Kahama town yesterday, here in the city, the doctor and the gender adviser of the organization, Lutara Kalalu, said the project is being implemented in three councils of Kahama Town, Shinyanga, and Shipafu.
While expounding, he said that the project will reduce the deaths of mother and child as well as a huge conflict that is in line with the management in the management and improvement of health, food, agriculture and gender from the primary level up to the main government.
He said the built budget is 1 million American dollars (2 billion shillings (6 billion shillings) for the purpose of one of the community in 10 villages of the council of Kahama District.
Kamnada Mkumbo urged the councilors who are the chairpersons of ward development committees and the workers at the opportunities and development activities, to show a strong partnership in implementing that project.
He said citizens will get training on food issues, gender, health and environment so as to improve the ability of serving and educate citizens on nutrition.
The villages that will benefit from that project with its wards in brackets in the city council of Kahama town is Nyansalwa Primary School (IAGRI), Yakonko District (IAGRI), Yakemikali ward (IAGRI), Yakemikali ward (IAGRI), Yakemikali ward.
