Youths are supposed to use the opportunity for art.

It has been written by our writer, Bagamoyo.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

The Deputy Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Anastazia Wambura has urged the youth to use the opportunity of the 35-day festival of arts and culture in Bagamoyo to showcase their talents for the purpose of bringing economic development.

Opening the festival which this year has caused 65 groups of art and culture from the country and outside the country, the Deputy Minister said the art is enough employment as artists will do their work with integrity.
He said that he was understand the challenges facing the Bagamoyo primary school (TaSCA) of lack of funds and sponsors so he wanted to involve local stakeholders and outside the country so that various concerts were taken and involved various countries in the world.
He said since TaSuba its establishment in 1982, it has been an attraction to exchange culture and different countries like Germany, Norway, Kenya, Japan and China which have participated in this exercise in that festival.
And the acting director of art development in that ministry, Francis Mutungi urged stakeholders to continue coming out to send the artists in their work.
In that festival, the deputy minister Wambura led to play the veteran music group while the university's group comes through a dance style of Kiziguto.
Previously the district commissioner of Bagamoyo, Alhaji Majjid, urged the citizens of that district to be in that university which is the first in Tanzania that produces artists in the country and grow the district's economy by receiving many visitors who come to learn from Tanzania.
Dar es Salaam festival will take place in one week where different groups will not show the competence of playing, singing and different products that are made to use traditional equipment.
Also in that festival, the Tanzanian artists' Network (SHIWATA) was represented by six delegates led by Deputy Chairperson Suleiman Kissasy and their dance group with Acrobatic group, will represent.
