
The work of Mke Mwema, give birth to more than 16 trillion shillings.

The long journey to report about the smuggling of wildlife that was started by this newspaper of Mke Mwema, has continued to bear fruit after alleged to be involved in that scandal, including the director of the wildlife department, Obeid Mbaga, and his colleagues, being sacked from work.
The Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, who was announced his sacked from the director together with two fellow colleagues who are Simon Gwao.
In that decision, the assistant director of geothermal energy, Bonna Mafanga, has been suspended from power due to taking any action against security which could prevent the fight against smuggling of animals and at the time of that event, he was the assistant director in the unit of preventing diseases.
Also, two wildlife officers in the second bridge, who stopped the instructions of their heads of their work have been given a stern warning.
According to Kagasheki, those officers are non-glutamine and Garnito Mines companies, Ciara and Tourism in Arusha, Martha Msemo and Chief Executive Officer of Kitwiru, Ciara and Tourism in Dar es Salaam, Anthonia Anthony.
Others who were faced with buoors, is the head of Tegeta Thermal Power Station, Ciara and Tourism (photo) in Arusha, Atanus Kapunga, who has been given a stern warning.
Kagasheki, said investigation is going on against two other servants, the wildlife expenditure officer, Mohamed Madinda, the very best to the officer of MOIL Oil Company, Ciara and Tourism of Arusha, Mariam Nyallana.
"We have done every efforts, we have met through the headquarters of Cupertino in Geneva, Switzerland, but Qatar and agreed to receive our request from Cutch, has been silent," said Kagasheki.
If it did not be reported by this newspaper about the number of wild animals that were eliminated, and Minister Kagasheki, said those workers have been expelled from a scandal of abduction for 124 days of 14 days through the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), on the night of November 26th, 2010.
That decision by the arrest of those workers was announced before the press in Dodoma town and Minister Kigwangala, who said that action against them have been taken to the investigation that was done by the two commission that made up of that scandal to complete his work and handed the report to the minister.
According to Kagasheki, apart from work to those servants in that ministry that deals with bribery of several decades ago, he is also another employee of the ministry that was caught in power and two others when he told the journalists that, there are two other servants who are still being inspected for now.
For the first time, this newspaper released a report on the disappearance of the animals that came out and taken to court for some of the involved in this period, being sacked from some of the involved in the friendly game that caused the transportation of animals that are estimated to be worth 1200 shillings, by using the military plane of Qatar.
About more action against those suspects, Minister Kagasheki, said if it has been involved in the permits that are caused by the traders who are arrested, that issue has not been done there. "

That minister said he would focus on his ability to manage that ministry so as to make sure that the law and procedures are followed keenly, the law is good, a big challenge is to our directors, "he said.

When required to talk about the issue, Mbilimnyi said that he doesn't know anything.
He said until yesterday he had no information of being sacked from the work thus he cannot say anything especially without evidence.
"You have said they are not praising himself, what have announced that if I have no information and therefore I cannot explain anything."

One Program, "labor of Almighty God, give birth to fruits.

Gabriel Silayo.

Autoworks and 16.

Recently, if you want someone to sell goods from the shop try to put more than 136 million shillings and it's just after a week, you were given time to expand our products and he has been given time to expand and participate in order to enable our animals to be employed?
