
277 pregnant women out of 1000 shillings were given.

It has been written by Pickup,.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

It has been reported that, 277 people out of every 1000 lost their lives in Katavi province due to reproductive problems in the period of the year 2015.

The acting chief medical officer of Katavi Region, Doctor Obeid Mahenge has said that the number of the pregnant women who lost their lives is for those who were given their information and he has emphasized that the number can be more than that.
He said that while speaking at a youth festival that brought together students of secondary schools and Technical Training Authority (VETA) in this town organized by Marie Stopes Tanzania in partnership with the Office of the Provincial Commissioner of Katavi to educate the community about the right way of reproductive health.
In that festival that took place at KasPrimary School grounds, in Mpanda Municipality, many people came out to test the HIV virus (HIV) and to be educated on the right way of reproductive health.
While clarifying, Doctor Mahenge said the level of the use of reproductive rights of the program in that province is under 1 percent only compared to the level of the nation which is 60 percent.
"Religious faith and information that are not correct about family planning have caused fear of many women not to use that plan and it would end up with pregnant what should not be done if women have the right to use reproductive rights," he insisted.
He urged men to be in hand with their wives to use the correct way of family planning, since the end of the day they will inform all from having families with better health.
Coordinator of Marie Stopes in the Southern Highlands Region, Nooral Mbehikya said that many girls in the country have been getting early marriages with the age of 19, something that is dangerous to their health.
He said they should not end deaths during giving birth and also the danger of getting HIV infection as a result of having sex with each other, the other effects are to start raising the family in a small age, therefore, causing the increase in status.
