
The CUF party has insisted to save the general elections.

The Civic United Front party (CUF) has said that it's not ready to receive the resolutions of the discussion of the general elections if it will be going on against the decisions that did the citizens through the general elections of October 25th this year.

The statement has been issued by the Director of Elections and Planning of that party, Omar Ali General in an special interview with Nipashe in the Sunday about the talks of looking for the opening of the general elections of Zanzibar.

Those talks are made by the President of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein and involving the first Vice President of Zanzibar and the presidential candidate of Zanzibar, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, the second Vice President of Zanzibar, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, together with retired presidents of Zanzibar, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, together with the retired presidents of Zanzibar, Ambassador Seif Ali Iddi, together with retired presidents of Zanzibar.

It is believed that the results that were canceled by the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) was giving a victory to Hamad. "We are waiting for their talks and we believe that those talks will not go against the decision they participated in the citizens through the general elections of October this year," said General.

He said that the chairperson of ZEC, Jecha Salum, was not involved with the constitutional authority and the legal action had already been completed by 70 percent and the results of 31 constituencies have been announced in that election.

General said the secret of the dismissal of the results was after the chairperson asked CCM that they are in the danger of playing in that election and there is no reason to stop the results because the ruling party is in the danger of falling, it will continue to be done if we stop soon, "he said.

"As it is to disrupt the democracy of our country," said two months now, but there is no one who was taken to court for controlling the elections or chairman to put explanations and evidence of getting rid of the election.

In addition, he said the stand of the executive council of CUF is the guidance of the party to be the Electoral Commission of Zanzibar to return to work on the completion of the previous election results and announcing the winner of that election.

He said that the political situation of Zanzibar is in darkness, due to the citizens being unable to know when they get good leaders as they continue to witness the cost of living in the islands.

However, he said that the talks have already helped with a large extent and even heading to peace and eliminate the fear of citizens but he wanted to be complete in time so that citizens should know their problems of getting leaders.

Moreover, he said that CUF recognizes that there are people who want to change the elections that will be held on October 25th this year, but he said that he will not succeed as a result of local and foreign reports to put openly that the elections was free and fair for Zanzibar.

"The deputy chairperson of ZEC is announcing the cancellation of the results in 54 regions were completed and to be written in the results with candidates who were given their certificates for the point of removing the results that they gave out where he asked.

"It was impossible to take the appeal election before the first election to be completed in Zanzibar, equivalent to celebrating the wedding before the wedding took place."

He said that when the chairperson, Jecha is looking for those results in his high table that were put for Him to announce the results after the completion of the completion of 14 regions of three districts of Pemba Island.

Moreover, he said that the chairperson of the commission warned the regulations and laws due to the act of ZEC to verify the presidential results twice, while the work was done in regions and ended and ended well before the sacking of those results.

"Chairperson comes back to work together with the presidential candidate of Zanzibar presidential elections, we do not want to hear in Zanzibar," said General.

Jecha said that he decided to remove the results of that election after being removed by acts of voting including the number of voters to continue in some of the stations contrary to the number of people who were registered in the voting exercise in the islands.
