If you know the press you're present at the office, I would like to talk about one thing in health we have treatment after when you look for sure there are all those who are coming out so that we can have a solution to fifty% for fifty years from all levels.
At the chairperson of the network, it is something of the villages up to the true parliament to get to the leadership of political parties, so that we can help you there and I think the registrar of political parties not to understand that, Honorable chairman I would like to make sure that we go back on February.
If you would like to inform you, I would like to give him a report that I would have a member of parliament to give water to the vice president.
Is called Mwengi.
And Honorable Hamad Rashid, they are the secretary of house chores, a secretary general.
If a group of stories will be careful when you pass through anything that you shouldn't jump, there is no general secretary without he is.
Therefore, I know her daughters, after others, I would like to give him that report that women who already have political parties have started getting into that position.
Thank you?
That is not enough and it is still saying Honorable Lucy Nkya.
Honorable chairperson, I request I added me for my minutes.
Honorable chairman now, to go back on this parliament that I have seen that the issue of land is important and to make sure that we get married, the chairman I would like to check up and to make sure that we get married, the chairman I would like to say that we shall be responsible so that we can make sure that we get married, the president I would like to say that we shall be responsible so that we can get married to the honorable president, I would like to say that we shall be responsible so that we can get married to the honorable president, I would like to say that we shall be responsible for them so that we can be responsible so that we can be careful.
I don't know the delegates.
You know the documents I have gotten with the responsibility we thank that many of them are doing a good work to encourage Tanzanians and educate them but those who are using news that are being supported by the vice chairman and the vice chairperson of all other committees.
The honorable before the end of this month, following the funeral.
Just a little report.
The other day like smoke and Seleman Jafo have been helping as much in the issue of work.
It doesn't give recommendations that once I took to the committee on writing and we should wait for my colleagues is a committee of leadership and payment of members.
It is taking one directly on the day and tomorrow.
Since the candidate will need the chairperson of the organizing committee we saw how it has gone.
Therefore, do not be careful.
We should understand that.
An obstacle is.
It is that the decisions that come from the court of this rainy season?
It was this not to be written by other organs.
The registrar of justice wants to be given.
It is only but the normal court.
While the people have ever agreed in the court of work.
And so on and so on that, I will be in well.
Manufacturing Company?
The professional recently.
And not, it is not a must to mention the person that is merciful or the only brave at conditions of the constitution, but there is a way that has been found.
Secondly is the second.
There are people who call.
I think they are related to those who are called Ukawa and their great efforts is to prevent them being found.
Today I've heard one person, he says that voting will be a forest that he will break the constitution of the country.
This is a person standing on the law of elections we don't like looking at the elections.
Give them vote for a decision.
It is a decision of the decision about the issue.
Those delegates have a right to vote and participate in deciding about the constitution.
That is why even when the committee went to vote even.
Therefore, this is a different thing, or do not know it is normal, people have already decided to say that they want to say what they want, we're continuing with Honorable Asha-shirts.
Honorable Bernald Membe and giving thanks for caring for the opportunity to read, what would like to commend him by your vice president on how that you are running the new market, is to try to defend the constitution that is for free.
For being the chairperson.
I would like to give me the elder of our late Mzee Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, together with an elder of the ones that they met.
That is how we live in Dar es Salaam, what is the way people have wise people who do not know their things to be able to reduce things so that things can be good.
Hayatou is in the fourth chapter.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam, there will be a period of twenty-four, Honorable chairman's few days ago at the police station.
We have come to criminals to find our youths who are present to the police officers at work putting off the station without stopping.
They ended up the arrest of two soldiers and went to vote.
Honorable chairperson, they are saying that.
So as to see.
It is not wisdom to start thinking of knowing the punishment of death in our country.
At the end of you the chairperson, I hope my colleagues that it is a must for his death because there are people who like the actions that you cannot be used.
They know the albino is why to protect their hands where police stations must be responsible for the death of our constitution and in the effects of our colleagues so that they can be able to know that while taking life of our colleagues all of us to stand firm so that in a constitution is a punishment for death.
Thank me.
And go to article sixty years of age.
About the age of the candidate.
Honorable chairperson yesterday, our youth Honorable Makonda standing has talked with the truth.
The age of the presidential candidate.
I am saying this things I do not benefit from the youth, especially when these hours you go through Yuksekdag.
Earlier, the youth now has many young people for now, there are enough policies, there is no reason for the fund to be very big.
To see the presidential candidate on that, I am going to have many people who we agreed that for the age of thirty o'clock.
Honorable why is the meaning.
In the eighth commandment we spoke to having a number of ministers.
Hayatou will agree with those who are many.
We focus on that the number of ministers and other ministers let me say that because the small number that is paid inside that draft, I was not present.
Top of the government.
About there is no ministers in the government of Zanzibar and also ministers in the government has not said that, Tanganyika government is needed because we talk about two government officials and it's good for us to win the number of ministers and the prime minister to be enough, I'm in a easy way that we will also have.
Honorable.
Chairperson's chairperson.
Article one and one was speaking about FIFA to be appointed to be the minister or deputy minister.
Honorable chairperson.
Eastwood is still underway.
The ministers and the prime ministers have been selected to be discriminated against those who will be honorable members of parliament, I say so because.
Those who are members of parliament.
Basically you can't say that life is 20,000 shillings.
Therefore, in this year Shangani region that is under the presence of members of parliament, Honorable President is appointed the ministers.
But also people who have been confirmed?
They have been involved that now themselves as a result of accepted in the community that now.
The ones have been selected from the community to see that they have the ability that is enough because it's impossible.
