Lake Region should know Magufuli, Slaa.
Jide 15, 2015.

Various residents of the lake region have praised the presidential candidates, Doctor John Magufuli (CCM) and Doctor John Pombe Magufuli (Ukawa) when he explained how they know and they are expecting to lead the country.
Many who were interviewed by our citizens at different times this week have congratulated the appointment of those candidates saying they are false to be presidential and others have criticized the mistakes that caused them to be handed over that position.
Before being appointed as the CCM flag in the race, Doctor Magufuli was the minister of construction and Doctor Slaa was the secretary general of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) that joined CUF, NCCR-Evolution and NLD, to form the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa).
Justin Kasanga (38).
In general I have received with great joy of the appointment of Doctor Magufuli for the purpose of representing the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in the presidential race this year.
For sure that CCM have done a difficult decision that without doubt, there was a need for many citizens, I visited them to see if not Makongoro Nyerere who brought Magufuli, I am happy to see my dream is fulfilled.
The appointment of Magufuli has risen up a huge debate, every corner of our country to enjoy his appointment because we are seeing him is a vibrant executive director for sure that CCM did not make sure that they have done a very important decision.
The appointment of Magufuli has banned the strength of Doctor Slaa and Ukawa in general Doctor Magufuli beginning campaigns in some of the opponents and Ukawa will decide the court to support him.
Doctor Benedicta Lukaya (43).
Doctor Magufuli has no wife of winning Doctor Slaa at the presidential position. He did not expect to witness Doctor Slaa getting a huge victory in the general elections of this year.
You know Doctor Slaa is possible for many citizens, especially the youth because it is honest, he has no great ability to lead in wisdom, different from Doctor Magufuli whose ministry that he is leading is being faced with a bad use of money.
Shaaban Itandula (37).
I am among those who believe that Doctor Magufuli is enough for the presidency in the general elections of this year.
I am saying that because it is something that is clear that Doctor Magufuli will get a lot of votes and he won it very far, Doctor Slaa's chairperson of Ukawa Honorable Magufuli as a result of his good work with the interests of the nation.
Suzana Kaganda (29).
I was not a reason for supporting CCM in the next general elections if they would have done an offense of seeing another candidate different from Magufuli, therefore, I have no reason to support Ukawa and Doctor Slaa is why I believe Magufuli is enough.
The truth is that CCM have reached four times, without Magufuli could have come back to the State House through the election of this year because, I was my friend, Doctor Slaa is doing politics because he cannot win Magufuli.
John Katoma (69).
In my personal opinion, I think Doctor Slaa is a great opportunity to be the president than Doctor Magufuli why I have said that?
Magufuli can be a good executive but an instrument (wearing CCM) can be discouraging him and to make a difficult decision on issues of public interests.
Doctor Magufuli is clean up in CCM and I explained openly that the party has done a good work to bring him and suspend the clean candidate, but Doctor Slaa is good for Ukawa because it is disrupting the community and many youths have agreed.
Lucas Choro (46).
Most of us have great faith in Doctor Magufuli because we have been doing how its good performance in every ministry that he led in, then it is very careful.
Also, Magufuli is a very happy person, he did not understand the difficult decisions on the spot where we have witnessed how she gets even the construction of the road construction and take stern measures against them when they are seen to work.
Doctor Magufuli has caused the moment in Ukawa and the opposition in general, he has been worried with some of them have started supporting him in a short time, that Doctor Slaa cannot get to Doctor Magufuli.
We have requested Doctor Magufuli to be able to register and improve the country in the foundation of integrity and accountability for the benefit of the citizens and the nation in general.
John Lukuwi (40).
We have said that very much, but Doctor Slaa has a great strength of politics in the country and it gets to many citizens more than Doctor Magufuli who even in his constituency (Chato), Geita province, some people did not agree.
Most of us believe that Doctor Slaa is the one who doesn't know our country from the wave of misuse of power and public property.
But on another side, I am happy to see this period the big political parties in the country have appointed doctors to vie for the presidency.
