What does it mean to be?
January 17, 2013.

Asdoesn't like abusive language that is a big challenge to the nation, which now has 50 years of age since getting its freedom, not having a stable organization, to make sure there be poor transport.

Most of them will agree with me that, among the questions that are hard to answer to any Tanzanian, it is the one that was asked by visitors about the company or the Tanzania National Park for the purpose of transport inside and outside the country.

A question about the National Housing Corporation is asked just after several reasons including in many countries in the world, the citizens know more that transport run by the nation or the government because of the concept of their property or the nation as a whole.

The National Food Reserve Agency is also needed more especially from any concept of security to ensure that any government in the world has been involved in ensuring life with security to its citizens in different levels, same as citizens have faith in the transport sector that are under the management of their government in one country.

Together with that, on some of the countries, including Tanzania, faith that there is a cost of cost in the media stations, it is something that makes him forward to the media stations more than the ones that are owned by people or private companies.

On the basis of these reasons, many countries in the world (even the ones that is mature is mature is mature and make efforts to ensure that the transport agencies that are owned by the government, and its authorities will be improved and even get into competition, they have been improved and even get into competition that they have been improved and even getting into competition that have been improved and even getting into competition.

However, that situation here in our country in the transport sector is very different because it allows the trend of issues especially air travel, that is the National Parks Agency (ATCL), a situation that is not satisfactory, and as a very difficult time, the situation will continue to be bad.

This plane (ATCL) that was started in March, 1977 after the broke down of the East African Civil Aviation Organization (East African Airways) for a long period now it has dropped by not bringing any hope as it is expected.

It will be remembered that, the first years (years of 1980), this organization was in a good period and the one to be highly commended and may not depend on several international trips such as from Dar es Salaam, Bujumbura (Burundi), Kigali, Kigali, Rwanda, and elsewhere.

Also, internal trips were not insufficient. There were trips from Dar es Salaam to Iringa, Dodoma, Mwanza, Lindi, Mafia, Njombe, Njombe, Tabora, Tabora and Mafia.

It's after through different terms and several cases of several cases that the nation has been determined, such as the wind of tribalism and mistreatment in the whole market, have a big competition from private organizations, because of other nations, it seems to realize that ATCL has risen up.

It is a surprising thing that, every time we have an effort of bailing out ATCL 'in his condition and restore its quality of the 80 years, "there has been set aside, events that make these efforts in the past.

For example, it has been reported in media to be at the end of last week which ATCL has survived, getting an accident after getting a penalty in the front line and therefore made a pilot to change the direction and land at the Kigoma airport, shortly after taking off.
