The late Adam and when there are no time they take.
Almighty God rest some of your votes' cards they take.
One of the votes I take place there is very disturbing.
Eyes too.
I take me that you will take me in primary primary schools I take my joy to receive as a years I take this and I take me what happens here in IT to avoid the late I take it, there should happen there.
At home, the Lord's home is the time of voting you go back to home, it is a must that you are used to do your votes' card there is it.
Now, you will go back home because the votes are not present, it's not to be the date of the vote we give me on how many of the end of the month of four, the Almighty God will go back to Nairobi, then I will go back to Nairobi, then I will go back to Nairobi, I will go back early according to the ones that were not affected.
To reach that time you will have enough fare at the moment you know if they do not have done well, then we must make sure you want to vote, but we must be good leaders and I can be called on issues of pain.
At the moment you have told me early, if you will have enough fare if you will have enough fare if you can help you, you will help the deceased.
The late God bless you even if you are twenty thousand, I would like you thank you, it is okay, the late God bless you, then it is enough for only one hundred and five hundred thousand, therefore, I think it will have a chance.
Therefore, when I got two thousand, I used to use you to go to a conflict if you say it is enough, then I get you, then you will help each other back to make me prepare.
And you will not know even the money for buying snacks.
Most of the lot of money also contributes to that caused by a person that does not help India, "the late does not help them.
Or a shivered and the name I will give her the name and then the one you use it is.
The late God bless you, I urge you for them to travel with this child of AGAPE in the 87th minute when I see I will let me know why we are being asked.
I was and drinking alcohol.
When the silence comes?
If you want to get into the bag company?
If you see the late God, if you want this to get to this company that would also be praising God is needed what to do?
It is needed that with the identity cards, the Almighty God create the identity cards that I touched me, he cannot have a book.
Welcome him to introduce himself and I was also available.
