
Magufuli swears in a new plane ATCL.

The 29th September 2016

President Doctor John Magufuli has launched a two plane that joined the government because of Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (ATCL) and with the conditions of urging the management of the company to prepare well and not to work together and not to work with him, because it is needed for commercial purposes.
President Magufuli, gave the statement in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the launch of the two Bombardier Q400 type which are made in Canada which has been bought by the government for the purpose of illegal immigrants.
Let me allow someone to travel free because it is a leader of the government even I am happy that you will give money, the prime minister, the chairperson of that board or an employee, all of them to pay the fare for free that is ending up to them.
"Solar airplane has a government planes so that they can be used by the government and pay money in a special account that will be opened for the purpose of those planes so as to prepare well and stop doing well," said Magufuli.
He wanted the management and the board of that organization to avoid issues that caused many issues that caused the steps taken to the moment, "said the agency that made that step due to the bad system of leadership and to be unable to withstand the competition.
He said the organization has been restored to an amount of employees to lack professionalism, until they failed to make sure the guidelines of the organization, until that work is being done by TCAA and then give them their contributions.
Also, he said ATCL leaders who were confirmed to inspect the Julius Nyerere airport were paid 50,000 people every time they arrived at the field.
He said the organization used the employees to make sure that they receive the children's tickets to be used for adults people in the aircraft, and sometimes they made different losses, also the plane's plans to leave and be considered for a long time without working.
However, he said a total of 700 million shillings were lost by Comoros by someone who had gone against any step and finished his first time he added again the other time to continue working for a long time.
"I have explained each other reason for that new board and its director to know it is required to work with great people because they should not be remembered, you can't know the truth if the nuts you can be able to work skillfully," said President Magufuli.
However, he said that ATCL's employees does not hesitate to surrender and get married or get forced to work with the speed that is available and if you can't understand themselves.
He said ATCL has many people since he was in primary school up to now, some of the ministers are continuing to sit in place where there is no salaries.
He wanted that board to remove lazy workers that can't be able to go with that speed as to reduce two hundred workers.
A new plane.
I love.
President Magufuli has said that the government has started talks to buy two other planes that will make trips within and outside the African continent where one will have a capacity to carry 160 passengers and others will have the ability to carry more than 240 passengers.
"Because the money to buy those two planes are there, they had bought a plane to carry 240 people that will be coming here in Dar es Salaam to China without land anywhere in order for the tourists from China, America, Russia, Germany and other countries not to reach any other countries, we will stop here," said President Magufuli.
President Magufuli has urged Tanzanians to support the efforts that are being done by the government in bringing change of benefits to the country and requested people who cause those efforts including those who cause the purchase of those planes by building their primary issues.
In addition, Doctor Magufuli has urged the board and management of ATCL to work skillfully and success while he insisted to remove all the problems that the company failed to eliminate the necessary direction, who don't have integrity and faithful, the traitors.
President Magufuli has also urged all owners of business people, farmers and workers to travel using those planes so that ATCL Company has been improving and be able to operate instead of depending on government planes.
Secretary general.
Before launching those planes with a capacity to carry 76 passengers each one, President Magufuli witnessing the handover of a contract of leases of fake planes from the chief secretary general Ambassador John Kijazi on behalf of the Government Authorities (TGT) to go to the secretary general, Doctor Leonard Kazoba.
The report of the purchase of those planes that was given by the chief secretary Ambassador John Kijazi that it explained that those planes are government's property and it will be involved in ATCL for the aim of providing transport services inside and outside the country.
He added that the planes have been bought by considering that it is suitable for work in the environment of Tanzania compared to other planes of his community, and has mentioned those benefits to be together with the ability to climb and land at tarmac fields, to have high costs and carry huge cargo.
"It is clear that these planes use the air transport services in the local market, but they will also increase competition and bring relief for prices to air travel users, therefore, they will improve the business and investment sector," explained Ambassador Kijazi.
Minister for Transport.
On his part, the Minister of Works Transport and Communication, Professor Makame Mbarawa said those planes will work in 12 stadiums here in the country because they have the ability to land different stadiums that are unknown.
Professor Mbarawa said ATCL has a huge shortage of experts in different areas including the pilots, engineers, lawyers, business officers, the lawyers and the management and the implementation of that organization to be able to run well. Minister Mbarawa said that ATCL has organized to provide transport services at the Dodoma grounds in Dar es Salaam, Bukoba, Tabora, Arusha, Arusha, Arusha, Arusha, Arusha, Arusha and Comoros.
