
Luis Suarez has denied using her husband but being accused of being traitors.
Once you were not involved among the heads of the heads in soccer history but it's also a must, there will be people who are forced to use billions of money even after retiring from soccer.
He taught the club's soccer and A despite lack of a big title in the world or the mainland at the international market, he will understand that if you are there, there will be the top scorer on the middle level.
Luis Suarez was born on November 4th, in the year 1972, is the retired player of Portugal who plays for three clubs as a mid-fielder before retiring from five years ago.
The birth of soccer Kidney is the only son to Antonio Kidney and Maria Sharapova, who after getting married in 1970, who left the city he was nominated for the capital city of Portugal against Portugal.
He started leaving soccer in the continent of its neighborhood together with others before joining the CP with 11 years old.
He entered the squad of Diamond in the year 1991 before the Portugal squad of Portugal won the European cup.
Going to Barcelona to play in the year 1995 so that he had gone down with Parade and joined Barcelona for 78 billion shillings and causing a plot to move to Manchester City in England.
He joined Real in 2000 where he won two seasons of Spain's Premier League and one of the European Champions League (UEFA) in 2002.
Moving to Inter Milan in Italy in the year 2005 and he played a match, "in the year 1991 when he started the team at the World Cup Finals in 2002 and 2004 to represent his team at the World Cup finals in 2002 and 2004 and became the captain in the 2006 finals where he led the team up to the semi finals.
They completed the top of their group and suction of Holland for the 16 round and won in England through a penalty in the quarter finals.
Kidney and his colleagues were scored by France at the semi-finals by a penalty scored by Zinedine Zidane.
Wealth Iniesta, is expected to have a rich person in the world and for now, he is in the list of young people who graduated from Tanzania, earlier this year, it is called a person known as 338,667 that had bought for billions of money.
The family Kidney is the model of Switzerland, Helen Zuttah won't be born with three girls, Andrey Coutinho on 15 years old, from the age of 12 and Stella Manyanya in the year 2004.
Apart from that, he is an ambassador of the top top organization in conjunction with him as a member of the board of the project of Inter Milan, being run by Inter Milan.
Kidney is speaking about the five language of the Portuguese, Indian Ocean, English, German, Italian and French.
His marriage life has not been thought but when he was Real Madrid, she allegedly had a relationship outside the marriage with a fashion model who has also had a relationship with Ronaldo, Christiano Ronaldo and also allegedly using her romantic information David Beckham.
World Kidney is running a car of Bugesa at the 74th minute which will cost about 127 million shillings, which will be there to have the most expensive vehicles in the world.
It has also bought a 4648 vehicle.
Being hostile among the Real Madrid and Barcelona which had lasted many years and one thing has done another thing that has never been touched.
Kidney is the one who understood the picture by Kihamia to go to Real Madrid from Barkley scored as the president of Real Madrid and there was no one who had a dream of fulfilling his dreams and by appointing to the fans of those two clubs, when he warned his fans that he didn't have.
After stopping the Camp Nou Camp for his first match since when he got to Bernabeu Stadium, Kidney had found themselves in yourself because he went to rear pigs in every corner and until when he retired, all his matches against Barcelona were misled.
In its registration, Kidney still holds the eight position in the list of scientists which were sold to the most expensive world in the world.
Kidney was sold at 778 billion in the year 2000 and holds the eighth position in the list headed by Gareth Bale who moved to Real Madrid at 11,04 billion from Tottenham Hotspur last year.
