
Any political parties is missing of democracy.
The political parties are continuing to build a democratic system in the African continent, while the citizens themselves seen to be the head of that course.
Many African countries "that are proud of" to consider the democratic system, has been an agent of "virgin" which has their main aim is to increase the administration of the family and protect them in general, so as to protect their interests even when they die.
The danger of more is that, contrary to the most common systems in the world, those leaders have been able to change those countries as the kingship sank, "when they communicate with their personal interests.
In this course the danger of the system of democracy and the organizing committee of the organizing committee, from what is that, the citizens are continuing urging them, after being buried, "patriotic" and the handover.
The reality is clear that until now, since the political leader that causes the citizens, which causes the citizens, whom you do not like each other and to find themselves with the father of the father, mother or even tomatoes and their grandfather's colleagues were abducted in the country since sixty years of age.
In the colonial era of Mount Kenya, the name of the late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, is the one that is known since July until now, when he led the country of Kenya to get by OMoses Kajege "freedom.
At the moment, the child of the child, Uhuru Kenyatta is the fourth president of Kenya, whereby if the course will continue, maybe the children of President Kenyatta said that the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, the deputy governor of Raila Odinga, "said the spokesperson of the community.
In all that, it's even some of the African countries like Togo, where the current president Faure Glawogger who was vying for presidency from her father Goshashy.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo, President Joseph Kabila is also vying for presidency from her father, Laurent M.
In a huge shock it is that you will leave the name of "mystery" these were witness again this week after ACT Patriots Party had signed up with one appointment by Moses Otieno.
It is a dangerous attack, which may it make democracy to be a threat in the continent.
