
That motorcycle that had Jakaya Kikwete has cost the leader in Arusha, May 31, 2012.

Three-level leaders of the high level of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Arusha town may be stopped from their positions due to allegations of failing to cause him he was facing a case facing the theft of that party by using him President Jakaya Kikwete.
The leaders who have risen up "Ukuta" is now and they can be stripped off their positions and sessions of CCM is together with the chairman of the District Council listening keenly to the deputy chairperson of Ulbrahim and the Secretary of Semwenda.
Those leaders are alleged to be the ones that did preparations with all communication so that the national chairperson of CCM, President Kikwete has given the 19 motorcycle riders because of the party's activities and also gave birth certificates to the sponsors of the party, as well as Lema who are participating in a VPL case at the Kisitu court, Dar es Salaam.
It has been explained that there was a plan that has been surrounded by that suspect in front of the chairman Kikwete because it is a good sign but in a state that is not expected by President Kikwete he refused to distribute those motorbikes and told them that they get more than 10 minutes to speak to members that had gathered outside the CCM offices.
After retiring from those motorcycle Kikwete, who is alleged to have been angered by those involved in the scandal, he instructed the secretary general of CCM, Yusuf Makamba to address the leadership of CCM in Arusha province to take action against the leaders that were involved and that is where the political committee of the province went to discuss this issue.
According to various news sources within CCM, the political party leader in the country, all the leaders have already been questioned by the political committee of Arusha Province, that met on January 13th this year, and the news reports are saying that three leaders agree to resign from the committee and requested him to resign.
That committee also interviewed 11 delegates of the political committee of the district but it was seen that the ones who are involved in that motorcycle scandal are three leaders and it has proposed that strict disciplinary action should be taken by high level officials of the party.
Other delegates of the district political committee are together with Mohamed Nyansalwa Primary School, Deodatha Makani, Doctor Fauzia Kullane, Doctor Fauzia Kullane.
"It is true we have been questioned by the political committee of the province about the issue of those motorbikes, but all the other delegates have denied being involved since that issue for a long time was in the hands of the chairperson and the treasurer, because there is no one delegate who was involved," said one of our journalists who wanted to be avoided.
And another delegate who attended the session of the political committee of the province (name withheld) has explained his fellow citizens that after being questioned for three leaders, he has been advised to resign from their positions in order to protect their honor in the party but they were able to agree that they did not have mistakes in that scandal.
"Because I have refused to resign from the issue now will be decided by the executive committee of CCM, after receiving a report of the political committee of Arusha province," said the member.
Speaking about that issue, the chairperson of CCM, Arusha Province, Onesmo Nangole, said their session was secret and therefore he is not ready to explain that the talks met at the media claiming that it is going against the ethics of his party.
I can't give information of a very important session in the newspapers, that is not the leadership ethics, I request for you to leave my brother, "said the chairperson, explaining the writer of Mke Mwema, who following the reports of those motorbikes.
But on his part, he said that he was happy to be interviewed by the political committee of the province saying that there was no boundaries for someone to resign and he added on the page of the motorcycle was scored and they surprised some leaders of all the 17 wards to ease the activities of the party.
"There is no one who was told when he resigned, when he resigned from that, the ordinary citizens in the streets and we have already recorded the debate on that issue, motorbikes have already been allocated and they started doing the party activities," he said.
About the allegations of seeing him, that chairman said that those allegations are false because Lema gave a donation of those motorbikes since the year 2007 before the JKCI scandal has not been put up publicly and that they received donations from other sponsors.
"This is like a person who has contributed to the care of a service, you can't tell him that he will not be heard later, because it is not afraid," said Ndesamburo.
That chairman said that basically the issue has been set aside, due to the growth of political parties within the CCM, but that there is no leader who had a bad intention to be the chairperson Kikwete to sign him that suspect.
"Lema still is not only one suspect, we saw it as a person who has contributed to his contribution, except here there is people to change this in the political agenda," he said.
It has been reported that those motorbikes worth 24 million shillings were issued by stakeholders of the party, including the chairman of CCM, Arusha District, Felix Mrema and several business people, including Lema.
