

And the anthill is a question.
The funeral of the European Champions League is expected to continue this week in the final stage of the last semi-finals where it is a must they will be treated through the final stage.
There's still a statement of a child who is not in the shop is going on, because this soccer club will start at the pitch and to show the technical soccer and the quality of high quality.
The last week when we saw four players who are Manchester City, Bayern Munich, Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid who were on the technical whereby this week they finished their objection and expected to be played at Gioia Taqwah Mosque in Italy.
This will be the fourth time in that stadium to be played at the World Cup finals, being the first time in the year 1965, followed by 1970, 2001, this year, but the launch was officially opened in 1926, while the launch was opened by opponents from Italy, AC Milan and Inter Milan in the stadium which is taking a total of 8277 people.
Mtanzania is a knee injury today has caused the sports analysis of those teams and the one that will be this week in two stadiums.
Bayern Munich and Atletico Madrid.
At the Allianz Arena, which will take a total of 750,000 people, the hosts Bayern Munich will welcome their opponents Atletico Madrid at the stadium which was opened up on 27th February in 1900.
In the last week, Bayern Munich was away but they failed to be accountable under their coach, Pep Guardiola and agreed to be beaten 1-0 goal when they gave their opponents while claiming that they can do well this week.
The Atletico goal is giving strength to believe that they have a chance to play in the finals, while the repeat game which will be played tomorrow they need a win or a draw of any kind.
It can be difficult for Atletico Madrid to be accountable again in Munich City, because Pep Guardiola is his intention to leave Bayern, while he has left for a good record for winning the premier league championship and if possible to win the champions league where his final will be played on 28th May this year.
This is a game that will be difficult because every coach wants to put record, therefore we are expecting to see technical training for players together with their coaches, there are some who believe that Bayern will move to the finals, but all of them are tomorrow.
Manchester City, Real Madrid.
The last week where the first semi-final match between Manchester City who were at home at the Etihad Stadium and welcoming Real Madrid from Spain, where that match that ended in a draw without scoring.
