
The participation of the citizens in the elections and its challenges is Never Ending, 2012.

Currently, different institutions are doing great efforts to provide voter education so that the citizens can be able to participate fully in the local government elections and the general elections of 2010, these efforts are good and important so that we can have a free and fair election.
The aim of the organization to provide voter education is to enable the citizens to be able to make decisions that come from knowledge, and eventually the identity cards for wisdom.
When we continue with these efforts, we have also been able to look for restrictions that are preventing themselves care in elections so as to contribute to a large extent that is unsatisfactory performance in the elections.
It should be remembered that most of the votes are poor and live in the villages. Most of them are involved with agriculture that is very poor, it does not have productivity and cannot be productive and can be productive to them.
Poverty has caused various restrictions in the whole issue of participation in various political issues, one of them is to have a very unique view in making things and view of a member of a citizen who is living under one hour and the view of a citizen who continues to get its important needs.
While many poor is difficult to deal with the strength of money.
Poverty you can be able to get into the state of slavery, that is receiving and accepting what they decided to use money.
The view of the poor citizens is to find a solution to the problem that causes the sugar problem, food or money, then, his faith will be the one who gives the solution to the poor citizens having a lot of solution to their problems of failing to get important needs.
It can be difficult for someone to have a person who doesn't understand the thoughts of a person with hunger and he needs a solution to today.
Poverty, it makes a citizen to fail to get different important information so that they can be able to make decisions that come from the knowledge of the citizens we are listening to these are those who are in the villages and do not have the ability to get information on other ways like television and different posts.
In large numbers of work and difficulty of work that go with natural fertility is also helping (and especially women) to fail to get information even in the radio - an instrument which is the only savior of many.
It is true that the citizens of Dar es Salaam get information at a very high level more than the villages, lack of electricity in the villages will also contribute to a huge amount to the citizens of the villages to lack information and important information.
This situation makes these Tanzanians not to participate fully in the elections but also to fail to participate fully in various issues concerning the future of our country.
They are using a lot of time in agriculture, as from being prepared to build their farms, fast, harvesting or accumulating wealth, these activities are place at the periphery, and to fail to participate in important issues.
We have ever asked yourself how many citizens follow up on different types of television and radio? It is how many citizens are doing different articles for news analysis and the newspapers we want to talk about corruption, poor contracts are salt, sugar, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water, water,
Poverty, it has a great relationship with the poor education, most of them don't have education or if they do education then it is very poor.
The research report of the households of the households in Tanzania Mainland are saying the quarter of 15 people (15 years and continue with education in rural areas, approximately one-thirds have never been going to school in the villages of Dar es Salaam have contributed more than households in the villages.
A percentage of 5 years of pregnant women have no education compared to 163 percent of men and the villages that have a lot of standards of education and this is a big challenge in participation in various elections.
But also due to the difficulty of life it becomes easy for poor citizens being done by being given hope and the promise that will not be implemented or even by getting confused by the small things such as Pilau and a cap.
The sexual violence is to protect his humanity and his respect is very small.
The poor do not have the ability to join together and to claim that their interests have not seen, they don't know that there is no need to help them.
They did not believe that they can have the strength of great efforts and they do not have control.
This is a big challenge, especially considering that on one side, our community has people with great capacity, and on the other side, there are many citizens who are in danger to get the leadership if they want to be leaders or not to conduct leadership.
In addition, it is important to look at the relationship between the leaders or leaders (CCM) and ordinary citizens, who have the relationship that we are responsible to look at this challenge keenly.
Our leaders, by using their positions, have not allowed to get resources and many property, they have also succeeded in getting good followers and who are supposed to see them.
These followers are usually doing the work of looking for many followers for the purpose of supporting the administrator.
These followers are not doing this work by getting rid of some ways from the administrator to ensure that you can get real things like food or money and sometimes you can be a donation of being able to solve different problems.
To pay these followers, there should be respected and faithful according to the administrator to help him look for other followers to succeed in the election.
And there's just another challenge of bribery in elections where we have bribes and when looking at all, one thing is partnering with agreed, and everyone sees you involved in different ways.
On the map, he is using the weaknesses by requesting demonstrators to make it as he is.
This partnership is so bad, because it is not a result of having ideas, policies and plans that you are able to agree with this problem, this is one reason that makes a problem of bribery to continue being high.
It becomes so because if you eat with bribery actions through this network, then, you are not a problem with each other words, but when it is at the right time or those acts of bribery.
That is why we have ever witnessed the corruption suspects when they get the reception area to go back to some areas in the country, and especially those who come from.
That is the system of bachelorettes (a white house or a situation that has a age of citizenship, it is a must to sell this relationship with more better ways that are able to reach the citizens.
Another challenge is that lack of culture to compete and give alternative thoughts and new thoughts, we have been living in mind and doing everything in mind, no new ideas.
This is as a result of the fact that for many many years, Tanzania had only one party system and we decided to follow the politics of socialism and self-reliance.
This politics has been given a lot of success, but also this politics has made a community that does not have a competitive behavior.
That politics involves many, most of us think about one way and having thoughts in one way and having different thoughts, then when I am very happy and they think that if he thinks.

This argument of thoughts have made us to lack the culture of humor and when a question about different issues concerning them, therefore, competitive politics is a great challenge in the community of this way.
There is a big challenge to opposition parties that are trusted and accepted in the community that for a long time was under the system of one party, while followed by politics of socialism and self-reliance, it seems to have made great decisions.
That was impossible so as to be owned by the government to be owned by the government and be used as a way to provide information to the leadership of the citizens, that situation built the community that does not have alternative thoughts.
It is good to say that this situation was good for the country which has given freedom for a long time and it enabled us to build it in order to build a union because the media have been forced to build a union and to give ideas with leaders which he used to build one nation.
That was a benefit of those politics but it has also been able to send a community that he didn't give them much or to have alternative thoughts that will enable them to sustain themselves at other steps.
Despite that now, we are in the system of many parties and now we are talking to the competition of competition in every sector, we will see many issues we are doing so that this is one of the effects of the system that everything is being controlled by the government and citizens to get reports which the leaders wanted to have.
The results of that situation is to have a community that does not have creativity, does not have competition and which is not ready to do different problems, but if we are trying to think about it is a must we look at the second side and let us learn from those weaknesses.
When we go into the system of many parties, we have been able to explain the problems that can be brought by that system and there was a big challenge that the system of many parties can bring war against them, it will bring peace and religion.
We look at examples to prepare yourself from countries that it did not do well in the transition period of getting into a system of many parties, many citizens were admitted to the thoughts that opposition are a conflict, war, tribalism and carrots and there was no explanation and explained the benefits of many parties.
Many leaders failed to give precaution on this system and it's not true that those were dangerous that can affect the nation. But we should be able to confirm in the second side of the benefits of many parties.
The opposition parties has been a dirty word, and it is no reason to hear someone saying that his colleague has not told me, "you are happy to know where you are just a opponent," that shows bad opinion about the opposition who still continues to affect the opposition parties.
One of the few leaders that tried to marry another side of the million is the late Mwalimu Nyerere who explained the benefits of the system of many parties.
He said that one party does not have a habit of getting married and that the only drugs to make CCM be careful, is to get into the system of many parties.
But many citizens have shown to lack faith in opposition parties.
The results of the elections claim that, the different articles is needed to explain the reasons for the citizens to continue lack faith in the opposition parties.
However, it is enough to say here that there are reasons inside the parties that they do and there are reasons for the system, law, regulations and procedures.
Ludewa commission has issued a lot of recommendations that together with other recommendations that he advised to be written on new constitution and to remove all the laws of the forum for example, the newspapers laws and the newspapers.
He advised that to be written on a new constitution that will involve the new political environment, it gave up until the schedule of how the exercise will take place where the commission contributed to citizens on their interests so that they can join parties and various institutions to fight for their interests and we don't know if this will take place at the reasonable level.
Education of the voting process is important to consider the performance and view of our community by checking our history and challenges that are facing them, to look for information and information, ask questions and eventually choose good leaders and not good leaders.
