
Nchemba congratulated the request that forced him safe for election.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

The Minister of Internal Affairs of the country Mwigulu Nchemba has said the strength of the request is not safe in Tanzania in the last general elections, despite the government planning to control violence.

While Mwigulu Nchemba saying that, the Archbishop of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT), Doctor Fredrick Sumaye, has said that the church will not accept the sex of one other together with criminal acts.
While opening the religious meeting of KKKT Tanzania in Dodoma yesterday, that is involved with 1,500 bishops from the whole country, Mwigulu said in the last elections there was a movement of violence erupted, a situation that made the government to prepare to control those violence.
"The last election is the one being vied for more by the Almighty God more than another election and the strength of the request," he said.
He said the government was planning to buy several vehicles that don't be used and instead work was done in prayers and the country was silent.
"When I got into the ministry, I have found all the vehicles and water of the country not to be used in the violence that came to the time of the general elections, because the request has broken all the hearts that he wanted to bring violence in the country."
In the past, the day before yesterday there are people who wanted to come out to demonstrations but they were waiting for oil while they went to their houses, "said Mwigulu.
He also urged those religious leaders to continue praying for President John Magufuli because the work he did is difficult, he urged the servants of God to help the government in war against drugs.
"You will not be remembered, he does not understand the government to fight this fight together with the fight against illegal immigrants," said the Minister.
He wanted the church to look for areas for medical houses and even to run the projects.
He said the government will not depend on to see conflicts in religious institutions until it reach the step of the dismissal of the institution.
The Prime Minister, Doctor Shoo, said the church will remain in the word of God and it has been extended to rebuke foolish things that come from the community. "The church has a responsibility of praying for the government and to advise the citizens in different issues for the development of the citizens.
