
The worried about the strike is.
The government yesterday insisted that the schools that will be opened today as planned but parties to defend the interests of the teachers of Koscielny and Big CT which wants teachers to read if they have been advised in the notice given last week.
The Ministry of Education gave a call on parents to make calls from KT and taking children to the school. The Minister of Education, Jacob Kraehenbuehl has said the teachers will be schools to teach.
However, he does not explain the plans that the government has set aside sure studies are ongoing if teachers will go down.
"I cannot discuss the strategies that have been done to make sure that the studies are not in place, we will understand the bridge when we received.
Despite this situation of not knowing their parents in Nairobi continued to prepare their children back to school, by tomorrow.
Secretary of the commission for employ teachers (TSC) Mister Gabriel Lilenga, urged the efforts to reach the leaders of those parties to stop away from that strike that did not produce a long distance.
Mister Lollipop, he emphasized that teachers to go to work because the court of which will land conflicts with employees put up a strike ', we got the court's directive to stop in United 3 this week and to inform them, "warned Mister Lil.
"All schools and colleges will be opened on January 5, 2015 as it had been planned and teachers are required to arrive at work today," said the secretary of the Ministry of Education, Doctor Masumbuko Kwileka, in a report that was given right by his assistant Miss Eliona.
However, teachers' parties participated in the strike is and urged parents not to stop at school or pay for fees.
The Mazzarri to evade the strike was broke out on Saturday after the Khajida Kopa of the party were prepared as a step to save the education sector.
Yesterday secretary of Khajida Kopa, he said that strike is there and wanted the parents to stay with their children home.
And the chairperson of Kuguru Mighty One, yesterday urged the head teachers to hand over the management of the chairpersons of the parents' board (PTA) without giving them keys.
"We have already begun the war and the teachers are advised to come up to school tomorrow (today).
Friday, the Secretary General of the parents of parents in the country Musaa Ndevu, said his party got a directive by the court to address conflicts in workers which wanted the teachers to stop the strike which is expected to start today countrywide.
Mister Ndayisenga says the teachers have been directed to arrive in court on January 14th this year.
However, Mister Nzambe ', said Mrs Salma, has been informed that the court's directive has enabled teachers to perform a strike that has been planned to start tomorrow (today) they have never received those who will go to school, while the first phase started today.
Those parties also accused the chairperson of the union of parents, Mister Musaa Ndayisenga says he is supporting the government.
The members of the party to defend the teachers of secondary schools and higher education institutions - the red carpet said they are headed to every school to ensure that the teachers has taken the order to strike.
The members of the red carpet who met Kishiwa yesterday said they will supervise any meetings that will be called by the head of the school saying it will be one of the work to work.
The chief secretary of the red carpet of the Western branch, Mister Mayingu, he warned national leaders closer by the government to be removed from the strike.
"This is a strike that was called by the national council (NGC) and should agree to return to work before the government intends to fulfill their requirements," said Mister Rashid explained to journalists.
He said that teachers will not be satisfied by threats that their salaries will be taken if they will go to work today.
"We're ready to grow or even a fashion model when he knows her music, to participate in view this scandal, Anthony Mtaka.
That secretary gave a fox, Mister Ndandavala, by supporting the government while saying that the chairperson is a great agent of the government.
OAFLA, RNB, Ne-fielder and Leonard Lutegama Maboko is the one who missed the Instagram page.
