
Eating foods that are not affected.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

Many citizens living in big cities including Arusha, are faced with non-communicable diseases easily, because of the use of food and drinks that consider the quality of food.

This was said yesterday in Arusha City by health experts including specialist doctors of non-communicable diseases in the exercise that is going on for health insurance at the Arusha Provincial Hospital in Mount Meru, where they have noted that the big number of people with those problems, but not knowing if they are sick.
While speaking to one of the doctors, Doctor Rose Mdami has said that investigation has been done by stakeholders including the institution that deals with non-communicable diseases in the country, has shown the province of Arusha percent of adults, they are faced with food diseases which are as a result of food.
"Some of the citizens that came out to test for them have requested the government to put a clear system of enabling the citizens to test their health and if possible to set aside time to test health, as many people do not know and they are not seen in the hospital until when they are successful and lost life," said Doctor Rose.
Mwajacho Ally and Nelson Sauko said that many people especially the low-income people have no time to test their health as a result of being able to deal with the difficulty of life.
They said most of the people when they feel like from drinking alcohol or the ones that sell in drug trafficking without testing.
"We see when we are going, we're going to hospital and make problems have been great and we are difficult to be treated, therefore it would have been a lot for free medical check up because I have no money that would have been able to come because I don't have," said Sauko.
The secretary of the institution involved with non-communicable diseases, Kasibu, said that the problem of buying and drinking alcohol that doesn't affect the criteria and not in exercise is more greater in urban areas due to the availability of food and drinks, but also lack of time and areas to do exercises.
He said the aim of the institution is to make awareness of testing and testing in the rural areas, where also the problem of citizens lack the procedure of testing the health is huge, being contributed by the lack of income and also poverty of income.
