Yanga will fall down.

It has been written by Mohamed Kiganja.

It has been published today, 26th October, 2016.

One day after the former coach of Yanga, Hans Pluijm, wrote a letter to bid farewell to the defending champions of the premier league of Tanzania Mainland, a group of fans of the team have shown displeased with the decision and serving the leadership by causing them to leave the wife.

Pluijm has trained that team for two seasons and gave great success including playing the group stages of the African Confederation Cup this year, a step that had not been reached by that team for the past 18 years.
While speaking to this newspaper at different times, those fans have not been satisfied by their top leadership and others alleged that they don't see any reason for that team to defend his championship from the change while the league is going on.
Hamisi Abdallah a member of Yanga from the Buguruni branch, said she would like that Coach Pluijm to continue supporting that team because he has not seen the problems that he made and especially considering the success he gave them for a period of two years ago.
Abdallah said if the leadership advised the coach to leave the coach who had moved to the end of short period and not this period, which the league is in competition with their opponents Simba have been seen to prepare themselves from their championship.
And Emmanuel Mgalula, a fan of Yanga from Magomeni said that the action of Yanga's leaders can rule that team to fail to get any title this season because he changed the coach Pluijm and to bring a new coach is same as serving the players.
Mgalula, said that for the success that they have been getting out of Pluijm, the coach had a chance to continue to coach that team and the reason that their leadership will be able to send himself the coach that has no boundaries because it is equal to mocking him because his record is not clear.
On his part, Hamisi Makaziwe said that he is a great fan of Simba club but he has not been happy with the decision by their rivals Yanga allow Coach Pluijm to leave because it has given great success since he started sponsoring the team and continued to remain it more than that team in the coming days.
Coach Pluijm decided to write a letter to leave a short time after getting a report on the arrival of Zesco United coach, George Lwandamina, who for a period of last week now his information that spread in the country to fill the second round of the season 2013 / 14, and he was able to end the second position behind the champions of this season, Azam.
Before the 2014 / 15 season, the coach had asked to break his contract and leave after getting his assistant, Boniface Jacob, but he did not return his position but after Yanga's leadership moved closer to the end of the first round.
That season of returning Simba and Mkwasa has done a good work and gave victory to the premier league teams.
The previous season of 2015 / 16, has enabled Yanga to defend that championship while he started with a beginning of registering him for several star including Donald Ngoma, Thabani Kamusoko, Hajji Mwinyi and many stars whereby apart from defending the championship match of the African Champions League that was taken by 2-1 goals by Al Ahly in the Confederation Cup.
Pluijm, he said that what made him have made a letter to resign as part of the leaders of Yanga by involving him to support the team and requested them to continue giving support to the team as soon as the coach is a person to come and leave but the club will continue to be there all days.
