Celebrations of the coalition are asking many questions to answers!
May 1st, 2014.

The 50 year celebrations of the United Republic of Tanzania were done with great success and left behind a lot of questions and to produce many questions that are insufficient.
Questions are very important in the life of a human being, can help someone to think about what we think and look for answers after a person doesn't know, thinking and look for clothes and other things that he is doing, without showing signs of life inside him.
All the development we like in the world, the development of science and technology, have been found to have been found because there are people who ask questions, they think that they think and look for answers since we have human beings who don't work as a knee injury.
Therefore, because we live in this world which has been going on every day by questions, think and look for questions, let us think and look for questions, without thinking and looking for answers of our questions we will not have a nation.
We can have a big army with modern equipment, we can have a great ability, we can have a great ability, we can have a great ability to fight itself, if we do not have people to sit down and find solutions for the questions, we will also have a nation.
All of us know that Iddi who plays for Uganda had a big army with modern equipment, he had modern equipment, had a lot of people who were ready to fight and not defend his country but also to expand the borders of their country.
What happened all of us, if we won the war, it's not because we had a modern equipment with the army with great force, but because we were people who had a time to sit down, think and look for answers of the questions, therefore, we have the ability, we have the ability, we have the ability, we have the ability.
With the age of my age, we remember that the capital of Kagera, we are fighting all of us, even those who did not go on the front line, they used the songs to encourage our fighters and agreed to work with the fight so as to make the liberation of Uganda.
Libya's brother Comrade Kinana has said that it was a big army with modern equipment and fighters who had the heart to cater for their nation, what happened all of us, but I can continue to give another examples of Tunisia and Egypt, but the truth is that without questions, think and look for answers of the questions you cannot have a nation.
We can have a good army with modern equipment and the ability to fight those equipment, but if we do our industries themselves to produce those equipment, if we have no weapon because it is important for a day of a day, we become a good life of snacks.
My first question, we know that in the process of making a new constitution, there is a great tension between the structure of the union while others are supporting two governments and citizens through the commission of constitutional changes, they have proposed that three governments.
The decision by the structure will be voted for by citizens during the opinion polls, therefore the procedure is not to do campaign on the structure of the government until when the time comes, President Jakaya Kikwete has openly stated that there is no longer a campaign before when he was addressing the nation through the youths of CCM who had gone into the whole country to encourage the union.
My question is, why President Kikwete did not encourage those youths to do a two-term campaign but those youths were blocking the campaign on one side and allowed them to ask ourselves, we will think and look for his answers.
Secondly, the second question is, where 50 years of the union were in the military exhibition or memory of the union because it is a question that needs a question to the citizens, neighbors, and visitors from different from the military exhibition but that we have a big army, better and modern because of the union?
That without a union we have been able to have modern police but there is no good army with modern weapons in other countries that are not in the union and other countries, or the message is that our union was unable to choose the union of the union that are very delicious.
