Ngorongoro Conservation Area in a new scandal.
Sei 22, 2016 by our correspondent.

Part of the Ngorongoro Conservation Area in Arusha province.
The Ngorongoro Conservation Authority (NCAA), has entered into a huge scandal of distributing the forest with natural vegetation, a total of five acres in the park for natural gas so as to build a ambi '(in the picture) contrary to the law of environmental degradation.

The information that was found out of Nicrox, and the verification of reliable sources have said that the area of that forest was claimed to be dealt with by officers of the organization and requested the solar energy network that is owning a network of several hotel (VAT) in various fields without following the required procedures.

That forest of natural gas which will face the hosts of breeders and breeders who are in Oldonyo Sambu village.

The allocation of areas of that forest is a continuation of the management of Nicrox, in areas of the reserve for the construction of hotel (flyover) and a step that was involved with corruption that prevails among the directors of Nthepheya.

Statistics show that until now inside the park, there are 31 houses and five houses that were built through the Ngorongoro Conservation Area, the steps that are being complained about by the local stakeholders and international organizations that are dangerous to "

As a result of the construction of the factory, which has been involved with the citizens of the village who used to set it on fire, Store Committee, Tourism, Social Development, Housing and Social Security Funds, led by Lucas Chapanga battling with the citizens of that village, Thursday last week.

A public meeting.

Speaking at a public meeting in front of the committee to listen to the problems of those citizens, about the construction of the clinic, the chairman of the village, Kilimba Milo, said the citizens are doing that construction because they were not involved and informed by the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority.

He said that the construction is taking place of natural gas followed by a large section of the traditional trees by the aim of clean up the construction area thus causing the environment and the film industry of that forest.

We also have great vehicles to carry the natural resources that have destroyed the roads that have contributed to our energy and those vehicles have also been able to use the area due to all the deaths and livestock has also been unable to use it, but we have urged them to benefit us as leaders for the purpose of protecting our government's honor. "

Another citizen Parade Hall in Ngapa Ward, who once served as the village chairperson in the village said the destruction of the environment that took place in that area cannot be completed even little and urged the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority to remove it into that camp.

"We have lived in this park for more than 60 years now, we are going to respect the forest that we have risen to livestock within a forest and we have cautioned of livestock in that forest with an entrepreneur," said Said Ngapa.

More news from Nicrox, clarified that construction is contrary to the law as a result of the foundation that it was not in the general development plan of General Management College (GNP) which give a long-term plans for the reserve.

Bringing the meeting to the chairperson of the committee, Lucas Mboje, he confessed the front of the citizens that the construction of that camp witnessed the laws of the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority and added that the involved will be responsible.

What is the following day.

Speaking to Good Citizen on phone the day before yesterday, Lucas Mkondya, he confessed the existence of that tension. "The committee did a tour is true that there are complaints about the construction of the vehicle from the citizens and we are questioning the directors of NCAA together with the Political Parties, therefore the committee is organizing a report that will be presented at the board session in October this year," he said.

The speaker who was a member of parliament for Nzega in the previous parliament, added that together to present that report, his committee will also give information to the board about the real situation of destruction of environment in various parts of that reserve.

"In general this report will be keen on how the situation is at the moment in this reserve which is one of the important areas in the mining sector in the country and carrying the picture of our country in the international tourism sector," he said.
