
What are the people of Zanzibar who use them.
Dec 23, 2015.

Zanzibar is a collection of two Unguja and Pemba islands located in the Indian Ocean, Tanzania Mainland. Zanzibar has a total of 54 regions of elections through the council of representatives and 50 states of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.
The general election of the year 2015 has been held in a peaceful environment, safe and stability in all its steps and to the chairman of Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) is announcing the cancellation of the Zanzibar elections with nine constituencies which were already announced to be announced as the same level and 74 percent of all the results.
The results started the announcement of four counties of Unguja, October 25th, 2015 and 27 others were announced between October 26th to 27 this year, but on October 28 this year, at the end of nine constituencies which were canceled, the announcement of the election was issued by the chairman of ZEC, without being involved in the scene.
That issue caused the arrest of surprised by the major accused among the delegates of ZEC and agents of presidential candidates who were present at the station to vote in the famous hotel of Bwawani.
Since the dismissal of the results of the Zanzibar general elections on October 25th, 2015, many citizens have committed fear and not knowing what the fate of their country from the other one that until today has not got any solution and more silent that won the court of Zanzibar.
Life has been very difficult because all products have got into the price to reach approximately 109 percent to the official statistics that were given in December by the chief statistician in the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government from 82, 2 percent of the month of September, 2015.
Citizens did not understand the government is run using short procedure, it is led by who for a constitution that causes a lot of doubt and the law which causes a lot of challenges to be distributed in various special forces (180, firefighting, training, Jide, by the deaths and discipline among the citizens.
To continue with JWTZ, at the port, health centers, public radio and the public centers of Unguja and Pemba Island have been working on the passengers of passengers and their cargo because it is a great problem to citizens who did not want to see the situation for a long time.
Zanzibar has been a great history to attract since the Uhuru and Revolutionary Party of July / 64, where all the days there will be complaints from one party claiming that being stolen, the situation comes back and the citizens to get an opportunity to return to their work that are giving birth.
But the election of this year is a lot, because I have written this report is approximately two months since the end of elections and still Zanzibar will not be very dangerous because citizens have remained on a election or not to get to the elections or we have happened to a election or then it will have taken a election or they have happened to other cold drinks?
In general the political situation in Zanzibar is very bad and it depends on because citizens live in great fear and do not understand what is happening, the silence that was called me is not participating in the good performance of Zanzibar that brought together sexual excitement.
The rival sides of CCM and CUF which have great influence in Zanzibar and the ones that are getting in the national stadium and rule the Zanzibar they are continuing to unite his soul in addition to increasing the difficulty of life.
This situation of CUF we believe that they have won the elections and they are forced him to take advantage of their victory and CCM believe that the elections broke the tough time especially in Pemba, so that CUF can stop the country to unite with his fate in and outside the country.
Moreover, CUF is insisting that you can't accept the elections to be followed by CCM they are insisting that the elections must be able to have this an indication that the two parties are not for giving Zanzibar a good future.
Not acquainted with a decision between the delegates of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) is another thing that will increase the difficulty of being available on a solution to the political problem that is facing Zanzibar in the general elections this year 2015.
Citizens are continuing to be patient and be calm while listening to the sides disagreeing but they want to look for the way to stop this problem which he didn't have any primary reasons.
Other opposition parties are divided into the decisions of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission, there are being supported and there are very humiliating.
Writer of this article, Saidi Sakuwaha who is a reader of the newspaper of Mke Mwema.
