
The death of a dance journalist who was a gift at least 14 times, 2014.

One week after the end of this article from Sunday Muhimbili National magazine, he removed his home in his home with a person who went on her face so that he can make him a bullet but he stopped him to break the shot but he stopped him.
He also succeeded to try to sell the phones and appeal to the police to inform them about the attack, the police arrived and gave them in the hospital.
When he went back to the hospital without being allowed by the doctor, because he didn't see well an extent of being unable to run a car, her husband Graham, had an assurance of being involved in his home area so that he can see him and he would return to his home as usual.
Inside one week since he was shot, he went back to his media houses and in the last week's edition I wrote about the tragedy, but he warned his enemies that she will stop writing their news.
For his words, I wrote a car, "I said and I've heard this one and I don't see I have an intention of leaving your opinion, although my boss has called me to stop writing news analysis and I don't expect to start writing news on how to make and protect the truth of flowers."

As a result of this threat, his boss promised to put the security guards and also the police of that country to put the police to be accompanied with him in his trip to look for information, but in a surprising state, he refused that security guards will enable the security to work hard.

He continues to endanger his life in a period of nine months which was working as usual and in the same period, he was able to remove several enemies among the major criminals in September this year since 1995, he saw that was the right time for a crime system called John Gofrey Zambi to interview several questions.
History was the cause of John Glawogger who is not an old man who is not under three years ago but he was in prison, but for a short period when he arrived at home, he went to Gavyole he met with his wife, when he arrived at home for Gallas.
It is reported that Gmwaijonga has been tough and when he looked into the face of the name and later on the chest while asking me that he did not have a lot of clothes to look like me, therefore he didn't have a lot of clothes to look like me, therefore he didn't know what he had gone to him so that he didn't leave it quickly.
After releasing the incident to his boss, we had to greet each other to the lawyer of the newspaper and finally they received a case of the attack against Glawogger who was in danger of seeing the attack on Tuesday, June 25, year 1996, John Gavyole said that his family is in danger because of the work he is doing.
Gmwaijonga has denied the charges he was released on bail while waiting for the case to be heard on July 9, 1996 after that case was postponed, Grisham said she left the court directly and heading to the airport to climb the plane heading to Amnesty International Airport, a journey that has explained as business.
Greste, he knew that he would have been involved with the murder of those involved, therefore there is not outside of Ireland, he knew that they will help them not to be involved in those killings.
When I was called by the writer of Daily Mail Newspaper, he answered me.
In the past, "I have not done any bad thing and I don't have any evidence concerning the killings and I think those killings have been planned and implemented being a special program to look for big suspects, who had been tested from more than 1,000 suspects, among them 60 suspects were stolen, but there is no suspect, they will be considered for the mistake of the murder of those suspects.
However, the police succeeded to arrest money worth 200,000 dollars and weapons that required him to be against the law.
