Again without your partner and later you should not be able to check the team of Simba and Yanga one thing on the excuse of switching off more or passport for example today I won.
I love you.
While the reporter.
By the name is called Mwengi.
Hayatou, in this topic I will contribute to.
In two times, I look at the second interests.
For now, we have seen that human beings they need to get into power we are giving a promise to fans.
She desires to get into power, it is a must to support Yanga or Simba for now, when we meet these two teams in any kind, maybe if the leaders must make sure that every phone of one phone must have problems from their fans.
Well, we have written here on the side of coaches from Rabat to look for from the side of coaches as it comes to the fund.
Those involved are the biggest of Simba and Yanga that is also happy about it.
They are providing conditions.
It is a must that one must be productive or we must inform our opponent.
For all of us when it comes up that the team has failed and is in the east if those usually have a good example, we see what we have from now, this is the Azam FC coach known professionally.
The late God rest the contract with this team of the law of God they agreed that it is a must to reach the quarter-finals of African Champions League but its results have already received their first match, its results have been sending away after the truth and when it is heading to Sudan so as to see if the high level is growing inside.
It is not a quality of the team.
How does it be seen that it is better or it has invested the late God is good.
And the other phones will be so cunning, its wealth is that it has been using a small cost and that it usually seems that it is a must.
For example is a good example is Yanga, we have seen Yanga who are self-employed in good players and they have used a very high costs for now, an act of being beaten is a must that they are starting with what we have met.
I want to see this here.
We should not want to evade those issues to look for human rights that it is a must that you failed and know that in the football game, there are two types of results that makes it a must be accepted.
