Sitta preventing corruption in central railway.
May 6, 2015.

The step by the government to continue the process of construction of new central railway broke the plot for some of the leaders inside the government and the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to reach billions of shillings through that project only, our salvation he noted.
Three foreign companies in the country are accused of spreading those agreements, and now they are in great shape as a result of the decision to start the construction of that new railway system (EFD), in the central region by using a big environmental company in the world.
The company has already signed an agreement with Tanzania Railways Company (RAHCO) to start the work of looking for money in collaboration with the big international bank, Clients, Bank.
The Minister for Transport, Samuel Sitta and Cellphone Company, accompanied by Clients, here in the country assured the presidents of presidents of the countries that form the central central region that took place at the end of March this year in Dar es Salaam city, that the construction of that new railway will begin in June this year.
Your citizen has been told that together with being received with joy in the country, the construction report was a huge fight to three big three companies from China and America (names have been promised by the players who put in the project which will cost approximately 14 billion US dollars (6 billion US dollars).
If they will succeed, those players will make a total of 12 trillion shillings easily, while considering the burden to pay the debt involved in it, that project is just part of the directives of how we want to destroy the nation by increasing the cost of projects for their interests.
Three two countries in China which have many projects for renovation of roads, roads and bridges in the country and claimed to be carried out by some senior leaders of CCM and the government, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, going to the Ministry of East African Cooperation, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, to go to the Ministry of East African Cooperation, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe from the Ministry of East African Cooperation, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe from the Ministry of East Africa cooperation.
"The companies that Doctor Mwakyembe had refused to present its vision and that it should consider the broader interests of the nation, when the mother saw the minister as a great obstacle to them," our source in RAHCO has claimed.
It has been claimed that just after the changes take place, the activities of those companies, "flash disk", will begin through her child who is popularly known as Ben Sitta.
", elder Sitta was shocked that those activities which could bring him a bad scandal like Richard Mwaikenda for allowing the leader to intervene in the legal process of purchase which was played under the leadership of Doctor Mwakyembe," our source in RAHCO has claimed more.
Contrary to the expectations of those companies, Sitta himself announced that the presidents session of the Central Region became the deal of the central railway, he has already removed.
Investigation of this newspaper has revealed that there was a great blood from some of the embassy offices in the country, some of the famous CCM members and several other leaders in the government wants to be supported so as to enable "a big company" to be given that big project.
"We were just waiting for the plan of Mwakyembe from those companies to be responsible," we believe at a heavy scandal in the country more than Richmond and claimed that people should be accountable, "one of the senior officials of the Ministry of Transport, told the newspaper.
This newspaper has noted that one of the two Chinese companies that were to be used to implement that project will not be able to implement the project with success by lack of professionalism and financial services but the second company had the ability to control professionalism and financial services, but its cost would be used by Race.
The investigation of this newspaper has revealed that as the third company, which is the American company was a new without experience in the road construction and its conditions were with the poor.
For instance, in relation to the company about that project, this newspaper has been able to see its use, it was holding the right of the last decision about the use of all land that is within 500 kilometers from the shoreline of Indian Ocean and borders with Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and DRC.
