
All the top of the Bongo stars who have put up naked photos.

If you follow up so much in our fellow countries like America and elsewhere, stars are not keen with the issue of wearing that name that is not true to see a big star when she gets into the field while wearing a close clothes and when it was surprised by Mshenga.

Those who puts him so they don't have an answer, I don't know the clothes of honor but it's the one-hop artists to be talk and continue to have forgotten the effects of globalization, here in Bongo, there are many stars that have seen him there are many but today I have seen many more best of those stars.

Baby Joseph Masikitiko.
This is a musician with an actor that you know if you want it to love breast cancer in line with you to put on the uses of words and make sure that leave it open in a big part of the accident.
On the stage is very far up to the interview if that day he has written the way he does not make it more to those who follow his show.

Miriam, "Jichunge.'
He is an actor who tried to get into music but she is unable to live with him are among the stars who don't believe in their bodies as a lot of time, but if a big percentage are continued to put aside very short periods and when he knows it is good people to see more information.

Mchaga answered Yesuu!
Therefore, most of us know that it is one of the stars who attacked the bad luck and even so, it is reported to be among the female stars who like to lays in the neighborhood.
As a result of that, he is a believer in his opinions, but are continuing to put on short periods and sometimes even when it is expected to market or they buy anything, when the whole issue will remain outside.

Let it die in Mpanda "Bella.
This is one of the stars that don't know who is the mother of one child but when it comes to the issue of putting up, many times try to buy short periods despite his body is little.

Jokate Mwegelo.
This does not fear but this is a model who does not know if he is the one who doesn't know if he is the one who has many areas with a criterion of people getting married or not an issue because there is a time that is at the time you're doing so, to see that, his activities are activities.

Lulu Semhaling "is Lulu.
Who does not know what you don't know about her violence and he has been a person that supports him, it would have a long-term clothes and even when it comes to the issue of chest, many times he does not lie on her breast cancer.

Vanessa Mdee "Vila Money.
This is the presenter of Radio Chisholm, in the city of Dar who do well in the music industry, if you see you are a lady who does not like to put in very few hours when he is on stage, I would like to do I don't understand what you want.

QS Mhonda J.
At the moment it is pregnant but as a result of his condition, still will face off in very few times and they will face her respect to those who are marrying them and me that she is a lady who does not see him. "

Have met Mohammed Shilole.
And if he is born with a certain kind, it is a film star and film, who is seen to have put on clothes to his honor is taboo for us that he has been invited to the same as seen as the face of people with their respect.

Lagigi.
This is an film artist who when it comes to the issue of putting on honor, maybe the holy martyr.
In short he likes to put on clothes at least.
