
26th of November.

Zitto Kabwe getting married.
By Goodluck Charles.

Some of the leaders.
The heads of Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA) are required to use it.
In their decision.
On the accusations that are facing the former deputy secretary general of that party Mister.
Zitto Kabwe and his colleagues in order to protect the interests of the party and his primary school.
They are people.

The chairperson of CHADEMA, Western Region being made.
The provinces of Kigoma, Katavi and Tabora, Mister Mohamed Janabi, said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday.
Speaking to the Majira newspaper on a phone about the decision of the executive committee.
That hit him, Mister Kabwe and his colleagues.

Others who were kidnapped in the leadership of leadership is Doctor Kitila.
Mkumbo, the former member of the executive committee and the scholars of the University of Dar es Salaam together.
Mister Samson Majwala, former chairman of CHADEMA, Arusha Province, who is.
Now has been suspended.

Mister things said it is important for the heads of CHADEMA.
They look for a community wants to do, in which way the executive committee of the party.
It is a group of few people that provides a decision to all the party members.
Those are going on well.

"The keenly is needed in this matter for the interests of the party.
Our responsibility is that the main committee can give decisions that can affect the party, members.
They are ready to do anything about the decisions which are being released.

"I have received many phones from different provinces in which they are.
Mister Kabwe getting his position of leadership in the party, a lot of cards for the card.
CHADEMA will go back for now, others were waiting for the decision to Zitto Kabwe, "he said.
Mister things.

He added that, because Mister Kabwe has said that he will continue to remain.
In the party, the members who defected to their cards have said they will continue to stay with.
There are together with him and they are ready to follow wherever he will go.

Mister Kabwe and his colleagues are alleged to are blaming the party in order to prepare.
The document said, the strategy of the constitutional changes, "therefore the executive committee gave a letter.
For forgiveness from 14 days why they should be removed from membership due to that offense.

However, Mister Kabwe the other day he spoke with the journalists.
Claiming that, a document was mentioned not to be the reason for him being stripped leadership positions.
The sitting of the executive committee.

He said together with breaking those positions, they do not listen to CHADEMA.
They want to come out, to give their condolences and that he will be the last one from he has faith.
A great and his party is the one that does not run the country yesterday, today.
Tomorrow.

He added.
It should be a lasting solution that is going on in that party, it is the fight.
Democracy and not otherwise.
