
In Mbeya Province, them were destroyed here on 01 / 08, 2012.

The level of education in Mbeya province has continued to rise, again with a fast rate, from being the head of education in the country until the fifth position from last year.
However, the problem especially it is not what happened nationally, but it is a drop in speed to the level of success in that province, a level that has put him in the fifth position from the end.
The results of the National Examination for Primary School last year shows that the level of success in Mbeya province has gone up to 465 percent from more than 70 percent before the year 2007, while getting the fifth position from the end.
The Provincial Education Officer of that province, Juma Kaponda said this journey has been trying to stop stuttering, different from two years ago, when speaking about the increase of education in themselves claiming that it was caused by the control of theft of examinations together with the system of buying students.
This time being interviewed by Good Citizen on phone, Kaponda said on that he would not be able to talk about the issue of that province to hold the fifth position from the end because it is a national issue therefore they are required to be the secretary general.
"When you come to talk about a nation, I ask the secretary general, I cannot be able to talk about the national issues," he clarified that she was impressed by the question.
In addition to ending the position of that province, the education officer said that the education officer decided to get the rate of success in Mbeya Province up to 465 years last year, while cutting the statistics of the previous years, showing openly the fear of the cost of at least five years ago.
It is clear that the results of last year has been said or even when required to talk about the reasons that contribute to the level of education in that province which was the head of education in the past years, but he refused due to claims that it is a statement released by the president of the United Republic, Jakaya Kikwete.
I think as a good listener to the radio, I have heard the president the day before yesterday saying we will look for reasons because of the building of education in the country, very big and I cannot talk again, "said Kaponda.

But when the regional education officer told them to talk about the collapse of education in his province, he wanted to be done nationally, teachers in that province on their part they take this situation to be "a victory" to them.
Among events that prove, "the joy of the teachers in that province as a result of doing badly in those exams are together with the end of last year which three teachers decided to celebrate one of the farms which are in the city of Mbeya.
It was a surprising thing and there's something saying that what was going on is among those teachers, that in the middle is a bad education sector, teachers surprised them not to be touched by his disappointment, they make sure that situation is a victory against the top leaders of the education in that province and the government in general.
Those teachers met at the polling stations a few days since he was announced to be announced the results for the national examinations to end primary education and when their talk time comes with the bad results of their students, and that is where the nation was started.

I wanted the court to prevent it, with the aim of knowing the reasons for that province to collect that amount during last year's results from me completely against it quickly.
"Ah, it is not seeing the teachers to come up!" The statement made himself the desire to get more ideas with those teachers, and everyone continued to understand more by saying.
"We warned them not to tell ourselves that they know everything in Mister and they are saying that they can teach all schools so as to continue benefiting from their fellow leaders as well as the aim of having those who had kidnapped them.
There is no objection for the top leaders of education and the government in that province to be responsible directly to the collapsed building in that province due to several reasons, but the foundation in accordance to the teachers who gave their views, are facing leaders of teachers in that region.
While talking to ask for lack of their names, some of the teachers in Mbeya town to identify their feelings while doing back for the era of the leadership of the former head of that province, Elisabiq City where the province was in the country to lead in the national exams for primary education.
Historians believe that it is a good thing to go back behind because it helps to identify ways used to reach the success made during that time, and that is where the leaders of the province are supposed to see they have cheated.
But what is the secret of success during the Qadhi Court, one of the executive directors who had received work in that province during the Qadhi Court is getting married by saying.
"During the Qibla, in the performance they did not have an opportunity, and the one who made our jobs for freedom and peace, it would like to inform you, so if the council did our work for freedom and peace, it did not hesitate to explain how when he sees it," she told me, you're happy about him. "
That director reveals that a lot of things in the local government is political and therefore if they consider the executives not to believe, it does not lose their joy of work, they do not have peace and in the environment of that kind, there is no success.
In his meeting with the teachers of primary schools in Mbeya City that she released on Monday August 17, last year at the St Mary's school in that town, Kaponda said the intention of that sitting is not good because the statistics show it was starting from the year up to till they are forced to convene the session so as to get a solution to the shortage of education in the region.

Teachers who praised the education officer of that province by saying, "the management of education from the province level and the city, is that you are causing the level of profession to get out because you have decided to make sure that they don't make sure that they are telling him that the source of the drop in the profession in that city is the education officers.

Among the officers who had a difficult time, that day was together with the former education officer of that city, Virgil Hovind, that they accused of having his behavior of using threats when the teachers are reached where they are the ones of transfer.
Other problems that they gave those teachers are together being defeated by the employer when they went to claim their rights despite them to fulfill their duties in teaching, while other districts have been tested for salaries but their teachers have already taken place.

Those teachers who accused the Education Officer as a result of his habit of looking for teachers when they are going to follow up on various issues in his office, they have been given the fare for trips to their homes, lack of their debts.

A series of complaints by those teachers is long and even permission to teachers who want to go to study with the aim of developing more education in education, that shows leaders are supposed to get their positions for those teachers when they complete their studies what they said is not correct.

If you identify more that the information 'instructions goes hand in hand with the keenness of the students, they said that these days the education officers have been not pleased with the teachers results of the trials done by the students, a situation that causes teachers to be unable to understand the weaknesses of their students.
Basically they were proud of the things that were done at the time of his predecessor, Mrs. Elisabab group, who during his period of education officers in the province were meeting to address the exams starting from the district to the province and ensure that they build their results in school.
Together with the strategies that were there at that time, the leaders of education and government in Mbeya province placed a lot of teachers, this is the first time for teachers who were invited to home to the provincial commissioner at the same time.
That step by the provincial commissioner as well as the regional education officer was a big challenge to teachers, when he exchanged their ideas with their provincial commissioner as well as various leaders, it was a big celebrations in that province during that time, they managed to be appreciated by their leaders so as to increase efforts in teaching to children.
What is headed to the teachers in that province as they explained at their meeting with the provincial education officer that was there for a huge difference in their areas compared to their colleagues in other districts of that province.
For instance, the teachers of Mbeya City, that day you identify which state of teachers in the city on the level of income is not good compared to the teachers from other districts in the province.

They said that situation has caused the teachers to be self-employed in an extent of affecting their work performance because they enter the class to fulfill their duties and to be there.

When today's time she gets to talk about the problem of education in his region, at the meeting, the Provincial Education Officer confessed the weaknesses that resulted from requested the teachers saying.
My brothers, the situation is not good, I urge you to learn because I don't believe that the city teachers who were present in the year 2006 when the city is growing very well and can be taught, and to be satisfied that they will be taught, and to understand that they will continue to inform you and their education leaders.

They are saying that they can't hesitate to continue being similar to the Jangwani valley with an aim of amusing the education leaders in this province, who are mocking him in various problems that are facing and revealed that this is just the beginning because they do not reach their problems, a situation that will be very bad.

The joy they were of teachers as a result of the collapsed building is the presence of education that was announced as the national results last year.

Maybe the major way it is required to know the education officer together with the government leaders in that province, it is that they believe that day is just one thing in the Indian Ocean, including school teachers and the nation in general.
The government must respect the teachers and stop involving themselves against them, today, teachers when they decided to teach our children be one and only two, it is clear that the nation will be reduced, politics in education is bad poison.
