
The government has promised to give capital capital for modern farming.
In improving and managing you, in the country, the government has promised to give them an eye on the capital and areas for modern farming so that they can be able to protect themselves and promote their income.
While speaking at the opening of the modern farming education program in the country, Green Initiative ', the Office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Parliamentary Affairs, Youth, Labor, Culture, Employment and Children with disabilities, Mister James Kajenje interviewed the youth and people with disabilities, Mister James Kajege, in the country to use various opportunities that came out in agriculture because they are the back to our nation.
He added that the government is continuing to enable them to get loans at affordable prices and to provide education about agriculture, to eliminate the thoughts that are available to the youth that agriculture is because of people living with poor life and those living in rural areas.
If there is a must that we use the opportunities that comes out in benefit, I have faith that you will use this opportunity for your benefit and the education that we will help them to produce better products and eliminate dependence, "said the director.
Moreover, the participants of those training Mister Prayzah Mushi has urged those youths to believe that agriculture can change their lives and if they can use all the opportunities that have benefited from the agricultural sector from the family level up to the nation.
One of the participants in the training, Mrs. Jomo Kenyatta, has thanked the government for being prepared for those training and said that he will use education to get agriculture as employment by using the modern input which will be directed at that training.
The training that the youth did not participate fully in the way to use drugs and quality seeds in agriculture, at the right time to use the machines that are produced by the Green House of Land in an effort to promote the youth with crude oil in the country.
The training has been set for three days from today and also involve youths from Dar es Salaam and Pwani provinces.
By Cristiano Ronaldo.
