That budget, am saying that your heart can affect your life of later, I think about that meaning?
.
Before paying.
To change your life of later to create a environment early, my brother will not see the fire and then I don't see him from that day I see me from the same time I saw it, then you have not done what is not wrong, then you have not done anything else.
My part.
There are there he started being very difficult life with other recommendations.
What is the situation.
I have ever done to enter or get a certain place where the end of the day again is to be done to you.
But so, the promise can be able to do up and agreed.
I will take this well but my customer is still not seen in the future of what I found.
You know you?
There is a environment that?
That we believe in a bad state of people when they begin to arrest him in a bad way due to events.
Children on another side, people know you can see you that it will take you like the church to see change when they were lost because.
On my part, I depends with a person, you know that there is another person, because my person can leave it, but another person can remain in front of people, but someone can't know what he was going and that Ukawa are praying to God?
I am also known through God, he has decided to stop smoking cigarettes.
A man is a born of bribery they get easy because someone was a Muslim but the one person did?
But he was sent to.
One and a human being.
But the seven days later, I met me, I met someone that there is true that when there are some of them, there are some of them do not meet here, I don't know what happens when I stopped the sponsors of those eight words.
There's no benefits when I got but even if today, it is possible for us to have it hard for their products to look at how to get the scandal, we have the promises of this fifth term, we have the promise that I had gone down and said.
That the already did not go to you for a good day and said the truth.
Inside them, but you are the news media and we are supposed to know what is really appropriate, and you can't know how many people are complaining and wait for us to see me, each one was taken as I said.
We have ceased to play slowly, there is no doubt that something that says does not affect the review of one person and one of them is the chairperson to take them to that situation they had already done to them.
News has stopped.
Through it is saying here is still a problem.
