It is not one government, two or third, but Shigella.
Memba, 26, 2014.
"Recently, a message that he made President Jakaya Kikwete, when he addressed the constitutional parliament on Friday was the president's chairperson but his normal Tanzanian," I asked this question on one social network after completing that speech.
But a few days later, the Director of Information and Communication of the State House, Salva Rweyemamu, "answered that question on a certain way, speaking to one of the newspapers reports from home, Salva Rweyemamu, Moscow Government (UKAWA) in which he explained that it is continuing to promote, and revealed that" the Tanzanian has the right to give his views. "
When I agree with those explanations, all of us know that the activities which took the President Kikwete in the constitutional parliament is talking about it, not to give his opinion and I believe that if it was for the launch of the constitutional parliament "to give again his opinion.
On the other side, private did not be surprised by the position of President Kikwete especially on the argument of the structure of the union because those with good deeds will remember that during the birthday of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mbeya Province, President Kikwete as the national chairperson of the ruling party of a union of coalition government.
Now, why should he advise that he would stop the stand on the launch of special constitutional parliament but it is also important to see that the idea of change of the constitution did not start from CCM (at least this period) and if we put aside the political movements, but the party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
There are some of the analysis of going to further and be noted that even in the country, it started the idea of a new constitution, and in another language it is difficult to remove the ruling party in power through the constitutional environment that is in the country.

Several times in the past I have revealed my stand about the issue of the new constitution, though I think that the constitution that we have enough challenges and there's a great importance of the party, I have a lot of problems to see how the new constitution will be able to help the poverty that was contributed to a huge amount of corruption.

Another problem that is against the enthusiasm to see a new constitution is available is a painful truth that, the problem facing our country is not lack of law but the management and execution of its implementation will not be used in order to recognize that the law that will be in the new constitution will be discussed Honorable.

Among the primary reasons that contribute to unity problems is the same to assume the law, while President Kikwete sees the benefits of the union (constitution) that came to Zanzibar to pay the country's status of the year 2010 that has not been put in the constitution of the union.
About the occurrence of the constitution, because of allowing the creation of a country with its president, its flag, his national song, her constitution, and others (Zanzibar) in other countries (President of the United Republic of Tanzania), and not him or his advisers, for example the president of the union like Mzee Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, has confessed to condemn that issue.

Although I am not a lot or I do not support the structure of the union of two governments or three (or even one-government) because my important reason is clear, "(you can't stop the idea," it is clear that the problem will not be shaken, "(you can't stop the idea.
We cannot solve the problem by maintaining another problem in the normal environment, in a debate about the structure of unity I have attached it and put open on the documents that made the union (Are Charles of the Coastal Union) which have continued to be successful.
However, we should not think about struggling with the structure of the union we think that maybe a big source of "noise, concerning the union is true that many citizens of those two countries are not sure that many citizens of those countries have been given an opportunity to stop or oppose the issue of the union.
