Shame is the first elections in Zanzibar when they are not opponents to boycott the parliament.
Marion Moore (25, 2015.

After that happened last week at the launch of parliament, many people, especially politicians who are on the ruling party, the Revolutionary Party (CCM), have called the action of members of parliament of the opposition parties to boycott the parliamentary speech as a shame.
The decision to boycott the activity led by the presence of the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohammed Shein, whose opponents failed to continue leading in Zanzibar and the opponents wanted their president, Seif Sharif Hamad, who is, he is going to be.
One of those who explained the violence that came up with the act of strike of the opponents being a shame to be the speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai, while President Magufuli himself called that action as a foolish thing.
I am surprised and I don't see that the action of the opposition is a shame and a shame, there is a shame for a shame to be done this country, which have been consulting with him in accordance with the visitors.
As a result of this political conflicts in Zanzibar people have died and others getting pregnant women in Kenya and other parts of the world, the international community, especially those who came to try to get into the time we are reliable and these are the shameful things.
Starting from the 1995 elections, which is the first to take place after coming back to the system of many parties in the year 1992 until this year 2015 has never been done by the last elections without producing big conflicts in Zanzibar.
The election of 1995, that CCM was announced as the winner who raised the conflict after the Civic United Front (CUF) claimed that it has been shot and seems to recognize the president who was announced as the reports of many countries like Norway and Sweden have stopped donations from Zanzibar because of my view, this is a shame.
As a result of that conflict, the African Community has encouraged the talks of getting and finally reach the agreements that have been signed on April 29, 1999 and it was a good agreement that they would have been implemented on the end of the next five years to be open, free, reliable and easily from the port.
However, the understanding of the agreement is something, and the political intention to implement those agreements, especially on the side of the leaders, it is another thing.
It is clear that the agreements which he used in building the foundation of strengthening democracy, good governance and alternative treatments are not implemented since the year 2000, there was another conflict that you are producing refugees who were rushing into a place, Mombasa, Kenya and this is another shame.
Also following the election of the year 2000, on the 27, 2001, the 31 people were killed, 48 people were injured after the police used to prevent him with them as a nation because many of those victims come from Pemba Island.
The cause of the election conflict of the year 2000 was the sacking of election results and was decided to take place in several regions where CUF did not agree with that decision and decided to boycott the repeat election.
The conflict continued again in the 2005 elections, where for another time, CUF appeared to be amant to realize that the president of peace of Zanzibar, some of the politicians from CUF and CCM made efforts to start the talks of looking for a solution that is caused by the youth of Zanzibar.
The talks that were given priority and which were not been done by the people of Zanzibar, it started in March 2009 to end in November 2009 with the meeting of President Karume and Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad and agreed to eliminate different political issues that brought the community of Zanzibar for more than 15 years.
Maybe it is because of the political decision of the year 2010, it was not a lot, although there was still a problem of lack of infection of many.
