Majaliwa receiving one billion shillings.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has received a check of one billion shillings from public servants for the purpose of victims of the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province.

That check was given yesterday by the chief secretary general, Ambassador John Kijazi to the prime minister where he was accompanied by other senior secretaries.
"We have seen efforts to encourage our efforts including the government in helping our colleagues and we the public servants have been touched by this event, we are not seen and we should give our contribution," said Ambassador Kijazi.
He added that the funds are from all servants in various ministries and government departments and that they are still continuing to receive donations from servants who will help in reducing the cost of their problems.
Prime Minister Majaliwa warned that we should ensure that all the donations will be presented in Kagera province without any worry, and the government has changed the trust of the disaster committees to ensure the contributions were received and it to reach it.
I wish you of your contributions and others that we shall reach in Kagera, we have changed the trust of all the disaster committees to ensure we are receiving donations and that he can give them well, "he said and thanked the public servants for making their contribution, which shows great cooperation.
All of them is to show it being touched by this problem and it's love to our colleagues who are in the hospital, have been affected by their relatives and others do not like to live, "said Majaliwa.
He said that it has reached the last step of making an evaluation to the victims of the event and urged all those who gave their promise to contribute to their contributions in Kagera, for an account that were given by phone number.
Majaliwa said the previous donations, has started being given to victims of Kagera province and that it has been completed the government will give a report of the system used.
He said that the government was welcoming various donations from all people and he will be ready to receive all the time.
