I have impressed President Kikwete.
Jide 15, 2015.

Among things that I will remember to President Kikwete the period when he was released from power, it is together with its efforts to grow the soccer and the art industry in general.
While he was getting into power in the past 10 years, together with other things, he promised to promote sports and art during the period of his leadership, he has succeeded to fulfill his promise from the issues he made with the aim of fulfilling his intention.
At different times, I have been able to pay coaches from the national football team, netball, netball and soccer. There are athletes that were taken to China, New Zealand and Ethiopia for the cost of the government to get special training.
In addition to the training tour, those sportsmen did not succeed well in various international competitions.
But also in order to restore the sports status, the reason for producing talent from below, sports has been restored to the school, because of the presence of primary and secondary schools (thoughtful narratives). This step was the aim of making talents.
For now, there is a construction of a sports center that is being constructed in Dar es Salaam city of Kidongo Chekundu in a partnership with Symbion Company and Sunderland Cub of England.
If the construction procedures will be planned as planned, maybe the station will start working in September this year.
On the side of art of new generation and Tanzanian films, we have asked the boundaries because our artists are faced with challenges of here and there, including some of them lack ethics, a situation that was contributed by not knowing.
Last year President Kikwete thanked the team of people with music experience and film from America to come in the country to provide short courses to promote skills and knowledge to those artists.
It has been forced to see some of these achievements, President Kikwete I am pleased with that statement he made last week when he was addressing them to break the 10th parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania in Dodoma town.
He repeated in that he had been able to stop attending the match of the national team "Taifa Stars" after seeing you like a friend because of bad results from time to time.
That statement can be taken as pneumonia, but it has a very big message that you are required to work with other sports stakeholders who are political parties involved.
It would have been good parties recently through its leaders to give thanks to the president, a sports thing in what he has done for the development of art and sports in the country while explaining how that they will benefit.
I believe that Kikwete did not have a shame, but the problem is for leaders of sports parties which many times their plans have been for a short time while others received the views of stakeholders.
Likewise, there have been a bad system to promote talents in all games, and especially when it comes to an issue to select players of building different teams.
Those who were left out with ability and taken to others in a strong system, a situation that caused the bad results in the international tournament.
For example, it is a leader who is able to explain the success of his party's success and understood because of the period that the government has been of great help in the whole issue of growing sports?
Great strength has been put in soccer where the government of Kikwete since it got into power in the year 2005, paid all foreign coaches who had training the national team at different times.
For now, if the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has decided to hand over the team to the native coach, after preventing themselves with pain so that the issue.
There are changes that have been done without the primary reasons, for example the TFF members decided to send its coach Mart Nooij, Taifa Stars and through the former coach, there was no primary reason to do that.
I have given a lot about Kikwete for his statement, but also there is a saying that says, "unfortunately, it does not exceed 60 times."
Therefore, any kind of the sports parties that has failed to use that opportunity of Kikwete, will remember and maybe it may not qualify to repeat the elections and if it comes from, it can be in another system.
But this will also be a lesson to delegates of the concerned parties to elect leaders of leading the parties with certain pressure without considering their ability to lead sports.
