
Constitution are delegates not to sign a bail.
28th of 13, 2014.

In another world, outside of Tanzania, he was appointed to hold any position of public service, it is a great respect to the elected president.
And that is for any place and even if it is small, if you are required to supervise your colleagues in the training or not to lead them in the running of the meeting, work or a seminar, the appointment that I have attached it and the private benefits to the school is a bond that he was handed to someone from the appointment.
Last week, President Jakaya Kikwete has announced the names of the delegates that he appointed to form the special constitutional parliament of a new constitution, a lot spoken about that appointment and for sure it will be careful, Honorable President as we agree that the appointment was done every Tanzanian!
It is true that there are several issues that could have a nuisance about that appointment.
In the poor country like our country, which is the opportunity to work in government or in the organization, or not in any authority appears as the source of income, if you want to be paid to delegates of the constitutional parliament to be able to be paid for a long time.
What we would like to discuss who be appointed?
Because it's a must that he has been nominated to work with great importance to Tanzania and protect all of them, if he thought this work is of the game being a chance to get a lot about the benefits that would have ever been in meeting in Dodoma.
If we can be allowed to use heavy words like treason, a member of the special constitutional parliament who will go to Dodoma, to talk about his personal interests and to discuss the interests of the nation of Tanzania, she is unable to protect yourself, rights, freedom and honor, this will be a shame.
The constitution that is wanted is the only way that deals with every Tanzanian citizen to pass through her life, this is a good position, history of the world, different nations, shows that not every generation got an opportunity to witness the constitution being written.
We, this generation, we got this good luck to witness the constitution of Tanzania being written afresh or participating in this platform, it is a great solution to us all of us, we are seeing each other for us.
We know the former members of parliament, because of the members of parliament who are in parliament and in the council of representatives, they have a way to fight for him to go back to their religious camp in discussing the issues brought in front of them.
All of us would like to tell them that even one time has been able to bring about their issues in the constitution, this is the constitution of our political parties that are registered and that they are not registered.
