
The doctor of DR Congo gives the best age of the year on May 30th, 2012.

The doctor from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Denis Ssebo, has won the award for the age of year of the year 2015 (African of the year 2008) an event to hand over the award was held last week in Abuja, Nigeria, celebrating the election process that started in the year 2008.
Doctor Philip Mpango is a specialist doctor for reproductive diseases, who is an expert in surgery on women who were faced with them in the areas that were affected by war in DRC and his hospital called Parrish has been the solution to women who are getting that problem.
According to the United Nations statistics, a total of grenades have been reported in 2006 in Kivu South region only and that it can be part of the number of events in the whole country.
The system of court and even the army in DR Congo are seen not to work.
Officials of the United Nations are saying that the army officers are the big criminals in the problem of rape.
A large section of that country, especially the East African side, has been infected with any authority where citizens are doing a result of the military groups with great weapons which have made war to be part of their lives and killing them by 13,409 votes and then claiming that payments so that they can organize themselves.
It is in that environment, Doctor Masumbuko Kwileka, he has been forced to use his profession.
His efforts to prevent women meet together with mental disabilities, the ones that performed well and won the African Child's award for the year 2008 and the Daily Trust newspaper from Nigeria.
Doctor Masumbuko Kwileka, who was born on March first, 1955, being the third child in a family of nine children, his father is the retired chairperson of the Catholic Church in the country, Bukavu grounds, which is Mendes Hospital in Sweden.
That doctor has identified himself, 'Jichunge.'
When he was a small time when he was accompanied by his father in his recent journey, where he was meeting with patients with his first vote was to help the patients to get treatment, apart from the trials.
After completing his secondary school, they were forced to get out in Burundi, and after completing their work at the Nyasaka hospital in South Congo.
He wrote depressed, he knew the affliction of women in the area during the birth of time because among them were brought to hospital they have been connected to the hospital they were getting so after they came out at home.
Others, for sure, they were taken to hospital for a long time because of waiting for a long time due to the difficulty of giving birth to them, the ones who succeeded to recover.
It is as a result of being shown by that situation, Doctor Pristorius said that he decided to go learning in reproductive education in France where he graduated from home and return home.
In the year 1989, Doctor Pristorius said that he decided to live in Lemomo hospital, neighboring women with reproductive problems where he decided to open the reproductive health and nursing council.
Later, the reputation of the services that he was closed down in that area and even outside the borders of that country, by bad luck, during the fight against themselves for the year 1996, that hospital had been destroyed.
While one of the citizens who had survived in the fight at Lemomo, Doctor.
Khajida Kopa, he decided to live Bukavu grounds while there was still able to identify the problems that were given to the patients in the Southern Highland regions where there are no equipment to help women during giving birth.
As a result of that experience, he got the idea of building the parents' ward with the foundation stone in PRocky. Just after the launch of the ward, he noted that women who were caught were many and the number was increasing every time and that's when he was increasing every time.
At the moment the service has an average of 10 women in a day, and 30 percent of them are given major surgery services, due to that job to continue being difficult, Doctor Mukhongo gave a lot of work to teach nurses and international specialists from Addis Ababa city for the purpose of that operation.
As it is for many things, the idea of the African Film Awards is starting a little time and to celebrate African countries not to be heard but they do big things from different parts of Africa and even outside the continent.
The idea of the invention and the Daily Trust newspaper was received well in various parts of Africa, and even outside the continent, the executive committee for advice of that award is under the chairmanship of the former prime minister of the East African Community (AU), Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim.
Other delegates of the award for advice of that award is Professor Abdiwawa, who was beaten by a vibrant listener or a politician from Senegal, Professor Godius Kahyarara has been a scholar, a scholar and the gospel musician from Ghana, Professor Ignas Rubaratuka, a resident of media issues from Ghana, Professor Godius Kahyarara was appointed as a delegate of the committee of that award.
The Daily Trust newspaper is together with the chairman Malambale Yusuf, the Executive Director for Nelson Mandela branch, Professor John Okello, and the director of African Development Bank, Professor John Okello, and the director of international relations and economist, Doctor Oberlin Kisanga.
The joint meeting between the committee for advice and the Daily Trust team was held in Nairobi, Kenya, November 2008 for the people who were chosen to be awarded for that award, through the Daily Trust website, that is as cardinal.
It was accepted in the session that the award should be for every year and the criteria for electing the winner should be set free.
They start living in the idea, Media Trust Limited, is a private company with the headquarters in Abuja, Nigeria which last year was sentenced to 10 years since the establishment of the Daily Trust newspaper, Sunday Media Trust Limited, for six years, it has been a debate every year that the public will be invited so as to listen and give opinions about social media, economy and politics.
Starting from this year the company has decided to encourage the women and men because of that award as the company view that, it is the only way to expand the knowledge of African countries and honor their success by the African company of the Constitutional Review Commission.
On that meaning, different people can do so through the website, near the website where the recommendations of the year 2009 can be done, and the opinion can be done in any sector (politics, science, education and so on).
The fifth criterion of the candidate that causes a mistake is a must to have a specific place and they are seen in Africa. The sixth place is about someone trying to have a lot of things but it will be removed in the whole African continent.
It is as a result of those criteria, that's when the meeting held in Nairobi, you will be able to choose three competitors, and then agreed to be who among them being the winner of the African Child's award for the year 2008 and it was accepted to be the results of that election to be announced until night to give a gift when the three people will be announced.
The Nigeria Bank (United Bank for East Africa - UWADAR) provides 50,000 dollars in America as part of the awards, those funds are going on to winners so as to help other areas that involve more than 20,000 American dollars in the United Republic of Tanzania that were given two winners with the first winner.
And the result of the race depends on two criteria, first of first, the candidate can be removed from the list if he will be seen in cheating or a certain amount, an issue should be removed from the list of discussion if they will be unable to reach the criteria that was explained.
Among the people who had been recommended for the African Child's award for the year 2008 together with President Jakaya Kikwete, the African National Congress Party government, Jacob Zuma, Prime Minister of Kenya, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general of the United Nations, Raila Odinga, and the former secretary general
Others who were chosen as a famous writer of books, Professor Rogassian Mahunnah and 29, a vibrant singer of Nigeria, Professor Sulaiman Baker, president of Nigeria, Alhaji Jagabana popularly known, Doctor Isa Mbura, Doctor Isa Muhammad al and Doctor Robert Kachumu and Doctor Robert Kachumu.
