
It's not easy to believe that there are traders who are running their lives by selling products through the internet.
You can ask ourselves what way he can get customers, especially considering that many people in the country are not seekers of issues of social networks.
Hussein Idd is one of the people who benefit from that business, this young man knows the social media like among the things that made him to be released in life.
Idd is important to the students of the field of communication and communication in the Larger college, he is doing business to sell electricity equipment through Kamyu Tanzania website.
The love for communication technology did not visit the college, but they continue until officially opening the business of selling electricity equipment like computer, mobile phones, "flash disk" in 2010.
Today this will sell its electricity equipment through Kamyu Tanzania, a company that has the ability to help other people like he is doing international business.
Speaking to the writer of this article, Idd says he decided to do business through the internet for the first time after being impressed by Kamoga.
"I performed well with my friend, I believe that there is a need to serve people who have in one way or another they have the ability to make purchase through the internet and products were made up to their home without paying up to the shop.
"We will also get many customers that are in and outside the country through the internet," he says.
He explained how to sell through a network can save time and money, it will also be able to help the traders and enable them to do business through safe and sure of payments.
"Flash disk" to help grow the level of my business by very fast, it has also given you an opportunity to do so without using more strength or more investment, "you are supposed to inform you about what you want to sell through Kaymu Tanzania, especially how many people do not use well," he says.
He explains that to meet him for the first time by Kaymu Tanzania, it was through the representatives of the company who arrived at his office and explained how his system works. "I was surprised by explaining how his system works." I was surprised and told them that any kind of phone can also give services to this kind.
"Sidared to join because I understood in details of what benefits would be able to bring in my business," he says.
As the availability of the internet is growing very fast and at affordable prices, sell through the internet, Tanzania has increased by fast within two years ago.
"I feel extremely honored to be one of the few countries in the country who are leading digital change in Tanzania, according to the construction of technology, it is also available, depending on the business through normal ways to stop," he says.
He says his business expectations in the coming five years is that for the support of using the business system through Kamyu Tanzania will be a big business person.
