
RC does not want the residents of Dar es Salaam to respect the law.

It has been written by special writer, Nyasa.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.

The provincial commissioner of Ruvuma province, Doctor Binilith Mahenge has urged the residents of Dar es Salaam to respect the border laws by lack of politics and to stop using their children in their activities of reducing minerals.

That statement was given when he visited the area that is in the south of Tanzania and Mozambique and had talks with the residents of that area where their big work is to look for minerals.
The statement by the head of the province led by the request that was issued by the Chairperson of the mineral companies from Mozambique, Shaban Ndandavala, who wanted the leadership of Ruvuma province urged the miners of Tanzania to stop holding the political issues in the borders of Tanzania, a matter that can bring a loss of peace in the quarry.
While speaking at the session that took place on the boundary involving Dar es Salaam Port and Turo Ward in Mozambique, when he was welcomed to receive the head of Ruvuma province, Doctor Mahenge visited the house of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province, Doctor Mahenge visited the residence of miners of Dar es Salaam province.
Ndembeji together with announcing the leadership of the government of Tanzania by maintaining peace and calmness in the borders of Tanzania and Mozambique, he insisted that the provincial commissioner continues to promote the peace by considering people that are selling the borders.
Doctor Mahenge explaining about his instructions to the residents of the area, he said that the political parties and the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have reduced peace due to those parties having good policies and that the union which was built by concentrating on the plain truth of the president of Mozambique, Samora, Pennsylvania and Mwalimu Julius Nyerere are not unable.
In that meeting with the head of the province, Doctor Mahenge thanked the contribution of Ndembeji with five gold medals worth 3750,000 shillings so as to help reduce the challenges that are there at the Unyankhae,.
Together with getting in Dar es Salaam, the head of the province made a visit to celebrate with the aim of protecting the relationship of brotherhood between citizens living up to the central region of Mozambique and Tanzania.
In that tour, the citizens have also requested to be satisfied with the business business people who are under 18 years, a statement that was supported by the head of the province, said that the law is not spreading and it is not banned.
