
We thank all those who contributed to our money in foreign affairs (22).

We have talked about what I was told, I have written many times that I have written the articles of complaining. There is a member of parliament who told him to read my articles for everyone who are complaining.
She allowed me I will look for another way to write without complaining, that is why I have written about how to write this message, I thank you so much with our money that I know, "will be the same way.
"We see you are complaining."
It was taken that complaining is paying up or it's not a result of the thoughts in fighting with the real situation of complaining without actions is an indication that you are not supposed to believe in one way or another is to announce the weaknesses of one person!
I have talked to politicians who came to ask ourselves, although we're complaining of complaining, they are doing something at the end, but when they start contributing to the end up to the end, and bad luck together with them are still getting everything to all.
Journalists, scholars, religious leaders, children, parents, politicians, workers, government leaders at different times and in their differences, all of them are complaining.
I have doubt if there is a person who has been able to expand the whole meaning of the word.
It is possible, we are looking at each other and remind ourselves about what we are complaining and warned that the mockery, giving opinions and protecting it is bad or bad luck?
"My God, why did God bless you."
The list of those who are following up are long as' if you know that bribery are a cancer of our nation is complaining, then they are selling drugs are dangerous people and do not have love with their nation, they are complaining.
President of the country announced openly that he knows these people to names, but up to tomorrow there are no action caused by Jesus, he had complaints, or he had a noise from God?
In addition to his cry, for allowing the sign of the cross, he was chased away from being a way through new life, the life of a new blogger.
There is possible that we are searching for noise from our salvation, we know if we know it is clear that even when we were silent and singing the reputation of God, who had gone down and died, a history will do a judgment.
We have heard that there are some individuals from outside the country especially Switzerland, and this news is not new, because there are a time we heard that there is a time we heard that there is a continuation of the song that is not supposed to continue without considering the action of being taken.
That is why I wrote on another system to thank all those who helped me to put our money from outside, we have faith that those funds have been given enough amount, when it has come to them home so that we build our nation young.
When I read this, I have not heard of the statement of our president about this issue of maintaining many money in the European Bank. I have faith that I have been informed, about the request, on a request for the leadership that is in place.
I have started this article by told me "because we get to President Magufuli.
Now, president can be dealt with, to take this step saying money are going back, even tomorrow they will have been done here.
God, it is a good friend, he has touched our president something to help him to stop positive changes in the year 2015 and not far, leaving in power we should remember by getting our money that had been set outside the country.
Although there is no one who wanted to know that money is an extent, no doubt that can help pay the salaries for teachers, to buy high education equipment, to buy modern equipment in the hospital, to pay the salaries of doctors and help a certain amount to run the budget of our government.
All of us know that there are percent that have been outside the government to run the budget of every year, it is possible that those funds are coming out and among them the benefits being implemented due to our money affected by the foreign banks.
At the time we believe, "we have a good soul in helping us, so that it is why they were able to avoid our money themselves and it must allow this situation to ensure it does not lie!
These whites are questioning the democracy and good governance and they are insisting accountability in the use of public funds, from the community, they have proposed that there are many plans that can help Tanzania to make great progress in development.
How will it be in the past, these people should be silent we find many money which are blocking us in Africa and be sold to the local bank?
It is possible that they have been silent for protecting the economy of their country and it is possible that they are seeing our people to resolve the money in their banks?
Our president, while on his edge, putting on his soul of hope, to make sure that justice has been done or even to those who knows them to enter the state, these funds were going back and will contribute to a large extent to speed up the speed of development in our nation.
If they were given these funds are business people, who are known to work hard and to generate more, business people who pay their tax to honesty, it is a must for our president to stop stuttering on these people who were affected by the foreign bank.
But if those who are those funds are employees of the government whose income should depend on the salary of allowances for what our president should stop stuttering?
How the public employee will get a lot of money so?
It's not possible that Ukawa is his income and wants this person to get his rights through any way, they should agree with those who think and claimed that our president are so bad.
Someone who is a big income that does not have information is a mistake, it is a judgment due to the judgment of these boys is to thank you for doing our money for all the years and now it has come to them to get our money for a human being.
In order to help our president to remain in the front line to ensure that justice has been done and there is no one who will be able to make sure that they get to millions of those funds, so that these funds should be taken to them without considering the economy and the law to follow its course.
In this year's budget, we had heard that the road from Ethiopia to Bugesa, in Karagwe district has been allocated four billion shillings and follow up closely the parliamentary statistics, they say it has never happened the funds that have been set aside for the budget to be taken to all the concerned areas.
If it is true, these funds have been set aside in the road construction, Bugururu, which will be completed within two years and it is expected to be completed within two years as it is expected to be completed within two years from now.
And without investing in development projects, without investing in research, without investing in education, without investing in education, without investing in health so as to make sure we benefit from good health and the energy to produce, we cannot reach far as a nation!
I write this article making noise about heaven because I write this article to thank my reader to write and support him in making noise.
We cooperate to make noise and considering that the these funds are given in the European bank was to be stopped quickly.
We have written this article, we will look at all media stations, we should do the protests of peace to the government to be released quickly by Divine Kweka, the person that I think I will start incitement, he will have his thing.
I have faith that it is a very important thing to save a bag so as to save the life of most of us. During the words is over, these days is to take action, it's during a difficult decision.
At the time of politics is playing, politics from them to enter the State House with any cost, it is heading to the end and it does not have any profit because of the development of teknohama.
It is during the way to put our nation instead of encouraging our country not to put our nation instead of our political parties, it's not a time to build and look for one person, it is during the building of our country's name of Tanzania.
Although these funds affected by outside the country can end all our problems, a step that will be false and truth will be careful.
Those who were waiting for our government to lack money, should not know the fact that our country is not poor and our president is doing this exercise to restore our money given outside the country by using all the power he will be remembered for!
