
Farming for a contract has reduced the cotton sector on October 25th, 2012.

The situation was not well since the first time, when the chairperson of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCA) Ibrahimu Mwita Grisham said a new session in the implementation of the agricultural program of the agreement, while rumors continued inside the session that, this year the defending champions of this program "are suffering from a machine."
The short sitting was planned for TCA to give resolutions on how to be implemented, so that finally they will be presented in a group photo between the supervisors of the Pamba board (TCB), the Tanzania farmers of Pamba (TCB) and TCA).
One month before the session, TCB gave a document to both buyers and the selling of Pamba of all, urging them to request and stop the areas (region) of buying cotton, and followed by another order of urging them to maintain the farmers.
In addition, TCB has urged those buyers to pay their own debts from the voluntary contribution fund (Cotton Trust Fund) - Cellphone Company and also preparing to give birth to the farmers on loan through the agricultural groups (FBFT) at a price that will be directed by that board.
There has been a long-term complaints among the cotton industries that they cannot get a good partnership from the farmers in building the agricultural group, and that (the number of agriculture), the situation that caused them to return their loans.
Both buyers said that the Pamba board is giving data of the group that are not supposed to try to legalize the success of this program as it is against him.
"There are many places we are visiting to form the group, we are looking for them because it is now, the Pamba board took the responsibility of building that group, although it's not a solution to farmers and therefore the Pamba team is in getting into a high level without consent.
"All the planning plans are about the coming down of blood, all days fail to see if they are not their non-governmental organization, therefore stakeholders requesting them to leave how the Tanzanian board failed.
He said, because there is no agriculture group with legal status and be able to enter and agreements with conditions and accepted by two sides, both buyers have been forced to use police to arrest one farmer for little success so as to restore their loans, procedure they affect the relationship between them and the farmers in general.
Mandago Malmo, farmer of Pamba from the Mbani Village, Misungwi district, said he is a member of Vientiane when he doesn't know the names of the leaders of Viate his group or the procedure that is required to be followed.
He claimed that he and his colleagues were forced to get into the agricultural group following the reports that they can be able to get the cotton taxes, or to sell their farms but through the agricultural group of the agreement.
There has been a total of total complaints from groups that the contracts that they come from both buyers and the Pamba of the attempt to cater for illegal immigrants, is for one side and that is to protect buyers and farmer.
The cries of complaints include swept away from the input handling, a huge price that has been prepared by the cotton farmers, and many times that have been sold by fake drugs or that completed his term.
"My brothers, this year (2012) have been built by fake drugs through Viate group.
Farms are not registered, we have risen up to three times in a huge loss, the drugs do not have pest, and added that this agribusiness plan will not be exploited, we are paid in mind the losses that they can get farmer due to disasters.
The chairperson of TCA, Gachuma, had a great job and even heading to the delegates of TCA, many think that the cotton board has the interests to the agriculture that endangers the stakeholders, something that allows them to make progress without productivity?
"You cannot change the water of those who want to go to the villages to market themselves in the agriculture of the agreement, they go and warned one delegate following the statement of another delegate claiming that he had survived, he had survived for the killing of farmers on the agricultural sector of this year.
And the Director of Lino International Limited Company, that produces Pamba of the Lake Region, said it is wrong for a huge sin to the defending champions of the agreement to talk about the success of this agricultural sector with the criteria of Zimbabwe in an environment of Tanzania without bringing about feelings of bringing in land in land.
"Who wants" Hitler did not depend on "(the IAGRI) in our country in our country like Zimbabwe and our farmers are not ready to make sure that we have been taken to the media networks like this agricultural sector," asked all by other delegates.
The day sitting on that day, that brought together the members of TCA, COMING and chief executive officers from TCB, took place under the chairmanship of Gogo, started with great enthusiasm to get the stand of COMING, started with great enthusiasm to get the stand of COMING before the main judgment on this agriculture.
Elias Zindzi said the chairperson of COMING, confessed to give his position of his party to stop nonsense and after falling on the short speech of the executive director of TCB, Marco Mtunga, for himself the success of the improvement of the contract for the purchase of the agreement of Viate 'ghost workers.
"I know, avoid the group that are not registered, but we cannot give up with that without the ones that we made it must make sure that we do not get certain types of agreements, while the procedures for registration of groups have been postponed until next year because we have no alternative means," he complained.
But when he made the name of, "we should start by congratulating TCA for their decision, as I commend the agriculture for the end of the year, some of you should rebuke inciters, or we have been bought for.
Today, I have written this corruption that allows you to destroy the agricultural sector of Pamba after the eyes are not seen.
He said that TCB has been unable to build a environment to ensure the farmers approve the agricultural sector, which has the shape of corruption, the farmer of Tanzania cannot be careful, the aim of this agriculture is to be afraid of our agriculture for illegal drug trafficking.
He gave an example that, this season (2012 / 2013), both buyers have wanted to buy animals from 500 / = shillings for one kilogram, up to stem cells that call themselves so that the price can reach 660 / = shillings per liter.
While expounding, he said that in Zimbabwe, under the agricultural program of the agreement, cotton has been bought at a same price with 440 / = shillings per liter, and it is producing clean water with reputation in the world market than us, but by corruption, this program farmers have been paid under the price that they did.
Your "thing is the success of the contract of the agreement in Zimbabwe we want to be in the under this program?
The denial of an agreement with important stakeholders of this program, because of both buyers and the farmers of Pamba has been opposed to the conflicts of those stakeholders and the Pamba board that has been accused of making the program.
The reasons that were given through the resolutions of that meeting include the agricultural group that was made legal action, both buyers are supposed to enter the contracts of farmers who have no legal status and give a call to TCB to manage its formation, by considering the law.
The farming program is voluntary program which farmer can be able to enter the agricultural agreement with the buyer or a group of farmers to buy the attempt and the investor or an investor in an agreement, being together with expanding the agricultural tools.
According to the law of Pamba of the year 2001 (as it reaches) agriculture, the agreement can be operated by their crops here in the country which is cotton, coffee, tea processing, bird feathers and compatibility on the crops as a result of being implemented by lack of transparency.
While addressing a meeting of the stakeholders of the Pamba sector in Mwanza city on June 5, this year, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, Christopher Chihira has cautioned the farmers to be keen so that demonstrators to register themselves instead of being forced to join or not joining the agricultural sector.
"The contract is an unusual thing, will enable farmers and cotton farmers to be informed, they should be unable to enter without consent, therefore the farmers must be educated about agriculture for the agreement before they are not in the agreement," ordered Minister Chipa.
He ordered that the farmers of farmers should be strengthen by having a constitution and stable leadership and it will also be emphasized as "Prize" (political parties) so as to build the foundation of cooperatives from the lower level, something that has not been implemented until now.
While showing being satisfied by the decision by those stakeholders of the Pamba team, the process of refusing the improvement of the agreement, the director of Pamba board, Marco Mtunga announced the end of the agriculture saying that.
"For your union today, I have agreed to leave the agricultural sector that says that agriculture for that agreement will die. I don't have the strength to it, but history will spoil it.
And a lot of you who succeeded to kill this procedure will not be done so much, this I want the agricultural sector has died, "announced the executive director.
