

Michael Maurus and.
Kenya has been mentioned to be among the African countries that offer better education, although there are some who are opposing that, including some of the Provinces.
Those who praised Kenya in education, claims that Kenyans have been understanding about different issues due to the foundation that was built in their education from early to universities.
For those who are opposing that, they have claimed that what has carried Kenyans against citizens of other East African countries, is their great ability to speak English and not an understanding of issues according to their education.
The great ability for Kenyans in talking to English, has resulted from their education system where starting from the previous level, the studies have been presented in that language, a situation that takes a child at the age of primary schools as a technician of speaking in England.
But also, there are some who are claiming that Kenyans are not worried about people who are complaining more than others inside this region, but that involves their skill of looking for different opportunities, but also you have shown that they are involved in the work they are not in place of work.
That situation has been explained that different from it is why we use that most of them have been claimed to be illegal because they use a lot of time making a lot of time to work with any primary reasons.
Let us see the whole education system in the country that is told Kenyans and seen being more professionals of many residents of other countries in East and Central Africa as a whole.
In general, education in Kenya have been considering the 8-4 system since the end of the year 1980, being four years of high education, followed by four years of high school, then four years of institutions or university.
Apart from that, there is also a big sector of private schools that are dealing with people of the central and high level people, who in general it takes the system of English education in primary and primary education.
Between all children in Kenya, 85 percent are participating in primary schools, 24 percent are present at high school schools and two percent are joined by higher education institutions.
