
TFDA is full of challenges.

Rashid Mkonga.

The Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) has been urged to have continuous strategies and neighboring countries to help the knowledge of products and dangerous cosmetics in human health.

Speaking at a one-day seminar that involve the editors and journalists from six provinces of the Southern Highlands, the assistant administrative secretary of Mbeya Region, Leonard Magupa who represented the administrative secretary of Mbeya Region, said TFDA is supposed to cooperate with other countries to reduce the increase of dangerous products.

He said the efforts of TFDA will be a meaning if the neighboring countries of Zambia, Malawi and elsewhere, are still producing and selling products that will not be dangerous to the use of human beings thus it is good for the authority to build relationship with those countries in order to eliminate the problem which has become a big challenge to the economy.

"TFDA explains the strategy of partnership with the neighboring countries of Malawi, Zambia and elsewhere, where these products are not illegal and this problem will be resolved," said Magula.

Moreover, he urged the authority that deals with food and drugs in the country not to work hard, but also should be close to other social authorities in the local government levels so as to help spread in illegal products in the country.

He said the most shops in the country are not given about products that are not registered and that without the presence of reliable plans, that issue will be difficult and therefore continuing to affect the community.

And the Acting Director General of TFDA, Charamale has said that there have been many challenges of performance between the authority and the community, by involving different stakeholders in social areas, it will help reduce the problem of spread in products that are dangerous for human use.

He said the authority has decided to provide training to the editors and journalists with an aim of moving their performance reports to the community because of the media to have the ability to give information to the community quickly.
