
2014 was the blessings of a sister's sister.

On the first of 2014, was introduced into the history of history following the great success in the international game, Millennium Tower in Kenya, including who were lucky to participate in big competitions in the world that is famous as Grand Prix.
For a long time, Kenya has succeeded to fall in that game in Africa.
Although it has been evident in the great wealth of that profession, it has not succeeded in giving out a vibrant listener to get in the list of players' to be paid in foreign nations, but its participation at the Grand Prix having started to bear fruit.
For the first time the beauties of the nation got a chance to participate in those competitions and succeeded to put history as the first team in Africa to win the match at the match.
This came out by considering that Algeria has managed to participate in that contest for three consecutive times or not getting any victory.
Although the beauties of Kenya who were under coaches, Mutukwa Wiwa is expected to take a ticket to participate in the finals of those competitions, for another time they have been awarded a ticket to try to fail to contest for that contest this year (2015).
The national team that had been planned for three months ago, was able to travel up to the first game in Mexico and Croatia where Yanga succeeded to register a three-day win by the captain, Bromwich, which took the truth when completing the fifth position in the group's stand that took place at eight teams.
That game of Kenya started well by producing 3-0 goals in the match that was played in that country, then put second victory after collecting a win of 3-0 goals against Altay FK.
It has the sister who led to Croatia, where he did another person to win 2-2 before Croatia and Bulgaria 3-0 goals by 3-1 goals.
Without doubt, it is great success with a sister to Kenya by considering it was the first to participate in that competition.
Kenya completed the fifth position with nine points, and Kazuka, the fourth one with one points but in large numbers of victory.
Those results involve beauties of this nation the opportunity to qualify for the finals of the match, after the squads of the Czech Republic, Bulgaria 6 and Croatia at three first positions.
Czech Republic collect 18 points ahead of Bulgaria 6 while Croatia having 12 points.
In those competitions, some of the girls from Kenya were forced to attract singers among them, Jane Wama, Bribian, Twaha Tasilima, Esther Matiko, Esther Matiko, Esther Akoth famously known as Monica Mbelle, Ruth Tina, Ruth Tenenbum and Janet Maasais.
The teams that were in the third position in the year 2014 has got into the level where the 2015 / 2015 season will participate in the second group in the second group, and troops that completed the third position in the second group have been used in the third group.
In the next year's matches that will play against Kazuka, Kenya, Algeria, Mexico, Australia and new participants in Cuba, Peru and Colombia were allocated to be played on May next year.
It has a national sister showed up of herbal medicines that is seen to attract some of the European Champions League (CAC), who is believed to do well in the final matches of the European Premier League (CACB), Moalimu, who was accompanied by scoring for his clubs more than others.
However, Kenya did not succeeded to do well at the African Champions League (CACB) which was organized in Carage, Tunisia.
The representatives of inside here in the country, Kenya Prisons Club (Prisons) and Kenya Joseline Itatiro was unable to withstand themselves in order for the termite they failed to withstand their cost of their opponents and end the second and third position.
The prison officers led by Coach Mutabaleta was captured by the defending champions, David de Bruyne, who scored 3-0 goals (30-28) at the semi-finals of the championship in the year 2013, Prisons that had scored 3-0 goals.
