
State House laying the silence about ministers.

Dar es Salaam City, State House has wanted to be defeated in the debate about the return to ministers who are alleged to be cargo from the cabinet and instead they wanted to work.

Communications director in the State House, Salva Rweyemamu, said that continuing with that debate is losing a time, since President Jakaya Kikwete was to end his work.

Rweyemamu, he said that the president is the one with the authority to select ministers who have a responsibility to help him in the implementation of its responsibilities, therefore it is not correct for those selected to be called "cargo" because he is not the president.

"The president has appointed people who look at people to help him and not otherwise, because his aim is to see the country has a matter of accountability," said Rweyemamu, said people are supposed to see that someone when he was chosen to see that the country has a matter of accountability, "said Rweyemamu, said people are supposed to remember that someone she was appointed to see that the country has a matter of accountability," said Rweyemamu, said people are supposed to see that someone she was appointed to see that the country has an issue of accountability, "said Rweyemamu, said people are supposed to remember that someone she was appointed to see that the country has an issue of accountability," said Mwesigwa said people are supposed to remember that someone she was appointed to see the country.

Rweyemamu said that debate now has been called and wanted the citizens and analysis of leaving those ministers working for work.

"It is good for citizens to give these ministers the opportunity to work and later testing and shivered because of their performance," he said.

The source of the veins.

The debate about that issue is due to President Kikwete to bring back to the council of ministers some ministers who were alleged to be cargo as a result of the weaknesses in their performance.

The secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana and his secretary of ideology and propagation, Nape Nnauye is the one who wanted those ministers to be "cargo" when they were in a work tour in Ruvuma province, at the end of last year.

Ministers who complained about their performance are the Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa, Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, Doctor William Ruto, former Minister of Finance, Food and Fisheries, Adam Malima.

Later, some of the members of parliament were tested on fire by announcing those ministers Wang who added their number by seeing the minister of state, the office of the Prime Minister (Tamisemi), Hawa Ndilowe and the deputy minister, Aggrey Mwanri and Kassim Majaliwa in the group.

Those ministers were called to explain the front of the executive committee of CCM about the reasons for their performance with problems.

However, before President Kikwete made a step, he made the appointment of four ministers, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (internal affairs), two-fielder and Defense and Tourism Commission, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, Natural Resources and Tourism and Doctor Mathayo Torongey of the high debate on how the government continues to run away.

Meanwhile, Doctor Mgimwa died on January 5, this year he caused the gap of ministers to reach five.

While President Kikwete made changes in his council on the 19th of January this year, close to all ministers who were sent back.

That situation made a big debate from people and different groups, while CCM through CCM, Nape Nnauye, will continue to make corrections, in the performance of those ministers when they become poor.
