They are spreading that habit, I will know that I will be on Saturday or we will know you, I am not happy, I am very happy, it will be this Saturday, it will be on Saturday like our other people.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, I took the decision on Saturday and he said on the seventh of that.
The late?
Also the sun will also be counted in the country, there is a big offence in the opening of the bank.
So that we can be able to start from now to talk like that the command will be on five, I will meet to show five every time so that everyone can be in Dar es Salaam when I saw it cannot give his opinion if we had when I met with.
Then from there, it is supposed to eat it.
I have a farming and farming has increased even this report by email news and it's not the one that was not in the continent, I have sent it to the newspapers in Dar es Salaam.
In this phone I will serve in the match.
Against where I got a message but you heard that there is a reason that we have been written by the email that I have not got the opportunity to leave it.
When at least the light of email, then ask you to see if you want change or last week it can be able to see if we get in the field so that we can't know if I cannot get early in the end at the last time.
He was walking, he went to pregnancy.
Still it was a report today in the evening, we are expecting you to give you the answers recently, we are expecting you to give you the answers recently, we have not seen the language that you're with, through your way or not through a way to vote.
We were done with him in a way or one way or beautiful to Maulid Haji, give a phone to the phone when they go to Dar es Salaam, it did not agree with him.
We agreed.
But it was said I don't want to have at least I am able to contribute to that opportunity and put it today, but he went back again as there is no one.
The same to them if he was asked, ask you to ask what you can come to Nairobi was a right to Nairobi yesterday even so that we can be able to talk.
Now I wish I hope that we have happened on the side.
Another is to do?
Welcome him to vote?
Reason, I cannot continue receiving the branch because I was not supposed to maybe if I can come to one is a good thing, it is a must that at least make the love by bringing in England the same way.
I want jokes, I wish you the report today, for you to know my plan for the next week, I would like I think I would start in a certain place where I am happy because I was ready and we are ready and he is ready to stop and he is ready.
We are expecting to discuss but out of le, he told me that she is sleeping until it was shocked.
For sure there were such vehicles, except I went to close to two hours in the past, so as to try to get a chance to talk to him at least they will end the exercise.
