
The Uhuru government has failed to maintain peace.
And Kihara.
For a period of a period of lack of security in the country has been depending on the mountains.
However, the recent incident of the killings of the police and a citizen in the area of Pickup, is what we want to review the fate of the country in front of the conflicts of fighting for resources and the cause of electronic mode.
In doing that, here, I will write a letter to President Kenyatta as a leader of the country, the government and the commander of the army.
Honorable president, your government seems to be unable to ensure the safety of citizens and their property, and the situation is going, therefore it will loose its validity between the honorable president, we think it is why most areas in the northern region and North East Africa have changed to be the danger of criminal offenses that advertise their government.
And it is not only here in South Africa to confirm the lives of many people.
Honorable president, I have said that I am a current conflict by Barbosa from Barwan, Turnbull and Percent "is war to fight for resources.
By bad luck the war is political and signed with cancer of our disease of tribalism.
I have been told me, after many fuel have complained of Turner, Make Me Sing and Joketi Mwagelo who is also leaders from Barbosa from Para and Peru.
Secondly, I believe that you know that the truth of the back to the economy of the people of the country, he believes that these are livestock to leave this.
Honorable president as a result of this situation, your government must help the residents of this areas to travel and build the road.
Three, your government has been growing rapidly, and do not stop stuttering on the verification exercise of illegal weapons and this exercise is needed because of political parties and corruption in the national security agencies.
Honorable president, let me tell you that your head of security agencies and even the assistant are from the Rift Valley area.
The minister for internal affairs, Joseph Ole Lerner has said that there was a lot of living in prison, inspector general of police David Kimaiyo he was coming from Saints with the chairman of the defense committee of parliament, Asis Kamoga or Barbosa from Barwan.
Honorable president, citizens who ask you so that those leaders are unable to prevent your government to give security.
If we get the president take action.
