Member of parliament, North Mara Province.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2014.

Perhaps those problems including surgery, blood poured, the residents and small miners in the villages neighboring the gold mine of North Mara (NMGMKEWAWa), have been presented officially in various ministries.
Other villages are being set aside in that step is Nyangoto, Kenwanja, Tanzania, Genenis Mbaga, Nyamatala, Nyamitwe, Nyamitwe, Nyamuma and Nyansalwa Primary School in Tarime District.
That mine being run by African Baray Gold company (Aclati) from Canada, is mentioned to be the main cause of the haphazard use of life problems which have continued denying them those development and good peace for several years now.
However, finally, that member of parliament has taken the step by posting those ministries those problems, he wanted that they will be able to get a permanent solution as soon as possible, otherwise that the mine will be productive to avoid the disasters by those citizens.
Those problems are as a result of the killing of citizens, involving themselves and sucks in criminal cases, acts that are claimed to be done by some police officers by partnering with the police officers in conjunction with the security guards and execution of their promises to improve the social and economic activities.
The investigation that was done by Good Citizen has confirmed that member of parliament Nyabacha has given an official statement of those problems to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Development, Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Minerals and head of the police force in the country (IGP).
In those reports, Almighty God has lost its wives, that member of parliament, together with other things, he has proposed that the mine will be responsible so as to avoid sexual violence to the citizens, including the leaders of BG company, those ministries and the government in general will be unable to take action against solving the problems available and to the necessary weight.
Affliction that are being done by the police.
A section of those information is depending on the acts of violence and violence being done by some police officers by partnering with the police officers in conjunction with the security guards by using fire weapons.
"Youths who have been expelled from the legs, young people have been expelled from the fish, the youths are usually injected on the eyes and caused the disability of life (permanent), because this is a lot of severe pain which are not allowed," said Nyanguda on those reports and continuing.
"Many residents do not have peace and calm, without the mistake, the police have been enemies to citizens instead of protecting their property and their property, they have changed their own economy, to prevent them and injustice they have been successful."
He also explains that some of the police officers in collaboration with MGM Grand guards have been doing an agreement and receiving bribes from money from a citizen to allow them to climb mountains in a religion, and later changed to protest against illegal immigrants.
"Other times they are voters using a great desire to use this issue, Honorable Prime Minister is unacceptable, even if the mine and the government will not hesitate to address this issue and the government will benefit from the office of the minister for internal affairs, July 21, this year.
According to Nyanguga, the afflictions of the affliction of people's economy and some of the police who lived for many years in Tarime.
"Honorable Minister, in collaboration with the chairmanship, I urge you to capture the investigation squad for the allegations and each other things I have listed there to identify the involved and take stern action," he added Nyangoto from that report.
However, he says that in order to build a good relationship between the police force and the citizens in that area and Tarime District in general, every side should be required to consider and obey the law without stopping.
"He also said that the mine will implement all his promises, he promised or asked the agreement with the residents of the villages and neighboring villages, construction of technical training, water, electricity, roads, road safety and vocational training," he added.
