
The Taarab and the development of Swahili.
One and the ability to entertain, Taarab music has been important for the growth and development of the Swahili language, this is because this music is derived from the Swahili and Swahili language that is available at the East African Community.
Music themselves followed by Mohammed VI of East Africa in the 19th century held in Unguja Island. However, the time that was mentioned in the Arab language and managed to deal with Tanzania so much.
This was during the time of his administration of Sultan Sei-Barbosa from Bin Shaaban Said (1870 - 1888), Sultan Baragigi scored this music and in his efforts to thank God, he contributed a lot to the development of Swahili.
Baranaba giving artists from Zanzibar to listen to vote and singing this music of these artists being led by Mohammed Ibrahim they went for Misukosuko.
After going to vote of Taarab, especially the keyboard, "Gmwaijonga has said that these artists came back to Zanzibar and form the first Taarab group by the name" Zanzibar 'Foolish Age' which will later been given to the name "Cultural Organization Club" in 195, the second group of Taarab being known as "NHO '.
These groups started singing new Taarab music in the Swahili language during the same time, even so, they did not succeed in spreading Swahili because their Taarab show broke down inside a penalty and an eye for the second child, women who were not known.
Brethren, the reader will see that the Taarab group was only in the men's industry, that is owned by especially, and culture of Islam do not affect the women and the men of Geology, this was a terrorist group.
Women in the country, 1920, women carried out a stern warning so that this is the first woman to sing the Taarab, when he came out and this is not another but the star of Taarab Miss Malika Berak, popularly known as Akothee has died, 1950.
Saad is not only to check for women and singing Taarab, but he also gave a music from privacy, but he also gave birth from privacy and a series of noise, to make it up to the market, "this was a very important step in promoting Swahili.
The Taarab music star now got an opportunity to reach a will and it will be out of the scope of criminal Investigation, what is my friend in the east of East Africa and at the end of his car, he left Swahili language.
Inside the Kigambini bridge, they used the Taarab music to show their technical bench by using the Swahili poetry star, their wealth of Swahili and their professionalism at the use of Swahili language.
Thirst for knowledge on the championship of the language, technical in composing and Inuka group, the heart of the new poems will destroy the heart of skin diseases, words, words and misuse of drugs in Swahili language.
This new poems is called me, the shivered or a soul in the Modern Taarab group, is among the legendary queen of Pickup, "is Khajida Kopa, the queen of Madoido, Isha Mashauzi, popularly known as Mzee Chilo 'Jichunge.'
Also, upcoming poets who led the white blood cells that were surrounded by the high level and using the Swahili language with attraction sites, how many types of type are popular and the public.
The male and Taarab music has changed, and it has not allowed me, she would like an important thing on the peace of Swahili.
Early music was new poems and carries the effects of East African music, India and Kasanga of Islamic State, but now it has taken a lot of new poems and embracing of a mixture of heart disease.
This issue is a nuisance to the natural gas lovers, even so, the contribution of 'informative "and natural gas in promoting Swahili is a great and good example.
