
In this system you are looking for our importance of Sep 27, 2012.

I believe approximately every reader of the newspapers he has ever met with very few sentences what is being reserved for now. "

What happens, it is not only due to the name of the chief player in the news but the truth that often the news that were involved with these diseases, without a reader "katibayetu" from 2 and 2, "there is no possibility of the news to bring any meaning.

Examples are many but the current example is in news that I will support him and also in this article on several days, different newspapers were destroyed, "faced with fraud of millions of shillings for the promise of giving them employment to the media stations.

Before discussing that incident on suspicion of its kind, we continue with the discussion of the behavior that will enable you to take care of our newspapers of "name withheld," though my understanding for a person or institutions in the concerned news, I have been sure and another evidence.

In that basis, I don't see the need to use very few sentences "(and many times') '(and the most time)" you cannot get to court because if you are mentioned in the same time, I will decide to fight with him.

I think the biggest reason for our journalists to look for the reserve, the name is reserved for now, "in solving the names of the involved in their opinion, it is dangerous to them to be sold at the court claiming that the scandal against what was mentioned.

It is clear that the law is on the writer's side, when he wrote news that has died in the next season, because of having an appropriate evidence about the state of the concerned news.

Basically, the profession of writing news has reduced due to a large extent and do not hesitate in how the news that are wanted to get in all profession is to get information because of getting the reader in the side of journalists, and to the employer.

Different ways of looking for information and use of information is that when most of the journalists are supposed to be open "if you ask news (to get information) in cheating could be careful (and in accordance with the law, do not hesitate to be careful.

On the part of the news use that were found, journalists are expected to return the reader (as we put aside the procedures of the concerned information), though I have pleased with reports that the time he gets to be presented to the relevant agencies for other steps.

Therefore, different from basically the news reporter and don't know more in the "news" and "the report is something to be open and for the purpose of public use, the information is true and it's because of the use of public institutions not to have only.

Now, we have witnessed in our writing of "name withheld, for now," it's like a report "to be a journalist but also a half time," it is a great punishment to the reader when he met the news that was written in this system.
"A big veteran (name is available) of one institution (name withheld) is claimed to have condemned the money that had gone into one country (name is reserved)." Basically, this news has no importance to sell the relevant newspaper and remove the eyes of the reader.

Why is the concerned writer to ensure that he gets all pictures about the involved in the news before failing to ban a half a half time, I believe that some of the journalists can be known but basically it is not the responsibility of the media industry instead of hating readers and "it is not a responsibility to the police force.
"The names have continued depending on" the news agencies they were given that news.

Previously it was reported that the veteran wife had given a lot of millions of shillings for the promise of giving them 120 shillings to the police force, the department of security and the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU).

More news that explained that the police force had a big veteran wife (and this is not true because anyone doesn't know the performance of our media outlets he recognizes that its leaders and people who concern them are many gods, who are not affected by any kind of people.

On that logic, the police to protect his veteran wife of that army is an issue of is expected though not right.

Later, it was reported to be the director of the Department of National Security Othman Rashid has wanted the police force to arrest him and be informed that the woman was in a very long time, Othman said (I thank me), I have told me a clarification about the wife of that veteran, but I thank him to cooperate and told me that the issue will involve yourself more legal.
You're getting information when they see they have finalized.

But in what you should be able to think it is supposed to think it is an indication that it doesn't know the eyes of the news, his news changed at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, faced with 12 mistakes of getting 102 million as a result of cheating to also seek young people in the department of national safety and the police force. "

Among the ones mentioned, "to be identified, it is the wife of the head of training and operation of the police force, Commissioner Paul Chagonja, who was mentioned by only one name of Happines, who is claimed to be paid 5 million shillings" on claims that it is worth 5 million shillings per special reason, TAKUKURU and the Department of National Security.

The first question, right now depends on the wife of the commissioner of training and operation of the police force, to give the money to the police force, where her husband is not only one of the senior leaders of the high level but it is also the one who is responsible for training by the army.

Second question, if we believe that two people who were arrested and put to check the charges (all the women), why then the national executive director of the police have asked the chairmanship to address the issue of "the police commander" to be the first lady of the police "?

Questions are many, including the action of the wife of commander Sirro to provide money to those conmen.

I believe that the possibility of the defense of "gave those funds is the same (injured) of corruption," it can be true that people should not know the procedure of joining those institutions.
I don't want them to believe that the wife of Commissioner Kabila is not supposed to know the procedure up to convince the court to agree to give money to the citizens.

In one of the news that runs a big shot in the police who as usual, he said that when my wife is one of those who had been identified.
He intends to take three family members including her child, his brother's wife and his friend who we are bringing up. "The former wife of police is being conned their love in the army that he did and do you know what is very bad.

As it is a woman, that news was given there by the newspapers that was carried out by wife (name withheld) which has completed their work and is to be left to the reader of 2 and 2 to 4.

With this bad behavior of "name withheld, contributes to showing open racial discrimination, but I have been used on accusations that concern them, because there is a probability that they have been sent to court claiming that they have been given by the concerned newspaper is little or then assume their human rights?

At the end, when I am sure that the names of the police force and his wife who he is alleged to have reduced, "(the information) is like the process of fighting for freedom of the media will not be avoided," it gives the community the freedom to understand the concerned news.
