The scandal of the artists to transporting the winner, Christian Bella in an interview for two hours.

The coming out of the scandal involving the stars alleged to buy drugs, "Wizkid," it has taken a new twist after the music musician, Christian Bella "will be released" at the airport for approximately 2 o'clock this Friday having a bag belonging to him.
Bella was found with the name of the attack recently when he was playing at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), in Dar from Sweden.
Bella was killed by the plane of Turkey "Tifa Conservation Area, at eight o'clock and 8 minutes, last night if he was unable to see security where he was unable to leave the road safety while other passengers were given and allowed to leave.
While his family received fear and being shot by coldness, when she finished by 10 at 4 o'clock in the morning, Bella claimed that he started selling him from the passengers' book that took place and was received by the director of Diamond Jubilee Hall, Ally October, "which was arrested in his band.
Speaking to our journalist on condition of not being mentioned by the name, one of the security officers at the field said, "these drugs have been transferred to the airport, therefore there is no one who is trusted.
"People are using different ways, others do not know, others that they enter the cargo is why our machines were forced to do well, each person and especially the Christian Bella who is first seen to have a lot as well as the person," said, "what is good but the good luck was not safe for our machines."
However, the relatives gave a lesson to many stars that leave outside as a matter, they are making us to stop because they were admitted to that area, "they know."
Some of the stars said that they love to travel out of the country is together with Khadija Shaibu "Combs," Khaleed Mohamed "TID," Ali Kiba, Jacqueline Patrick and more others.
On his part, the musician said that he is her that he is doing that all fields of that plane have a normal issue.
