
Jack Patrick Marimba (48), the lady wrote a word.

Story of Jide.
The news to ban the year 2013 and opened the new year of 2014 is the claim that the model model of Bongo, Jacqueline Patrick has been arrested at the Institute of Macmilan Matter in China with a load of drugs of heroin in China with a load of drugs of heroin in the country.

The eyes and ears of the Tanzanians is that most of them is about the trend of those allegations, when this newspaper is going on to kill a new cause to the police force in that country who want to know the network that unites them from that game.

Voice from China.
Our source is keen in China when laying the book, explained that, in following that issue, the day before yesterday on Monday, December 30th, 2013, he met with a mistake of failing to meet Jack Kabona was put on directions that the investigation is still ongoing.

The Tanzanian citizen who claimed was very close to Jack, on a condition of not suffering from his name in the newspaper said many concerning the affliction of the beauty right now.
"It is true then Jack Kabage has been arrested in Macmilan Matter, who doesn't have any objection against the law while they did not match between the province and the province where I was told I cannot meet any person until March next year (this year).

"You know what we want to look for things so that police can be able to do their investigation well but not to make sure that he will be put in the risk of affliction so that they love him, but they want to know the problem, but you want this country to do it?

"The aim of doing so is to end the whole network of drug trafficking. It is no wonder if he was in the affliction of the whole period as he is not true but for now he will be put in the first squad.

"There will be produced in the series of affliction for two consecutive days (your impatience).

"It's like that in Bongo only, I don't hear of the affliction of investigators so that his activities are not small, I wish you so much to be Jack, but I asked himself, this is why they are not unable to communicate through their colleagues?

"It's not just the day before yesterday (Agnes Chaki" Masaudi, "by Melisa Edward, have been arrested in the drugs that did not take them for a long time because I do not be careful, I don't know so much," I don't see you so much. "

So the lady was informed.
News from a close person with the Jews are saying that when he wanted to travel from Bongo, he told her sister about the plan, he warned him, he refused.

"He asked her sister and explained his wife that he wanted to go with a load of China, her sister told him that he does not know her sister and she does not have a husband or her brother she is ready for anything because he was not ready to loose.

"If you listen to her sister (name is reserved), all that could be found and it would have come into the affliction of this kind," said our news reporter while he continued to insisted that his name didn't take place anywhere in this page.

Adil Jichunge.'
It used to be said that, when he was close to Bongo, Jack told her sister that he is going to the camp (center) to bring in 21000 American dollars (more than 33 million shillings) which is the previous payments while asking that he had been cheated.

However, the news reports indicate that Jack told her sister that he didn't like to travel but because he is looking for life, he decided to leave after the burden for all the following day.

What meaning do you have?
According to the explanations, Jack Kiiza said that he had gone down here in Bongo to Thailand through Nairobi, Kenya, and later Macmilan Matic, China where he was asked.

Stars continue to be remembered.
People have been different meanings in accordance with the issue, but a shot, got a chance to speak to some of the Bongo stars who have explained their views concerning the scandal of Jack.

In an interview with our journalists, we wanted to hear from them how they could have a habit of involving themselves with drug abuse and acts of classes where they have given different opinions.

Jacqueline Wolper.
"Honorable my colleague, good, to have HIV (HIV) more than to do drug trafficking, I urge her fellow stars to be from 30,000 dollars, never it cannot change the system of your life."

Rehema Chalamila, "Ray C".
"Drug abuse is not allowed, that they are doing so much to go back, and in the coming generations to fight drugs, all of them but not drug abuse."

Shamsa Ford.
"I am saying this, the best, even though we are not good than depending on the drug trafficking, I urge them to stop those things because they reach an artist, but I insisted is believed to be very good than let me feel."

Jokate Mwegelo.
"There is no longer health care but if everything is very bad, even if I am doing, basically there is no better and one who says there is good and one who believes that there is no quality, then the body is not for free."

Bamong the arrest, "Johari".
"We use our names well, there is no one who is engaged in all, a situation, we need to work hard, so you can be better than doing the drug trafficking that you will be able to choose those evil deeds.

Get from TOC here.
Jack has accused the arrest of drugs on December 19, 2013 at the Institute of Security Funds, China from Kigali, Thailand, while he was on a way to go to China.
It was explained that the flour that was found with them is more than 1 trillion shillings in the 57th minute while its value is mentioned to be more than 223 million shillings.
Still, he is still in the hands of China police when the previous investigation is continuing to end in March, this year before getting the following step.
- Gwao.

