
They don't listen to them to State House.
Meru and amen.
On the end of the Michungwani Market from Nyabugombe Ward, Dar es Salaam to demonstrate to the president's house so as to convince him to give his opinion about their product after England passing the sale and use of Miraa Cargo on May 12.
While speaking on behalf of the meeting with the press in Kisauni village, the chairperson of the union of farmers and small businesses from Kenya, Mister Duncan, said that they did not have an opportunity to prepare these demonstrations because it may be heard by the government and other leaders in general.
He said that they will enable a very big meeting in the Maasais', Igurubi County, a central region on May 23 and later forced to accumulating the areas of Timor.
Here, they will educate all the citizens of England who live in here to stop their farms in order to stop following the decision of their country's decision to decide the sale and use of Cargo in that country.
Later, they will heading to the president's house so as to talk with him about that issue.
He asked the truth, he said that it is an important thing to see that all leaders have to convince farmers to abandon the farmers back and insisted that he has to go and go very well following their political differences.
He said that the government of WCB he said for example, he invented the world of this war and that they are supposed to tell another step that they will take place so that they can continue with their normal life.
"We request at the Mount Meru area being led by governor, we are looking for you told the steps that we shall take, especially after the Miraa area failed in England and also the country's parliament to give the sale and use of Miraa Cargo," he said.
Those farmers as well as leaders do not see this step as a way to arrest the locals of Nyabugombe Ward because they don't have another way of being independent following a bomb that is available there, you cannot help in developing other plants.
The debate about their Miraa Cargo has continued for long time, while every side continues with his stand.
