
The situation is not well in the Race.
By Philemon Solomon.
The situation is not well under the Jubilee Hall, all the parliamentarians of the United Republican Party (URP) from Eldoville dairies emerged on Sunday and was attended by the Deputy President William Ruto, and more than 30 members of that union.
Leaders from different corners of the country, including the followers of Correa scored in that event that was organized at the Catholic church of Our People's Catholic Church of Lesse Bercy who passed away, a few kilometers from the Catholic church, Mister Ruto, which is taking a knee injury.
Member of parliament Kangana Bambucha (Maragarno) of East Africa, William Kisimani, (Kenwanja), Doctor Modestus Chengula (to the representative of women in parliament), and Doctor Susan Chengula (not in the meeting that has brought together the members of Jubilee and Central Bank, their ministers together with members of parliament of Chumbuni ward in the country.
He is the member of parliament of Kenja, South Africa inside URP, Jackson Mayanja, who were present at that meeting of Turnbull.
The governor of Eldoville dairies Maranga, Alex Timbo Kalugira and representatives of Muembe Makundi Ward, he said that he was not present at the meeting that was not present at that meeting that was in the neighboring country of an issue.
In an interview with the nation today, those leaders said they are not satisfied and they think about their relationship with URP.
"We are not supposed to be politicians like Elysee Palace, and we are in a meeting to discuss the steps that we shall take," said Mister Power Breakfast.
He said although URP is the party that they used to enter the parliament, he stated that he was a thorough beating from the deputy president because of causing a tension between the leaders of he said that he had a lot of peace.
"It is clear that he will not overlap with the Diamond's government," he insisted Mister Bowman.
He added, "we are the political leaders in the country, he said that we have not appointed any person of us to be our spokesperson in front of the office of the president and anyone who claims to make them have done from."
