
Deputy speaker, Abbas Kandoro about the sugar.
About our journalists, Citizen.
Dodoma Honorable deputy speaker of parliament, Doctor Tulia Ackson, speaking on behalf of the member of parliament for Nzega Town, Hussein Bashe (CCM), who asked the issue of planting a price of sugar to be discussed in parliament.
While that is derived from the residents of Mbeya Region, I have requested the media stations to be affected in Malawi, on claims that the sale of smuggling should bring in the country.
From the parliament, Dodoma, Jafo asked to the speaker of parliament to postpone the parliamentary activities on the day of yesterday, so as to the interests of the citizens, members will discuss the increase in sugar prices.
However, before the Parliament ended up, Doctor Tulia Ackson, saying that the issue had already been sacked on Thursday last week, during the questions there and then.
"You will remember the Prime Minister on Thursday of last week, gave explanations and gave instructions that sugar will be allowed to go to the country at an extent that he mentioned," he said.
He said in addition to his part, since he has already given instructions, the members of parliament should wait for the instructions of the prime minister asking for if the sugar has failed or not when it comes back.
From Mbeya, citizens from here in the city have urged the media houses that occur in the neighboring countries of Malawi, for what they claim is the sale of smuggling and bring in the country.
While talking to this newspaper, on condition of not being mentioned by their names, they said that recently there are big number of one company (we have the name) carrying a cargo of sugar located in Malawi and claimed to be in one of the Kariakoo fuel station for the purpose of looking for customers.
Another resident of Soweto ward, Hamphrey Polepole, said that the issue of importation of sugar, takes place in the afternoon where hundreds of cement in the house of one businessman in the area, has set up a factory for selling sugar in one hour and a half hours.
The acting police commander of Mbeya Region, Emmanuel Lukuwi when he was asked about that issue, he said it has not know anything because he has started working recently, but he promised to close him.
From Moshi in Kilimanjaro Province, citizens have complained to the act of planting trees in sugar, a situation that is making them lack of drinking water and to their children, the step has come a few days after the rise of sugar prices in various shops here in the city, Sharon Somba and Happiness Tugara.
