Members of parliament, we have been treated too.

It has been written by Stella Manyanya.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

The debate about the theft on the internet, misuse of social networks including abusive and humiliation, adorned with the parliamentary committee after many delegates listening keenly the ones being discriminated.

They said this when the parliamentary standing committee on infrastructure was meeting with leaders and executives of the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) in Dodoma town.
Among the members of parliament who identified himself, about being assaulted by the nominated member of parliament, Halima Bulembo (CCM) I complained saying that despite being faced with those acts (without mentioning what is not), he didn't have a problem with the authority.
"People are discriminated, they want them to read it, for example, this month the month of April we were tested in the internet," he said and complaining that normal people were seen in the internet, but the top leaders related to those acts are being taken quickly.
The complaints about that member of parliament have caused the members of parliament who wanted the members of parliament to tell them that they want to identify those involved, therefore, the member of parliament for Meleba South Constituency, Professor Anna Tibaijuka (CCM), said.
"Technology is the meaning that you decided to do a lot of life, you should depend on the period of great loss, it is the first time to have tuberculosis at the same time, and also the acting director of TCRA, James Kilaba said that he didn't have a modem.
While explaining the system of theft that sim cards goes off in few minutes and then its number will be used to send a message to ask for money, the member of parliament for Fuoni member of parliament, Abbas Ali Mwinyi (CCM), said he was stolen from 800,000 American Dollars after someone who got the number of his brother, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi asked the money.
The Member of Parliament of Gairo district, Ahmed Kipozi (CCM) has said that his employee who is the manager of Ubungo bus station, was being conned 1 million shillings through that phone company.
The Member of Parliament for Nanyumbu, William Antichrist (CCM) has said that he had survived roughly one million shillings after receiving a message from the phone number of his district when they requested the amount of money.
"When I call him, I decided to send someone to get money, the DC he was surprised," he has said.
He gives Moscow the actual registration of phone lines that contributes to those problems in theft, fraud and abusive language, Musa Ntapata Wapi '(CCM), has urged TCRA to make the coordination of the internet to control people involved in dirty pictures, who cause others.
While explaining the theft, the involved will take away the network for a time, the acting director of TCRA, Kilaba said that it started in September last year.
He has said that the authority called the phone company and claimed to be a special system to control those acts in their networks.
However, he said that even in March they were seen those events, still involved in the theft they are involved with various ways through technology.
The Communications Manager of TCRA, Innocent Mungy has urged victims of those actions to report the police because they have legal authority to accompany the concerned parties.
However, he said they are continuing to educate the public about the importance of good use of the internet.
