The government that was presented to parliament the intention of registering the youth of African youth in the year and eight to the contract which has talked about the responsibility of youths and the government in bringing development to their words, in different political levels, and their writer will educate Patrick.
Earlier after a period of questions and answers, the minister of information, culture and sports Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi got an opportunity to submit the intention of requesting for the African youth contract for the two thousand year and six months wants the parliament to discuss and finally improve.
In addition to that the government took place in parliament with this declaration, but the prime minister has been said they have not been put in the agreement.
In addition, article ten and two that will enable the country members to prepare for the national policies for youths which will be supported by the parliament and finally be banned from different laws and procedures will start where the policies will meet.
I think about the requirements of article ten and three times being read together with the third article, which will go to children with pregnant who are married to continue with their studies is against our policy at the moment.
Members of parliament who got an opportunity to contribute to that is together with the special member of parliament, Ester Bulaya, showing the action of youths to carry out the employment opportunities on the excuse of experience as David Fani from Mbozi member of parliament while asking reasons for getting implemented with that intention.
Do the mines?
What is the job that Tanzanian youths are doing?
And the work of.
Those youths, I heard the colleges they are getting the opportunity to make it in the mines.
When the late let's go back to the hotel there was my maize that I would like you.
Are many youths doing?
They are getting the work of the party in the parks without knowing where they will write a lot of beds in our fellow youths.
But if they do not have enough education, the late does not like to live there, we are happy to have problems in our country's income and the member of parliament, Halima Mdee has expressed his cry for the government on the improvement of education and the member of parliament of Tarime, he told me that he wanted to be sold for the policy of the youth in the moment we have income.
We will follow it different from.
Did God bless you?
The sacred bridge that don't have a foolish thing.
There is a leader that is operated by the local government officials.
We are inspiring.
There are money that are affected as a grant.
If you see it in the budget.
Assistant minister of education.
Secondary schools.
Thank you?
Ten and five can be able to reduce the cost of free so that we can be free of free.
Poor children.
But today you want me to explain Ommy's coming from his constituency as it is responsible for work?
Today some of the meetings and citizens.
Money.
Budget in the year.
This is the first time in the second time we are in this becomes a terrorist?
Nine of them.
I have seen that in this contract, youths who live in the country are required to continue with the country if we will get a lot especially when we will make sure that we will involve our nation from parliament in Dodoma, my name 'Imebaki Story.'
