
The Tanzanite of Bbillion Tanzanian shillings.
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

The Tanzanite mineral that is believed to be beaten few days ago is mentioned to have the value of more than 30 billion shillings, a level that is equivalent to more than a period of two weeks to the gold mine in Manyara Region.

In the world's map, the minerals is determined by Tanzania only but have been giving employment to a big level.
India and other parts of the world more than here in the country.

The recent theft just came in the story of preventing those minerals from the investors company from South Africa, which for now the government started the process of winning 50 percent of the shares for giving them small miners.

Already the investigation of that incident that occurred at the end of the week at the Architect Editor of the mining industry, located in Mbesa Ward, Simanjiro District, Manyara Region.

According to the reports that are there, the theft have been done after people alleged to have modern equipment to break the fence and the wall of the story to save those minerals and then break the special system of minerals (SMS).
Disappearance of that big level of minerals.

The minerals that were stolen are mentioned to be crude oil, through more than two weeks and they have already been accused of being transported outside the country at the international markets.

The previous reports starting on Monday this week tried to identify that theft, if it is discovered on Monday morning, while the servants entering work after the end of the week.

According to those reports, the theft have been forced to have many people and sent away from the environment, and the conditions of the high level that was set by that company which is the standards of international financial institutions.

One of the police officers of Manyara Province (name is reserved).
That is mentioning that issue has explained that, they were given reports of theft of minerals on Monday morning and they arrived at the scene for three o'clock in the morning.

He explained that before breaking the story of protecting the minerals, those drugs have destroyed the security system of the CCTV camera, which usually record all the few events that arise in that area.

"After attending, we noted that part of the electricity fence has been cut and also bought a section of the iron sheets and went up and after getting inside, they missed the wall and payment of the mining industry."

"We have done an previous interview with the security guards who want to hear any voice but still we are continuing to do more interview," explained the police.

While speaking to Good Citizen on phone, the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Steven Massele said that they are self-driven by the incident.

"This event of switching off small and private, I've heard the incident and after there will be informed by the officer in charge of minerals of the northern region."

"We have faith in our police and we are telling us that it is true or it is evidence of inside a company or outside the company and after there, we will continue with another step that we will be," said Masser.

On his side, the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of that company, Ambassador Ami Mpungwe, said that the investigation of that incident is in the previous steps.

The police commander of Manyara Region, Shaweji Mketo, said the 'Bado' is waiting for information from RCO) who is still in the scene area, and after getting his report that I will be in a good position to explain them, "said Commander Mpwapwa.

The theft of its kind has been the talk in the provinces of Arusha and Manyara with the mining of minerals is one of the economic ways to the people of that province.

That mistake is being built on the basis of the protection that was set by the Apple company One is in high level and is in the international standards, therefore there is a probability that the involved are some of the high workers of the company.

One of the who received that employees in that mine says that it is difficult for someone or a group of people from outside.
To know the whole system of how security camera are working, there is a big possibility that the involved are some of the high-level workers in the mine. "
