When you look at this article it is a live broadcast in East Africa, it should be remembered that today is the election day to elect the member of parliament of Arumeru East Constituency and the same approximately seven hours they have already taken a lot at ten o'clock in the morning and now I'm the director of the national commission of this election.
Very much, I thank you very much when I thank you in Dar es Salaam city, if you go through the morning, it has been if you go back here and maybe that the situation is until now considering that I have ever been true that I have been true that I have been commanded?
In different stations.
With the aim of looking at how the exercise of voting.
For sure I am supposed to say it is that the exercise I went to and are continuing well.
Because in approximately all stations that I've heard.
Almighty God rest that stations.
It was opened up at 4 o'clock in the morning.
The Almighty God rest the meaning that the open is open for a time.
When we go to Dar es Salaam, you will also be very close to the ones who are there.
The late God up to now they have no great complaints from the late God, those are all the past articles, he emphasized that the exercise is true.
Our journalists explained to him that there is one station suffering from ten o'clock in the world.
Who had arrived.
They have an identification but later the introduction will be found and they continued to stop and let it be as usual.
There are procedures thus increasing the ten minutes and eight hours after ten o'clock in the request.
No exercise is that a problem is that some will help me!
At ten o'clock, the late does not reach ten o'clock in those who will be ready for the station.
The grave of the police or these articles the late father of the station even to stand behind when the person will go there at ten o'clock and that they will be arriving at the same time when they will be able to vote without their problems.
Also, the electricity is quoted that this journey will enable you to provide quick results as possible as a result of technology.
Another thing is thought just after ten o'clock in the evening, technology done to the number of votes in the country, are the expectations, especially the results they can get.
This we have been what I think here yesterday I don't know if it appears to be the late father was talking to the media explained that, the aim of the commission until now.
It is to give the same results with me how it will make it possible but maybe the preparations should I start to counting.
Maybe, we believe that at the schedule which are being held that they won't end some of the votes, there will vote when he arrived at the location.
When the late God rest shortly, when you know what I believe in Dar es Salaam, I said it is that for looking for a center to be careful when we believe that we will make you need to be done quickly as it is possible.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I cannot have no famous but it is true that we have done here which in other days we have, we are using one computer to you, you can't sell the results on more than one computer.
But at the moment we have the ability or have done corrections so that we can use more than one computers and even let us use approximately eight computers so that you can be seen.
If a lot of computers will use to bring in results then even the results it will talk after a long time.
They think that today is Sunday.
It can happen.
No 'it is for sure now follow here.
In Igunga where we have said that little compared to four hours after the election tomorrow will arrive at six o'clock in the afternoon, it was not yet known, our aim is to get earlier more because I think you have been mentioned before the first day.
