
The director of Korogwe.
October 12th, 2012

The Director of Korogwe District Council, Tanga Province (DED Bunda), Ansudane Soulaimane, has continued to bring controversy due to his action of wanting the house to live for him by the government and instead they put it, "he said" livestock and servants in that house.

That house which is in the area of houses for leaders in that district are now being used by people who are trusted people with its domestic workers, together with livestock to be thought, the director for cows and chicken has already been planned to live in other houses at the cost of government.

These are the new allegations against that director who has been accompanied by several accusations of misuse of power when he was the director of Moshi Rural Council and already he was opened up at the resident magistrate's Court in Kilimanjaro Province.

The case is open by the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) on behalf of the Republic and the director was supposed to be stopped as the law of public service they have ordered but in the situation that is not only until now he has continued with his work as usual.

That director has also been talking about complaints by the citizens of Mombo town, on claims that he has been an obstacle to the city as a full council together with the promise made by President Jakaya Kikwete during the general election campaign, in 2010.

In the new allegations that emerged against him, the director is accused of owning two houses that will be presented by the government and its step is said to go against the law and regulations of public service.

According to the news that was found out of that council, Ansudane Soulaimane, was given a house which he was living with the former director before him, Lameck Masaudi, who has been moved to the district of Kilosa, Morogoro Province.

However, those reports were clarified that shortly after moving to Moshi municipal council in Kilimanjaro Province, Mwaura, that house was renovated and approximately 1 million shillings were used as government funds.

But after living in that country for a short period of one month, that director told him.
That house on claims that it is bad and it does not depend on use of its status as the director of the council.

That argument was recognized by the officers of the National Housing Corporation (TBA) who have written the letter that the house is not supposed to live a human being (SMS) and those officers are alleged to be safe.

"After realizing that house, the director made other houses along with the area at a cost of 300,000 shillings per month while he continued being satisfied as the owner of the previous houses and has made its workers together with livestock," explained our source.

More information say that the government's house, refusing it is not bad if he wants to know the public for a long time was born by the director who was killed.

However, the council workers were surprised by the director since he claimed that he does not want to live in a house who were allocated with the government which was not in a bad state like he claimed that his house went before moving to the country, "he explained our source.

"If a house is," why do its workers and livestock are not pleased in that house which is happening without doubt, he asked our news reporter.

That director wrote a letter to go to the service officer of the council while asking for them to be paid for 2,316 million shillings on August 24 this year for a period of July, August and September.

However, in the same time, although the director asked for money for three months as tax tax.
He ordered by writing the support of the exercise that were given to be paid for four months up to October, different from the instructions that are in the same time.

In addition, those reports indicate that the director after moving to a new house which is claimed to be owned by one of the senior officials of the government instructed you to be owned by one of the senior officials of the government instructed them to be a drug of manslaughter, (PAD) at the cost of 15 million shillings.

Serving the availability of drugs was done by a company called Pickup, and that step was said to be against the law and procedures of work performance in the government because that house is private, not the government's property.

Those reports have added that, in all the steps, the director and the concerned officers did not involve the delegates of the economy committee, money and plans of the council who are in charge of the use of the councils of the council.

"When he refused to live inside the government's house, he was supposed to be forced to register their houses to the council so that they can be like other use but he continued to confirm and insisted that while he was in addition, there are many complaints that those are lack of money and public resources," added our journalist.

"It is clear that his aim was to own all the two houses at the cost of the government and that step is the real ones that is not allowed in the community," he continued to explain another statement.

The director was found on the day before yesterday to answer the allegations that were directed to him because every time his fellow citizens did an effort to look for him through his mobile phone when it gets to be stopped.

Furthermore, the Council of Korogwe, Engineer Magoiga was not ready to talk about the scandal claiming that he would not be able to speak to the media without being given a permit for his work-related work, who is the director who is accused.

"I cannot talk about the issue until when I was given a permit for permission by my director, that is the reason why I request for the council's office to get a permit," said Magula.
