
Shivered.

November 11, 2013.

Maswa District Commissioner, Simiyu Region on the ticket of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Mister John shibuda has asked the leaders of political parties in the country to stop themselves instead it cares for the interests of the public.
Mister shibuda has said that the day before yesterday in Shinyanga town when he was speaking to journalists a few days after being sacked from the session of the leaders of CHADEMA, Lake Region, being on vying for the party.
He said that the habit of some of the senior leaders of political parties to put up the private interest, has contributed to the division within the parties and killing democracy.
He added that some of the opposition leaders have been doing every way with the aim of dividing members in order for building the environment of continuing to sit in power even if the big part of the members has been released.
"Leaders are contribute to conflicts inside political parties for example, right now inside CHADEMA, there is a problem where our leaders are doing every effort in building for the environment to remain in power in all the years.
"This issue is not present in CHADEMA alone, close to the political parties even inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM), where groups have been spreading so much, today leaders are believed to have done their responsibility to serve the citizens instead they're being faced with them," he said.
He gave their condolences to political leaders that involve the groups of groups inside their parties, to make dirty issues so that the members.
They see some people inside the party and seen, the traitors.
"I wish you the end that, it will be spread by a mistake can't stay on one thing and the right to abling or not to sit together, we must be responsible for the citizens," said Mister shibuda.
Mister shibuda has said that after being sacked from CHADEMA's session, his intention is to explain to the citizens in his region so that they can be able to understand why he seems to be in that party and claimed to continue to supervise the truth.
"I will not understand the truth, I will help them to inform my citizens the truth and that they will decide if the defense have done?
Farmers and breeders in the region are accused of being accused, I will send himself to anyone who wants to improve the interests of the public, "he said.
