
To protect themselves, try to change, the union is using abusive language, 2012.

Don't understand that, "two elephants are derived from there, they do not have a dummy check" but it reaches the time, different changes in the community give these sayings and actions they want.
For instance, in this period of two elephants, there is a fact that, it is not a must for two elephants to listen to each other when the elephants are affected and do not lie in a dummy check.
Currently, the state of Tanganyika and Zanzibar is also critical and sometimes the history of his history, I wrote on this column that, the coalition are born in a environment and security reasons, and now the coalition are born with security and now it is born in order to avoid the danger of blocking the security.
This union that had a vibrant defending champions during his life, right now there is no true that they have defended him from my heart and even those who are trying to serve their personal interests and not the union they have lost their interests, and even the great strength they have in the community.
This does not mean that those who are supposed to inform the coalition are doing so without the private interests, these people do not look even without using your keenly, you will see openly that they are led by a private habit and love that are not open.
They live in a dream of looking for Zanzibar and Tanganyika with milk and strong winds.
Others in these others have been satisfied with the hatred in religious, culture, and the ones that have a lot of private people and their children be the union.
This analysis is doing of madness of CCM and CUF because it is two famous political parties in Zanzibar and its environs.
Different national and international media will be involved in misuse of political parties including the East African Community, it reaches the place of Zanzibar, it will not play the third elections that took place during the conflicts that happened at the time of election results.
Reports of the leadership of CCM, the government and security agencies at all times agreed that CUF's intention was to take power in order to break the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar because the threat to the government to deal with CUF so as to deal with the CUF.
This time the leaders of the mainland and in the islands against CUF to introduce himself as the ordinary citizens of Zanzibar who joined CUF they were seen as the name of the world as basically, the fight between CUF and CCM those are pain to the ordinary citizens.
The number of Tanganyika people who don't understand the union was very high as a result from CUF and CCM party, those are supposed to be a solution to the CUF, so that CUF would have been a solution to the union that is seen to be a solution to all the age needed.
In addition to his evil deeds, CUF appeared to be stopped by people that are not allowed in the islands of Zanzibar, even if CCM will win in Zanzibar, even if CCM will win in mainland (presidency), then that will be the end of this union.
Up to that time, CCM appeared on the eyes of the elderly and defending champions of the United Republic and CUF as a result of posing with dangerous poison.
Now, it has changed after the last election of the year 2010, CCM entered into an appropriate time with the CUF party to form the national coalition government under the right time, which was announced that the appropriate time has been done to protect people of the people of Zanzibar have been asked.
That, than CCM to continue dealing with CUF about the results of elections and other issues, it is good for now those parties work in one government so as to serve the people of Zanzibar in peace and solidarity.
On that logic, CCM and CUF should partner or do the love, still it needs to live in the real state of normal people, all parties are crowded with politicians who issue to them are private interests more than the interests of the citizens who are complaining.
Likewise, the current misunderstanding between those who were closed down and all the two governments, it does not have a new release of "we should follow keenly, then try to continue getting."
At the right time, CCM has raised his home for calling the CUF terrorists', the agents of the ruling party, the Revolutionary Party and the defending champions the days for slavery.
On that right time, CUF has been forced to have again a prayer for him to see CCM as the new bishop of Zanzibar, senior officials of Zanzibar and non-communicable diseases who are looking for Zanzibar and destruction of natural resources.
I have heard the Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba, the chairperson of the commission to be treated through the new constitution saying that his commission will give opinions of all the kind - it will be against President Kikwete that the presence of a union did not be shaken.
In addition, the words of Judge Warioba depends on the law that made up the commission which is obvious that the union is one of the important issues that are outside the ability of the commission to change.
I met with Judge Warioba to serve the freedom of that commission in his work even if I don't have sure if the freedom will last his fellow musician, Robert Kisanga, met with the club of Mzee Mkapa when he was told that he was not allowed to sign the union but to improve it.
It has been said that before my conflict between the statement of Judge Warioba and the ruling party, the ruling party and even so, there is one of the foundation that is supposed to be CUF and CCM inside Zanzibar, and not CCM outside Zanzibar?
There is a environment being identified to be a recent love for the two parties that it did not like to stop the union being safe and if the hostility reached this union, that is how the love continues to manslaughter.
Inside the right time, Zanzibar "free" is required to return to the Mwalimu Nyerere Grounds and Karume outside Zanzibar, CCM and CUF who sing our views about improving the union. "There is no longer a member of parliament and this is a great secret and it will not accept this union being safe.
