We are self-employed while we are building four million dollars.
Sei, 26, 2013.

I understand you back to the language of Swahili language and I come back to my word I had explained back for the time, I was surprised that one day or in certain areas, it will be understood. "
This word is one of the words used to expand, each one that is used to look for him is to look for a sin that does not vie for him because this is one of the words that we do in many areas here in the country.
I have ever used one thing out of exciting stories in rhetorable to explain the importance of an agreement, in the past, the era of messengers?
As a result of that skills and great ability, they decided to do a big issue more than all that they had made up to the same time, they decided to build a long tower that has reduced up to heaven so that they can also be there and see for yourself how they love each other.
They started building what was planned to be known as Mnishi el Mhanga (Bible), the book of Mwanzo Kigonsera, 11 kilometers and all the witch doctors were enough, and all those who missed one language that caused many years.
While heading to Mister Mkubwa did not want jokes of these people and he decided to bring down them so as to bring down the name and they don't understand themselves in the language, something that could not affect the language and they don't understand themselves but there is no worries at each other.
This story gives us that if we will continue to lose their language and to be unable to reach you, then you failed to reach them, and that should be an end of our efforts to build the nation or community.
Now I come back to my word "you will not be called" to be it is not to get married, I don't know, you don't know or you are not aware of it, something that everyone sees you, but you are not aware of you.
The truth is that you don't know what happens, but it is looking at that issue, but you look at because it shows that you failed, doing an issue that is because they know it, it is not easy to make it.
For example, all of us know that drug abuse have contributed to the existence of our youths and we know that in our estates, these drugs are sold as a result of our youths', "a situation that has caused great effects in the community.
Currently, our country has got its reputation, because the main way to be safe for these drugs, and our youth have been surprised all over the world by the security heads at the border stations, see each one with transfer to Tanzania as a suspect.
Heads of our government understand this, but they do not know where they are self-employed we have ever told that the leaders of drugs are known, by names and that is not arrested, they are not arrested, they are not arrested, they are not registered to grow and expand.
We are looking at all in the world and we are happy to see the countries that are swelled due to this business of twenty years ago, we were talking to Colombia to resign as he was arrested, he had been forced to discuss and agree on the way they will be selected.
Currently, we will talk about the other countries which has already changed to be the real name of the state "or American dollars, which has been found so that the government is run using drugs, and a big part of politicians, soldiers, police and security and agents of that business.
The Swahili people are saying that she doesn't know her death on the grave, me I urge you to see your grave, therefore, look at your son's graves, but it is good to learn from your personal mistakes.
It is true that they are suffering from drug trafficking have built great strength, and one signs are these events that make the deaths from our country carrying the cargo of our country and the administration of our country have been run for money because of the purchase of votes and bribery in our administration system.
Now, if a lot of money is the main capital to look for "political leadership and I'm in government, and if the presidential candidate will make a lot of money more than any other business, especially if he knows that even if he is found, there is no legal action that will be taken against him?
