
The speech of JK has opened up because the citizens are questioning its legality of the being elected for those who registered under 50 percent.

Rashid Mkonga.

The talk of this week among the locals are the debate about the speech by the president of the United Republic of Tanzania Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, there are those who increase his speech but also there are some who spoke about their stand on the future of the commission to collect the views of citizens on the new constitution.

This debate has reached a step of however, following the statement of JK from the few who came out to give their views on the presence of a government system as it explained the report of the commission to collect the views of the constitution that according to the speech of the president as he did in parliament as we follow.
"The information has shown that GAPCO will give their views to the commission as well as a result of 488 trillion shillings equivalent to 890,536 billion shillings equivalent to 8689 percent, the structure of the union was not recognized by the problem, that is the reason they did not hesitate to talk about it.
President Kikwete continued to read his speech by all those by all those by some of the members of that parliament and continued to say that.

"I urge them that how can it today percent including 6 percent of what we expect all who gave their views to see that they are most of those who are many!
They are also saying that why is the report of the commission itself, about statistics (the United Kingdom 66 and 67), shows that between 3720 people who wanted the government's structure with 77th percent they wanted the government's contract with 77th percent they wanted the government to pay for three primary schools.

The statistics of the commission (in the United Kingdom) show, at the same time, the commission received numerous opinion polls, among them 1002 and 4 percent not to talk about the union but other things are not seen and they think that if the number of people gave their views and those other things are not there?

This is a statement by the president when he was speaking at a special constitutional parliament, even so, his contribution that she made by President Kikwete was opposed by some of the people who had promised to succeed as the number of politicians who did not succeed in the year 2010.

According to the analysis, they have claimed that according to the general elections of the year 2010, President Jakaya Kikwete called for 651 percent of all the votes were given, whereby the number of those who did not get even a half, therefore the president is leading with the number of those who did not reach even a half of the voters who registered themselves.

According to the statistics that are there, that the number of votes was 22,089, which were 2970,046 votes equivalent to 970,046 votes equivalent to 67,888 votes equivalent to 6,800 dollars, while the big number of those who registered to vote.

"If we came up on the opinion polls according to the view of JK about the constitution, then even JK has no reputation of being the president because he is leading a big number of people who have not registered to vote," said the number of those who registered to vote?
