
When the groom did not lie?
Sep 19, 2012

The police commander of Iringa province, Michael Lueth, deserves to be arraigned in court being joined by one suspect of the killing of Daud Mziray, which happened several days ago.

I believe that according to my side, Commander Siro has been suspended from work immediately, being sentenced to the military court and stripped off his positions so that he can be able to get connected with other suspects.

Being unable to take action immediately against thanksgiving and the leadership of the army and the political leadership in the country, it is a bad symptoms of the violation of the rule of law.

This is reminding me the reason when you see Ditopile, (right) and how political leadership has not found yourself in any way to change the requirements of the rights and therefore causing the process of getting justice (right).

In the country, you are going to respect the rule of law because commander Siro was supposed to be part of investigations and for sure he didn't be supposed to continue with his position during the investigation of the killings that took place before him and because of its reason is taking place.

His promise to continue with his position is one of the big rights of the rights that the government has launched us because our politicians do not tolerate because it will be among the bad use of power and development (CHADEMA) which was done in accordance with the law.

For those who see the video of the previous talks between Rozay and journalists, the big issue was like the CHADEMA meeting was "the internal meeting" (not seeing) or it was a meeting that is forbidden.

The journalist - especially the late Nelly Mwangosi, was heard given a lot of money to change the way that the meaning of "if you see" is not good "because he says he has a right to explain all the laws and not one section.

For sure that he is not the secret of law and wisdom, and evidence shows that she has not been asked to ask the lawyer of the government or another lawyer as a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by releasing a meeting that was banned by giving an order to break the meeting.

He did not have the authority, or the reason to intervene in the internal meeting and he had enough opportunity to ensure that his directive was legal.

Contrary to other people who want to say CHADEMA was supposed to obey the police force, but I believe they did not need to obey that order and wanted them to leave because it was not legal, it did not support him and for sure he was given by someone who used his power well.

B has said that the incident of starting to ban the author, has started commander Fuime claimed to have the rights and ability to ensure citizens are protected.

All police are learning this law which I have put it above and it is clear that the police are seeing a person or capable of blocking someone who does not hesitate to use more strength in needed.

He said as the regional police commander saw the force of the police force that was there and for sure there was no one person who was a threat to the army but further it was not a threat to the army but further it was not a threat to the army.
A large number of police that lost their own photos and video, has confirmed that without doubt that the police seen (because any reason), who failed to be put under security, police had the ability to control him without stopping.

But by police to arrest him, he beat up and finally killing him in front of the regional police commander claiming that this commander is not supposed to lead upcoming stars!

He was supposed to be slapped on his positions and put baking paper, he has said just after the murder of the Songea that came out in mysterious circumstances, but instead of our Nation's police force as he gave him to lead the police force in Iringa.

In addition to that, I will see that my motion is supposed to be true that what violating the section of 21 cases of criminal offenses.

Section, even so is related to there and when the police are trying to go or someone or to prevent someone who cannot get married, if you look at the incident of killings of Nelly Mwangosi, is clear that what happened is more than the attempt to put him or under security.

The place where he has been surrounded by the police in every way and having the weapons it's shivered because she will try to run away or who will not try to be told he is under security.

Pictures of the incident show a result of doubt that Nelly Mwangosi was not in any way, that's when she didn't want to run away or who has been directed to be under security and later on.

Explanation of the witnesses who were in the scene are indicating that what happened before the killings are Nelly Mwangosi, being played by a police group and for several minutes before being shot dead.

If this is true and I don't think that it has a lot of controversy - the killings of Nelly Mwangosi, because the police force used any crime and said that there was no one person who came out and said that he tried to prevent it.

This is really used to believe - I request my reader to agree with me - what happened when it is an act of the crime of trustees of the police group that use weapons, a draw and their positions they believed to have lost any citizen without being asked.

And the presence of commander Siro has caused you to investigate that, by giving a legal order and to fail to intervene in the sessions and continuing to lead the police force and to continue to lead the police force, it is difficult for human rights and be from every way to use good governance.
It is to protect Reeva.

Will he will be presented in court if the police know this and more to our politicians (ruling party) if they agree this is clear that you will be done to be transferred and taken to another region (I would like to be able to take place in Dar es Salaam to take the position of Suleiman Kova.

To report a big person like this one who claims against him is big than the one of Abdallah Zombe and cases of minerals that have shaken the police force and because the army is supposed to see him as the first people should be dealt with.

In order to ensure that the case came in the conferences that involved the rights of the deceased, it is a must for all the police who participated in fighting the late (I can build a argument that there was a bomb that was arraigned in court, now, follow keenly to show that Tanzania is the support of the law that doesn't have a eyes of stopping.

But because we know this is very difficult to take place, if it will take place in plenty, to eliminate the meaning of justice - then we expect it to offer the intentions that all these who were involved in one day will be taken.

And they will also be informed that other people who will continue to provide the lives of citizens by strength so as to take care to the leaders.

