
Hamza Mpozi and Nyerere heading to Tanganyika freedom on October 21, 2012.

50 years ago, September 17th this year, 1962, Hamza Johari Bakari MKEWAWa), Rahma Jemina Turki and Jaquileine Kibacha, died at the age of 49 years, at that time he was the assistant secretary general in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

While has been born in Tanga, the late Hamza Johari in his education to primary and secondary schools in Tanga province after class four, at the time being the fourth education education in Tanganyika.

After that, they were forced to receive training of medical services, at Sewa Haji ward, Dar es Salaam city and started a certificate of assistant surgeon, 1935 of the year 1935 he had been taken to school teachers in Mwanza Province, that followed by Juliana Shonza, who scored his marriage in 1938.

Having a great goals to succeed, he joined in Makerere University in 1943 to study in medical studies.

As history as seen, Hamza and Julius Nyerere joined Makerere University at that time and started their close friendship together with political relationship, without caring about the difference of nine years of them.

While in Makerere those two started a friendship with Andrew Shamba, another student who was looking at the teaching course of one year before them in the university and three of them started a union of fighting for the political development of the students from Tanganyika, at the end of 1943.

In accordance with their unity, they are recognized that the Tanganyika Union Association (TAA), request that didn't be presented to the headquarters of Dar es Salaam.

Just after completing their training in 1945, all, Hamza Mpozi from Julius Nyerere met again in Tabora province, while Hamza Johari in Tabora Province, while Hamza Johari in Tabora Province at the teachers of St Maria secondary school, at the school teachers of St Maria, Tibakalia of teachers.

Those three leaders joined CCM party, Tabora branch and when it reached in 1946, they won the leadership of TAA, Hamza Johari in the chairperson, Nyerere, secretary, and Tibakemikali ward.

It's at that time, Hamza Johari found his health profession and has been unable to give a wide opportunity of understanding themselves about the movements of political and constitutional change, so as to be able to sustain the colonialist.

Therefore, the year 1947, he left the field of medical services and joined the Wales University in Cardiff, learning and social welfare.

When he was in England, Hamza Johari in a lot of politics from the Chama Cha Mapinduzi which is taking place after the second round of the World Cup, in the same time joined Fabian Colyvas of the close relatives and different publications which made a political ability.

After falling, Tanganyika in 1949, Hamza Johari started working in Ilala District office in Dar es Salaam city, as the assistant officer of the community development.

Mzee Rashid Mfaume Said, who had graduated from class eight education at that time in Tabora province, 1948 he did work with Hamza as the assistant commissioner of the office.

While having an understanding of the law on law and political issues, without losing time, will return the relationship with his friend Nyerere, Tabora Province, who at the time Nyerere was the president of TAA, Tabora Province, but also he was preparing to go by Edusei for three political studies in Tabora province.

While talking to Abdulhussein, the person who was sent to be as a blood brother, Hamza Johari, they made a group of implementation of changes in TAA, from the community development institution and to be one of the political institutions.

They whom he added inside their group, Doctor Lucia Glasgow, Stephen Mhando and John Nyanja, earlier this year, Abdul, and Hamza Johari in early this year, Abdul, and Hamza Johari in early this year, Abdul, and Hamza Johari in early this year, Abdul, and Hamza Johari in early this year, Abdul, and Hamza Johari in early this year, Abdul, and Hamza Hussein on their hands and leading the revolutionary party leadership.

As he put him in power, Doctor Taichako said that the current president of TAA, however, due to Doctor TKO in the transfer to Tanga, TAA did not be elected as the president's secretary, John Wanyancha the deputy secretary general, John Cheyo being the secretary of education.

The new leadership for TAA continued to review the constitutional constitution in the middle of 1950, and give an explanation of the political party and the first work of the new leadership had organized an agreement that had been presented by the United Nations, but their agreements were given a report to the leadership of TAA, but the attorney general, Doctor Hamza Mande.

From the presentation of that certificate, Governor Edward Tembela, at the time forced the two people to avoid effects which he would like the colonial government, Doctor Kyaruzi was removed from Sewa Haji Hospital, at the time he was the former Muhimbili National Hospital, to stop the prisoners.

Hamza Mwageni has been taken to exile as Luvanda, in Ukerewe Town, which is in Lake Zone, Honorable Doctor Kyaruzi said that it will be his transfer like "a draw with the difference between them."

Hamza Johari in another side explained the transfer like another opportunity to be close to the place where all days he believed is the center of ethics for Tanganyika politics, Lake Victoria.

For example, earlier himself to Julius Nyerere at Edu at the end of the year 1951, Hamza, showed her joy when they have discovered a young man, Paul Bomani, Mwanza Province, which is important in the political fight. "

Apart from that, Hamza Johari used as a place where political parties will be used in the whole period since 1952 to 1954, where he was held talks about the way of put Nyerere to take the leadership of TAA, 1995, and later the establishment of Tanaka.

This situation caused the colonial government at the time of discouraging him from Kuala Lumpur to Dar es Salaam city, to attend a meeting that started Tanu yesterday July 7, last year 1954, by such as, Hamza was the founder and founder of Tanoh, who did not attend the event.

Earlier this year 1955, he was selected to be the assistant officer Tukuyu, Rungwe District, a chance that was seen as a result of the position but it was very close to the lake region and which are far from the bad political parties.

However, when he was to Tukuyu, he met and we need to welcome him, at the time he was the head of police, and politics of fighting for the freedom of Malawi has raised the referendum for the two freedom.

Later, I've been transferred to Iringa province, where his son (Hamza), Juma Mujahideen, was at the way he was on a way to go to Bendel Memorial School from Tukuyu, in 1957.

Chisholm, the first foreign minister leading the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Malawi, was killed in the attempt to overturn the attorney general of Malawi, former president of Malawi, who was the attorney general of the South African government.

In 1958, he was transferred to Dar es Salaam from the Local Government of Mzumbe, Morogoro, at a place where he was a very close friend with Khalfan Mrisho Kikwete, together with Kalluded.

He was the first assistant coach of Nyerere when the chief minister did not return to Nyerere he wanted his friend who engaged to him as he is the chief adviser after the Tanganyika stadium.

Many times you start, Hamza Johari started showing bad state of heart disease in the middle of the year 2008, Hamza Johari in a huge conflict of smoking in the whole period of his life.

And until, Hamza died, Nyerere made him to save the life of his friend, Doctor Hamza Johari in the best hospital in the world of the Marist Graduate University in London City where he had a heart operation.

However, September 1962, his heart was so cunning and to fail to withstand the audience of the short-term work which he had in service to his new nation, Doctor Hamza died at the Muhimbili National Hospital, September 17, in 1962.

While placing him to the wife of the late Mrs. Juliana Mighty One, September 28, last year 1962, being two posts after the death of Hamza Johari in the office of the Prime Minister, Dimwa, Omari giving a few words he was able to say.
"I have seen Doctor Hamza as my friend for many years and I could not have another friend who does not lie in the cooperation of him, his death is impossible to be treated.

God continue stealing his soul in eternal peace, while Amin came to her husband's downfall.
