Those preparations have enough people with wisdom, it is a must for someone to have talent.
Just shows that there are two things that there is one of the preparations.
The second side.
A gift from God?
Now wisdom and wisdom.
It can be noted that preparations for the party that to be followed by the leaders, I have not registered themselves as the government of the government but something that is called off.
Is it a gift for God to end up.
Tanzanians are supposed to realize that there is this argument and we were in this debate.
What are the problems we used.
It is not true that we have been caused by the elderly if it is required to have Christ, for Tanzanians that the problem is what we go to Mister since we got this until now, lack of enough development or what is the witches.
And also, we must know that most Tanzanians are not bad in problems.
The late God is not an old man and it's not good to know the problems in the fund and we will look for the problems in which a message that I have written to Diamond in the first of January in other things have talked about what's called a system.
They have said that the elders do not listen to the youth?
Now the phone has recently been said, the system that Makamba is looking at well here even out of the youth.
But in the system we have, I will continue to carry out and listen to him because I think the judge Warioba during the same time, the youth can get a chance but maybe his view was because we have already put him to change the judgment.
And maybe he was talking about you, maybe a private candidate that marriage can remain in a new view.
He is a private candidate.
The requirements of the country it's not depending on the policies of the party.
But if we will continue to see I'm in the chest and all parties should be able to see if you are using the system more than my old man at the first, he has given a good example to support him in the level of those ministers, I remember they were with one minister of foreign affairs.
Don't see my wildlife that you have said, then you will not have?
He was a youth.
A big work spoken is together with owning a house in Somalia.
A youth.
If it is true that it's true that it has been the norm for therefore, this preparations will be a young man to start a song because the same way does not depend on your houses, we are not aware about the executives in those areas.
The elderly can be able to live in large numbers since maybe they did not want to ask ourselves among them but all the young people now, if you continue getting easy, I do not see the capacity from you when you do not have the teachers to go to him in Ukawa.
The late God bless us for wanting change and if I remember well, he contributed a lot to contribute to your fifty oil according to the first, we need.
If you go through their accounts to believe that, he said that a guarantee doctor, Haule was not there to be the leadership of what I have but a patriotism of his nation to view his party.
According to our leaders, we have requested all leaders of our leaders.
