Indian Ocean.
Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has said that kidney disease is a big problem in the country there were many men with low-income people so that the government is doing every efforts to ensure the body has only.
The Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has given that statement in Dar es Salaam during the commemoration of the world's day of the world which is celebrated every year in March which was played every year in line with the victory exercise to test their health life in general he had gone to report.
The residents of Singida province, has come out to test their health so as to identify which they have problems of kidney patients and the food system being part of celebrating the six day after the prime minister Mizengo Pinda is the one who visited the country at the commemoration of the world just after the prime minister Mizengo Pinda was the one who visited the country at the commemoration of the world just after the prime minister Mizengo Pinda was the biggest of water for a human being.
And you are now what we have.
Here to come to know it is in the city.
A total of citizens in the report won last year.
Picture by her.
Professionally is not then when he was found?
It is a must for them.
I have received and found himself.
But one hundred and six days were renovated.
At the past a penalty was found with the kidney disease.
Two hundred and nine hundred and nine people have also been a problem of the country to build a habit of caring for their colleagues will have faith, while giving an example about the treatment of my grandfather's car, he wanted the citizens to build a habit of volunteering to give them this day because the lives of the people who lost their daily lives.
He said that.
This sister is not all.
It is people that we know where we are.
Why J has come.
When the government got the blame from that we are not involved.
You know what does his soul but doctors who have the ability to know well, he explained well and you know that the body by getting their days without caring about what I have remained with Major General or not worried about what I have been told, I have been told that I have been told that I have been told, I have been told that I have been told, I have been told that I have been told.
For an old man, I was running the chief doctor of the Tigo institution, the list, Ezekiel from Muhumbili National Hospital said that the aim of us is to reach a phone and five days to commemorate the phone day that was organized by the mobile phone company, Tigo.
The Prime Minister Mizengo speaking to ten million shillings to ensure the exercise of making phone will succeed and to talk to the same way.
The day before yesterday.
