Administration when you will be sold and to be the truth, we are to us. "
May 20, 2015.

There are Dar es Salaam Port and it is not in the country because of all of those kind, one of those types in which are not funny when they are asked.
An example of Black Americans of this second type I heard this Tuesday, when I read the newspaper of Angola on the internet.
The head of words of one article that was written by the documents which he was presenting recently, "Pindani Nyalile in the same minute," (the president has received gifts to good administration.
That head of words it really impressed me because it is going to you, although I don't know what is spoken by African president, but what are you?
Because it is not seen, the president's wife who did not want to continue with this article so that I feel it is the president who was lucky enough to be awarded that award that is given to Dubai by one institution called MeAfrica. "The article broke down.
It was clear that I used my time to read a joke in mind, something that does not lie!
When I continued to read the newspaper known as Nyota Ndogo has insisted that when I was happy, he was a joke to him because he is the president in Angola, for a total of 36 years and they don't see the symptoms of someone who wants to step down.
Maximilian Arnold who in the streets makes him call him by the nickname 'Zito, "he is the one leading in the country to the foundation of" we love for us, "he has been explained in Angola the whole time, he has six children and her fellow family.
When it comes to that the value of his private wealth in Paris Saint Germain has resigned from 20 billion US dollars and that is when we cut off all assets and how many times it is using the country and how many times it is used to run the country and how many times you can buy property?
When he comes up in the morning and at the whole time, his mental ability should be in looking for solutions to the problems and problems of his fellow citizens or be in looking for ways to prevent them, the president of the samples can be true to lead the government with better administration?
The administration of Gareth Bale does not have any reputation of being called "good administration" for sure, Barakah da Prince did not qualify for that country to be recently, he has said that his administration will have a bad rule.
It has a lot that do not recognize the ruling party of several African countries, including the ones in Tanzania, all of them have no democratic system and its institutions are not independent, the citizens are unable to run their democratic rights and even human rights, the media are against them and there is a huge violation of public rights.
In Angola, recently for example, the activists of the present have been able to make demonstrations to make demonstrations to claim the best state of life in the lake region wanted to be given a clean water, electricity and the municipality to be avoided.
This is the claims that basically the government of Angola has thrown and it has used the strength against those who make sure that it is another example of a bad administration, a bad thing.
Another example is how the army of Angola goes through the believers of different religious leaders, it was Muslims and for a period of several years, they have been getting their rights for worship without any objection.
Last month the government had banned nine groups of Christians in the province of Njema and according to believers who come up to 1000 they were kidnapped by the police and the government have been denied those accusations.
The suppression of all made it is done by the rule of Plasmodium falciparum. Therefore, he cannot be an example of a person who is leading "good administration" therefore, despite the big revenue that are found due to other minerals, the government of Angola has been unable to serve their citizens.
Angola is still a country in which two-thirds of its residents can't get clean water and more than a half of its residents, it is poor but when they end in accordance to the official statistics of the country's economy and the army of the opposition party.
