
The parliamentary committee of solar eclipse.

It has been written by Halima Kimanumanu, Dodoma.

It has been reported, 31st October, 2016.

The standing committee of parliament has officially completed its sessions at the end of the week while making its cost in managing and controlling the use of accounts to various government institutions.

Those committees which started its sessions since October 16, this year in the city met with ministries and various institutions, to discuss and improve the plans of the government institutions, being one of the responsibility of the parliamentary work.
During that period, ministers, directors, heads and chairpersons of the board presented the reports of performance and accounts of their institutions in front of the committee, including giving various topics that were presented in the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) in the year ending in June 2015.
In those sessions, various issues were unblocked, including various reports was born as a result of having a lot of shortages and requirements of those committees in accordance with the law.
The various committee, including the standing committee of the government (PAC) was forced to appoint them to discuss the reports presented before him while presented their statements against the concerned institution as one of the institutions that was brought back and was required to return to the PAC committee because of a shortage known to the committee without a result of the government.
However, two days later that organization started in front of that committee being accompanied by the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance and Planning in accordance with the CAG report that occurred in June 2015, showing that the institution has caused a loss of more than 11,015 shillings.
Together with that committee, other measures have been shown by the Permanent Parliamentary Committee of Local Government (CAC) through the executive committee of the City Council of Dar es Salaam, for the year ending in June 2015 in the area of Dar es Salaam (UDA).
The committee was forced to serve the leadership of the city up where it has reached in front of the committee while accompanied by the Minister of Provincial Administration and Local Government, the attorney general and the registrar of treasury so as to provide information about the shares of that organization.
Minister George Simbachawene, AG, George Masaju and the registrar Lawrence Mafuru arrived in front of the committee as it ordered where together with giving clarification, they stopped the legal owners of the Simon Group Company that is claimed to be approved by the executive committee of the parliamentary committee of the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) which was narrated at the PAC session.
That organization was found with doubt that due to the regulations of the parliament by being unable to discuss their report and claimed that the pillar of the parliament has reduced because that report was presented in the morning after three days before according to the parliamentary regulations.
The member of parliament of Temeke, Hadji Mponda, said that it is not the first time for that organization to comply with the rules and regulations of parliament, because even the year the day before yesterday the day before yesterday they decided to submit the reports of gas contracts in front of the PAC committee, a situation that caused his leaders to be sold at the police and sentenced.
Other ministers who arrived and gave answers of the argument about ministries and institutions under their ministry is the Minister of Lands, Housing and Development, William Lukuvi, the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Doctor Medard Kalemani, and the minister of industry, trade, and investment, Charles Mwijage.
Others are the minister of state, office of the president, public service management and good administration, Angella Kairuki, the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Nape Nnauye and the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo.
In addition, in those committees, also the chairpersons of the board and senior directors of different organizations were presented and asked the issue about their institutions in front of those committees which are the executive director of the Tanzania Standard Chartered Bank that prints the newspapers in Washington, Daily News and Spotify Network.
Others are the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu, Acting Commissioner of Energy and Investment, James Andilile, the executive director of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO), Engineer Felchesmi Mramba, and the Executive Director of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), the leadership of the Port of Arusha.
Some of the members of parliament who talked with this newspaper about the responsibility of those committees, they discovered it openly that the work of the committee is standing by the government and to ensure it gives its responsibilities in serving the society from different sectors.
The nominated member of parliament, Joseph Hasanoo has said the great job of the parliamentary committee is not satisfied and to advise the government on how to improve its services to the community, therefore it is a must that those committees will enable you to fulfill its obligations by making sure they are ongoing.
"The parliamentary committee is same as a parliament, when you dain or transporting it, it is why we can have the stars so that we can be able to fulfill our responsibility," said Hasunga who is from the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
The chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Industry and Trade and the Member of Parliament of Igunga, Doctor Dalaly Kafamu, insisted that the biggest work of the committee is not to supervise and discuss the reports of the government or government institutions, but together with making inspection of government projects in order to ensure its performance.
