
Nchinila of FC is increasing.
By John Lukuwi.

You will hear the Nchinila of FC from Kajitanus Osewe, the district of Makulu area, he believes that they can do well in the world of soccer but what I believe they can do well in the world of soccer and why is the first time they have got a chance to participate in the finals of the East African Champions League this season.
Upcoming poets, Nchemaba FC was among the 15 teams that participated in the competition to look for a ticket to be taken to the level of the national league in the next year that was held at Mkuzo Girls, MOI and managed to get four points only in the front of Festus Mengele.
Nchinila of FC led by his captain, Stephen Kiruswa has decided to succeed and succeed to score 1-0 goals, then got a draw of 1-1 against Stand United.
However, it was in a trap when he got into the club's rules to overturn Nyerere Church and 2013 Find FC every one ended up by 2-0 goals by his coach, he says his boys are committed the attractive game although it is the first to kick off against the stars of soccer in the East Region.
This is just the beginning, Nchemaba said that apart from doing well in sports, the players of this squad will not be able to uplift the level of their game and he believes that my squad is independent and to uplift the level of their rivals in the whole country.
Nchinila of FC known as Young Tigo Company was founded in 15 years ago where it has continued to bring together youths together with caring about the veterans who have ever been given the veteran clubs that have ever been charged.
Nchinila of FC is expecting the vibrant listener or Stephen Mwitasi (captain), Eric Mutta, Jesse Erasmo and Dickson Ponyo.
The others in Dennis Kadama, Jacob Mwenda, Brian Umony, (goalkeeper) and Michael Njekela said.
"In order to strengthen the game of my squad, we will partner with our sponsors for the purpose of emerging the current strategy to make my plan to participate in many matches to participate against a vibrant club in soccer," Master says.
He knew that they have planned to prepare a special workshop to provide more training to coaches who will also be presented in that district.
He noted that in order to give the ability to the youth, it will be better for the sponsors for starting the projects to give credit for subsistence while it is needed.
