
Our soccer will not be careful, there is no true system.
In short, soccer is a technical game or work skills, need to know technical ways, skills or programs to make you have been given football because of using it, it's not a easy thing to use football to do something contrary to how to use it.
For you to use legs to do another thing against walking, it needs to get that technical education to be able to do so.
Therefore, so a person to play soccer is a must to play soccer and that is possible for children with the age of five to 12.
On my view, many coaches from the streets have wrecking your children and the youth because those coaches do not have technical education at the field of Viate and sports education.
In the developed countries if you have no education cannot take him to a person at the field, he will give me a reason to be the coach of higher education sector, that is why he knows the needs of the body of a three years old and continued.
We are required to inform many coaches that are able to teach children to play soccer and learn not to do mistakes in the foundations of soccer in the field.
We must inform us that we have a big problem of coaches in the country, should never tell you that we have soccer coaches who are just a certificate, certificates will face our soccer coaches and the students will have a low level of education.
As a result of that problem of shortage of soccer coaches in the streets with Teachers Training Center in Milimani City Council and Sports, that situation has caused many talents to be blocked even so that the ones in the premier league how many players have failed to live in the foundation of soccer.
Many coaches who are in the neighborhoods do not have enough expertise and that is why they have been unable to show their competence of rape our children by giving them correct training for soccer because the work of their coach can leave the student by giving them correct training.
But also in soccer there are many important things that will help soccer to continue with the ability of administration and sports management, the expertise and sports expertise, the expertise and infrastructure policies, tourism and other things.
For example the leadership and sports administration has the aim of strengthening faith to the stakeholders and sponsors that in sports especially the inspection of revenue and expenditure, you can be done in sports there are plans and in sports there are recommendations.
There are people who have money in the country and they want to put their money in sports especially in soccer, but they don't know that people who are leading sports parties and those who are in games that are sports people did not inform us!
Also the leadership system and sports administration is needed in sports parties especially soccer parties in the country so as to supervise those parties fully in reducing land conflicts and misuse of money for sponsors and various stakeholders.
In the use of sports or sports medicine, at the moment you cannot depend on the strength of a private player, you should know the body of a player in details, that is why I see soccer being operated without more, our soccer will not be careful.
