Still, we are at the peak of the water week where the authority of clean and clean water.
He has risen up of water catchment areas of Kasulu District so as to return when they arrived at the source and deal with the problem of destruction of the environment.
The executive director of the year where he is looking for the source of the country this week, that provides a huge amount of water but it is now a level that has been closed due to destruction of environment conducted in Mount Kilimanjaro Reserve and the source being taken against VVU, has its disappearance.
The death of water sources in the municipality of smoke, lack of water from the destruction of environment, a situation that led to the presence of water catchment areas where some of the environmental stakeholders have started planting trees so as to deal with the problem.
The Tanga Urban Water Utilities Regulatory Authority in eternal peace this year is one of the environmental stakeholders where the executive director of the authority told me, he is talking about the exercise.
Make sure we are doing in our place but in a big part as he said that the provincial commissioner is every place, "he said.
In order to ensure the forests are there.
So that you know that you are the importance of the rains that are at the end.
To go down of defense and not giving up.
How is the availability of water to the animals which is currently, as a program explains that it is little because of the use two weeks ago, people have used water water but still they are still ongoing.
Most importantly, but the real situation of many.
The rains that poured.
After the wife of the environment to think this.
We have seen all the workers for this time.
We need to go to our area one and my secret.
And we have decided to take part of today's day, has been fulfilled.
Which is a traditional trees and fruit trees who are friends on water they were forced to inform Magufuli, this situation continues because we look into the climate change to be assisted to be considered as a result of a lot of water in the past, and being told to be told that there was a period of water, "Kaduri says that there was a period of water.
It was a place.
And he was surprised.
The money comes after that.
We are continuing to grow.
The source of water in the law which is expected to start its water affects the forest reserve of Mount Kilimanjaro is giving water amounting to ten thousand shillings only instead of ten days instead of ten days.
You have been annoyed by the Almighty God?
