By recognizing the importance of electricity in every Tanzanian, the government has set a goal that by two thousand and five more Tanzanians to be able to use electricity production at a high level.
In ensuring the rural electrification projects are implemented as intended in June, two hundred and ten thousand, the managers of TANESCO from all other districts are met in Morogoro province so as to discuss the strategies to improve more distribution of electricity in the villages.
In that conference the acting manager of TANESCO was welcoming the participants.
The government that depends on us will be being found.
This is that if we do not like to speak?
Well when we discuss and that, that you get that you get money so that I'll go through that, I will request that we are doing products that do not be careful.
To stop how we will benefit more and calling you there, we have the end, we have the end, the church has increased.
A large percentage of the rural electrification projects is funded by the government through the energy agency (REA) and implemented by TANESCO in order to listen to the government they have lost two projects and that the contractor gives the project the culture that is doing so they should not depend on because projects are still needed.
Passengers will be in the purpose of what I wanted to say that the drivers are there and how many of them are facing a government through the energy agency in the villages, those projects are required to be sold to small percent of difficult decisions which are in up with TANESCO.
I have seen them to them until now since Simba released the report written by the answer and the supervisor due to the power followed by our ability and giving them the words of them is Mbeya Botswana through money from the first star.
The money is.
Because the citizens are.
Now.
It has been found guilty, a few years ago has been seen to have one votes in here we can do.
Projects but as to do not depend on quality.
.
You want them to improve in charge that you will be beaten but I did not love you.
That you are required to talk at that conference for the managers of the district, senior sales and markets, Engineer Nicholas Kay, if you put him that the organization makes the division of power so as to enable the projects to be implemented in time and hence, we should know that I don't know for a few months ago there were heavy rains in every corner, why are the floods only.
Also, buildings.
But something to happy, that I was found or when I reached a lot of people with the heart.
They were the first child as the previous year, but Kavanagh refused that starting from the beginning of this year, they are regions.
God revealed that what is taking place on behalf of the skills that would have been infected.
And we have to now know that we will continue.
And as the first culture on shoes, if you know the late God is not worried about it to be here on up until tomorrow.
When it happens.
Kagenzi said about the selling of power generation from the head's headquarters without doubt, we are discussing here in giving their work hard to try to take them more than I was born and started to take him but they will be written on your responsibility recently.
Self-criticism and asking for himself is a must to buy a lot about us, I am dampening their daughters, it was buried and every person got the head when they were with each other.
