If you go to Grind.
The second week and the parliamentary sessions of the budget is true that Ongea will come to Dodoma which just after the completion of the questions and answers we got a parliament, Anne Kilango is forced to do you and use the language of Burundi and instead they can use your long time.
Even you will be competed for because she is the farmer among them?
Early only is really terrifying.
We know that he will be able to give my my friend and the old things have called her husband's wife for some time.
We think he is saying?
It is happening and then.
Someone is still a person.
How do we have?
A lot of time the stomach has been destroyed, three other diseases has become electricity.
Be careful, to go more than the message that he has been used by you, he used to follow up the performance of the parliament and also dispose it.
The music industry until the husband will meet, I don't know whether my mother depends on you like my mother in order for you to prevent a person in order for us to listen to anything because I have tried to forgive him here.
The fluency of privacy, then put insults.
And after the board, I will support Karume, they have been given by the speaker Anne Makinda.
And then?
I have not been asked and that's when I see when I saw the speaker.
I am very worried about the opposition parties, we will arrive not to know the points not, quills, amen.
I take that is a difference, do you know what we have.
I request that advice to advise the president about Africa is that in order to help as to help them, then that you can be able to contribute towards an issue here that doesn't understand that if they do different times of us?
Ayo TV every period of questions and answers is the deputy minister of finance, Saada Mkuya, explaining about money from sponsors for the purpose of running various development projects and insisted that the provision of government projects were given, therefore the funds are used, used by goals intended for the intended purposes.
And the picture of the president, the management of good service is expected to be sworn in a speech by the estimates of that office by involving themselves in ten o'clock in the morning and three other activities are going on tomorrow to vote in parliament, the mother's mother is wrong.
