The laboratory of Mbeya Referral Hospital will be held.
May 22, 2013.

The laboratory of Mbeya Referral Hospital has been the first in the country.
The introduction (on the radio) international relations, and from now its services will be used.
As a result of that step, the laboratory can make investigation on diseases and various human organs and according to the laboratory manager, Odax said, will reduce blood, diabetes, diabetes, HIV virus together with its monitoring.
Other areas include cooking oil (Buchosa), the chest, testing of AIDS for the children under 18 months using genes (which were conducted) and in the southern highland regions, it becomes the only laboratory that has the ability to test breast cancer, different organs.
Cervical cancer to women.
This good news was given recently by the American ambassador to the country, Alonso minute, day when he launched one of the laboratory buildings in Mbeya District Hospital, when he said that "he visited Mbeya Referral Hospital for recently the first time in the country to get a high speed of success in good laboratory services."
The construction of the laboratory buildings as well as its equipment, has resulted from a donation from America in a special program of partnership that is between Tanzania and the biggest nation in the world in the health sector.
Since the year 2008.
Speaking about the relationship of his country and Tanzania, Ambassador Lollipop, noted one of their priorities as required.
Reproductive health from all, by making sure they get better health services.
Through the cooperation of these two countries, the American government has revealed that the presence of 150 laboratories in the country with the ability to provide services.
The best laboratories in the testing of AIDS virus, are dangerous to those.
Malaria and chest.
Ambassador Luda and believes that the laboratory is found.
It will help reduce by goals of provision of drugs to reduce the cost of AIDS (ARVs) in the regions of the southern highland regions.
Research reports are indicating that 812 people living in Mbeya, Rukwa, Katavi, Ruvuma, Iringa and Njombe were given those drugs and among them 10 percent of children under 15 years.
The Director of Mbeya Referral Hospital, Doctor Elichilia Khamis, says that the laboratory is a savior in their work performance, that will remove the disruptions that was facing them, especially with the problems that cause incitement, especially for diseases like tuberculosis, where they were forced to take them to Dar es Salaam for more investigation.
The steps taken by the laboratory of Mbeya Referral Hospital, gives the ability to be used by one researchers and scholars of the health sector and international organizations to do their research thus being one.
Important sources of revenue in the hospital and the nation.
Before a month have been reached since the laboratory got the certificate of service provision to international standards, the first research has started to be known as Rhema Trust, run by the organization.
The American Water Utilities Regulatory Authority is aimed at providing its services to health issues in the regions of the southern highland regions.
According to the laboratory manager, Mwasumilwe, research of Ryszard Kapuchinski is looking at the response of ARV in the patients with use if they need them or be taught.
Apart from research on health issues, the laboratory will be an important part now for various health experts who are in the agricultural sector that they take from different levels.
Including a doctorate degree.
The laboratory is expected to attract scientists from many health issues in the world to arrive in the hospital because of using its laboratory services, because it has increased the biography of its servants who now they can be employed in any international laboratory that is low level.
The high quality in the provision of its services.
According to the senior health officer of Mbeya Region, Louis.
Chinise products, is the only laboratory in that region that can work.
More information.
"I give answers that the standards in the investigation of health issues is to help the doctor to provide reliable services," says Doctor China.
The international documents for the quality of health services are offered by the SADraw Board (South African Development Activity), considering the international standards (ISO) for International Relations.
Institutions involved in health laboratories (SELF).
