
They have changed the religion but your ethics on Sei, 19.

Let me start this article by going back to one story which I have heard that their last article.

Among the things that brought me a lot, after arriving here in England for the first time, approximately one hundred and last year, it is how to Christianity between the British.

Despite the "donation," by touching various things that before come from here they were not supposed to have seen in the film and television, that has been sold at the past, when I saw the past, where in the past, when I saw the past, where the past was the church.

For a long time I was born in Ifakara town which has a close history and the shivered and to see that this country that I have continued to recognize that this country that I have continued to recognize that this country has no time to God or the religion in general.

Everyone when I got time to analysts I did not hesitate to ask for this question, "this is when you were going to Christianity, in Africa, today you are seen in news with the religion though the religion continues to deal with us there?

The answers of that question was different from one person and another one, but the answer that comes up for many times is that many faith should not have an important opportunity in these parts of science and technology.

Basically, in the usual this Sunday, many attacks from England have forgotten that the visitors' (because of the residents of natural resources of this country, especially African countries and if they go to Europe, East Africa).

In the central days of the week, many of these diseases have been like the tourism attractions especially considering that a lot of buildings in the service is an important part in the history of the existing areas.

But if you see me there, "the religion of this country" (basically the country is the Christian and queen Darleen continues to be "the attorney general of the Catholic Church diocese of world (what is used the British lack people to follow ethics, then go back to different parts of the service (such as bank, big shops) or in the office.

First, in a big way, there is no major way to get money in this country without being accountable, the British can take their activities on weight and the great importance is that the government and the administration institutions are needed in making a good environment of wanting each person to do, "he put up fruits.

There is an issue of rights and responsibility to a big level, most of the British have a responsibility of paying taxes, and the responsibility is giving them rights to get services that will not meet their requirements.

Likewise, various institutions in this country know their responsibility of providing services that go with the requirements of the services.

Therefore, despite the position of God and Christianity, (or a religion in general), seen among the British British, there is still a great extent that this community is doing "many more than when we should not get to the house of worship.

Private, despite not supposed to see people who had gone to Christianity, "many of the British are continuing to listen to how they are running the life and their activities with integrity.

Although the British government is like they don't have religion but many of them are not ready to see another person getting off their primary rights, and that is why this country has taken place as the biggest challenge to millions of refugees who are among them are those who are oppressed and so on.

In this situation, you want to conclude that the best to be "heart" is good than Mcha 'Watu na Viatu' yes, a religion has lost its importance to many of our colleagues but many of them have continued to have good people "than a lot of millions of God in Africa.

It is possible for us to go to heaven because of bringing to God for their actions, while our religious leaders can be sold for instance to prevent their participants in involving themselves, integrity and lack of evil deeds for their colleagues.

It is in this environment of "England and the ones that love me despite most of his people giving birth to God," this is when I was surprised by news in one newspaper at home to be the England ambassador to Tanzania, Diane Corner.
"Congratulated the government for growing democracy due to the freedom that causes the media houses to sell the public about different issues including public use that are being done by the government."

Previously, I request to let me open that until this time, I have not worried that Ambassador Kamala was quoted saying (that is why he gave that statement).

I don't want you to believe that Ambassador has no information about huge violence done by the government against the private media at home (if you put aside the newspaper of the government that wrote that news).

Currently, Ambassador Kamala has never met so much among those involved in the free platform of social networks Forums which is for sure has become a great source of removing the evil deeds in the community?

It is possible that Ambassador has never tried to hear the incident of illegal immigrants from the journalist, Said Kubenea who has the government that has been accused by the ambassador has given a permanent responsibility to control the editor and his newspaper that has been banned for some time?

It is democracy when we were talking about the highly proposed constitution, CCM at the election campaign in Zanzibar, but it is also aimed to ban the political meetings by the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), but it is also following the ban of the internal meetings by the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), but it is also aimed at fighting the public meetings by the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).

Recently, Ambassador Sefue has no report that the police force has done huge violence against CHADEMA's followers and led the deaths of citizens who are not guilty in Arusha, Morogoro, and the biggest challenge is the death of journalist David Banda in Iringa recently.

I am saying I don't want to believe that freedom of the media or democracy that are witnessing here in England has different meanings in the country, he told the Ambassador at home.

To be true, one of the reasons that I've seen as we contribute to lack of good governance in the developing countries (including Tanzania) is a habit of developed countries like England to continue with the habit of holding an eye on human rights which you have no chance in the "the old community."

Recently, the British government through the prime minister, David Cameron has requested for forgiveness concerning the disaster disaster which took place in the year 1989, where several soccer fans who lost their lives.

So, Ambassador Mgaza was understand that until today the government she knows it for growing democracy, it has not requested for forgiveness for although the death of writer's analysis is ready to form the commission which has already begun to be buried and some of his delegates were about to do with their work performance.

If a Tanzanian who continues living in the country found in the past, it stopped the attorney general, but I call him and love me for a human being that is being used for human beings and human rights as a result of the great reason why our leaders continue to save the rights of human rights.

There are times when I get a lot of problems to understand these nations like England in their relationship with the country "that concern them," we are our fellow sponsors, and more than enough funds (though they have the wealth through the day) like Tanzania.
But the surprising thing, there is no appropriate measures to be taken and at least make sure that they get into their money (which primarily they are offered to help each Tanzanian).

So much, it is that the influx of qualifications that involve our leaders (like those to grow democracy and freedom of the media), the reputation are giving them to control the corrupt people to continue using our country.

So, "mystery" is one of our sponsors is due to the feelings that the corruption funds are usually contributed to the banks in the country but it is possible that we are supposed to have democracy and freedom of news media, but we are witnessed in England?

I have decided to finish up why Ambassador Mgaza was the statement of the former prime minister of England Cynthia Gordon in his activities of helping Africa.

He said (I am an entrepreneur in this high table), without increasing efforts to help, use a number of African countries more than 150 years to reach you (British). "

But in this trend of "the reputation are not seen, then you do not recognize that it can be wrong, to reach the truth of the truth that does not allow the true freedom of the media.
