
Stakeholders are required to consider the standards of consumers.

The 18th September, 2016

And Mashaka Mhando, Tree.
Stakeholders who use products in the country have been urged to cooperate with the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in order to cooperate with the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in a way.
The quality of those products including agricultural products produced in the villages in order to protect the consumers of health effects.
While opening a meeting of the TBS stakeholders that is taking place in the city, to discuss the improvement of the requirements of the standards in the country, the head of Tanga Province, Martine Shigella, urged them to focus more on the provision of education.
Users especially agricultural products which have no users do not maintain quality standards.
He said that citizens must know how to identify the quality of products soon as they buy and protect their health than buying without considering the last date of its use.
He said that in that farming products have had its challenges, "we have a lot of things especially agriculture products are used without knowing its quality, we have changed these lives from the use of water catchment areas.
Drinking and the animals, the government expects a lot in this sector for the lives of its citizens, "he said.
He also said that in Tanga province, which has had a huge port between 45 to 50 that have been used to bring in products from the neighboring country and out of smuggling which have not been approved by the use, therefore it is good.
Stakeholders to also give a solution to that meeting.
Previously, speaking on behalf of the director general of TBS, the Director of Bureau of Standards, Kenwanja, said the meeting has an aim of going together with stakeholders to discuss the opportunity after seeing the country is facing a problem of products with poor standards.
He said the meeting is taking place after finishing in the provinces of Mtwara, Dar es Salaam and Tanga due to having ways of getting products from outside, therefore stakeholders discussing that they will come out with the intention of having a better way to control the problem.
