Compensation to stop the road project.
28th of 07, 2014.

The project together with the construction of road construction between Tanzania and Kenya is proud because of the residents of Tanzania preparing themselves about the government that it has failed to pay compensation for houses and their properties.
The project of construction of the road with a length of 242 kilometers, is expected to start from the outskirts of Arusha town and through Moshi to Holder so that the road will lead the city of Tenenbum and Vogue.
That construction whose contract was signed in April 2013 is funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB) which has given a loan of 300 million American dollars. The project will cost an amount of 560 million American dollars.
The construction of that project has been planned to start early April this year in Kenya, and will be launched by senior leaders of the concerned countries and the project is President Jakaya Kikwete (Tanzania) and Uhuru Kenyatta (Kenya).
In Arusha, the road will start in the Ngarama estate, Arumeru district and the prisons-Kisongo.
Complaints from citizens.
Speaking to Good Citizen, chairman of more than 1000 citizens who are in the list of being paid for houses and their property, Arnautovic said that the construction is expected to start a short time in the next government of Tanzania still has not paid compensation to citizens who were requested to pave way for that construction.
He said that they were told to pave way for the construction of that road earlier on the month of January in 2012 with the government leaders that they should not continue with their areas until when they will be paid compensation and leave the road to pass.
"Up to now three years still are compensation for houses, plots, crops and other property in all areas where the new road is expected to take place," said Sixtus.
That chairman added, "three years is a very long time for someone not to do any activity in his area, but also delays, the compensation will be able to reduce citizens because the cost of construction equipment and other important things are expected to rise every year.
He said in the whole period of three years, they have written a letter to various government officials (the provincial commissioner of Arusha and the Minister of Construction, but up to now, there is no appropriate answers that were given by those leaders.
He added that he is worried that the construction will be held in time for the side of Tanzania because the issue of all the citizens in their areas needs enough time and also money for compensation before the construction has not started.
"It's impossible for all the people to curb them on this period of two months because who are blocking the house need for a period of preparing to look for other houses, to buy plots and build houses," he said.
He cautioned that if the government will destroy their complaints that they have presented their complaints that they have presented the legal action by preventing the construction in court so that they can get their rights.
Manager TANROADS.
The Manager of Tanzania Roads Agency (Tanaka), Arusha Province, Deusdedit Kakoko said that it is true that those citizens have not paid compensation for compensation and that the evaluation had been made.
He said the main reason for the government to fail to pay compensation is the budget of construction in the ministry of construction because according to the evaluation needed, an amount of 28 billion to pay the concerned parties.
"For now the government is in the process of getting money so as to pay compensation to the citizens, therefore my call is that the public will be patient while the process of looking for money is not easy," he said.
He clarified that in the construction of an agreement with the AfDB Bank, it is that the bank will increase the funds of construction and the government of Tanzania will contribute to other costs if they pay compensation to the citizens.
In a speech on the budget of the ministry of construction, Minister Doctor John Magufuli noted that the government has set aside one billion shillings to start the process of construction of the Arusha-Moshi roads to Tuface Idibia.
The lawyer explained.
The human rights lawyer Frank Matinda has told BBC Sport that those citizens have the right to be paid compensation for houses and their properties as the law has changed and the government is supposed to consider their rights.
He clarified that the land law of 1999, article 49 (3) explains the importance of having land the right to be paid for compensation when the land is caused by other uses.
"The government as a result of management number one of the law is supposed to pay those citizens again through the compensation of money to houses and other property, which will be affected," he said.
