
Majaliwa laying the illegal fishing.

It has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered the head of Mafia District, Coast Province, Shaibu Ndimbe and the director of the council, Eric Mapunda, to strengthen security in the reserve area to prevent illegal fishing.

He has said the illegal fishing tools that continue in those districts are supposed to be controlled quickly because they are causing that council to lack revenue and to fail to improve the development of citizens.
He gave that order at different times yesterday when he visited the fish market to Tanoh, when he visited the citizens in a public meeting that took place at the Kigambini village.
He said fishing is the main activity of the economy and the important source of revenue in Mafia District and the issue of illegal fishing is affecting the income of the council thus it is better to stop those acts.
"It is a must to be handed over to obey them and fisheries, using bombs, destroy the environment of the sea thus the fish are unable to sell in large numbers, make sure that those people have been arrested and taken against them," he said.
Director of the Proin Promotion Company which owns Ruvu Shooting factory, Gmwaijonga has said that the company has employed 855 servants among 445 workers is the residents of Mafia while women with 250 million.
He said that they have a total of 76 dams to be used in fish, the type of war and for now being used for 30 percent and every one has the ability to produce 50 kilograms.
The value of the year is 300 tons, he said during the 2016 / 2017 financial year, they are expected to get an average of 120 billion shillings in the sales of out of 62 billion shillings from internal sales, they are expecting to pay taxes of more than 15 billion shillings in this year.
Mohammed Glawogger who is the councilor of Mafia District Council and the chairperson of Mafia District Council said the areas that were affected by illegal fishing in Ndagoni village (Kiango), Jichunge.'
He said that the issue that stopped from being arrested in illegal fishing was due to servants, lack of faith and to prevent the secret of those fishermen, therefore, there is a trap of the arrest.
