
Barcelona's shame will continue to be banned for registration.
Barcelona, Spain, captain of the La Liga, Barcelona started badly in the year 2015 with a ban of registering any player to the year 2016 and will be beaten 1-0 to Real Madrid.
Same as an increase in the fire place in Maksimir Stadium, there's a shame for the club that were blocked more on Monday, his assistant director, Andaman Sea presenting a request to resign as his assistant, Carmel of Undule.
Carlos Puyol with 36, once he was the captain of Barcelona after he gave him the club for 15 seasons for defense.
When he went to the assistant position of the assistant director of the month of May last year when he announced his retirement from playing soccer.
"I would like to learn other different issues, apart from Barcelona, it is my love to pay for example, I would like to do so much and to get back here in the near future, I am supposed to go back here in the near future, I will not hesitate to go back here in the near future, I will not hesitate to go back here in the near future.
Even so, Barcelona did not want the reasons for praising him from 6-2011 to support the club between 6-2011 and to support the club's squad that made him to defend that club in the position since 2010.
Its approximately one week which has been released after that club whose coach, Luis Engees Okoye has been banned by breaking the service of any player and the Federation of Football Federation (FIFA).
The International Criminal Court (TPDF) was suspended from the Barcelona appeal against FIFA on December 30th after being found guilty of preventing themselves for upcoming years to play for 18 years.
Be keen on parole, 53, for example a new contract with Barcelona last year, a contract that was expected to be expelled from the year 2016 under its leadership, Barcelona had managed to win the La Liga league 2011 and 2013 despite emerging the winner of UEFA 2011.
Even so, that director was criticized by being operated on last year after being found in the efforts of the club to register defenders in the process of strengthening the protection of security, a situation that led to Barcelona to sign up the title last season.
The side of the right defender of Brazil, Attribution, Pereira Ame, has reduced the stadium and to support the first squad while the assistant referee in the final match of the league.
