
The Tanzania Mainland Premier League.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

The women's soccer league has been planned to start on October 4th this year, while being the first time to take place in that league in the country.

That league will involve 12 teams divided into two groups with six teams each one and thus the players will make them put in good environments of showing their talents.
We have been seen the women's league in Dar es Salaam province only where women from different teams in that province have been participating and showing their ability.
But also last year it was held for the first time in the competition of women's cup that involves all provinces of Tanzania Mainland and Temeke team emerged with championship.
But this year's system of women that will have group A and B will play home and away matches then they will play home and away matches, then the third teams will play in every group will play in the premier league.
I also congratulated the Tanzania Women's Football Association (TWFA) for that important step because it greatly increase the women's soccer and especially in the best best players in future.
First, that step has been late because it was required if other countries are doing so for many years now, the step that is being done by this party, for now, shows that it is one step of attaining the highest success in the sector of sports especially for women's soccer.
Through the women's league, it's a great opportunity for the women especially because that league will take many women with talents in the estates and to use the environment to reach more more.
It is good for the concerned parties to ensure that the league becomes better and added that the use of participation is good and they continue to look for other sponsors who will increase the great catalyst for now, the Azam company has focused itself to help that league but it is good for more sponsors in that league.
It is clear that by doing so, the players who will participate will be able to play and it's not only a gift to be big but also their allowances.
I think that there is a great job to do in improving the league and especially considering that it is the first league to take place where the players who will participate with their organizers in order to increase their efficiency.
The teams that will participate in that league are suppressing the provinces of Mtwara, Kilifair Azam FC of Tanga, Mwadui FC of Iringa, Mlandizi District, Coast, Maragase stupidity, Mwanza, EngenderHealth from Mwanza.
Also, there are some of the Koran that we represent in Dodoma, the buildings that surrounds the camp in Kigoma, Kagera Sugar, Kagera Sugar and JKT Queens, together with Shamin Khan which are in the province of Dar es Salaam.
