A bomb attacks we prepare to return.
Seasons Hotel, 2014.

There is a report of the mining of coal projects that are being done by Tanroad energy and the port of Ndeki in Ruvuma.
It is reported that the effects of the mining of coal has started being seen in the fish, Nyasa to affected.
As it was for the citizens of the areas that were carried out in Brussels town, the citizens who were along the project in Nyasa, Ruvuma province, are still not educated about the benefits and loss of electricity generated from coal in the country.
In that, they should not wait for the parliament to oppose the project with great and health effects to them, they can go to court to claim the existence of this project.
There is a good example of the strength of citizens to win in the rights and rights in the process that concern them and there is a good example of the citizens that joined their rights and they get them.
In the nineties, there was one player in Kunduchi Mtongani, who was appointed Festo Kiswaga to bid farewell to his seven thousand fellow colleagues they had agreed to oppose the decision of the City Council of Dar es Salaam to set aside.
The main reason for the opening of the court were two, the environment and the health of the people of the area where all were in danger.
The decision by the council of the city to put up in that area that endangers the health of the people of the concerned area and therefore going against section 14 of the constitution, that section gives the rights of someone to live and be successful in the community.
Festo Sakaya speaking to his colleagues who requested the High Court to the authority presented by the law, article 108 (2) of the Tanzania Constitution, to cancel (to the village) a decision by the City Council to make that area as Jalala.
In addition, they requested the court to give an order to prevent the protocol of the councils not to continue with the end of attacking him and the end they had requested the court to introduce himself and at the end of the court he had requested the court to marry off their wives, VFLWolf-SRHR, Dar es Salaam city, Celine Itatiro.
The high court passed a judgment by giving all the third commandment according to the request, it was a historic judgment and it may be a new command to the children who are studying the law and without doubt, it has been put in the law of law.
By bad luck, in planning and implementing big projects like which was held in Johannesburg, the citizens are not involved, but the citizens are not given out the opportunity to be educated on the benefits and a loss that will involve them about what is planned to be done.
Usually comes to investors to give citizens bags of cement, iron sheets, can also threatens the water boreholes and to renovate their roads.
It has been said that they are involved, they have mentioned their problems, have been given social funds, but these citizens are not educated about the benefits and disadvantages of the project so that they do not know if this issue has their interests or not.
Lawyers and environmental activists have a responsibility of using their knowledge to check the projects like this, then we can get public awareness, even if there are big health effects that come from geothermal energy, normal citizens will never mention the problem.
It is a history that will inform the activists and the lawyers of the environment, who will fail to fulfill their patriotic responsibility to educate the public about this issue, and if there are big effects that will affect the people of the concerned areas, therefore, history will benefit our scholars by failing to prevent this issue it should not happen before.
For example, professionally, we are told the production of 200 megawatts of coal in which is the meaning of generating electricity in human beings and environment, so that so as to get electricity, coal is read and give that dirty weather.
It should be remembered, the energy generated from coal in the world is very easy and it is determined in large numbers, but it is a very dirty technology of electricity, then coal is used to produce electricity.
In our country some of the electricity that produces water and water, we have an opportunity to use solar power generation.
Most of the coal is needed to produce electricity, are indicating that even if there will be a high standard technology in production of coal projects, but never it cannot be able to produce that electricity without producing the solar energy which is in which coal is abroad.
Due to the bad environmental effects, it is obvious that there should be an official guest to welcoming the guest of welcoming what we saw and alternative energy.
