Finally, the body of the artist is an air?
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

Finally, the body of the famous song 'wasanii wa bongofleva' team in the country, Albert Manguanjuki, has got permission from South Africa's government after being defeated in several days since she died on Tuesday, 28th May, in that country.
According to the supervisor of the procedures of receiving and farewell to the body, the President of Tanzania Music Federation, Adolph Mkenda, who held the position of chairperson of the committee, Kenneth Manguanjuki, who is in the position of chairperson of the committee, Kenneth Mangomes, who was held on June 5, this year, at 8 o'clock in the afternoon at the Julius Nyerere International Airport.
"Already documents for transporting the body has already been finished and yesterday (Monday) where South African Airways came out and today (Tuesday) the body will arrive at eight o'clock in the afternoon by Leaders Club's grounds until six o'clock in the afternoon when the journey heading to Morogoro will start.
"The burial will be held tomorrow on Thursday 10 o'clock in the afternoon at the cemetery of Kihonda in Morogoro town, therefore we are urging music lovers together with other Tanzanians to attend in numbers so as to make the journey of our brother," said Adhanom.
In addition, the reports that were spread in relation to the delay of the deceased's body since she died the last week is that the South African Government borrowed drug abuse, but later the Tanzanian ambassador in South Africa, Radwanska has denied those reports and put openly that the reasons for the delay of that body is non-governmental and there is no any information related to drugs.
In another step, Adnani has said that the cost used in purification of Mangaka- Tunduru American dollars and all costs have been paid by the Clouds Media Group station.
"We thank the stakeholders that came out to contribute towards the completion of the burial, and especially Clouds FM who have paid all the cost of assessing the body from South Africa so that up to now, the donations have paid more than 70 million, but there are some people that pay the stadium, drinks and food, therefore we are happy to see the things are going on well," said Adhanom.
Albert Mangomes, popular by the name Cuture Group, Nganga, or a child of Jah Khajida Kopa, he started music at the end of the 1990s when he was playing for P-Square, Dodoma, with a musician with great talent on water and quality.
Until he died, Mangaka- the world succeeded to give two album which he got in the year 2004 when I made it in the year 2009 at the Bongo Records studio, a company of Mke Mwema should join us to ask God rest his soul in eternal peace, Amin.
