Eternal peace council, Amina Masenza.
May 22, 2014.

Last week in this New York Times magazine, we continued to listen to a case against 19 soldiers who were involved in a rebellion like cooking oil in the night of January 19th, last year when we were following the explanation of the prosecutor in that case, Herbert Louis o, today we are continuing with that case of rebellion.
In his explanation at the court, the Director of Public Herbert Louis Van Der Pluijm has appointed Sergeant Francis Hovind, as he was the head of all the military events in the night of being used in January 19, last year only.
It has explained that the court that rebels managed to boycott the late Sajuki.
Chitemo resident told the High Court that was also known in the world as a peaceful state, a situation that brought together people living in a lot of fear, "and then he wanted the court to give a great punishment for treason.
Similarly, he told the court it is in which way the minister of foreign affairs and security, Oscar Assenga, had been forced to be shot and he has decided to be shot dead and even a normal beating without weapons.
Chitemo resident told the court that soldiers who tried to kill him, some of them were heard, "Masau boasted.
The witness of the court also explained about the bodies of the people that were killed in town, another witness, Elba as Elichilia Khamis, Director of criminal Investigation and Assistant Commissioner of Police, who gave his evidence about the military mistake.
He said, he told the special court of natural gas in Dar es Salaam city that, January 20, last year when he went to State House, he went to State House to inform the citizens that put it so, he found a big number of weapons.
When he was asked by the trainer, Herbert Louis o, in which way he gets to the incident to find a soldier of the armed robberies, he said that he was blocked to the field so that they should not enter the State House and that two soldiers were using his car.
"Those who live near in my car have already found the weapons that were ready to be used," he said and continued to inform the special court of livestock that there was 25 to 30 residents at the State House in Dar es Salaam, most of the army weapons.
"I saw some of the police while carrying the meaning (Baboons and)," he said.
He told the court that he was able to recognize two soldiers who were at the gate whom she wanted to get into the State House.
After explaining that he needs to get into State House, those police had left her in his car and went to a conversation with another police who standing in the step between 20 to 30 from when he has condemned the vehicle.
"Later the three police who came to my car together with the police who tried a lot and he told the police commissioner that is inside the gate and gave him the instructions to be appointed," said Mgena.
When you want to do you say you cannot recognize the police who commanded what to be opened, Akoth famously known as Francis Hoja, who was there in the court.
He said he continued to explain what happened after being allowed to enter the State House, he said that when he met with the police commissioner heading to the high table where he found the number of police has increased.
Then I saw me.

He said that when he saw a car that could kill him and a lorry of the army with the police have got into the same time, when I saw Moscow, "I saw Athuman, inside the middle of the police group but I did not know how he went to."
He said, he said that he was together with the commissioner of police, they ask ourselves, and when the previous police came out to know that he was officially opened, told Minister Modi, that he wanted to speak with him by the police (Sergeant Samuel Eto'o) that he wanted to speak to him from the gate on the gate.
"I am the police commissioner as we agreed to go inside the room," he added.
He said, after all of getting into the room and sitting on seats, they were going on at a high table and going on a high level, Sergeant Samuel Eto'o, who did not have any weapon, he continued to speak before Kambona.
He said Hinterland, told the Minister (not pictured), "we have met all our officers because we have forgotten your ministers because you can be accompanied with us to listen to the claims by the police and make sure they will be released."
He said he continued to inform the court that Minister Modi added that the call of going to speak to the police and then all of them were left on the floor of the seat at the State House.
