
He does not help her child health insurance.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been published yesterday, 18th October, 2016, the newspaper analysis of Tanzania Standard Chartered Bank, (TRL), has handed over the insurance card of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), Wilson Jackson (11), who is holding more than six months now after getting an accident of colliding with a bomb accident.

Accountability, newspaper producers of the newspaper, today, Friday, Daily News, Sunday News and Spohr, which will enable that child to be given treatment in any hospital in the country, it was faced with the Assistant Manager of Human Resources, Jackson Sipitieck, yesterday in Dar es Salaam city.
On September 5 this year, the head of today made a article on the disruptions that she got that child who refused due to buoors, and some attendant contributed to 15 million for the purpose of treatment and tax for the families living in plenty.
Speaking after the handover, the Deputy Executive Director of TSN, Tuma Abdallah urged the father of that child to make sure they are continuing to take him to that child soon as required to recover.
"This card will help me take a child to any hospital and get better treatment, we desire to see him he meets and walking again," he said.
Speaking about the state of his child since starting to get support, wait and thank you for all the donations, he said the condition of his child has started improving because he has started supporting and taking the mouth.
"First, we thank you so much for us to enable this donation and another last year, God bless you so much and we have not paid taxes for the whole year, we have brought the child to the hospital, when she is going well," he said.
Wilson Massawe and his brother, Ibrahim (15) got an accident on 28 February this year in Magoza village after falling with buoys.
The accident resulted from Ibrahim Ajib by the thigh of the thigh muscles, after the blood entered into both sides of the head and suffering from a disease known by the disease, "Masau boasted."
Wilson who is also a voice system has been affected by the problem who needs special needs, diet and more treatment so that he can go back to his normal state.
Also, he needs for the-wheeled Motorcycle transport equipment so as to help him through a phone number 4652, 255 942 (Jackson should go) or 767 76,000 and Neema Ndeki.
The one who was touched also can make anything that this child through the acting editor of this newspaper, Nicodemus Thom, a number of 8743).
