Judge Werema, from Misri.

July 31, 2016.

Attorney General (AG) Judge Frederick Werema, has refused the recommendations of some members of parliament in Dodoma province, to make changes in the media bill of film industry.
He said those reforms will continue to implement the court of parliament that it will enable the government to change the law so as to see if they are expected to prevent the language or incitement statements.
Speaking at the 13 special session of parliament in that town yesterday, Judge Werema said that the law has not aimed at registering journalists but to build a nation with discipline.
He added that he will make changes in that law to be considered for the development of the nation and added that the government has revealed that it has been fined shillings 176 million for the mistake of printing incitement reports or that can cause the collapse of peace is small and now it will be approximately five million shillings.
Judge Werema, said they have proposed that discipline due to the effects of the involved community to the community, "we have proposed that those that are doing corrections so that the mistake of giving statements to people's gatherings get a fine of five hundred thousand shillings or a period of five hundred thousand shillings.
Previously, this punishment was shillings 1,000, other renovations that were held are regulations for using abusive language, fighting and threats of causing violence and now its punishment is for six months instead of six months that were previously, "he said.
He said freedom without the boundaries is that violence is because the men reap from his trousers using the women getting married and that is the procedure that a journalist are required to pave way especially when they get their information.
"If there is a person who has interests with the media, to help them through the media for personal interests, never those reforms will not be held," said Judge Werema.
He added that as a member of parliament of CCM and CHADEMA, they have the interest of change in that law, he didn't support him and there is no need to be changed at the concerned section.
Judge Werema said that those changes are not involved in the newspapers and Tanzania does not have the procedure to protect themselves.
News and if the relevant agencies have not seen, they are not seen, can be able to go to court.
"There are some laws that will be emphasized as the law of political parties, politics, blogs and this newspapers are not ready to discuss this law, freedom of news in the United States have no difference with here in Tanzania but our colleagues have already put the borders of freedom because without the boundaries," he said.
He said all the government in the world have a responsibility to supervise and prevent any situation of breach of peace and therefore the constitution is giving justice that has been unable to cooperate and get news.
Earlier on the official camp of opposition in parliament, the day before yesterday opposed the bill of Marist from newspaper laws and claimed that it aims at getting the media houses.
