
Many women who were married are not very fast to evade the attempt to prevent it.

Many women who have been married do not be careful (do not use the fees that I have been married, although them are disasters, but it's just a trap of them, it's just a trap.

Most of them don't know the leadership but they will lead you themselves because the most popular group is mothers of home or women who have not seen him (I feel extremely honored)!

You can't know her husband has money and everything, but because the relatives have not been employed in the government or in the institution or company (remember that we have many to be self-employed), his wife knows it as a certain person who does not have a good status of being the husband.

In this short report that which had the mothers of those kind, are those youths or self-employed people who come from the morning, they have forgotten the same time, others do not tell them, (they do not know if their work is to remove it or going round in offices offices.

Women of the kind starts the first to look closely and cause people of that kind by working and putting off their dreams.

Despite the experience that I received about the mothers above, recently, I have faced with several challenges facing women who were married to a whole, most of them who were seen as a few months to confirm this one that made them.

1-1, among those who are from each other, he started selling food (I am very happy), I see you are getting problems with you and you can't know what you love.

The first day I did not know but (I heard this one, I thank you, later I'm complaining, later I didn't know what they usually comes here, I didn't told all that!

He said to you, you do not be afraid, my husband has lived for now, while we have gone down, he had gone against me but he did not do anything, I did not do anything that she is doing until now is my secret.

2 - sometimes, he got my number through the phone, I have been my friend, each time, especially when you get pregnant, you don't see you, then you have a desire to get out of Dar to know or not Shem? "

Many times I have not noticed, when he knows that, "Shela let me know then, do not be afraid of my husband not in the moment." We are in these days not to be touched.

3 - another one, after complaining about her life with a marriage, Yves Sheila, who died, hard life, my friend and the income does not loose even when I was not happy and I don't know what I had not seen, you have not been infected with joy?

4 million, the other one is my neighbor, again it is someone who can be able, I request for someone to give him a certain number of the streets to defend other lights, I advise him so that they love the farm, then he told them that there will be no longer.

Since the release of my number, you will see that at 4 o'clock at night, we will go down like "foreign affairs, this Saturday we will go to thank you but we need me, I don't know how I have a lot of things, maybe another day.

It's a lot of disasters and we meet with women who were married, most of them, most of them, most of them have a lot of men to be close to them and not to be close to them and not their husbands?

Earlier, I advise the youth to sit together with a person's wife, because the wife of a person is Zigo in drugs.
