
Cuba, non-infectious diseases.
May 22, 2014.

Fear of touching the Dengue virus and malaria in the country can be remembered from August, this year, after being completed and started working in the Kibaha factory Health Organization (MUWSA) that will produce a special drugs to control these diseases in the country, Almighty God has been told.
That factory which has reached the final stages of preparation before starting the production of trials in the coming weeks, is being constructed by specialists from Cuba, conjunction with National Development Corporation (NDC).
The acting director of the big industry in NDC, Ruan Swanepoel said that the author of this newspaper said that the factory will produce drugs that can be infected with a mosquito, which is together with malaria and what has dropped soon in the country.
"Cuba was accepted to give the technology of the manufacturing of those drugs together with the construction of the factory, the government through NDC) expected to produce six million shillings for a year of drugs to kill all mosquitoes again at the national level, before the second round, before a short step.
"Therefore, if we see the drugs to kill the infections that cause the existence of a mosquito, because all mosquitoes will be removed in the country and already there will have any diseases from mosquitoes that will not be there," said the director.
About the important steps now, he said that it is full of the special equipment, which will be used for production and that the experts of Cuba will be used to run the factory for a special period before being unable to stop in the hands of contraception?
When he was asked if the level of production of six million shillings can be enough to control the mosquito to breed in the country, that director said that the amount of production is a high level of needs, insisting that it can be enough.
This mosquito is determined through the third round, that is supposed to be demolished, they put it and then a full mosquito.
Society is a mosquito.
It is said that there are various experts that there are more than 2500 people from mosquito bite of those who are available in America, but it's also eight types of mosquitoes that bring effects to human beings.
These mosquito include, Hinterland, Tarime District is an outcome due to the origin of the language of Kiliberali, another mosquito is a penalty when he was found dead in the western countries.
So as a mosquito of any kind of work is a must for water it is a must for water, that is, that is sustainable, "the type of mosquitoes without caring about it is clean and clean water.
Mosquitoes live by depending on the blood stream of the human being or animal husbandry so that mosquito can be able to produce and laying eggs is a must for a food to get, "that is.
Dengue fever.

While the report of the existence of that factory in Kibaha, Coast Province, the country is ready to fear of spread of the Dengue disease.
This disease started to get in the country and was found in the city of Dar es Salaam, were revealed to get in January this year.
Dengue fever is a disease that is caused by the sun which is spread by a mosquito of the type of Aedes. It is a disease that is spread in the world in the Sahara Desert and approximately 40 percent of all the world living in countries with this disease.
The statistics of the World Health Organization is saying that approximately 5 million events have been released every year, 5 hundred thousand shillings were admitted in the hospital affected by the Dengue fever, it has been found to have found about 34 countries in Africa.
