
24 October 2013.

Malinzi, shaking hands with President Magufuli.
Presidential candidate in the race for the general elections of the Federation.
Tanzania Football Federation.
(TFF), Jamal Malinzi has said if he will be elected in that position, he was promised.
Honor to the success of the phase that ends its time.
Speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Malinzi.
He said one of the achievements is to improve peace in operations of football.
And doing an effort to expand, improve and improve the development of football.
Football in the country.
"Big efforts will be placed on a structure.
The technical department of TFF has aligned that federation.
He is the chief supervisor of football in Tanzania, thus the responsibility of.
The development of this game on a high level is going to the TFF.
"In this foundation, then a big percentage are.
TFF resources must be responsible in bringing development to football.
Our operations manager, is a high level of development in football is the technical department.
TFF, "said Malinzi.
He also pointed out the presence of construction.
The football station (Football Center), is a special station for training.
Football football, where in that center there is every kind of infrastructure.
The grounds for building football, medical centers, classrooms and research laboratories.
They are the chest and otherwise.
Malinzi said concerning the issue of the team.
To climb the bridge, so as to increase competition and expanding the football to be played every corner.
In the country, the system for playing the regional teams to get the teams to rise in the main bridge.
It is permanent and it will be supported through sponsorship and to improve the grounds.
To partner with the owners of those fields.
"To start the new competitions and resurrect.
In the past, football experts say that for a player to be in a high level.
Best to have a win for a year, it has built 40 matches in our league.
It is giving an opportunity for a player to play 26 games for a year if he will be planned.
The match is not enough, "he said.
On the side of women's football, Malinzi.
He said up to now, there is no stable system and the meaning of developing soccer.
Women, where he said that soccer.
It started in Kinondoni District and from the right there where there are teams that are names like the Mloganzira area and the toes.
He also said that preparations for the youth are?
A sustainable development plan for the youth soccer in the country was seen early to be treated.
Managed by keenly, "brethren, I insisted that the development of Tanzania is.
Here they were hard to do creativity, the courage and a new twist so that we can be able to do so.
To see our ball and let it give a new direction, direction and hope, the direction.
To take our soccer soccer in winning the big clubs in our Africa.
In the world, "he said.
