
Manufacturing Company of Ebola gives a report from Senegal Dakar, Senegal.

Dakar, Senegal, Mrorienting the Ebola disease in three East African countries, will give information together about the disease through a special mobile phone that was launched yesterday in Dakar, Senegal.
That step led to the campaign to deal with the disease that is being supported by the United Nations Educational Scientific Cultural Organization (UNICEF).
The disease is believed to be one of the noise about looking for more in recent years, which has caused the deaths of 7,800 people while there are more than 20,000 shillings which was reported, especially in Guinea nations, Sierra Leone and Liberia. According to the World Health Organization (WHO).
Can be accepted, although many people have survived due to that disease, still they are facing difficulty of being accepted by their community.
That situation is believed by the lack of important news about that disease.
Lack of important information is also ready to contribute to the spread of the disease, especially in those nations.
That campaign called "Big Results Now" is funded by Paul G, who is also the founders of the Zantel Company whose sentence has provided more than 9 billion shillings to deal with the disease.
Manento said that those countries will be given mobile phones, whereby they will be able to give information about what they got that disease through the machine, they will be able to exchange ideas on how they face the public.
"When the treatment of patients who suffer from that disease is dangerous, an important thing for now is to deal with the destruction of the disease," said Rafael Benitez, who is the officer of UNICEF in the report.
"The campaign aims to strengthen our efforts to deal with its neighborhood, including listening to how those who were able to deal with them," said Oberlin Kisanga.
Manufacturing Company who agreed to participate in that plan include Ciara, Mackey Fanta, Mackey Fanta from Guinea who was born with six relatives of her family as a result of that disease, but he lost his lover.
In the world, 24 patients have been stolen from Europe and America, many among them were health workers who have been infected with that disease in East Africa, but they will be returned to their countries for more treatment.
The recent patient the day before yesterday being infected by the disease in America arrived in the country on November 15th and died three days later.
