
The teachers of Arusha were claiming their claims.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

The directive by the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo has urged the major claims of teachers in the Arusha city they were given within 14 days has given fruits, because all of them that took more than 1697 million shillings have been paid.

Gambo gave the directive when he met with the teachers of primary and secondary schools in Arusha province, they gave a lot of complaints, including the huge claims of teachers and there was the head of that council to pay those debts within 14 days.
In implementing that order, the District Commissioner of Arusha, Gabriel Silayo, said the city has implemented two days and succeeded to pay that amount of money for all primary and secondary teachers.
Daisy said the city of Arusha has a total of 701 teachers in primary and secondary schools and all of them have been paid in that period.
He said the fifth term government led by President John Magufuli's caring and to protect all teachers and to give them their primary studies at a time without getting anything.
That Head said that teachers had claimed that their long-term works, including money for subsistence, fares, treatment, treatment and fuel which have been paid.
He said that for now the government of Arusha district wants to see teachers doing their primary responsibilities in increasing education including teaching students without ideas.
Speaking about the availability of those funds for a short time, he said the city council of Arusha decided to stop a lot of payments or to eliminate payments which is contrary to the procedures and that is why the funds have been obtained.
That Head said it is not that money to pay teachers were not end, but they were given things that are outside the procedure and due to the management of the city of Arusha, Athumani Kihamia to be able to prevent all loopholes of eating money.
"A lot of money in Arusha town which is being used in surfing and raising teachers for a long time, for now the loopholes have been stolen and that is why their funds have been stolen and that is why they have already paid those involved in claiming their important debts like this of the teachers," he said.
