
A suspect said transporting road "who defected to his child.

It has been written by Yusuf Bira and Kataegypti.

It has been reported, 19th October, 2016.

A child who was identified by the name Ernest Ernest (16) is accused of being among the youths of the criminal group "transporting road" which is a shop at Temeke Hospital in Dar es Salaam city.

Ernest Mangu, who is a three student student in that LSecondary School and a resident of Buza, alleged to be among the youths of that group who had died after being shot by citizens with an illusion.
Speaking about the incident, the police commander of Kipolisi Temeke, Gilles Ratia, said that they received information from good citizens that there are three youths who have died in the Mbagala area and after arriving at the scene affected the youths having a bad state.
Commander Siro has named one who was known by name Kelvin Twissa (14) that he had died after being shot dead by citizens and that before his death followed by his colleagues for going to check the recent music festival that was held in Mbagala Zakhem stadium.
Another youth Selemani Hamis (16), a resident of Kilongawima area, died at the surgery station in Temeke District Hospital.
"When people are going back to the festival, the group of those youths started a lot to pedestrians and start stealing their property and that's when the citizens arrested three people and started beating them," said Commander Mpinga.
He clarified that Ernest Anjeche was closed down by those citizens who died and had died where he had been taken to Mwanyamala Hospital and carried out all procedures, including being stripped of clothes and put off in the country.
"When his body has been set down before being defeated in the country, he invented and repeated on the shop and seen that he is still alive, a situation that led to the level of special care of doctors," he said.
The commissioner of parliament said after getting married and his health depends on him he was questioned and told 10 colleagues that he is with them in one group.
He said another young man at the vehicle called Suleiman Suleiman (19) a resident of Buza and Rankings, his condition is bad and he has been admitted to the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) for more treatment.
He said the police through the children's law of the year 2009, article 7 / 9, parents have a responsibility to ensure that the child is under their supervision, they did not have been reported in the environment that will cause unnecessary effects as well as well.
He said that the responsibility of the mother is to ensure that the child is in good upbringing and not to leave a world.
In addition, he made a call for anyone to sign him well for his child and violating the law of the year 2009, article 14 and that it will not be able to implement that he will be presented in court and it was known as an act that will be beaten in 6 months or pay a fine of five million shillings.
He said that in the environment that were found with those children, their parents are accused of violating the children's law.
Previously the police report of Temeke explained that it is holding 16 youths who are alleged to be of the crime of "transporting road" called "the new nation" for the involvement of people in the festival to promote talents, on October 15 this year.
