The new headquarters of that province is distracting member of parliament.
Jide 17, 2013.

The joy of being given in the province is like the moment has reduced the arrest of Ileje district and Mbozi district in Mbeya province, opposing the headquarters of the new province to be taken to Mkwajuni, Chunya District.
The Advisory Committee of Mbeya Region (RCC), that met recently received the day before yesterday to Mbeya province, those recommendations are the creation of a new region will be was known as Songwe province.
The Songwe region proposed as it was formed by Mbozi district, Ileje district, Momba district and Chunya District, the city of Mkwajuni, Chunya District.
In the RCC awards, the former Mbeya Region is competing with Mbarali District, Mbeya Town, Rungwe, Rungwe, Nyamagana and Kyela District, to avoid opportunistic infections which agree with that division due to the lack of the activities to oppose the RCC results.
Already it has already been involved with political and non-governmental meetings in the Mbozi district and Ileje districts, to identify themselves with RCC results in Mbeya province, using criteria of distance and the number of people to oppose those recommendations.
District of Ileje district and Mbozi district have still continued to insisted that the previous recommendations will be at the new provincial headquarters to be present at Ihanga village, Mlowo grounds, Nyereregete, and so much to be in the middle of all the districts that form the new region proposed.
"The new issue of the new region we have no problem with it, the name of the province we have no problem," our problem is where the headquarters are now, Mkwajuni, "says the Chairperson of the Council of Ileje district, Mohamed Mwindadi.
The main argument that is used by the government in educating the administration in the country is to move more services closer to the citizens, and in managing the bill, Ileje district and Mbozi regions have claimed that in those recommendations at the new region, the argument has not been changed instead, services have been pushed forward by many citizens of that province.
"If it is able to move more services closer to the citizens, we will also have a lot of affliction, then at least make it be a big area and we will have reduced the distance of many citizens different from Mkwajuni," believes that the Mbozi district commissioner Eric Sambu.
That chairman says that they would like the headquarters of that province to be work in any place in Mbozi district to benefit all people with building that new region.
The statistics of the number of people in those four districts are saying that Chunya District has 60 people living in Momba district, 4681 people and 4981 people and it is in the cause of the opponents of Mkwajuni, who are many who will use them more.
"You thank 865,35,331 people by wanting them to move to the neighboring countries of Chunya District," says that she was happy and added that "he used the services to citizens not to sell the province, even if they get the services to the citizens."
Chunya District is the biggest than all the districts in Mbeya Region, there is a time a person is forced to travel more than 200 kilometers from one area to another in the district.
However, by taking them to the headquarters in Mkwajuni, there will also increase the distance of citizens living in different areas of the Mbozi district and Ileje districts.
Some of the areas that will be at the end of that new province is together with Kapama, Mbozi district, Ieshia Evans, Kapama and Ikwililo, Ileje district, some of them, they will be forced to travel more than 200 kilometers.
"Ileje district we will use more, right now we are suffering from 160 kilometers to Mbeya, at Mkwajuni, it will increase 90 kilometers, it will be more far," says the chairperson of Ileje district, Mwindadi.
View of experts.
Together with the complaints by those leaders from the Mbozi district and Ileje district, there are many who agree with those recommendations, while considering that they are due to the research of the experts and the truth that all the decisions are not for all people.
The RCC recommendations resulted from various experts, whereby according to those experts in Mbeya Province, Mkwajuni, not that it's only the middle of that region of the new region, it is easy to connect that province by the Rukwa, Katavi, Tabora and other central areas.
The Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya, Abbas Kandoro, together with inspecting those proposals, he has been supporting him in those recommendations because he is planning to vie for a parliamentary seat in one of the districts, he says that the issue of misuse of experts since it is from the research and not a must for someone or politics.
He says that more than all the new province has a great energy in the country, mentioning some of the resources that include gold, preventing and transporting of the tourism of Chunya District, Mbozi district and agriculture in all districts.
