
Mchaga answered Yesuu!
His lover, when he was shocked and told me, she was surprised by the alami, that was some of him or not the police officer which he claimed.
It is reported that relatives had told him that he had the police officer that he was a police officer who was serving in the building.
According to the reception, that lady had told her colleagues that his fiancée was a police officer.
"Kidney had already been charged with his friends that he had a lover who is a police officer," said the reception of Kisanga, he told his two friends, "he told his two friends without knowing what they were waiting for.
MO Blog has explained that they carried out a lot of fear in a business building in this road, getting him from her fiancée when she arrived at the building, the lady asked the defender if he saw the mother and that's when he addressed one of his colleague.
That "we do work with him and he is in the seventh commandment," the defender told the lady.
When he gave out that in addition, the author did not believe that some of that person did not know well who was announcing the one to look for them.
"I request that the police force do not work in this building," Masau boasted.
But some of the singer, the officer of the phone and he said that he was required by the official guest.
Being happy about when the guest of honor, relatives came out quickly while asking him at a official draw of some of the person being attacked and seen in the person of happiness.
However, the beautiful lady was surprised when she was shocked when he was shocked when he was walking.
"Flash disk" from Jamala, so you are, I don't know where I did not believe this, "said the person was heard before posting them.
Surprising thing is that even people had not contested for her first card, but he was to be given to his activities.
He had friends of Tip Top Group the whole time which took the hospital and it was not known what happened after that lady got an affordable price.
And Collins is not present.
