
17 December 2012

Jehovah's witnesses.

By Rehema Nchimbi.

The director of the Proin Promotion Company, Suleiman Mohamed (48) has announced the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court to Sheikh Issa Ponda and his colleagues carried out to Chang'ombe Primary School for a period of seven days.
Mohamed who is the third witness in that case, explained that yesterday before resident magistrate, Victoria I led when he was giving his evidence in the case of the attack against Sheikh Ponda and his colleagues.

While led by the lawyer of the government, Tumaini Kweka, the witness claimed that while in that area, they started the construction of an example of the stall using construction equipment that had been set up by the Huawei Company to start companies for building a fence.

He claimed that they went to build a fence in that area after getting an agreement of exchange with the area of dye at 4-4 that are in Kisarawe District between them and the Council of Muslims Tanzania (BAKWATA).

However, he claimed that before starting the construction of the fence, they got a report from those who want to be, Sheikh Ponda will not be played with the act of that company to own that area where there need him to work with Bakwata.

He claimed that as a result of the presence of those cases, he commanded people that he took the start to build a foundation of building a fence to stop so, so that they can be able to look for the appropriate time of that issue.

"On Friday at 4 o'clock in the evening, I was called on that area, I found many people like 400 people, later those people were injured in the area, later they reduced and when they leave the construction equipment we have put it as usual," he claimed.

On his part, the second witness of that case, the chief Sheikh of Shinyanga province, Sheikh Ismail Makusanya (49) has explained that the court that the Council of Social Security organized to share with the size of the Kisarawe area that he had been given by Huawei Company to start companies.

He claimed that as one of the delegates of the council of Maasais', he was among the delegates who went to inspect that area in Kisarawe area and be satisfied with it.

He claimed that the area of Chang'ombe Marimo as it is legal for the Huawei Company to start because they received all procedures of exchange of the area including signing a memorandum of agreement between them and Bakwata.

In that case, Sheikh Ponda and his colleagues are alleged to attack the Marimo area, Chang'ombe, Dar es Salaam city, where they carried out and stealing various property worth 59 million shillings.
That case has been postponed until December 18th this year.
