
Tibaijuka is representing us to marry off the time they will read.
Daniel Chongolo, The Citizen of Mkwajuni, annamatinde @ gmail.
Dodoma.
Professor Tibaijuka came to that decision after being chosen as a result of some members of parliament to speak out and calling a penalty while contributing to a speech of the budget of the ministry of constitution and law.
Professor Tibaijuka started by requesting members of parliament to support President John Magufuli because he has been chosen by the citizens of "our colleagues who have the right to say they are saying, but even we have the right to make them well so that it should be understood to the citizens," he said.
Professor Tibaijuka said that if you go to inform you because it is a must for you to talk about something, the parliament has changed the parliament and not a place to take them to the village areas.
That statement made the opposition members of parliament who started shouting.
Back to the speech by the opposition's spokesman in parliament, Tundu Lissu, as Tanganyika came to Zanzibar and made the colonization, Professor Tibaijuka said that Tanganyika came into Zanzibar with my first work, I don't know that I was in the world business organization, "he said.
As a result of requesting them to continue, the speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai, has survived, "the honorable members of parliament, I request that you should be patient by Honorable Professor Lipumba.
"To those who know what I have read the website, I am not a person to fall down and attractive things.
I am not supposed to be touched by your opinion polls, that (a person) asked him to read the number MSabatama, because I want to defend his things when a person when he can bring danger.
"In the world of old, it is impressed about the issue and Lissu here they could be taught, but the old people listening to them," he said, while some members of parliament are continuing to sit down.
Tibaijuka has ever been the minister of land, housing and housing development during the administration of President Jakaya Kikwete and he was removed after he was accused of getting a share of Tegeta Escrow account.
