
The government has ordered investigations about the selling of land.
Bob Entertainment.
The government has directed investigations to know how the land has been built for public activities in Malezi ya Malezi ya Chai Secondary School, he noted that Maasais.
District commissioner of Kilimba, Mister Julius Mharage Change, said yesterday that that company was allowed to pay his land to the shares of the year 2007, it was given a plan to set aside land for public activities and they are made so.
But Mister Mistorius said that the current supervisors have reduced the land for public activities.
On Sunday last week, the Member of Parliament of Kilimba, Miss Regina Ndaichako said, Mister Kimaichako said, Mister Mini Dairies, and believers were forced to participate in the service under a tree when they visited the church when they visited the church.
Miss Ndaichako said that Mister Kimaichako said that they had moved to the church where they received it.
The leader of the church, Pasta James Nyamgenda, said the church was constructed in the land that had been built for public activities in the year 2007.
That church was introduced in the area of 2004 when those leaders and the representative of parliament of the area, Caroline you are hopeful that the incident and they promised to investigate it.
Miss Ndaichako said yesterday that it was allowed to land for the use of public projects that were sponsored by the executive directors of that company, Joseline Kamuhanda, (Deputy Chairperson), Mister Peter Kifu (secretary) in the year 2007 and left that decision has been changed to them.
"I was speaking with the current chairperson of Malampaka Ward, Mister David Ngemera speaking on him by saying the ministry of land has given out the permission to sell the land use of the public use so as to pay debts," said that member of parliament.
Mister Nganga did not answer his new phone on Sunday that it has planned for him yesterday to get his statement.
Mister Kimaichako said that the government will not accept any land involved in public activities.
And we are looking for example, that church is needed to be built again and those bought the land has been sentenced.
