
Father visits the dancers of his daughter of the African Child.

Rashid Mkonga.

- Adhanom heading to the net.

She is a girl.
Anna Mboma (13) a class one student at Majengo Primary School located in Sumbawanga district, Rukwa Province, has been directed to the White alcohol club by his father by the name, Fred Halla.

The incident of violence occurred in one of the strategies to oppose the violence and gender violence and various institutions including the Tanzania Women's Association (TAMWA) happened at the end of the week after the author of these news that was following the acts of gender violence to the district.

While talking about that tragedy in the office of the Social Welfare Officer in the district, that lady who was accompanied by the police officer from the gender unit, Majuto Omary said that he arrived in that district with his father from Sumbawanga Town, Mbeya Region.

He said his father who has separated with her mother by the name Asha Mwanajeje Cub of Sumbawanga town, saw him and leave him on claims that he wanted to meet him with his brother who have separated many years.

"The father of Sumbawanga Municipality, said I cannot get out of Mbeya to meet their brother John, I did not meet with my brother who at that time he was under the supervision of the gender desk of Chunya District.

He continued that he had previously met with his father in class one when they were living in Tunduma City but later it had a conflict that caused the father and her mother to go and go to live with his mother in Sumbawanga town.

He said that for the whole period when he was living with his mother in Sumbawanga town, he has never met with his father until he arrived soon and wanted them to leave together heading to Mbeya.

"" When he came to the mother he is in his businesses to sell rice, he went to the morning when I went up to Mbeya, even the mother did not bid farewell, "said the girl.

Speaking on the working environment of that child, the Social Welfare Officer of Chunya District, Miss Maclen Gage said that in accordance with the explanation of that girl, his father was enough for him to his mother when they arrived in Mbeya left with him up to Chunya District and not supporting them without any support.

He said that until now the girl has been reserved for the police station of Chunya District, the gender desk that were trying to look for communication in the school that he was reading in Sumbawanga town.

And the police officer from the gender desk in that district, Miss Majuto Omary said that the girl was given to them from one woman who was brought by the youth in his alcohol business area in the night of Wednesday.

According to the Mrs Salma Kikwete, that the girl was left out by his father from the afternoon up to six o'clock at night, when he met with the mother who visited him at his home until the morning when he met the police station.

"We are not aware where he is his father until now, we have not got reports of accidents or death, we have landed in the District Hospital we have never seen those injured or any person who was reported in the world, it is possible he is heading to the gold accident and not her child, an act that he does not depend on the community," said Mrs Mwanamwema.

The Tanzania Media's Association (TAMWA) has been on the forefront to protest against violence against women and children and are forced to drive out some of the journalists following up and eventually raising events of this kind in various parts of the country.

According to the Executive Director of TAMWA, Miss Bestina Magutu has said that many events of gender violence that are taking place at the periphery are not allowed in the media so as to give an opportunity to continue with those events without legal action.
