The fact is that it is not seen by putting off the newspapers.
October 2nd, 2013.

Last Saturday, most of the people have been successful and shock after listening or reading the information that the government has been forced to ban the newspapers in the Citizen newspaper and Tanzania according to that report, the Citizen newspaper was banned for 14 days and a Tanzanian shillings.

Private, although I met with that decision, Makabe, I was very happy because this was not the first time for the government to take a decision such as well and there was no efforts to fight with them.

Recently, the recent example of the government works against the media is to ban the newspaper every week after the magazine MwanaHalisi was discovered to be the problem of freedom of the media but also all of us should be remembered that even the judgment to criminals who did a bad behavior are usually high.

Maybe before handing over the blame to the government, it is good for the decision to appreciate those two newspapers, and you missed the press about several issues, one is a shortage in unity and solidarity.

A good example is an incident of the brutal killings of writer David Misime, due to the killings, he made a call to journalists "there was a call to journalists" there were some journalists not to allow that call which was supposed to get important information to the police force about the human rights and freedom of the media.

But maybe a very important thing, especially in one of the newspapers that was banned, the truth that it does not need to have enough understanding of politics that she doesn't be used to know that there is a day you want to know, "(the picture).

A need to mention the name of the concerned newspaper, has been being used badly by the ruling party members especially the following is following the main opposition party of CHADEMA and its leaders.

Well, now after being used, the newspaper has threatened to ask ourselves although it is not good for a private sector to be used by the party or the government but if the intention of the agency is to serve the public instead of personal interests or personal interests.

When you go back to check the decision by the government, private, I have not seen any issue of the foundation of removing the newspapers more than the private parts of some of the government officials.

A big problem here is that the government does not give him to be involved and fail to its state agencies to prevent the criminal acts and put in charge against some of the citizens.

This is true that CCM and his government is making you see the symptoms of the bad behavior of vying for the presidency in the year 2015 how to put it to nation in the area of violence.

Basically, it is wrong to prevent it in the future and the fate of our nation is to bring back but corruption they continue to save our country, our resources are believed to be known as an actor and the attorney general (not in the picture), while our country seems to be poor.

It is good for the government to recognize that I could not hesitate to hear the fact that they are not conducting the fact that they are not happy about the truth, all the two newspapers, Citizen and Tanzania have been on the front line to give the public on other important issues.

For example, the relationship between Kenya, the Citizen newspaper has been able to make a good report about the terrorism incident in Kenya, though the Tanzanian has been a vibrant listener to follow the state of security of the country about the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda.

Recently, in this period that still have memories of the terrorism incident in Kenya and the critical condition of our relationship with Rwanda, it was not true to remove this newspapers which for sure it has invested enough to follow these issues?

I conclude by saying that the main victims of that decision by the government to ban the Citizen's newspaper and the Tanzanian is a normal citizen who is proud to see the right to get news through this newspaper, but there is no reason for citizens to get news through the incident, but there is no any efforts to fight with that violence?
