
It is continuing to be bank.
By Mwangi, professor.
The Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited yesterday announced that it is preparing to change their bank in 2016.
In those activities, they have been able to provide services to the cooperative parties and then sell its services in the Nairobi city market (NSE), director of TANESCO speaking in Abijan, Dar es Salaam, Mister Joe Gavyole said that yesterday when he met with the district parties that put their lives in that institution in Ilemi ward.
"You will expand and include the services of the bank and the aim is estimated to be completed in the year 2016," he said.
Mister Gavyole said that for now it is preparing to shareholders through the selling of shares to 10 percent in one way, with one way to help customers that are in the country because the selling of shares in NSE.
He said that for now the organization is looking for the sales authority (CPA) after attaining the main criterion of the Central Bank (CBB) of having the wealth of more than 1 billion shillings.
"Before July next year, we have condemned the wealth by 40 percent and that is when we will have a full list of launching the machine to be a full of shareholders in NSE," he said.
Mister Gavyole said the fear of the customers of TANESCO was to announce that it will change to the financial services that will not affect the ones they have put their savings in it.
"Believe that bank does not show when our interest will increase or the customers that we have at a cost in the new service.
Contrary to you, they will make sure that we will get investors who will increase the wealth of all of us and also our customers to have the loopholes to buy our shares, "he said.
He said the shares will be being paid between benefits, saying that those who have already started buying those shares have been paid to the amount of 90 million shillings for every shares as the availability of its benefits last year.
For now, it is making sure that it is not able to increase their customers up to 1 million before paying them into full bank.
