
The government is being requested to pass the funds for agriculture in the bank of TADB.
The Tanzania Agricultural Development Bank (TADB) has asked the government to pass all development funds in the agricultural sector in that bank so that they can reach those targeted easily.
That statement has been made today in Dodoma by the Executive Director of TADB, Mister Thomas Samkyi while giving his introductory report at the parliamentary seminar of the United Republic of Tanzania about the establishment of TADB Bank and its responsibilities.
He said that the step will help the bank to be stable so that it can provide services that is expected to help the farmers who are near the village.
Samkyi has added that the improvement in that bank will enable them to provide loans to many farmers especially in the villages that can't get loans or capital in business banks or to withstand its cost.
He said that the capital city is little where the bank cannot access big projects in many provinces for a long time because it will fail to get a lot in a short period.
Aida, the director said that together with the shortage of capital, TADB has managed to provide education to 49,00 farmers so as to be given loans.
And the director of planning, research, and policy of TADB, Judge Francis Assenga, has asked the ministry of finance and planning to put at least 200 billion shillings in the next financial year while procedures for documents have been extended to.
He added that the bank was able to invest a place of capital that is available on the financial market and to get a little profit.
On the side of the Director of Business and Trade of TADB, Robert Pascal Malesa said 14 areas of the priority of the agricultural products that will participate in order can be given loans to be clean farming, agriculture production farming, cooking oil, and rearing chicken.
Other areas include vegetables, fruits, vegetables, color, and cold drinks, agriculture, agriculture production, agriculture production and rearing chicken.
By Tiganya Vincent, Dodoma.
