

And the gift by Nassor, shivered.
The increase in the number of youths using drugs in the country has continued to bring great challenges in the community due to the reduction of criminal acts.
The victims understand the different things including media, clothes were rumored to take them in a easy price so that they can get money to buy drugs.
This challenge is facing a group of youths of the age between 20 and 35 years.
By saying that, the fourth term government that was led by Retired President Jakaya Kikwete, gave a call to the stations to help the victims of drugs in every province.
The Filimbi National Hospital, Reading Company, was started on July 13th, 2013, with the aim of giving support to the residents of Coast Province, who are suffering from those drugs.
Coordinator of the center, Felix Lyaniva, explains the way he started that station by saying that the director of the center, Filbert Mponzi is the one who contributed to the house, food and important needs for the victims.
He says that they were looking for the teachers who had the experience to talk in Kijiweni in order to live with them.
"After the introduction of this center, we started receiving many victims from the parents and relatives and we met with them for four months.
They are taught the way to stop these drugs, also you have been able to work on entrepreneurship if making soap, illegal drugs, so as to avoid vegetables, poultry farming and reduce computer studies, "says Swai.
He says that they are proud of helping more than 40 youths that were affected by the current.
"Which studied in computers have been able to open the internet, a system that will help them to control their income and run their lives," he says.
"Two youths were able to go back to school and repeat the exams while another he has joined the vocational training," he says.
In addition to that success, Swai wanted the challenges they face to face with free infrastructure especially buildings that are able to receive more victims, whereby there is the ability to take 20 people only.
"A large group of girls are also self-employed in this issue, because we do not have enough infrastructure, we cannot receive because we need to prevent them," he says.
He says that some of the victims are living with AIDS virus, the ailments that they got after contributing to masturbation.
"The availability of clean and safe water is a challenge, especially considering that those patients use a lot of water so as to measure their bodies after getting drugs," he says.
He also added that the building needs a fence because others came up due to the desire of fighting thus it is easy to fall down.
He says that it is hard work to be satisfied without having a fence in the area.
Swai says the help from different stakeholders including the government is small so they are forced to take a few patients.
"Because our aim is to help many more people in the Coast Province and elsewhere, more efforts are needed to reach.
"The community continues to help these people so that they can be able to go back to their normal state by taking them to the medical centers," says Swai.
He says that if the local government and villages will not support the public meetings and contribute to the cost of treatment and food to the victims, they could help reduce the wave of these people in the estates.
