The revolution of agriculture or revolutionary agriculture?
Brightiles 14, 2014.

This is a third place and at the end of the topics that I have presented at the World Women's Day that was organized by the Network of Natural Resources of Tanzania (Mviwata) and held in Ihenga town, University of Sokoine (SUA), October 16, 2014.
The two articles the previous articles were given an explanation on the concept of revolution in agriculture, which is true that it is easy for irrigation farming, by relying on big farmers and requested them to sack the small farmer from the face of the world.
We read the history of the revolution in agriculture, since the end of the country in England, the 18th century of January up to those of Mexico and India in the middle of the 20 century, and concluded that any country will try to look for the policies that it is capable of leading the production of poor countries.
Cuba was agriculture.
The country of Cuba was given an example of revolutionary agriculture (not pictured), that started in the year 1990 of Cuba was in the revolutionary party after being unable to build a revolution in agriculture.
In the year 1959, Fidel Castro with his colleagues admitted the rule of leadership of a series of Empire, Batuli, who was a resident of United States of the United States, had a farm because of a large section of Cuba over the United States.
Likewise, the cause of drugs using drugs have change Cuba from BADEA, through clubs and evil deeds that they studied in the United States.
Revolutionary people were removed from the injustice to the citizenship, and to return to them by Cuba over their dignity and among the steps that were taken is among the high-scale farmers and place them in the hands of dollars that have been confiscated by his father's father.
A certain place of land that has been confiscated by small-scale farmers, but a large section of land was put in the hands of 3 million American dollars to be sold at the Standard Chartered Bank of Russia, and by the good luck, Russia was going into Cuba over 5 times more than the world market.
The big farms are used by the concept of "modern technology" production of industries, tractors, drugs, drugs, drugs, medicine, drugs, and all the things which were directed to Russia, again at the low price than the market.
Therefore, in short summary, Cuba was impossible so as to depend on technology, oil, misuse of machines, and even discourage each other than it is the one that Russia was found to help Cuba over and also it is only good because it was available to serve the poor.
Cuba was led by great economic development, especially in the health sector, and its people get good medical services, health, health, and education.
Poor growth of the economy is dependent, that when a nation-driven, the nation is unacceptable, and also it is dependent, but also the production that fell in Cuba was not sufficient due to buying food because it was not a lot of food because it did not have money!
