
TANESCO got an appeal to pay the bank.

It has been written by Oscar Chinchered.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The Board of Directors of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has planned to appeal against the decision made by the International Container Terminal (MARI) in England to enable that organization to pay the Standard Chartered Bank of Hong Kong (SB - HK).

The money is the payment of investment costs for electricity generation equipment (IPTL), Tegeta in Dar es Salaam city.
TANESCO has said that the plan to appeal is due to the violation of the law and several regulations of the court since it was opened in 2010, it made the previous decision in the year 2014 until when it gave the last decision soon.
As a result of that decision, TANESCO received by using his lawyer Richard Miles, the founder of Rémy at the Rhema Trust, while his management said that it has great faith in that organization to get more rights than that was released soon.
In addition to the decision the day before yesterday not a new compared to the previous day given by the international court on February 12, 2014, while preventing more affordable from TANESCO, but the organization has insisted that there are legal action that is supposed to be paid, but also the legal authority to be paid.
Speaking with the panel of editors from the government's newspaper, (TSN), Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Executive Director of TANESCO, Felchesmi Mramba, said there are areas where the board of directors of the organization has satisfied itself that it was a legal action and it's not aware of the day before yesterday.
Mramba said that in recent decision, that court was unable to consider his previous decision of the year 2014, and gave new decisions like that case was run afresh, something that is contrary to the requirements of the law and regulations of the court.
He said the regulations of that court are saying that both sides should be washed gered out of claims in that court and the awards will be given, those sides cannot open a case afresh, and said because the court of ICSIDO I has already given an award in the previous decision in 2014.
While giving an example, he said in the award of the year 2014, together with other things, the court gave a decision that any payment of investment (Irene Uwoya) which TANESCO are supposed to pay a total of 2289 percent or 0 percent, but no wonder in the previous decision in order to pay its previous decision and urged TANESCO to pay a total of 2289 percent.
Previously, while explaining it is why the recent decision is affordable, TANESCO different from what has been given by some media houses (not in the picture) together with the intention of removing 300 million American dollars, but the court has decided to be paid by approximately 300 million American dollars, but the court has decided to be paid by 1484 million American dollars.
