
Poor members of gospel music!

It is difficult to believe that happened but that is what happened to the child, Christian Alex (6) has been brutally murdered by a fox that is alleged to be the ambassador of Qatar in Tanzania that is led by Ambassador Junction.

That important event took place on March 26th, this year, Jangwani Beach, Kunduchi, Dar es Salaam city where the child was attacked by a big actor when he was with his father and his father's house with other different houses (BRN).

Information keenly.
It is said that, the father of the deceased also lives in one of the houses doing the work of caring for the environment if one person ran away.

The child's mother, Christian Alex has emerged victorious in the body of her child.

The father of the late Deo Filikunjombe.

While speaking to this newspaper on behalf of the funeral that was caused by cries and cries, the father of the child who introduced himself by the name Alex Msama, said on that event he was coming out of the house he is living in "said, but suddenly he did not know the noise from his child.

"As usual, so as to get a must, you should be careful, first to know your dog where I was when I met me, I heard my son was attacked by three witch doctor and already he had great injuries.

The funeral of the child Christian Alex (6).

"I wouldn't want to listen to the child so as to marry him and also I got a stone of beating, they wanted to leave but they go back again and to leave them.

"This is where it was activities because they arrested at the same time, they lost his secret part and to return the mouth, while the same way they put a stern warning to his skin.

"When the act is going on while I witnessed with his eyes, that ambassador was doing inside, and let me know that, but the condition of my child was very bad," said the father, while she gets stranded.

Child Christian Alex after being injured by a dog by the embassy of Qatar.

He added, "until now I did not know what happened, and they failed even I went to say, I am supposed to say it is my son, Christian I was very happy like what I will lead my son, Sabina Kaphipa.

"I am just after losing a male child I who we were in and depending on how I had seen my friend and I have also witnessed my son being attacked by someone.

The burial is going on.

They don't know the truth.
The father continues to ask you, "what is supposed to marry off more is that, I will give a statement since he was at the beginning of this time Mister I told me what he did at his house but I told him that he didn't know her.

How are we said.
Some people arrived at the scene area and found the scandal, they had reached a big step to obey their boss and return to their office.
They heard that child and asking to run at Ighombwe Village in Mbezi, Dar es Salaam where doctors said he had succeeded in a long time.

Cries by soil.
After testifying in it, the writer arrived at the scene for a short time after that child was taken to hospital and witness the cries in each other, who got the news of that death.

The ones have been commanded?
Speaking about the way he was hurt by that incident, some people have narrated how those bacteria are forced to peace in that house whereby since that veteran, each other inside that house have been self-malarial in the whole day when the stars face.

"Friends this child has died in a very bad death, so many of these dog have been a threat to people to fail to do their daily activities.

"A fox is not seen in the stall, maybe it would have been so far," said one neighbor while stirring.

Police?
The murder of our reporter when they tried to get inside and went to talk with the ambassador, the police who were alleged to be from Kawe Police Station in Dar es Salaam city was alleged that the instructions they wrote is a fox which he wrote is a fox that she wrote is a fox that she wrote.

The mother talk to the citizens.
Maria Sharapova, the biological mother of the deceased, Christian is now in a bad state since the tragedy of being attacked by his dog by his dog, where he has been suffering from time to time.

Our reporter witnessed the mother and asked him to put a bouquet of flowers at the grave of his child by falling on her.

The burial is.
The last journey of the child, Christian was held at the Tarangire national stadium in Dar es Salaam will be held by Katanga of the Catholic Church of Addis Ababa, Chrizostom Thadeo.

The Dar es Salaam Provincial Commissioner, ACP Simon Mwakifamba, has confirmed the occurrence of that incident and claimed to be at home to the ambassador of Qatar in the country.
May God rest the soul of the deceased in eternal peace, Amen.

