
CCM is a party authority or a party?
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

I tell you about the series of these articles with giving a trap of what happened in Dodoma at the general meeting of CCM, and here I will start by getting back on the radio when I have heard early.

"The Japanese country is prepared to the road under the party, it has the strength of development to lazy workers, getting tired of the opponents of those energy, it could be able to bid farewell and bid farewell to the ones that are taught again!" (Radio)).

In the year 2012, there is still a difference with a lot of thoughts that he can be approved, an opponent of development efforts under the party and he is supposed to get a penalty and he would have gone to him! "

At the time it has changed, and the Revolutionary Party is supposed to be a party with the same way and when you follow it, it is different from those of the 70 years when they were raped.

While CCM launched its general meeting in Dodoma recently, the communist party of China will continue with his general meeting with the establishment of the meeting of what China party was of the party and the people of Zanzibar.

The communist party has noted that when you follow it, it is needed to be the party of the authority to become the Revolutionary Party and the people here in the country can be even those with different abilities with the party, even if they have different meanings in their country.

In the time we have at the time we have now, if a political party does not want jokes in the leadership authority for a long time, and through the opinion polls, then it is a must for you to be supported by many people, because of people.

That is the meaning of the quote that started in the first part of this rainy season.
It's true that philosopher Benjamin Snowden does not know that we are all the authorities, it is faith that we are responsible in implementing our authority, and that the authority will benefit from people, because of people, and caring for all the thoughts that are not allowed.

I was clearly stated that by looking at what he said, Tel, we see that the work of the political party is not supposed to be independent to the public in a question that is being done by the government, instead the political party is supposed to be the side of the public.

And because the government is supposed to be the implementation of those that were forced on behalf of the public, then, the great job of the political party is not satisfied by the government in implementing its responsibilities.

I have been able to write that Simba depends on the same way to go back, it starts the ability to see, follow me and even to hear them, but there is one that Simba is sure that he has left Simba children.

In the political life, youths are the pillar and lives of any party in eternal peace.
How can it be, the party that does not depend on us to send its young people, even without being surrounded by the elderly but the answer is open and the life of the party will be in danger!

There are a time when CCM youths met in Dodoma.

For sure, Mzee Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru is not a Human Rights Commission, not only to CCM, but to the nation at a meeting with the youths of CCM, I was told that Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru has criticized the youth from the Revolutionary Party!

If you will be heard, from the Mzee Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, he told them that you were seen in the condolences to the fellow party, but he hurts me!

According to the explanation of Mzee Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, CCM cannot be the ruling party all the day and there are areas of this country for now where CCM is not the ruling party.
He made them to ask the young people that make sure there is a reason that is praised in you to answer his condolences to the Revolutionary Party?

Up to that, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru has noted one important thing that age is in two ways and there is only two years old, but there are young people who haven't been very young together with having a big youth.

All the days, in the political fight inside the system of many parties, the chairperson of the party's system, "Masau boasted," on the meaning of the high level of the concerned party (CCM) this weekend was led by Abdulrahman Kinana as the executive secretary, and therefore the executive secretary.

CCM has a difficult time to go to people and try to convince them to accept to accept the party.

The CCM is supposed to be modern, because of lack of politics, as it is for football, it is a game to win.

On my view, the biggest offense that CCM has done in recent years, is that apart from people, not to listen and work on the problems of normal people that are many.

At the same time, that party was suffering a work of expanding their voice by telling us from within and out of the party, because of delay of political opposition, I believe that it is one of the reasons that caused CCM to lose their popularity, on the eyes of the public, that it has changed from them.

Because in politics, it's not only voters with the ones who have the ability to choose, even the party is doing only two things to choose and change while being interviewed and dies.

In the time we have.

Almighty God is not supposed to be the reputation of a leader or a political party.
