Close to our discussions on today's day, I don't speak a friend with the youth where the topics that we have benefited from is that you are not involved in human rights when I think here is where people do not know their rights immediately I think people do not know.
I don't see today if you ask the person that you know your primary rights I don't see if you will get the right answers every person will answer you.
Dilesh Solank when he was born.
Most of the people did not know their basic rights, because if you check one of the human rights are very much, that is, if you start a lot of rights but you can't know what he would like, then he would not know what he would like people do not know the rights.
Human beings is the side of a woman and he knows how to go back to the one who had faith that he does not get married but he would have not decided to watch him, but it's not just a shame when he would like to stay, but he sees himself as the reason why women don't have faith but now he sees it as the yes.
We're happy to give a seminar for the purpose of infection of AIDS and then do not know the rights of human beings to bring phones and also well so that people should know how many people remain.
I don't know what he doesn't know the law or a person who is supposed to be used since even me and also well related to them.
Mselem stated, maybe on a certain amount, the government is striving to inform people to be able to know their primary rights for example, there have been putting efforts to know their rights and they do not want them to get those rights and that they do not want to get those rights and that they do not want to get them up to the concerned place.
I don't see if it is implemented by a great extent here we start especially if you check.
The court's court.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, we saw a lot of things, most of them were oppressed, even even their rights, you ask you even the whole issue when you find the truth when you look at the current situation where the situation is heading to.
When you get in Dar es Salaam, we should not understand what is the meaning and how to do it?
He is being supported or when they lost the right of bail and later, I met a sentence of going to know his human rights is true, most of them do not depend on things like that, especially for fear and I have been born with the identity card.
Almighty God rest the lack of human rights maybe by the police force has been fear even to give information but also.
Even if it is a big court that is following to arrive in court there to be fear even if it has done this act in court you cannot be ready, because they think many do not know your rights, what should we believe that there are some things that are violating.
And a very big percentage is that even the police force.
When it reaches this, there are still other primary rights which make sure we need to grow.
Because I believe there is no reason.
For a human being, for example your password, they don't accept this is to take them to the institution.
It is a must that your leader can't know your password, I been arrested, we put it hard to attract it.
You love you have been given and to try to have arrested or that, Mister I want it to follow it is the right to that, it will not take it to get people like the court.
Vanessa said that our government's child and he said by three percent he brought in charge.
With a large percentage of the government and you know that there are other people not knowing how they get the basis of their leaders to take action by giving them a few percent of our nation in our country and soon.
But I believe they were able to get your primary books as well as I can say that those laws and responsibilities and other things without my rights will be the first, he can live fifty years and non-governmental that will be taken against them.
It mean to be the first reason, we know and also plays in details and with fluency.
The big problem since you are seen that we themselves?
But the citizen does not understand.
The government and it's not many pastors, most of the players who don't understand the basic rights of the bill, therefore they decided it is possible for Tanzanians to appear to the list of that nation, if you can be able when you follow it on the excuse of personal interests.
Human beings, Tanzanians like it is taken then I will help to value the percent.
Eighteen.
Give a dummy check for meaning?
The government was very big as a film that shows it clear.
If you go to welcome you just to watch it, because they visit they will take place there.
People are done?
The police force.
I hope he was known to be known.
Because the killings are usually done and this give us the gas to see that they are.
I have found the case and going to me.
Money can't be afraid that this case is not available.
You can see how?
But also it is not only when we see the press for this child.
.
The youth that is taking place is normal, that is a step they did not make sure that we as a nation.
African Airways.
A man and his people as one person being beaten.
A lorry caused by President as I see I would have given a stern warning and given a stern warning to those who have participated in other women in history that we have no need.
The courage so that it was a day that is required to have a lot of priority to the implementation of various issues in the government, but they have been the first to be an eye on it.
For a good way?
What is the news.
It was a place.
They are good so much but this issue will take care of you and talk about it.
What is it true?
The government was a mental government but it's also not only that children are capable of looking for women and when they got it is enough to end violence and violation of human rights not to be mentioned as a priority of a Tanzanian to give an amount.
If you have been commanded?
However, there is another thing that from other primary schools until now there will be financial education so that we can benefit from this place it should be a problem where everyone is used to know.
When you want to be careful.
But the constitution is also a report of the legal implementation it shows that it is fighting.
There was there.
A small percentage of citizens should know.
Being today, someone can be his brother who has been operated on.
Reason why should we miss that people who survived, I believe that those who are playing are leading.
A human being does not depend on that police but he does not love his brother to claim that they are not supposed to ask and ask that why I will do my brother and that they do not sell him and is one of the criminals who will remain at the same way they are unable.
Because the education should be given all the people for the first time to come out of children not to go in order to debate children to leave that.
What is it that sometimes he can have fallen in nation whose years you come as people we do not see.
We want them to see young people while talking about the whole issue of human rights being using a question here where you do you talk about what you came from, I have no ability to think that in a nation where I have no ability to think that in a nation where I have no ability to see democracy, I will follow the rule of law.
Taifa Stars which for a period of fifty years, we have been proud of this nation that private has focused itself in building solidarity of human rights and we think that if there is still a new strategy of human rights and we think maybe if it can cause a good direction for change the virginity.
