
18 December 2012

Political committee to discuss the conflict of Ambassador Mbelwa, Doctor.

The National Executive Council of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Bukoba Town district, Kagera Province, has been forced to read a special session so as to discuss the political situation in that region.
In that meeting, all the delegates were required to buy their mobile phones so that nobody would recognize that she knows the problems of that meeting.

The meeting was opened by the chairman of CCM, Bukoba Town district, Mister Yusuph Mwenda, where among the participants of that meeting is together with the member of parliament of that constituency, Ambassador Khamis Mkotya, and the mayor of that municipality, Doctor Omari Mkali.

The agenda of the meeting was to discuss the political situation in that province, the implementation of the council's projects and the evaluation of the community elections where Mister Ngaiza said that if he would like to meet the talks of the session that is facing them.

He said the reason to do that is because of that meeting being within, while giving an example of the meeting that took place in Dodoma town recently, where the delegates were forced to buy their phones so that the secret of the meeting will not be released before the debate has not shown.

We have met here to discuss with a member of our party, therefore we would like to meet someone in this talks, all of us are one father, therefore we should partner together, "said Mister Ngaiza.


Mister Ngaiza confessed the existence of a division that was caused by the political conflict that is between Ambassador Kagasheki, and Doctor peace about the construction of a modern market.

"We met this session as a result of the directive by the political committee of CCM in the province, which in their session they discuss this conflict and urged them to ask for constitutional sessions as soon as possible.

"The concerned committee threatened to discuss the situation that emerged and given recommendations at the regional level for the purpose of looking for permanent solutions before it doesn't cause many effects," he said.

The conflict between Ambassador Mbelwa who is also the minister of natural resources and tourism, Doctor peace, is due to the implementation of the development projects that are being implemented by the municipality.

Some of the projects are the construction of a modern market that was carried out by Ambassador Mbelwa who claims that the construction contract is done in place during the implementation of that project is one of the promises of the member of parliament that was made by the general elections in the year 2010.

As a result of that situation, recently, the director of the municipality Mister Khamis Kaporo, met with the journalists and claimed that, the council has not got an agreement on construction of the market because the process of not knowing the law will not affect the action.
Announcing the contract of construction.

That council is implementing various projects which some of them are a project of 50 plots, construction of modern market, will improve economy and construction of the buses station.
