
Patriotism and ways of privacy on May 30th, 2012

There are many that join African leaders who are involved in polluting the soul, there is a rumor and there is a must to fall down.
It is acts of those leaders with making sure that some of the African countries have condemned the heart because it usually think that this continent of Africa has no drugs and others usually do until they believe in this continent has been allowed.
One of them does not mean to see our leaders using our properties as they think that they are patriotic and without knowing this while they were stealing and the same time, I will play the visitors that the same time, will play the visitors and those invited guests to deal with those visitors.
Last Wednesday, a court in Zambia made a former prime minister to play against Amaso of the country for two years in prison and hard work.
Those attackers got money by himself Lihanya, an amount of money that he had gone down in land but were forced to reach approximately 1 billion American dollars (equivalent to 42 million American dollars).
When she was taken to court and asked the judge who made them get all the money and because the difficulty of land, Lieberum, was silent and he had not said.
Without doubt, he had a answer to his heart but did not want to market.
He was the intention to be complete so that when the judge when he decided that she got that silence by Lieberum, it was the meaning that he got the money through illegal immigrants.
If you look at many African countries, we see that there are the existence of the chicken, the goats usually don't know or the effects of the chicken, goats, but I don't know or the other things dispose.
- or the government or public organizations.
In Zambia, things have changed these days because the new government of the president, Michael Chilufya, has started to take action against the former government of the past government that we will participate in the coming days and that we will follow up to Zambia the previous day.
Already the government of protesters has started launching several business contracts that had been accepted by the government of their stand, different from Zambia and Tanzania, it is that the government of Zambia shows that it's true that has been able to rise in corruption and make the concerned parties to be accountable.
Many people in the world are not only in the African continent, who think it as even this continent with great wealth of traditional property being together with available, gold, gold and oil today should be the continent with the poor people in other parts of the world?
It's not the actual problem to answer that question because the biggest reason is due to our leaders not having a habit of patriotism and they had been unable to enter into bribery issues and to enable them to organize themselves without caring for the interests of their countries and their people.
They had been patriotic who do not have in our continent, we have explained in the era, it should have up with each other, right is the African continent that has been sold to orphans.
It does not have a mother who does not care about the millions of children who have been tested in various parts of the world to care of livelihood.
If it's true that our leaders have at least only blood cells of patriotism then they could make sure that we discuss because our country can move forward so that our country can move ahead, our country can move forward.
Mandela would have been able to take action against their colleagues who say it is false with all those who loves public funds from Africa and go them place in their accounts to the banks that are outside their countries.
If it is true then for our leaders every morning, they don't be satisfied and the situation that spread of many people who are poor.
Cathbert Kajuna of Nkingwa, the first President of Ghana, I believe that in Africa "it is a lesson that attended the colonial era of East African countries living with 48 million dollars in the south of the Sub-Saharan countries living with problems of two countries in the world.
If we look at other statistics, we see that it's only 61 percent of the residents of South African countries who have the ability to get clean water and have been compared to more than 90 percent of the residents of South American countries and the biggest parts of Asia.
Listen to you with more than 40 percent of all the people in the world that do not have the ability to get water from what is in the African continent of the Sahara Desert.
We are also told that by the year 2030, I would like to reach 650 million people but they expect to ask for electricity and that's where it's said to ask ourselves why those dams between the south east of Kinshasa continues to be just a dream but only African countries only have the ability to get electricity?
We need to built those ponds will be the biggest project in the world to produce electricity and will benefit from the industries in Africa.
I don't have a need to give more statistics about the deaths of young children in Africa or the poor state of our health or education services in Africa. All of us are directed.
All the wealth of oil and minerals has never happened where all of that property did not be used to benefit citizens of this continent?
To remember, they will remember that the year 1988 was all over all over the world.
"Africa's year," today more than 50 years later Africa does not allow him to prevent it.
Another question that we are supposed to have asked himself is why Africa gets the act of doctors who later are rushing to go to work in the European Champions League or North America?
Mzalendo newspapers in Africa does not hesitate to ask questions, among them, this is not true, if I said, Marcus Rashford has said that Africa should be "of African people who are in home and abroad and those are together with issues of war and peace, life and death.
He went to anyone who came even if I went to NATO and not Africa that he decided to stop the future of Libya, and their differences.
Here we have no reason but we agree with the ones that he said Julius Nyerere in his new year he made on January first, where he mentioned.
"There is no nation with the right to work on another nation, but there is no longer people who have the right to control other people in our African continent, it is their thing that will affect women's rights, rights for workers and to give them bad administration.
It's them who are greedy for power, that those who continue to confirm if they do if the traditional leaders, such as summoning demons.
He is a leaders who are those who want them to claim that it is patriotic and they are claiming that if it is not independent and they are claiming that as the economic plan of African countries but they are vying to the western countries to make their own problems and to stop using them.

Mzalendo newspapers is surprised to see that in African continent, there is no court that gives African leaders known as women HPiedmont region, Laurent Gomez and Charles Taylor Swift and that he is the International Criminal Court (ICC) is the one that broke the dock.
But the real change will not be dealt with and asking questions, they would like to take action against example, he wants the African countries in Africa and those abroad to fully support them and to be responsible for development agenda to take up to the African continent.
Atlabara has tried to have a strategy of making Africa people who are in England, France, Canada, Brazil, America and elsewhere, so as to break the policies of those countries about Africa.
