Diplomacy, that logic would like Algeria more than the Sahara Desert.
Memba, 26, 2014.

Issues of preventing themselves in the way I said two weeks ago on this column, don't have many people in all countries, because many of them are not seen as "the foreign affairs," they are involved more with different issues related to their lives.
The researchers that are in universities here in the country are not ready of Diplomacy, as an important field of research and investigation, therefore it is hard to get the heavy affection about us.
The news agencies have been able to put all weight in order to pray for us, to measure and why it is doing well or to remove it when they err.
So much, just after time, the media will not be touched by the explanation that Mister or some of them have been appointed as the ambassador to this country or one, then.
Our journalists will not forget the whole issue about our relationship and that the country will serve our ambassador, our history and the country and how the ambassador is expected to strengthen the relationship that it has dropped or continue to strengthen the relationship that has been very good.
Haazu taking you, then that in the ignorance of our journalists, even the editors, we get news headlines, "he said it is possible that I saw our editors, because it's not true that the appointment was done so that I could have been asked to go to fulfill the incident.
In that state, we are not supposed to know the ambassadors who go to introduce himself to the president they represent the country with a lot of relationship with Tanzania, and their private who are already qualified for our time or not every time or not paying life (CPA).
This is in a lot of things that we have gone to our leaders, and we have remained what is happening in our areas to an extent that everything can leave, now in this article that together with the liberation of Africa.
Currently, it is difficult to say that.
I went on this issue, but I urge you to be allowed to go back because I see Algeria has brought another ambassador to represent Tanzania by touching the people that have been helping those ambassadors here in the country, we are supporting ambassadors who are in France.
Now, I think that we should come to Algeria is the United Arab Emirates (as you learn) but not countries that are run by Sheikhs and children, and when Algeria is the next country that does not be used because it will go to who you will go because of what to do?
All those are different from some countries where we have seen it is good to take the ambassadors and all of us know that there is a great value for our people like the free things, this is true even if you get married, we should answer that it is happy that we did in a big gift.
In things, it is easy, and one person they can enjoy a lot of time if the country's head is called Ulimwengu, and all the assistant commissioner is called Sultan Ulimwengu, all those ministers have a name of Ulimwengu, and all business people are at the same time, so as to know what is a problem.
But there is where we love you more, more than people who have shown for a long time, that you are with us in all the different issues, here in Africa and all over the world.
