
The love for Ray is a frog.

Photos by Gladness Mallya and Hamida Hassan.
It is a big blow after a marriage that is claimed to be defeated between the Bongo film star, Vincent Kigosi, "Ray 'and Miss Tanga 2006 that is also an artist of Bongo film, Hans Poppe has never been accused until the things we want to solve the same way.
According to our reporter, Ray said that they are in the race to wed in any time since May, this year, but the big debate that is in front of them is now its legitimacy.
"You know that they do not know their (Ray and the others) they can get married, but the truth is that there is a big difficulty.

Difficulty of it?
"The church knows Ray, the leaders are saying that they are not the end of this world until its not getting married which one of the involved in his marriage," the source said.
When you continue, "therefore, if you are ready to wed that marriage, the person has not changed the religion that's when they will be allowed to enter the church to send their marriage."

The church's church.
The day before yesterday, on Saturday, was scored a journey up to the Church of Lil Ukuti Ussi, Dar where up to last year, the newspapers in the newspaper has called Ray Wilhelmina.
The goal of shot on Saturday was to meet the apostle and Ras Makunja, but he did not be in the office, but one assistant when he was found, he confessed to know Ray.
Assistant, Ray is married here, but I have not saw a lot of days, I don't see what problems?
Shot on Saturday, "save time, if we leave that issue of getting a lot of days, at the moment, is that he wants to get married and one sister is called Hans Van who has a marriage not to be remembered by her husband's marriage.
Assistant coach, we do not believe in leaving, if he succeeded in marriage with her husband is successful, those have separated only, but their marriage is there.
That woman was not closed, his sentence has been dismissed just after her husband could leave the world (death).

The holy church, Xanana Gwao.
After retiring from that church, faints of us went to the Catholic church of St Maximilian Arnold at Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
The shot on Saturday was told the founding father did not be there at that time, but a person who said that he is the teachers when he was asked about the position of Ray's wedding and said, "he said.
"Your truth is now that if the woman has her husband again, and believe that he is outside the country, a day when he is not aware of his wife to his wife?
"You cannot get married if you have a marriage of God not ordered it, that is why we (Christians) we are giving twenty days and one to announce their marriage so that there is no objection.
"People do not lie on these days. They are forced to register a marriage which one is still in a legal marriage."

What are the Islam faith?
Mchizi of us did not get tired, they arrested for General of Dar es Salaam Province, Alhadi Mussa Salum who about Ray and they were forced to wed.
"If the truth is of Islam, we will have Ray to change the religion that of Islam, not otherwise.
In the Saturday of Saturday, I heard a man and the husband to a Christian, but also of Islam where the come is there?
Shprygin is not known as Ray to change his religion, that is the meaning of Bomani, Islam are not only. "

Johari in prayers.
"Johari" who is holy Rosary and "Nisubiri" with the reality of the name Ruth Solo (former MwanaharI), those two have a big margin of 8 years after having a big margin of 8 years, the reason being said to be "great brother," said Ray '.
According to the source, those stars who are popular in Bongo film for many years have decided to end their differences while most of them being secret because of fulfilling the relationship of the child and Ray '.

Some of the claims.
It was also claimed that when she decided to finish his fight with Johari because of his lawyer he wanted to do so.
"I saw them in the camp suffering from the film, when she told me that he was called to participate in that film as a lover, Johari said that he has played some pieces, where he gets a colleague to be able to plan their differences," said our source.
Recently, a shot on Saturday made a picture that had been buried on the internet and Lda Prince when he sang him, Johari and the presenter of Clouds TV, Sauda Mtongani.
When you leave that photo with the words that said, "I have learned something in life, forgive me."
Brother's brother.
The day before yesterday, Chelsea won the mobile phone Ray, but he did not receive him, he did not answer.
He said.
After you came to him, he answered me shortly, "I have no longer talk."
Johari in Dar es Salaam city.
Johari said he did not receive his mobile phone despite the end of a long time and the failure to be defeated again.
What is the stock.
And he said his phone was very happy without being received, he was used to message, he did not answer!
