
He said that he will build 2108 shillings to uplift the city.
By Mwangi, professor.
The government of Violet, will use 10,008 shillings to improve the level of the city's town, who are the entrance to the Sunni rebels.
The money will be used to expand the roads of that town and then prepare strategies to start the map of leading the development of construction.
While announcing that in that town, the Governor of Mwanzo Kigonsera, Mister Francis Mwangi, said that the main government was going on in giving the map and that followed the heavy rains.
"You will get the discovery of that construction that was donated by Mwenge and you will be built near the stage, vehicles and industries areas have been allowed to build houses for living," he said.
He said that the cause of the disease has caused an eruption of challenges in the local government, he said that it is proud of being able to improve the state, it needs a great importance to economically and also political parties.
To uplift the city, the situation is for now, it is that there is a house of business people that have been built to be built on important infrastructures such as road, small, and you cannot follow up one day and it starts the law, "he said.
He said the situation is supposed to be read following discussion about the discussion and those who were given permission from one day by the government and then they were sold at the referendum for those farms, they were given compensation before being demolished, "he said.
Mister Mwangi also proposed that the main government like the cause of this misunderstanding, will separate money from the local government, he from the past, the map of leading the development.
"It is still a very expensive activity because he said that he will use a little money for that activity, it needs approximately 300 million shillings.
He said that Somanda Hospital alone needs 1665 shillings in order to prepare the map of he said that the whole of them is money that we cannot get from a limited form that we cannot get from the ministry of money, "he said.
