
The stars have written the directors of Wema.

Story of Hamida Nasi with Gladness Mallya.
Bongo movie stars have been forced to give their own heart after their fellow star, Wema Sepetu lost by her lover, who is recognized by the name of Clement and broke out the things that he gave him as a gift in their love.

About Wema suffering from his own team known as' Fulfill Your Goals', has been given a house of a house which was allocated by that veteran who is saying he is in government and robbed off those vehicles.

Shot, made an interview with the stars last weekend, through mobile phone and questioned about the action that he had done their colleague where they were going round without any worries at all.

Ireland by directors.
The stars have got to speak with our journalists at different times, some of the sore or not being keen when he was in a relationship with that veteran by wanting to be given documents of how he was given.

First, to talk to Flora Mvungi, "JKabula" who said, I thank God because I don't thank God because I don't know my life, but if you do not love him, I do not love him, "if you do not love your life, because all the days well comes by the procedures."

Children are poor and Mohamed Mgimwa.
"The stars have been given a lot of men, if you get a car, you should be infected with a card and we should not depend on yourself, we will look for us with us because someone knows it and he is to help them with good love, equal to them."

Wastara Juma.
"We need to know yourself, because there are people living with great stars so that if you be known or for their own benefit, most of them don't know it, now there is a reason to collect a lot of love.

Nuru Nassor, Yuksekdag.
"I feel very very much, if a person does not know your talent because you do to work?

Picture by Benedict Liwenga.
"Fraud is a lot of time, these things are not good so that we see that women have a very short mind and we do not forget yourself when they see you and when they get something that he wants to take problems.

"Best I will welcome her colleague or Bajaj more than being assaulted by the women, it is dangerous and we are supposed to think about these things that are not doing so that we do not allow me to leave foolish things."
