
The fare for air transport in the country.
It has been reported that the high cost of air travel in the country will go down when the government will be used to enable Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (ATCL) to have its planes.
Speaking at the time of inspecting the Magogoni ferry in Iringa province, the Minister of Works Transport and Communication Professor Makame Mbarawa has said that for the financial year 2016 / 17 an amount of 500 billion has been built for the purchase of three planes.
At the same time, I thank the heart of air travel who will arrive recently when the three planes were directed when they started providing transport services here in the country, therefore, they should give fear of air transport here in the country, so as to give fear of air transportation in the country, "said Professor Mbarawa.
Professor Mbarawa has instructed the manager of Iringa Airport in Iringa province, Mrs. he has no problem to make sure that Iringa Airport is doing the international standards so as to attract many people who are heading to Ruaha National Park to use the stadium and therefore grow the economy of Iringa.
When he arrived at the Iringa airport, it is one of the 11 stadiums that we will be working on soon, therefore your responsibility is to provide services that meet the standards, "insisted Professor Mbarawa.
The Minister of Works Transport and Communication has said that the government will expand the airport of Iringa Airport so all of them have reduced the area of the stadium to leave immediately before legal action is taken against them and those who will be taken against them and those who will be taken against them and those who will be taken against them.
And the Manager of Iringa Airport, Miss Jaquileine Kibacha has asked the Minister Professor Mbarawa to give that stadium a new provincial vehicle so as to enable the stadium to work in the acceptable levels.
The number of passengers that use the airport of Mwenge has increased from 45 passengers in the year 2011 to 8375 the year 2015 and therefore increasing the economy of Iringa province.
In another step, Professor Mbarawa has inspected the Iringa road from the same way, Kilolo District with a 35-kilometer race and insisted that the government has planned to build that road at 4-kilometer race that were left out.
