News about the morning look at the field of Island and close to during this period we will get various equipment including the review report of the nation, science and technology (COSTECH) so as to start a research that will enable you to make changes used by touching the funds from the market from Morogoro.
If the farmers is producing productive so as to evade poverty to be able to evade the use of technology in the agricultural areas due to that, the research commission in Morogoro province now, research will sell it and serve their citizens, which was events.
Things are there.
I am saying this because the neighborhood has also been done in Uganda, Iringa province, let it read it and found a gift.
.
Other things have come to make changes as a result of loans and maize, others pest to London and shivered and they were with this and happy with the ability.
He got the public votes, it is still a crime and when they are still Komba as he was found.
Those are people.
Change of our services that you love you.
For a long time.
.
He dies.
You do not like in the picture below.
The Minister for Agriculture and Minerals, Engineer Chihira has said the companies involved with embezzlement of local contractors will be taken against the management of Prime Minister Chihira has said that there are leaders whose work is to resolve the organization and leave poverty to the farmers and we have used them to attend that meeting, so they have used information from Masasi.
Minister for agriculture and security, engineer Christopher Chihira has made the general meeting of stakeholders to get pregnant women, which is taking place in Masasi District, where before all the Chairperson of the cashew board, Anna Abdallah got an opportunity to speak about the mistakes of violence against small-scale farmers, we will ensure we will see for several minutes the short talks due to where the problem will have five percent.
First my condolences to paying, opening that meeting, Chihira has talked about various issues including the council that they will be careful.
Continue with the work.
You can say Nairobi.
On his behalf.
In the first world.
He is not there.
Since it is not every party.
We should be separated by God about the understanding of Prime Minister Chihira has urged stakeholders to look at the procedure of providing them on time and well as to help the phone that we have.
A long time is.
You are in a bad state?
Commander Sirro.
Therefore,
He was sent here on Wednesday evening.
But before continuing to pay for a long time when they get the foundation stone.
While giving an example of thanks the vice chairperson, she said that all the instructions were chosen to strengthen the farmers, we will work to work so as to be able to work.
Doing.
Whether it is to get pain, I love you.
In order to do problems and just speech.
According to the new law on the law number six of its past, only ten and three allows for lack of embezzlement in the district to be removed from the court and their properties will be reports from Masasi District and dust.
The councilors of Nzega District Council in Tabora province have said they are not ready to satisfy some executives who cause the council is not a loss that you can be able to discuss the statement by the senior inspector of the government accounts, it was noted that heavy rains were presented to that council of our writer is Titus Bandawe from Tabora and a report.
