Government invests his promises of Oliver Wema.
May 29, 2014.

"The prime minister of the United Republic of Tanzania, Mizengo Pinda is a whole person, is a high leader of the government, he knows that it is a sin.
"Pinda said he knows not saying what is one of the 10 commandments of God, that is not supposed to say or promise it because it is a great sin and he will break the God's commandment."
Therefore, Anna Kessy (40) a resident of Olengurumwa explaining in the city of Arusha and South Africa, involved a bomb attack in the Catholic church, Joseph Haule of the Catholic Church of Arusha when he completed his interview with this newspaper.
The interview took place in the middle of last week in his business area in Oldonyo Sambu village, being one year since the believers of the church admitted a bomb service that was led by the Archbishop of Vatican in Arusha region, Josephat Lebulu and the ambassador of Vatican in the country Bishop Sedrick Ndonde.
Together with that, the accused of that incident, the mother also received her child's child James (16), who is among the three people that lost their lives in that event of May 5 this year.
The others that lost their lives are baby Amne Salim (9) and Mama Regina LSE's (50) who all are residents of Olle it in Arusha City.
James died at the AICC International Airport in the way to be taken to Muhimbili National Hospital in Dar es Salaam after being given a donation of transport by using the plane that was appointed by the Vice President Doctor Mohamed Bilal who was sent in Arusha to visit different areas of the incident.
Why is Karrima Carter?
Anna explains that after the incident he arrived different leaders of the government to visit different issues and giving their condolences to President Jakaya Kikwete.
"The Prime Minister as the executive director of the government promised openly that the government will give an amount of 100 million shillings to serve the injured and also to give their condolences to the bereaved which they lost their brothers at the event," he explains.
That mother of three children also added, "up to today, we ask the government that it has not given out one hour of those funds, and that is when I think it is why the prime minister gave that promise when he knows that it was not just on earth?
He explains that as a result of the government being unable to implement his promise until today, the victims of the event are still served by the Church, the Christian community in their estates and by good Samaritans.
"There are victims that until now, they are still a present at different hospitals at the cost of church, Christians and their community, and by good Samaritans and the government has never given any information about what they have been unable to give those funds," he added.
The report that the government has not implemented its promises, they are also confirmed by Bishop Lebulu together with the Priest of the parish of Olle it, father PRocky which at different times have explained his disappointment in the state of the government to fail to provide money that it had promised.
That mother together with losing his child still has bad luck in the incident, because all his family found in that service with two other children who had their brother!
"As it is in another Sunday, I am my husband Gabriel Kessy to leave home in the morning to go to the church and our children, James (10) and Noreen Mazalla.
"When I arrived to the church they were in front, and when we are outside the church, when the service wants to start, suddenly I heard a great win, it was accompanied by dust, each person was rushed to his side," he added.
He is saying that after a landslide, he has not been found, at the church stadium there were many people who were injured and many who were injured and many were injured and that's when he was given his child James as one of the injured.
"At the time vehicles were being involved in various hospitals in Arusha town, two other children were safe but they were safe blood due to being in the middle of the injured," he added more.
He explains that his late child was admitted at the Mount Meru hospital with bad luck and his condition was bad and his condition was bad and tomorrow, the doctors toured Muhimbili in Muhimbili and that's when the government officials visited the plane of Doctor Bilal.
"At the same time, I was admitted due to my sugar, due to fear, but the night God had gone to have lost a child, then I wrote it," he said.
"I thank the funeral took place by the church leadership that all the costs, the family has got great cooperation from all the believers of the parish of Olle it, which cause violence and Bishop Josephat Lebulu.
