
The corrupt days "he identified himself as the father of the nation!
May 31, 2012

To the minister of Mwenge and Ndeki.
Honorable Frank Mvungi, my lover, life is going on there but you should tell you again that you are very free, but I know this long time you can have any thoughts, even if I know it, I don't know how it was not easy for me, I don't see you so much, I don't see you so much.
But this week it has been a series of sharp teeth. That is the boss, the boss, while he was sent away from the same time when he raised the neighbors to the fourth house and you know how these houses live.
Reason, he was given an invitation to go to the funeral of the father of the nation.
He was happy but even he was pleased with a bit tricky subject where it is very close to his day of death, people feel that they can sign any activity and claimed that it is for the honor of our old man.
However, a dance competition, or a bad shape, anything so that the project does not remember the father of the nation, even other things that were against the stand of the father of the nation.
But an invitation was seen to be a red card for that boss, he took the mother and his boss when they met with sharp teeth.
Now I was happy with the lover that I was impressed by the chest.
We had to be released, to see what is.
We won at the level of huge crimes but we reached there in the sitting room, we got the boss a lot.
"Those should know if those who know if you know her," BB was unable to ure.
"Because there is a father?
"Come here my son let me tell you because you are happy that we know what we are blocking the corruption, so they do not want to accept you even though we do not want them.
"By touching the father?
"We have returned here at the beginning, I was very happy because I met them my fellow colleagues when I told them that it will be a good meeting and we will affect and drinking alcohol for example the father of the nation," BB and was unable to ure.
"That is a father to eat and drinking alcohol for the purpose of the father of the nation? And the others found it to a memory of the father of the nation?
"You don't put your things now because I am ready to live with other people today, I was ready and others until at the end of eating.
"And truly my husband again, I would like to ask you to get married before people."
"And what did you talk about the very good time.
"No her husband is true that your head started getting back until it stopped from the food that he had gone through the" BB that he was shocked by the boss, she was shocked.
"Then, then let me continue to continue listening to the financial and all of us know if we were able to confirm it and then he started a speech," the boss insisted that he had been planted on the political tensions and that she had not seen me completely.
"My fellow members, people have made noise about because of the corruption, the people should not participate fully by the father of the nation, I am saying that the first people have the right to communicate with secondly, they have every reason to chase them.
First without the father of the nation, how many would have been getting enough education to the ones that they don't have.
It is possible for the ordinary citizens to have themselves because the ones that they feel they were able to have them without education so as to expand the education, the teachers has enabled us to achieve their goal and therefore they have a responsibility to thank him completely.
Secondly, the father of the nation was able to help the corrupt people to resolve the dollars, you know you have already caused many religious denominations and it's difficult to break the faith.
How many times there have been a conflict of this religion or one, the scandal of eating people's money or even the male children, but people are continuing to believe only.
And the father of the nation did people to believe in together with his government and even if they did a mistake, it was not true then it is enough for people to continue knowing if there is no good people like those who believe they are told without a little time.
That is why we are supporting our nation's father and requested him to move forward.
Boss he stopped showing that because I think they started selling, then landed in BB.
To you know my son I don't jump and I wanted to leave where there are some who want to give him a speech on my front, but when others were seen to be happy about the speech by me what I think about me.
"Tulia Ackson, where all of them are jokes."
"Jokingly Teacher Kisongo went to the father of the nation."
"I don't like him to talk about him, you can't know how he will benefit later," I didn't say anything but they will let me read, "BB doesn't say the word again," he told the boss while he played 74 matches in the sitting room.
But if you look at the lover it encourages them and even the corruption want to shine at the father of the nation after his death is claiming that every person claims it is instead of showing actions that will enable them to agree with him.
Do they prefer without hypocrisy even blood poured.
