Michael Maurus and.
Kenya has been mentioned to be among the African countries that offer better education, although there are some who are opposing that, including some of the Provinces.
Those who praised Kenya in education, claims that Kenyans have been understanding about different issues due to the foundation that was built in their education from early to universities.
For those who are opposing that, they have claimed that what has carried Kenyans against citizens of other East African countries, is their great ability to speak English and not an understanding of issues according to their education.
The great ability for Kenyans in talking to English, has resulted from their education system where from the previous level, the studies have been presented in that language, a situation that takes a child during the age of primary schools as a technician of talking about that language.
But also, there are some who are claiming that Kenyans are not worried that people who are brought together more than others inside this region, but which carries the ability to take advantage of various opportunities, but also a source of lack of related opportunities are not in place of work.
On Friday of the day before yesterday, we saw the whole education system in that country where we started in education of public institutions.
During the year 1995, the government of Kenya promised a free primary education to its people and that the promise did not reach until the year 2003.
Citizens are required to contribute to the education fund by paying fees, tax and employment services whereby after contributing to many parents they did not have money to pay education for their children, finally they were left out of school system.
Also, teachers found themselves participating in conflicts from time to time due to lack of their salaries and decided to collect fees from the student, while their salaries were being held up to all the fees collected.
Many children were forced to stop schools because they were not able to pay that cost and also many times the children were directed to home during the final examinations so as to be blood for parents to pay fees.
For now education is free as it is in Tanzania and that attendance have increased so that there is a shortage of teachers, classrooms and children not to get their studies easily as a result of lack of enough teachers, an act that causes congestion of students to teach.
Those are the results of all children who attend the ones that were not able to maintain the school fees and children being administered in private schools with the low status so as to benefit from free education.
That situation has built the needs of private schools with low costs that parents are proud to be able to pay fees so as to learn in good environment.
Some people believe that congestion in school is a challenge, that there is a need to prepare a technical training so as to build alternative ways to employment.
Kenya started a modern system of 8-4-4 in the year 1985 where class one to eight are in primary schools, class seven to 12 secondary (form one to four) and then graduates use four years at university.
The 8-4-4 system was made to help those students who have no plan to promote higher education, where it has helped to reduce the standards of students who leave the school and help those who leave the primary schools to get employment.
The growth of the education sector in Kenya has continued his expectations after the first university was started in 1970, five others have been made by higher education needs, has resulted in private universities.
The equipment in some of the public universities are high level and that those in the high level will be sent in home for a long time so as to give an opportunity to the visitors that are facing them by the university.
Universities, as primary schools have lack of money, there are lack of computers and drugs, which is small and do not have enough equipment.
Some of the students should pay a little cost in order to join private universities because they don't want to be involved in competition to look for employment opportunities.
The government of England is giving Kenya a donation of seven billion shillings (97 million American dollars) to help improve the system of free education and extra money will be used to improve health plans in all schools.
Those funds are going on to expand the education of high school fees and universities. There will also be construction of classrooms and improvement of water equipment together with environmental cleanliness.
Although Kenya has its universities, some of the parents want to take their children in various foreign countries, most believe that England has best universities and that it will be a great opportunity for their children to attend the university there.
Universities in Kenya are also difficult to join them due to big higher education needs and the existence of a few positions for students to join them.
The government of Kenya, although in the speed of Kobe Bryant, it is supposed to do education in Kenya being better than the first 12 years of school, although this has contributed to congestion in school, an issue that need to be dealt with quickly.
The sponsorship from England will help to build afresh some of the schools and this will contribute to improving the environment to learn.
