Minister Tibaijuka, has received a billion of her partner.
Sei 12, 2014.

The Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, has said he has received an amount of one million American dollars (1 billion shillings) from one of the Independent Power Poll company (IPTL), James Silas.
According to the minister, those funds were given by that businessman as a contribution to help to help Msufini Primary School in Dar es Salaam city, which is one of its directors.
Those explanations by Minister Tibaijuka have come at a time that have emerged the report that the businessman has given money to some of the government officials (now and in the past) just after being paid money from Tegeta Escrow account which is mentioned by controversy.
In his talks with Good Citizen this week, Professor Tibaijuka, who was the head of United Nations Development Program (UN) party, has said that he received the money from the Rugby World Habitat Organization (UN), has said that he received the money from the Rugby World Habitat Day, he said that those funds are safe and are not bad.

"It is true that my brother Jr, James Maasais', after being paid a donation of one million dollars to the girls' Secondary School so that we can take a loan by using my house and if we can pay it, my house could be used.
"The VIP involves itself to open your account, will be paid and return the M Bank to pay that debt.
"Sikunjema explained that the payments have been supervised by BoT in the concerned ministry and court that were claimed to have mistakes that are believed to be true.

"Basically, I am not asked himself, this is a problem in this issue of IPTL, it is the VIP 'to be paid her money or what does it be paid?
"These people who were injured and the VIP could be able to know that they are paid dirty funds if they do not be involved in providing money in the Escrow account," said Tibaijuka.
Mke Mwema should not be forced to get opinions about this issue because it was explained that he is out of the country for now, but now it was satisfied that the payments took place through CRDB Bank has handed over.
Last year it seems to be the first year of the Rugby World Cup, because it is paid a big amount of money and international standards of beer with non-communicable diseases as an agreement of breaking the contract.

EXIM Bank is owned by the Catholic church in the country like one of the shares, but also there are small businesses.
This newspaper has been told that it has been the normal procedure of the Rugby World Bank to use that bank in a lot of payments he did and that with those who do not have an account, they want first to land and that's when they get relocating the money.
The Rugby Bira and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUM), was its 30 percent of IPTL, while Proin Promotion from Malaysia Airplane with 70 percent.
As a result of that amount of shares, World Cup has been paid to an amount of 75 million dollars (3 billion shillings) with different reports that are being paid to 75 million dollars (5 billion shillings) last year and an amount that won this year.
That amount of money was paid by Rugonzibwa Mujunangoma, who for now is the only owner of IPTL after buying VIP and VIP judgment.
The conflict that is causing the money to be put in the Tegeta Thermal Power Station due to the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) aimed to pay the cost of laying the machines (Capacity Building) to IPTL in the year 2006 because it was noted that IPTL was paying great cost than it was supposed to be found.
The Tegeta Escrow account was started because of protecting all money that are supposed to be paid by TANESCO up to there, the conflict between those two sides to end.
However, September last year, the government through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, directed BoT to pay those funds to the PAP company immediately after being satisfied by the decision of the high court that said that the conflict between the owners of IPTL and TANESCO has ended up and therefore the Central Bank has no reason to save those funds.
The decision to be paid the opposition party in parliament where two members of parliament from Kigoma South Constituency (NCCR-Revolution), David Kafulila and the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), Zitto Kabwe, claimed that the exercise has been filled with corruption.
