Our CHADEMA, we were in every day.
When the training will be able to market training to the press in relation to how to write news on how to write news to the community explaining how to explain what the crowd took place.
Therefore, this is the same time when I got out of four I went to the best African continent.
And this training that we are doing is in a way when I was still from different countries.
For starting to talk about him.
Rwanda, Burundi.
For you the act of tribalism and if it is true for the aim, especially it is to try that they get into the sun for writing news for now.
Because the biggest reason is one.
There is a need to write a budget for war because if it is the way you are in your differences with this, we also aim.
To give them the training on how the United Nations commission where the army of African countries does work in which you can go to participate in the construction of the road.
If you think these teachings are known as a journalist who also would have hope for many years, but Management there I think these teachings are very important because it is very important because apart from people, we have begun writing news concerning the problems of war.
We will help us through the news reporter to write and contribute to the purpose of peace, we have been forced to write farming about long time we have been forced to write and contribute to peace because I know that there is a great desire to sell me and therefore I request for what kind can be able to carry the bail.
The Almighty God speak from being a journalist that I am a citizen and he has called to contribute to peace to return to not different news reporter, different from those who have been looking at what they want.
He was not together with I was in of the training, he has been forced to give him a topic.
It will be remembered?
To read about why he has decided to make him give birth.
The late God rest.
In those nations you believe that there is no problem.
Another one is robbery in culture, but there is no need for this period in which stem cells were thrown out in the time of ten democracy that you must be able to get good training.
For reasons, you find the leaders at the time of giving several examples to make sure that when I read the same time, I found the shoes that you're near in school and to write as required, as required by making a great contribution in increasing or when they get married.
When superstition has been in writing this news of conflicts, maybe and if they are witnessed, then the media can be done between growing the vehicle for reducing the conflict or bring peace as required.
Do you know?
A journalist as a picture.
Maybe a child is the first to have to know.
The conflict is the source.
They are sick.
You can't start writing something that you have not understood the first?
How are you in our shops?
The expectations of the president's expectation is that what is the yes, they have said that corruption is the same.
First, to know what you are able to go through or not only you have heard one person and you do not know that, others are bad and let me know what the news reporter is like each other.
Truly, Khajida Kopa, that is a teaser or to all listeners, you need to believe the journalists due to the picture together with that, the announcement is like that is like that of not getting.
The arrest of all other parties in Kilindi are expecting to do?
To convince him to take a certain position and if you have not ever done by asking questions, follow keenly, we will make sure that if I have done more than ten years now that I have done it as usual.
For sure it has given an opportunity to recognize that before the first time to exercise the news you should know why the great source started and brought to the first source.
He did not know what they are waiting for.
Report of the report.
It's not only that they have to pay a report and it took you.
Why is why it hasn't been bullied.
