
Court and parliament contributing towards the topics which quickened her muscles.
May 31, 2012

At the beginning of this week, the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, Samuel Sitta, representing many ideas where he talked about some of the punishment provided by our judge.
While speaking inside the parliamentary hall, Speaker Sitta urged our court to provide information on various issues by considering the benefits of many, instead of depending on the benefits of a small group of people.
He talked about an example of the issue of oil stations being built by the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), after being used to sell oil and water sources, while they went to court to ask for the punishment against them and the judge agree with them.
I agree with Speaker Sitta that, in one way or another, the decision by the court to stop the punishment was the same as allowing the owners of those fuel stations to continue selling them to the people with dirty and clean water tools, thus endangering health of their stations.
This is an example of how other decisions of our court is able to be pain to the citizens that are many for the benefit of a few people.
The statement by Speaker Sitta was to come out three days after the statement by President Jakaya Kikwete of wanting him the chief justice Augustino Ramadhani solving the challenges facing the court.
While addressing at the commemoration of the Law Day in the country, President Kikwete was quoted by the press saying that he has given the decision not to put him in a difficult time to ask for votes since most citizens are treated well.
The statement by Speaker Sitta was heading to be the answers of the statement by the Chief Justice Emeritus Augustine Ramadhan when he toured the day before the commemoration of the Law Day which shows the official start of the court's work this year.
In addition to other things, the chief justice was quoted saying that the parliament was forced to have an agribusiness plan against people living with parliamentarians.
Honorable Augustino Ramadhani was giving an example of the case between the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Adam Malima and Reginald Mengi, one of the famous business people in the country and said that parliament took the court's work to listen to the problem between those two while one was not a member of parliament.
In his statement he made in parliament in the three days later, Speaker Sitta did not speak about this and instead will talk to EWURA to clean water and how the court is heading to give a decision that we are benefiting more than many in that issue.
Remember, they say they are forced to see me the truth is bad and then we need to make his cross.
Maybe we can ask Speaker Sitta about another important decision of the court to provide justice to each Tanzanian to vie for any position for leadership including the presidential candidate, without being forced to be a member of any political party.

For sure, this was a big decision and it is clear that it was for the benefit of many people, but what happened it is for all witnesses for the way our government has organized a bill to find this justice and take it to the parliament where it was prepared quickly and do not be careful.
Here we believe that the parliament passed the bill for the benefit of many citizens or for the benefit of a small group of people?
We think they instead of our country to do what our citizens have said, is to fight them in public, "everyone wanted to be happy in caring for the citizens, it should be able to sit and work together so as to remove flaws in our laws.
There are many examples of those weaknesses, but that had gone to hand in hand with the statements by our leaders, that were not just give the importance and instead they have been able to get the importance and instead of our newspapers in every day.
In that report, it was explained that the breast cancer factory that is in Mbagala in Dar es Salaam city was fined shillings 100,000 shillings for an offense of allowing water with feces in the open area.
It was explained that February 2, this year, that factory was found with a health officer from open doors, something that is dangerous to them.

It has also been explained that the charges of charges in that case he wanted the judge to marry off the factory so as to be a lesson to other industries in the country Mister magistrate where he had a fine of 100,000 shillings which were paid there and the case ended.
There is no fear that the judge was looking for the law to do you get into that offense and to give a solution to work, it will be our citizens where we will continue to ask ourselves how it will be a big industry like that one will end up a fine of one hundred thousand shillings.

We would understand that during this period the issues concerning our environment is being given the only importance, the punishment that would be provided in that factory will give a lesson to the industry that are not involved with complaints from the citizens at the increase in the environment that perform.
We think that instead of leaders in our country's administration have lost their time without stopping them in public, they are supposed to sit down and cooperate with bad laws that provide a fine of one hundred thousand shillings in that factory which is causing the behavior of our environment!

We think that instead of our administration to lose time, they have been struggling in the office and called a special session that will make leaders representing companies in the case and to pay a fine that was sentenced instead of someone to bring in the pocket.
Instead of 'informative "," our administration can also go ahead, and do creativity to remove the punishment for paying the fine like this factory that goes up in prison for even one week!
I believe by "creativity," this is, these events of industries in polluting the environment without caring about its effects on land and the citizens will open so much!
In our rule of administration I've done this one and many others of this kind, it will not have a need to fight each other to look for "we are enough" in caring for the citizens but the work we will make us themselves.
