
Zitto Kabwe, Lissu, Mnyika have been expelled from Deepening Trust, 2012.

Being only 11 meetings of the 10th parliament with his hand in August 2015, the political strategy is run using different ways to prevent the members of parliament of the opposition parties, to fail in the next general elections.

Although it's also to return to the members of parliament in parliament after the year 2015, in large numbers to depend on the implementation of their promise to the citizens, according to other political ways that can contribute to them down.

That situation has come out as a member of parliament for some members.

Among those regions are Arusha town under God bless Lema, whose judgment will be read this Wednesday, in Dar es Salaam city.

Already the trend of that case has caused an eruption of debates in different areas of Arusha region, others were criticized and others thanking them.

Blood pressure to members of parliament are expected to be operated on two ways, first is the strategies of some of their fellow members who want to vie for the parliamentary seat through their party but the second one is members of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), which have been allowed officially by the headquarters of their party to start running political strategies heading to the general elections of the year 2015.

The permission from CCM's headquarters have been made by the vice chairman of that party, Philip Mangula, who even so, he has blamed CCM members to fight themselves by themselves and especially considering the current members of the party.

According to the new guide of Mangula, it is an offense for the cadres of his party to start now, to get him "in the regions that are led by CCM members of CCM, but they can do that in the constituencies of opposition members.

Mangula is holding his decision on the motion that, CCM members will start.
"You came out" from now in the regions of "their fellow members," lack members of parliament to take advantage of implementing the manifesto of their party.

The new guide of Mangula, it is translated in the analysis of political issues that it is aiming to return all important constituencies out of opposition parties in the 2010 general elections and therefore moving the opposition to parliament in the next parliament.

The explanation of Mangula wants the CCM members to start doing political parties in the opposition parties and at the same time to prevent the CCM members so as to prevent them, be part of the opinion polls in the interview between him and the writer of this newspaper, that was published in the previous edition.

In controlling the mistakes of the parliamentary and presidential candidate of CCM, Mangula said his office will put procedures of opening the files (center) members who will be mentioned to form the groups of the presidential race of 2015 as well as participating in the regions and performing well the opposition members of the party with an aim of putting it well in the year 2015.

He said all those found to be involved in those acts before time, their names will be dismissed during the names of candidates for candidates.

In his conversation over the phone with our reporter recently, Mangula said that "Percent" where he is with the members of parliament of the second side (opposition), about the members of CCM getting permission. "

It is clear that the decision that can be implemented in speed by some of the CCM members, some of the counties that were built are together with the two of Dar es Salaam Kawe, Halima Mdee (CHADEMA) and Lindi Town (Salum Bary - CUF).

Other constituencies are Mwanza, Ilemela (430 kW), Nyamagana (Ezekia Wenje, CHADEMA) and Ukerewe (CHADEMA).

Other constituencies are Maswa District, (John shibuda - CHADEMA) and Maswa District (Sylvester Mabisa, CHADEMA), Mbeya Town (Joseph Mbilinyi - CHADEMA) and Mbozi Constituency (David Silay- CHADEMA).

Others are Kigoma South, David Kafulila - NCCR-Revolution), Kasulu Town, (Moses Machali (NCCR-Revolution), Kigoma northern region (Zitto Kabwe (CHADEMA), although Zitto Kabwe has said he will not vie for the next general elections (Iringa town), Pastor Peter Msigwa (CHADEMA).

The statement of members of parliament, some of the members of parliament of CCM, have joined the stand of Mangula.

Godfrey Zambi has thanked the Northern East member of parliament, he says that I have faith that this procedure (not in opening) through their own kind, will enable you to build discipline in CCM and even to control huge expenditure for money and groups in our elections. "

Doctor John Lukuwi has said that, this is a very good procedure for us to continue implementing the CCM party manifesto of the year 2010 / 2015 at all levels instead of fighting and making social networks for now to have a difficult time to implement the manifesto of our party. "

Doctor Chami, says in politics, it is common for people to prepare early before time.

He says he is saying that he didn't give the fever or it does not hesitate to implement his parliamentary responsibilities as seen by the manifesto of his party.

"There is a nominated member of parliament of opposition, he was started in my region.

"He wrote on the money he has a mother of Moshi Town so as to inspect them in the year 2015, I am very happy and I am very pleased to enable my citizens of Moshi rural," said Doctor Chami.

The member of parliament for Nzega, Doctor Hamisi Kigwangalla says that in his constituency, there are members of CCM who have started a lot of violence, while they were presenting to the citizens of that province, they are members of parliament.

"In my region for example, there is a vibrant member of parliament who plays for the constituency and told the citizens that it has not come to the citizens that it has been unable to save the farmers during the CCM election manifesto.

Ludewa member of parliament, Deo Filikunjombe, she was announced by the statement of Mangula saying.
"My work is surprised that I don't know so that my party which was already prepared by my party in the whole period of my member of parliament, Ismail Ngayongers, so it is good for us to ensure that those are clear.

He continues, "Fauzia Kullane.
Be it open and should not be secret again, it should not open me so that they can make them in the office.
Private, in the current world, I don't see the problem to someone to start showing intentions of wanting the leadership early.

This is enabling us to recognize the reports of our leaders because the president is all of us, therefore we are supposed to listen or his information early. "

The nominated member of parliament, Diana Chilolo (CCM) says, "the leadership has its procedures.

This plan will help us to stop the habit of doing campaigns before time.
Many times that member of parliament is unable to implement responsibilities of his voters due to him being responsible for parliamentary debates.

Early campaign meetings are given to the member of parliament who is in power to serve his citizens. I do not depend on by some of the acts of people using money in looking for leadership.

It is good for we are waiting for the right time so that every candidate will be responsible for the issue and policies of his party. "
