
Finally those of hunger have been forced to get food to Dec 13, 2012.

After this newspaper of Raia Mwema, he knows the reports of hunger, affecting thousands of people in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCAA) in Arusha province, the government has now touched me and taking food to the residents of the villages that are in that reserve.

The news that was published by our salvation, in two consecutive issues, have also complained of the regular non-governmental organizations which have started the process of taking food to the donations in the villages that are of hunger.

The reports of being taken to that food was confirmed at the end of the week by the head of Ngorongoro District, Elias WLali, when he spoke to Good Citizen on phone.

"We have received 157 tons of maize from the disaster unit, the office of the Prime Minister and already the food was distributed to the citizens who are facing hunger in various areas in Ngorongoro district," explained the district commissioner.

He said among those tons 157 tons divided into villages located in seven wards of Ngorongoro District which all are in the reserve area.

"38 tons produced divided into two wards in primary and Pinyinyi ward which are in the area of Sale and villages of those two wards are also faced with a lot of hunger," said Lali.

According to Lali, food made by the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority has also started being transported since the beginning of last week to be taken to various areas in Ngorongoro District.

"The first phase of the vehicles that have been built for 300 tons of maize which is between 600 tons that benefited from the department of community development of Ngorongoro Conservation Authority and this week also 300 tons will continue to be transported," added that district commissioner.

That head of district said that in order to deal with hunger, his district needs 150 tons of food in a period of the next three months so as to take over the 50 people facing a food shortage.

He said together with the availability of food to the citizens who are facing hunger, the government by using its experts who are in the villages will do a special program of improving education to the citizens of that district.

He said together with the lack of food we have noted that there is a problem of lack of education on better infrastructure, a situation that contributes to many children to get a good time to give citizens education on better professionalism so as to eliminate the problem to small children, "he said.

He also pointed out that one of the steps of the program is to start the rearing of indigenous chicken from the village levels to those who do not have livestock so that the crops are used by the chicken like meat and eggs are used as food digestion.

He said another plan is to educate the citizens of the villages that are outside the reserve to sell the areas of their livestock during a good state so as to buy food for their families.

"To the citizens that live inside the park, a state of livestock is not good health due to drought but to the citizens that are outside the park, where health of livestock is not very bad to enable them sell the areas of livestock so as to buy food at this time, which is available" he said.

And the Regional Manager of the National Housing Corporation (SGS), Bright), left to Good Citizen that his institution has given a food amount.

"It is true that food has begun to be released after those important procedures like the availability of permits in completion and recently, I will talk and you have several vehicles, have had 300 tons of authorities and 157 tons of the disasters," said Mollel.

On his part, the Secretary of the Council of pastoralists that is among the interests of the citizens that live in the park, James Mbatia, congratulated the Citizen newspaper by releasing reports of existence of hunger in their area.

"We are happy to see the newspaper of Mke Mwema, by releasing the reports of hunger and already the government has started to take action of taking food to various areas since last week," said Colaso.

However, together with the government's efforts to take food to the area, the state of issues is not well due to the step of citizens threatened to break the main entrance to the reserve, if the government will continue with its decision to prevent farming for subsistence.

Those citizens for a long time have complained of that decision on claims that preventing the farming is one of the existence of hunger which has been endangering their lives.

According to information just reaching, for two weeks, the decision of wanting to score the main entrance to the reserve has aimed to attract feelings of great nations that the government of Tanzania did not care for its citizens living in that park.

Speaking to journalists in Arusha town last week, one of the activists of the Maasais' community, Lazaro Sawazisha ', claimed that the government will not change his decision to be the main entrance to the reserve and preventing all the tourists to enter.

Sawazisha 'who has identified himself as the secretary of the council of pastoralists, tourism and environment, said that for now they have already given time the government to identify their applications for subsistence.

"After December 25, all the citizens of Ngorongoro will go to the area of the main entrance gate on the Makoroboi market and close up until when the government will implement our long-term complaints," said Sawazisha '.

Together with the issue of agriculture for subsistence, according to that secretary, those citizens need to give 30 percent of its revenue to the Council of pastoralists that is facing the interests of farmers of Maasais' in the park.

Currently the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority gives an average of 15 billion to the council and those funds are used for various development activities and increase the speed of social services within the reserve.

He said together with increasing the amount of money in the collection of revenue, we want from now the leadership of the authority together with the government to provide money for the purpose of introducing food to citizens who do not have the capacity in the reserve instead of waiting for people who are affected by hunger, "added Sawazisha '.

"We want all investors to be 30 percent of employment and an amount of revenue to the locals of Ngorongoro and that step will help so much to reduce poverty that has never happened among the community members," added William Ole Nasha, who was accompanied by that secretary.

Ngorongoro Constituency member of parliament, Kaika Santosh has told BBC Sport that it is true that there are reports of the citizens to take action against the main entrance to the reserve and that action can be able to resolve the trend of the tourism sector in the country.

And the officer of charge of the Tanzania Tourist Board (TATO), Innocent Mongi, said that if those citizens will implement that decision they will enable the country's laws and will affect tourism activities in the northern region.

The northern region involves attraction sites like Ngorongoro, Serengeti National Reserve, Tarangire National Park, Manyara, Arusha, and Milulu of Kilimanjaro and Meru and tourism activities are making an average of 1 billion American dollars in a year.

In another step that was found from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism explained that, the minister of that ministry, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, is expected to visit the area on Wednesday this week, to speak to citizens and one of the biggest agenda, it will be an issue of hunger and agriculture for subsistence.
