
They will come up with the idea of creativity to use plastic bags according to mattresses.
It has been a famous word at the moment the opportunities used to be used by more than the shivered and to change their opportunities including the Environment Officer of Kibondo District, Mohamed Semwenda.
Khajida Kopa of the idea of cement is saying according to the content of his work he has been asked for many times how he can eradicate plastic bags.
He says that due to various researches in the environment, it shows that an average of plastic bags is used every year all over the world, two million is used in every minutes.
He explains that before implementing the idea, they participated in checking the effects of that fund for the country and the community.
He revealed that the bags can be permanent in the environment being into pieces of more than 100 years without stopping.
He says that there was also looking for the use of those funds to other countries and identify which one match from one country to another and that in the East African countries is estimated to be more than 400 million shillings used every year.
While in Denmark and Finland a person uses 400 plastic bags for a year while the countries that are ongoing like Tanzania are inspected, are estimated to be one year using 96 bags.
The effects of plastic bags, Seminar is mentioning the effects of those funds to be together with affecting the animals, an airplane and his creation of water.
He also explains that bags are affecting the soil system by preventing the circulation of water (it gives them) to go or from soil.
"Affects the weather (HIV) to go or from soil and therefore, causing all creatures that are in soil or water and eventually lost life," says Mister.
He says that those effects are reduced by a large extent in production of agriculture production, because all creatures that are available in soil are able to make natural fertility.
Seminar is depending on the reports from different sources of reading through that bags, contributes to the increase in climate change (Soft Records) in the which is said to be self-communicable diseases that is professionally known as urologists.
Why are plastic bags?
Semalenga says if musician Mwingira explained that as a challenge and said that the opportunity to increase their income and reduce the effects that come from that fund by using the ones that was used to produce mattresses.
He says by doing that he will have reduced the spread of that fund in the environment and eventually to reduce the effects.
There are some who had a lot of challenges, the idea of, started by making a huge number of bed sheets, a result from 150 plastic bags, which has no loss of 6 feet to 4 million, the ones that were canceled due to the type of natural vegetation.
After that, they drew 150 plastic chairs and cut off the soap to manslaughter, and filling it inside the reserve fund, which made it.
It will enable this fund's fund to be sold to the user I added a difficult time to fill Dinamo Zagreb, ready for use, "he said.
Semalenga after getting enough natural resources, do not get the tender to evade a lot of mattresses and how she doesn't put tickets to collect taxes in several provinces and to employ themselves so that I will get scholarships to the provinces and those creatures will not be safe, "he says.
Achievements in the issue of destruction of a community, do not see the destruction that everyone has caused its conflict, an issue of complaining of challenges can be changed and be an opportunity like what he did.
He explains that there are many elites who have graduated in the environment issues, they have a lot of thoughts but lack of money, loans are doing their thoughts in front and on a computer.
"Sponsors who are leading the environment projects being supported and we can end up on various issues of air travel, the idea, if you have shown success but its performance becomes difficult because of lack of money to run," he says.
