And the listener is going to listen to details on the second part from the Swahili language of South Africa 'Eight O'clock here in Washington, d'c, then here I have a my friend who will have our writer from Nairobi, Kenneth Kaunda for the name we will go directly until when you go to the listener.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will be the end of the week, there have been involved in an accident.
Land.
It is not good that will be done where by bad musicians, many Kenyans have lost life and several others being injured then on phone lines I start by Shangani areas.
Let me explain the situation as there in relation to these water accidents that come from time to time in Kenya.
How had we had to see how he said.
You miss.
This weekend, there was an incident that Ras Kiduku was taught.
And some of the musicians who had gone to perform well in the lake and lost their lives and the reports we have is that when they go to Dar es Salaam, there was a cry for a person that was carrying them.
When you go to Dar es Salaam, there will be ten hundred and seven musicians contrary to the way the government is supposed to carry the people you are supposed to carry people.
But they were carrying ten thousand shillings and they were confirmed to perform.
Therefore, as a result of the weight, when you look there it was only a few days to arrive or at the end of the day you want to go.
But something it started to pass.
And finally they were left.
I thank Mchaga answered me what is the accident as I said there were taken place in the lake.
Zitto Kabwe is not the Lake Region that is known as I said earlier, the desire to forgive him for that day and then the child before going back to you, what the listener is supposed to know what to know about these accidents that arise from time to time.
On his days of condolences, then.
I wanted to say that in Kenya, there is an authority that I think about the national disasters, popularly known as Beauts Management.
And now this is an authority that has listed the accidents of a car that happened in our country.
If events that are supposed to address.
When you came to now for example.
The journalists took place on Saturday early in the morning.
After that accident, the police commander in the Bongwe area that is known as Bodaboda, was quoted by the fiesta newspaper saying that his officers were waiting to get the help from the national disaster authority, I said that those officers were waiting to get the help from the disaster authority, I said that those officers were waiting to look for their bodies that still has not been found by time.
For now I want to say here is.
In addition to other accidents which usually happens just after road accidents were involved in a motorcycle accident and even the road accidents.
It does not have a lot of people to the residents of that area, they are saying that those who were involved in a bomb accident is not yet known as it is in the accident.
Statistics that we show that everything there is an accident like this Saturday.
The government provides a lot of words for owners and drivers of a knee problem but after a little time, the promise it remains to be the normal and maybe I will get when she got it when she got it.
Let me added that the government according to any paper.
If we have said that when the accident, I said that the authority to deal with disasters have been denied the views that are given by the citizens that the accidents were given by the citizens that the road accidents are discussed.
And would have never heard this issue and the government then for you to know the west I will go back to you for you to allow me for you to make sure that there should be a citizen of Kenya to add more effort in order to prevent these disasters and I cannot come from time to time.
First, it is a must that it should be understood because it is called a accident which happens inside and is needed so when we speak that there is what we will be able to succeed in order to prevent the accidents that concern it.
It is a broad way.
Royalties.
Primary school which is possible for all days usually be made is to make sure that.
Water stations in Njombe road.
Hayatou, was given an inspection in high level to ensure that the use of its use is about the performance of his work is in a situation that is still in a situation.
It was not present.
Though he didn't know that we must agree on that the age of this age, are we know the life of the Almighty God?
Let me know if people had been born and to live without each other since we are at the world up to this world, there was no opportunity we did not have affected.
I hope.
