
New at the airport of Mbeya.
Wash your 30th, 2016 by our correspondent.

Finally, the old area of Mbeya Airport that is in the city is sold for the purpose of putting borders with an aim of preventing attacks.
That report has been released at the end of the week by Songwe Airport in Mbeya Province, Hamis Kiiza in his interview with the press at the field.
The commander said that the government through the Tanzania Airports Authority in the country has given more than 1267th shillings for the purpose of testing and laying the marks.
However, that stadium manager said that the exercise of testing has started due to the presence of a blockade of the Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya about the use of the stadium.
The Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya, Amos Makalla, gave a statement after the press, including his fellow citizens, printing information to be sold in the field of that stadium, a step that was caused by the claims of a big resident of Mbeya City that he is the one with the origin of the origin of the East region of that stadium.
The invasion of the stadium was contributed by the step by the government of not getting into its areas and put boundaries, steps that give the loopholes to cause conflicts among the supervisors of the law during those areas.
More than 70 plots led off in the area and swept away from people from the Ihanga village, where he organized a lot of questions from the residents of that county which they believe that the Eastern region is part of the stadium.
That former stadium has stopped the activities of receiving the plane just after the Songwe International Airport started working, and some of the people using the loopholes to build the issue of the area to become natural resources.
The only activities that is going on at that time is the weather center run by Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA), Mbeya station that is in that field is explained to have a unique reputation in the world.
The Regional Manager of the Meteorological Authority in the country, Isa Hamad says that the station is very important in the world in the monitoring of the weather, it has been employed and his number of self-3932.
As a result of some of the Liberian government officers in the country to cooperate with few residents during the government's area, the head of Mbeya Region, made a special commission to investigate that incident.
The former Mbeya Stadium has been there since 1930, where the weather station is explained to start collecting information from 1929, South Africa where medical centers in the city of East and North areas where medical camp were surrounded by the residence of the people was part of the stadium.
