The permanent parliamentary committee of public organizations has continued with his session to discuss the newspaper of newspapers and the local government, we have also been presented, because of identifying many weaknesses, especially the parliamentary committees will continue to arrive in Dar es Salaam city, here is more information from the author.
It is not true that came out as a result of the board of that organization to eliminate the debts of more than four billion shillings without following the procedure and a phone mistake of more than ten billion shillings.
The national chairperson of Zitto Zuberi Kabwe dressed in the report at the press just after having his hand over the session and explained the strategies that were present as well as giving information to the government departments to discuss on how to solve the problems that were made.
First we have not done.
To-day activities.
Peter the body of policies in the ministry of information.
And the board.
With the aim of going and think about how to be running in government.
For reasons for four consecutive years if faced with great problems.
And we decided to resolve it and be able to end the problems.
And here he is saying that the steps that will be taken by that committee in hand and expanding the losses that was revealed depends on and non-non-compliance.
The late God did not do problems of procurement.
And the problems of more than ten billion and nine billion which the late do not have been stolen, the ones that will be stolen, the same way to fulfill its own way and its record.
And this is a big problem in four billion, these are not information because they do not get little, they do not know where our aim of Dodoma is due to the purpose of Dodoma.
The way by the police will find you to look at all the government in with Mahmoud and that, Father is run in an environment that we cannot go to and they are determined to explode.
At the same time, the main army and rescue is required to submit the challenges that are facing them by the permanent parliamentary committee of the government, to be easy for the purpose of solutions for them.
That order is as a result of the complaints that were given by that army through the acting commissioner general, should also be interviewed by that committee.
There is no one that is no one.
A clean competition look for anything.
Singing.
While I think he wants to sign a retired letter to get my income every time when a person comes or even the side is true the late welcome to Tukuyu, a activist but if you're welcome to follow keenly.
That is when the deputy chairperson of also, Doctor Zainabu Chaula visits the directive, we request all the efforts they face in the department.
We need me.
Every day if the parliamentary committee should work so that we can see you close to the fire department I hear people saying early in pain and we can be able to see the problem and big events to be based.
In the year it does not mean the truth here.
We request that the challenge is there.
The parliamentary standing committee in its sessions will get the position through various aspects of public organizations and the local government accounts to various committees of the parliamentary committees are continuing in Dar es Salaam city, he has said that the aim of looking for different issues and to make corrections where there is a series of limitations in Dar es Salaam city.
