
Dar es Salaam Port have started revenue.

It has been written by us.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

One day after the permanent parliamentary committee on industry, trade and environment, explained the amount of goods into the port of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has explained that the collection of tax in that port is increasing a fast rate.

The increase of revenue in the port of Dar es Salaam is part of the collection of tax in Dar es Salaam is part of the collection of tax in the year TRA to collect 1 trillion shillings in the collection of August this year.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the director of the service and education to the taxpayer of TRA, Richard Kayombo, said that the income is due to the collection of taxes in the port of Dar es Salaam, the collection of taxes in the port of Dar es Salaam have increased in the collection of taxes in the month of August this year and said that the collection resulted from poor plans they had put in place.
He said the collection has enabled that authority to cross over 1 trillion shillings (152) which is equivalent to 108 billion shillings per month, last year that collected 923 billion shillings.
"We have collected this taxes as a result of sustainable strategies that we have set, and these income comes from different taxes which have been collected from great cooperation between the business people and the authority," said Kayombo.
He said TRA in making sure that the collecting taxes paid well, has set up various strategies to increase the scope of revenue sources together with collecting revenue fully.
He said among those strategies include, making the Kariakoo area to be the special region of tax due to that area being the business center here in the country and to ensure that every business person becomes the electronic machines (EFDs) and use it as required.
In ensuring that it is working, Kayombo said all agents of UNDP have already opened a unity office in the building of Al-Kwerekwe roads which is in Msimbazi area, so as to ease the availability of these machines and solve the challenges facing business people in the use of those machines.
In another step, Kayombo called for the citizens and business people to come out to verify their reports of registration of the taxpayer identification (TIN) before October 15 this year, at the stations that have been planned for them and that the duration it has been added.
"Together with reviewing their information, all the business people who don't have TIN in the country, are supposed to arrive at the TRA offices that is close to them so as to register or face the operation that will take place currently in the whole country together with educating," said Kayombo.
He urged the owners of the oil stations to implement the government's directive of closing up loans before September 30 this year, because the inspection will be taken from October first and said the legal action will be taken against all those found violating the directive.
He said in making sure that the value-added tax (VAT) that is collected from time, TRA is reminding the people that were registered to be given every month according to the procedures made.
The day before yesterday, the Parliamentary Committee on Industry, Trade and Environment said it is intending to bring together the stakeholders of the port of Dar es Salaam so as to discuss how to restore cargo which have already reduced the port by the chairman of the committee Doctor Auctioneer Mwokozi, "I think it is good and we go hand in talks so that we can be told the truth and we find answers.
We will inform you for a very fast meeting, the country is in a situation that is not normal, sometimes there are a lot of things we thank the president (John Magufuli), therefore we will follow the meeting, "said Mahenge.
