
Tanzania did an agreement with drugs.

It has been written by Hillary Clinton.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Tanzania is among the 13 countries of East Africa that agreed with signing a statement of together with those nations to continue cooperating closely with drugs and other criminal offenses.

That step was arrived at a meeting with the launch of the United Nations Development Program (UN) to control drugs and other criminal offenses (UNODC) for the period of the year 2016 to 2021, that took place in Nairobi, Kenya, August 29, this year.
Speaking with this newspaper, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Constitution and law, Professor Sifuna Mchome, who urged Tanzania at the launch said that the signing of that declaration of unity of those countries to continue the fight against drugs and other mistakes which the UN office is responsible.
He said the objectives of the program is going on well with the intentions and the objectives of the government to fight with bad drugs, bribery, illegal drug abuse and acts of terrorism.
"This program works is good and involves different areas of challenges which Tanzania has been trying to continue with drugs, bribery, illegal drug trafficking and a terrorist attack," he said.
He said the nation that needs the development in fast has no reason to be the first to qualify for those countries due to Tanzania being Burundi, Comoros, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Somalia, Uganda and Uganda which participated in the launch.
Professor Muhongo said the aim is to support and strengthen the ability of these nations to control and fight against those types, control of bribery, with the aim of continuing to strengthen the ability of this nations in the implementation of the United Nations.
"The third pillar is about preventing terrorism where the aim will be to continue supporting and strengthen the national systems for criminal offenses so as to enable them to sustain themselves and therefore deal with the threat of terrorism which is underway.
