
The breast cancer company is looking for shillings.
By Tom Bishop.
The international disease of breast cancer in the mountain has reduced the cost of 400 meters after buying a machine for planting trees.
That situation that brought complaints from groups to defend the family's interests.
The union of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, (KMU) yesterday complained to the performance of those workers and the leaves of Kapesti 'and said that the step will lead to an end to many people who do not have work.
The secretary of the party, the branch of the NHO branch, Otolo, urged the government to intervene in order to make sure they don't like the ones they don't like to do their work.
"It is contrary to the guidelines of the Ministry of Agriculture, to start using those machines because they will make thousands of people to lose their work," he said.
The arrest of it was implemented after the breast cancer farmers takes a huge losses resulting from the reduction of tea prices in the international market.
He said, "we thank President Uhuru and its assistant to prevent breast cancer screening machines for that step, it will cause many citizens to lack work," said some of the companies, "said some of the companies," said some of the companies, "said some of the companies in which they had bought those machines.
But the use of those companies who did not want to be mentioned they said, "it will be difficult for companies to produce breast cancer which will not use technology in the competitive world," the secretary of Kvitova in Western Region, Mister Joshua Nasari, said that big companies have been able to use technology in the competitive market.
He said, "a lot of East and Central Africa have refused to use those machines and they can be defended by the organization for defending security rights in Kenya, to respect the contract together with that party to follow up together.
He wanted them to prove that they are waiting for the farm as it is against the agreements.
