
24 December 2012

China is set to rule.

By Danny Sserunkuma.

Last week in the last article, we saw the nation of China, which has already started the second position of the economic growth in the world after reducing Japan which was also being partnering with that position since 1988.
America which is the head still continues to be the first, although there are specialists of economic issues, including the World Bank, they are estimated to be between the year 2025 and until now it will be able to rule by protecting America until the second position.

In today's part, together with other things, we will see how the United Republic of China has changed since "United Republic of China."

Follow keenly because the changes are the secret of the development of that country, which we want to identify the problem.

The coming from China to be rich and heading to the world economy is a long history and a lesson to the poor countries, including East African countries, which their economic development have been stuck to move forward.

Maybe this important thing to you the reader to know early is that incidents of fights that we see now is going to come out in Somalia, DR Congo and the New African continent, the ones that come to the development of China the previous years.

Before that country had police force, political and economy more than many countries in the world.

Although the level of technology in China at that time was poor compared to this time, science subjects are still in China to be renowned for standards of that time.

One of the fear from the records of the United Republic of America (CIA) explained that, "for many years China emerged to have a high level of development than all the countries in the world, while providing them in science and various arts of the world."

CIA explains that "all the development of China fell from the 19th century and continued following their disappearance of peace in that country, where the dispute that was caused by war, diabetes and the killing of Kimbari.

The cause of the environment, CIA continues, was to vie for power, where some of the opposition groups were forced to enable that country to be 44 seconds.

That situation resulted to the goal of "soccer stars" this happening took place in big areas in the North of the country and therefore they get to the country in the northern region, South Africa, East and Central Africa.

The administration that had already started the capital city of now, Beijing has been trying to restore the northern region in the "union" of the United Republic of Tanzania, but without success.

The first President of the United Republic of China, Sinyati Enterprises LTD, who died or for three months in 1912, and also the second President, Yuan Shprygin, who passed away for two years, since 1915 and 1916, everyone tried to protect China without success.

The failure of those government led to America to be requested to intervene in the conflict so as to bring together those players of war, but the country refused because there were no interests.

History has explained that "America got the request of wanting them to marry off their wives because it had an important agenda in other parts of the world."

A saying that "I'm saying during this period is the true friend," it was heard that China's government decided to make it to Russia so that they can bring down "players of war" and restore peace.

Despite Russia asked for that request, but also before doing any military training, famous as "the citizens of China, it also claimed that it was the previous strategies to face the fighters.

The means that was used is to claim that the training did not have ideologies or favoring any side, because the followers of all parties, that is, the ruling party of "I believe it will be allowed together to get a special political training ready to play soccer stars.

The history is noted that the completion of the training will enable the fighters to be a mixture of control and leadership of Barcelona, where the journey towards the northern region started.

That journey is known as' Usiwe Bubu ', that is a hard journey to go to North Pemba, "the difficult journey started on May 1926 after two hundred fighters attacked the union known as the revolutionary police of China (UNICEF).

Utah Jazz led the followers of the Party of 'I hope' that it made a government of China, and the followers of the communist party of China.

On the side of Northern Region, players of the English Premier League in the third minute, got a report of getting a big army and decided to form the union, which also included 2 hundred and a half fighters.

Armed forces together with their partners, under the leadership of the army police in Russia, was using 6 months to reach this game of fights where the two sides were competing in the fight is known as "the high court of Wiwa of China.

Since those insurgents were prepared well more in the army and patriotic against the rebels, they were able to sign up players of fights.

The step by Russia is expecting to connect two sides with different ideology, that is the party of 'I hope' and the communist party of Tanzania and joined Preston, changed to be careful in the fight against players of the war.

It is that following a small victory that is available against this disease of war was enough to encourage the followers of the ruling party, "I hope" to change suddenly in the field of war and started dealing with the followers of the communist party of the country "who are needed to war in North.

There is a rumor that you used that attack by the communist party of the country, "Nisubiri" from the army in the field of war.

The effects have caused the fighters of this players of war to get new energy and emerged as a situation led to all the three sides to fight against each one that caused a huge controversy.
Following that mistake, suddenly in the whole period of things to war, where the Communist Party was being faced with the killing of a farmer, who before going to the field of Peking University, decided to introduce himself.

Previously when he was with his fellow followers of the country, they have been forced to be one hundred thousand, they decided to leave the North-western part where it is up to China and Russia.

Although the cause of that offense was to save the fish, but also a total of approximately 70 million people lost their lives while on the way to the end of their country and Russia.

The walk of huge range of bacterial infections which is also known as "Ambassador Herbert March," where it is estimated to be accountable, and his colleagues were forced to remove the fighters of the party 'I hope' by a distance of 12,500 kilometers for 370 days without stopping.

In the walk that many lost their lives due to various accidents, including spreading on water, can fall in the valleys while getting into the valleys while getting into the scene.

It will continue next week.
