It is dangerous to the prime minister.
Jon 09 / 2014.

The Minister who was given that position in the final changes of the cabinet, that took place earlier this year, leading a good ministry that has been revealed to coordinate the crimes of crimes that shall take place in Manyoni District and other areas in Singida province, for sure media houses in Singida Province have explained.
That minister (name is reserved for now) has been having special agents in close areas and other things that are run away by time to time, it takes place in Manyoni district to ensure that its information are in the hands of important media stations in the country.
From Manyoni District, Singida Province, the report of "Kiango" will open the network of the minister is being led by the businessman (name withheld), among the shops and the businessman who is owned by a resident of Mnyampanda in Manyoni District and his jobs inside the internet has come up to Tabora province.
It is alleged that the close relationship between the businessman and the concerned minister has contributed to a lot of strength due to his keenness in order to achieve the incidents of crimes.
Reports indicate that the businessman has had a special youth who their work is to collect elephant tusks from Itigi Branch which is celebrated but at the Manyoni station, the businessman does work for himself.
Those youths (names are reserved together with their phone number), one living in Manyoni using the third number of one type of mobile phones, another one is the host in the villages neighboring the wild animals that are found in those areas on behalf of the network.
Apart from those two youths, there is another youth (name is reserved for now), this is a resident of Ihanga village, with a large number of elephants' phones, "the stakeholders" at Ihenga town, and after buying those teeth, the businessman of Manyoni will end up.
Ways of transportation.

After the work of buying and collection of completion, the elephants' tusks used, are being transported through the central railway under the management of one employee of Tanzania Railways Limited (name withheld), with his residence in Morogoro town.
The employee involved the transportation of those teeth from Tabora to Itigi where there was received by a business person (Manyoni), who is in the Manyoni District.
While in Manyoni, those teeth are reserved for the owner of one of the big and popular hotel in Manyoni, who is the origin of the provinces in the northern region, who also communicate with the minister for the purpose of transporting those teeth.
Reports of investigation that are supposed to be noted that many times, the concerned minister takes place in Manyoni, for the purpose of getting a load "and every time he is being accompanied by one woman, with the sweetness of people from the northern region (name withheld).
That woman is used to transporting those teeth that are collected including from the "center of Puma energy in Singida province, so that finally they give them an issue.
That Minister has said that Manyoni has been preparing to collect its partners in the network and all of them get their accommodation in one of the biggest hotel and popular in Manyoni District.
While in Manyoni, and the boss (minister) has condemned the appeal against the defense forces to protect people of protecting the concerned hotel and even preventing other visitors arriving at the area.
In the Singinda area, Puma, there is a special youth who is used by the minister who is reported to have brotherhood of one way by the appointed President Kikwete, this youth uses number of two different networks including mobile phones.
This is the great job to communicate with Ferguson (themselves by poachers) and sometimes usually happens, the youth had a lot of elephants which have been destroyed, therefore, our investigation has revealed sometimes, "you cannot get a certain amount and sell it without a network to know.
