The late God is sholics or he is in Nairobi, he is with me.
When it was there, it is not there at each other and in the past, this is tired of the greetings.
The late God rest the child, the late God is sleeping on the work of work and not bad, I do not deal with the real team, but it's the same.
Today it was part of the right to Nairobi.
I have not been able to get today's place in Nairobi, in Dar es Salaam city when I was in Dar es Salaam city, I have also done all the years since I was in a work I decided to listen to me, it was now, for you to put it there and move forward.
Their is good for one day for a week.
I have not seen that, it is a good time when you are coming one day for that week, it is not bad to me at least I know this at least do this work to work every day.
When it is a must, it is a must for a half that you get time to give me the community, the late God know you can see you still going on.
You don't have fallen from that and me read it on the village or to get an important part in the village.
It is a mother in the afternoon by that mother.
That is the same?
Because I will support twenty four hours in the farm for a long time I went and insisted that I went to let me tell me what I think how to let me tell me what he didn't know if I think it just like the phone and let me tell me.
This is not a problem.
Now, why should it be done and because I have heard that I don't know what I will work hard and know what I will look for me, then I will use you and know what I will use you, then this will use you by email news.
Eyes, I will do.
I don't know what I don't know today morning here in the morning tomorrow morning, and your number is with you, what I'm in, I am very happy with this is with this, then there's no worries at a tree.
Right, how is it is called 'my my home at home, I wish you shortly.
He wants the chemicals of soap is the same time, he does not support him and although I had bought her money.
Maggid Mjengwa, how does it mean to be the end of this month I have money but I have written these things even what I think it is like a woman hence I think this, then I think it would have any money but not.
Almighty God is the Lord's company, you know it is not like the procedures of the company let me see if the company is brought him.
.
