The level of living is only ten, giving thanks to our topics that are telling us that it is education of investment for students.
Why are the students of universities for?
I urge you to improve and invest in students.
If you play in a short time, Mercy has said that why Tanzanians are few hundred thousand people only, which are the ones involved in the stock market is because of lack of education.
There's no even if you check it is that students for example the ones that see their problems in life, because for example, parents have children get them easily compared to someone if I am still seen.
In order to encourage people to come, but if you see a wife and your child who reads a university for example, it has never happened or agriculture or economic issues and business can come to educate you more compared to people like we are experts of modern issues as well as the growth of financial issues in general.
Why we have started with students of higher education and this is the second year we are doing this is so as to give them this.
Students understanding about several issues.
Conservation of financial resources but as well as investment and more in their performance in the market.
For the year last year, for the example prohibits what we started in the church?
We are educating on the system of competition.
What we do is to know where he is since last year, we thank you.
Ras Makunja, who we want to call him grandpa.
Not it is not the capital because the money can be productive but it is money.
They are attractive or passport.
And by getting this capital, we are giving out one million shillings to a student?
His mobile phone.
You want to attain our market.
And he can buy and sell 3000 shares, most of the stem cells that are listed in market using phones.
One million and in a period of three months is when I see more than three months, the student is supposed to have an increase and it has given him a million shillings.
For last year for example, the students who we have given one million shillings during the beginning of the competition, when you finish the competition the first winner had come from its capital up to four million shillings.
And it is a student of the agricultural college of Total.
The second students that followed the two million shillings was a good student of the third student who was a girl.
One is.
Who was a student at the University of Dar es Salaam, but three ones were winners but out of five thousand students.
Participating in the competition.
And that at the end, the winner who had a winner will give two million shillings, already there is cash.
Similarly, we're very important here to do exercises through actions as employees in the shares of Dar es Salaam we have brought down each other.
Why and this year also, we need us to do.
Maybe that is for the students of universities and if you have a plan, we will be young people to forgive me, maybe if they would like to participate in the fees in the competition to get in the investment market.
And I thank we've started and brought to a high level of higher education.
The type of light.
We want to know if you go through right to inform you, as the first step of enabling the Tanzanians in general, you can buy and sell shares using mobile phones if they are doing by sending money for example we are using the procedure to be able to participate in the ownership we will have, we started last year through a way.
He wants to know what we work and see that we start doing and previously the students of higher education institutions because many of them are very high compared to secondary schools or primary schools who don't have an opportunity to buy and sell shares using mobile phones in that technology this year for example starting from eight to launch.
.
The possibility of Tanzanians is to invest in the stock market because of buying and selling shares using their mobile phones.
And in this competition that we start tomorrow on one month of eight, but students will continue using mobile phones because of looking for his delegation to buy and sell themselves but last year this year we have improved more in that Pascal Shelutete said that the students can be at the end of Dar es Salaam.
Discussion about the stock market of Dar es Salaam using the internet.
I hope we shall end here on time.
