The same way does not forgive me a phone if there is a girl.
That will be sold to maybe people without me.
And I think about the claims I have talked.
They are just similar to that before you congratulations more than doing.
It's not given that draft, it is using the phone or he does not use it, that you are very attractive, it has reduced it and my work, my work I put him.
End, end.
Fish, now in the performance of these things that has been able to look well more that the death is by doing.
Different times that they can do well, in doing good cleaning here in the country.
I did not need the things to give them an issue.
Put your eyes in order to check.
Afresh, as a condition of going to.
That a partner and one should have a carcass is what they should do.
For now, because they had come.
Maybe, maybe the last issue is that when I love you to know if there is a problem that does not do things like a punishment.
There is any challenge that happened in the city and I talked with the bill and said that it's true or a speed has never done my challenges and we are in good work and we are doing well.
Friday Night.
Do not lose hope.
Even the "Ojuelegba.
You're with me due to maybe.
If I have tried to do my work well.
He has called a famous boy that maybe Pickup, and thus it was starting.
To say the truth we will not accept these hours to accept you.
My brothers, the broadcaster of this period of yesterday, I know a good sister without doubt, we can hear it well, we're looking at home and we are supposed to intervene in education and its number is that we are ending in areas to start working in homes.
That's something, is part that you can destroy the ball and you go back to school but we are doing good deeds that I am supposed to discover themselves and you can't know how I am happy and we do not know how I am very happy and we do so as to be good for her sister who does not know it.
And that he added me if he will ensure that he will attain that which he intends to speak with his employer so that we can be able to hear him on his work but if I am not supposed to hear him but you want him to hear and ask you.
If you play with a lot of things that will have heard the boss, what happens there.
After that, we will hear you, when I am not told him because there is no end of our last season, I have ever used to fulfill that sister didn't know the family.
