Who's the chief player?
Dec 23, 2015.

The huge controversy has emerged about the owner of a cargo of crude oil of Tanzanite that is being removed through the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), worth more than 25 billion shillings.
The minerals that is a weight of 2,070,659 billion shillings (2 million) was arrested in that stadium by the officers of the Local Governments Agency (Tansort) on December 16, this year.
Reports that got to Raia Mwema, at the end of the week and confirmed that several sources noted that the suspect was forced to make up the minerals that was arrested by those minerals that he used to attain that cargo so as to attain that cargo, in Hong Kong City.
After the arrest of that stadium, it was noted that the suspect did not have any documents that are required to transporting minerals, including the safe license, and the real certificate of controlling the minerals of the mRDT measures.
In addition, the suspect also was explained to be against the law of minerals here in Tanzania that is under the transportation of crude oil to go out of the country to rise up to one hundred thousand shillings.
Business people.
The reports indicate that those minerals are wealth of two business people with the most popular business people in Arusha town which all of them use two different companies that are involved in transporting minerals.
Those minerals are accused by those businessmen (names and their companies are reserved for now) due to their participation in all the steps of transporting where the suspect was taken to that airport and a vehicle for one of those businessmen.
"The previous investigation and the interview we have done by the suspect is that the cargo is not its own but it is the number of two business people in Arusha and media houses have reduced more that issue," explained our source from inside the police force in Kilimanjaro Province.
Among those business people who are citizenship of the neighboring country of Kenya and he has been in the country for more than 15 years and he is involved with allegations of selling of minerals to Kenya, a step that has caused the country to be one of the countries that are leading to sell those minerals at the world market.
Statistics show that Kenya between the year 2013 and 2014 brought down the Tanzanite market worth 100 million American dollars, while that country never started producing those minerals anywhere.
Moreover, those statistics of the ministry of energy and minerals show that India is the leading country in selling those minerals at the world market where in that period it has sold Tanzanite worth 400 million American dollars.
The minerals have also given employment to 74 citizens of India in the famous town of Jichunge.'
In addition to that those minerals are accused of Mererani Town, Simanjiro District only in the world, Tanzania under the sales of those minerals by selling minerals worth 38 million American dollars.
Moreover, more investigation shows that during the past five years, the suspect mentioned a lot from Tanzania more than 20 times and he has been getting as the official guest of one of the business people and he has been using the company's office owned by the business person, which is in the popular estate.
That artist has been the guest of time to time in the country and he is involved with the network of business people who use the Tanzanite mineral outside the borders of Tanzania, "stated our source.
Those reports are indicating that after the accused of one accused of the business people, he has called several leaders including the government of the fourth term so as to save them, he can be released a step that he has gotten lost.
News that are not yet confirmed that that scandal was found guilty of bribery cases where those businessmen are alleged to aim to convince several government officials who are dealing with that issue.
Even if you check the previous reports on the value of those minerals, the officers who were involved in an impromptu visit or by bad luck, showed up to the price of the current market of those minerals, where a hundred thousand American dollars will be sold between 1200 shillings to 1,000,000 shillings, "added our report.
Up to Monday this week, those business people even so they are still being interviewed together and previously the reports show that they were mentioned by the suspect when he had been caught up to explain how he received those minerals.
