If you go to Grind.
Kissava is still a question.
When we be able to congratulate you that the law is same, it is not a condition of a person to choose it and it will be told that the employer cannot be told or to convince him to use the timber and maybe I am not happy.
Why, these were just and Mkandamizi this claims that it is a must that a employee whom any citizen can have a community fund but it is not a condition of someone to recognize that everyone wanted by, to say one thing and here at the 7th minute, I will say after being blocked.
Because it is not therefore, the situation which took the freedom and the right to someone.
Yesterday, it was a right to be a right to a person in the fund.
One of the sick in marriage with other employees in the hospital fund now like that, therefore we need to be informed if it is now planting here, but the renovations will be languishing in the country because the debts will be languishing in the same way.
It was surprised that any worker who will be chosen will have the freedom to choose an accident, but from the law outside.
It is that you can be able to inspect your money or to give you ready to take care of you, therefore, they should be silent and therefore making nude pictures according to Swahili as a result of weaknesses, so they shouldn't be careful.
Law as the law of the National Social Security Fund should be based on how to protect it's next to a member so as to choose and do a decision.
About the fund getting and need for that service, two thousand and eight billion shillings have the things inside a party, and you can't know that this law but currently, I am supposed to know that I am very happy to have this decision.
There are issues in front of the law.
The scene is done?
It will not be that the child will make this child or someone he will do so that he is doing.
If you want to know that you will liberate them, there are things that were not supposed to happen there, it is possible that you want to protect him in order to protect themselves.
Interests which it has paid your password with them now.
We will have to communicate with me.
May God, by Jesus, you want to read me, we see you that for a month, we will help each other to see that, therefore the center now he knows it or also good.
Whoever does P-Fi are supposed to do?
For sure it is a must that their diseases are in charge of their lives and.
However, that law is supposed to talk about the message that the end of the day came, it was a day of 'P-Square, comes by the company's phone, while the Sudan's phone joined the mother's vegetables while under the law thus the human being is the great job.
And the citizens in general they have an understanding about the law of the community fund and we have now in general about the death of trees and that an understanding that the College of Life is an understanding that the law is available despite this law.
Ras Makunja has said that it is very much who also asked him about him, he was one together to end the things that until now.
That is it?
There is a situation that is there?
There are examples that we use.
Coming from the beneficiaries.
In a country that is correct for the reasons that you did not get in the same time, but the information has already paid because it was.
I don't have another child that you can be tough here and this, I will know that BoT and our applications have been done here and I went to talk to the same time I went to me when I went to you.
It is your responsibility for a picture and take this report to be law and therefore they can be able to tell me what I was not ready to write back, but remember that I am not ready to get married but I remember you get pregnant during our topics.
Having fuel since ten years but if we like to do so much oil for he had gone down.
News came out for the third year of five this year, according to the payments they want to get into the bus they want to go and go up because I feel it is complete as part of the law and its work is the meaning, but there are also people.
They have found a chance like this one?
For the community you give the first to prepare themselves even your preparations without here, it is a must that you run itself.
Now, that information is usually known, they did not be accountable.
Kwelukilwa.
But on another side maybe, I would like to clarify after that incident can be used by the way to live.
I visited peace in the country.
