Bishop seems not to be supported.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2016.

And our correspondent, Korogwe.

The bishop of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT) North East Diocese, Doctor Steven Munga, has said that the step by President John Magufuli's action has explained to openly being satisfied by the leaders who came in power by giving bribes it should be supported by our religious leaders.

"The statement and the step by the president has been contributing to faith with the new power we the servants of God to continue talking with the courage inside and outside our denominations and I want to tell you my colleagues not to get the opportunity and we will also have a good country that is planning for every one," said Bishop Ngalekumtwa.

Doctor Munga gave the statement at the end of the week when he was speaking at the launch of the launch of that church in the Catholic Archdiocese of Moshi, Tanga province.

He said that the intention of President Magufuli of switching off his leaders on bribery, even his party is opening a new page in the fight against that problem here in the country.

These are good signs for stem cells to be received through their long-term request to get a leader not to destroy the rights of many people instead of a few interests, "said the bishop.

Doctor Munga said the increase of problems that are written about for a long time here in the country including bribery came from lack of will and the courage of leaders in the high level and scorned those involved in the country.

He said experience shows that every leader who came in power is starting with great shape and later he gives a speed but the situation is different from President Magufuli.
"Among the promises of the president which oppress many who are waiting for the start of the court on corruption that it will make implementation of other promises since corruption have a great contribution to the development of the country and has a great contribution of problems that are written about by the citizens," he said.

He emphasized that even so, in order for Magufuli to be remembered by that goal, more cooperation is needed and that it will advertise God, during the elections, they will be unable to fulfill their duties to cooperate with the government of the fifth term.

On his part, the construction coordinator of the church, Pascal Shelutete said that the construction has costed more than 40 million shillings and has been held in partnership with the believers of the conference together with the sponsors of within and outside.

We thank God to thank God that together with the challenges of here and there including the money, we have succeeded to make this construction and our believers now have a church building with a permanent status, "said Msama.
