Disaster of artists 2014.
By Thomas V.

J has said that the whole world was celebrating the new year of 2015, with many having hope to witness the big things, for now 2014 is history and will let me be so much.
Although there are some of the good events that have been witnessed especially in the field of entertainment and art, and also you can say that 2014, for the great percent it was the devil of football.
This is as a result of a mistake of breaking up so that I have been witnessed in the entertainment of entertainment and on one way to reduce it.
In this article that are the old rivals in the year 2014, I have sunk and emerged with some of the events that took place in the film industry in order for the dirty crazy person who went to rule and then leave many fans getting married.
The field of entertainment and nation in general, following a report that this artist will make the gospel songs finally, he was going back ahead of justice.
Kabund has died on Sunday the 1st of that day after heavy rainfall accompanied by electricity in his house which is located in Lerner has said in Nairobi, when he cleaned his car ready for the day activities.
His death was caused by a machine that was enough for a car that had a nuisance to him and he cannot know that it stopped and killing him there.
Before his death, Kabudi, has released a lot of great songs taken against God since he confessed to get married in the field of the year 2011 and his first song "Matatizo."
Moreover, he was the executive manager of Mo Blog Limited which is the executive director of Mo Blog Company which is the ones that will complete the awards of every year's awards for human resource which will sell the gospel artists that did well.
"Kabund has said that when he used to be known by his nickname 'name, died at the age of 30 years and told the widow of Njekela said that in April 6, 2014, Bihagaze (April 6, 2014) Bieldt.
Other jobs which we who passed are together with "I desire" which he featured Eunice Chiume, "I had gone up" in collaboration with Benetton, "I had gone down," Nisubiri "featuring Kitu", "Masau boasted."
Fans as they are continuing to agree on the state of leaving, a situation that occurred in the field for information that died from the bishop, Ben Pol.
Unfortunately, he contributed a lot of success from some of the artists who will get gospel musicians including Rutaisingwa, Ole Willy, Rufji, Bribian that all who came through their hands and requested them to save music.
The Bishop who was also the gospel musician died after living in a hospital for more than three months following a bad road accident.
Ben was involved in that accident as he is returning home Elkana after his car carried out the direction and broke out several times due to a bad state of rain together with the heavy rains that had been canceled.
His death was caused by injuries of that accident despite he did not end in the hospital for a long period after being operated on while there is great hopes that he didn't know.
Bishop Ben Pol will remember his dreams, popular "I will continue to keep in mind," he can say "because the accountant of the Global institution's field, Evenezer.
This is silent every time when I am a beautiful lady from Uganda having worked on this is because he will use a lot of time when he will use a long time.
3, Juliana Mwakalinga, (July 20, 2014), SCE will remain in November 4th, 2014, in several months later, Juliana has been silent because he lost his own child with the male child, who was born on the age of 11 years.
That incident made its strength Juliana lady who is also the judge of protesters in England and has been using that time to agree that situation.
Juliana had sent her child to the picture together with his death that made many to feel that if the musician will decide to sit with art at a time.
However, recently through his Instagram account, Juliana Kisaka has said that he has been able to prepare a new song "couples" that he will leave recently.
Myoung Su Ko, the gospel musicians who continued to end the life of silence despite the big things that he used to do.
His death is that made a 4 to be released after several gospel artists who are names coming out and their relationship that they can't leave their profession and that they can also benefit.
When I feel you are the artist who were affected by the death of Nyato, who allowed me to achieve your goal that it is in his profession and they shouldn't affect the production of his three albums.
Nyato is the concerned person in their hit song "TaSurely," I took our place "and" Sihana Nkinga, which was mentioned by what could make it together with "Racked," Paul Maki, among other alcoholic beverages.
This actor died at his studio after he was trapped with heart shock shortly after complaining of severe pain of chest.
He has said that it's not the love of God, the entertainment industry also this year would have lost the female artist who he would have returned home because of a bad road accident that is seen in critical conditions.
5, Ben Pol said that the rapper should happen tomorrow (September 14, 2014). Professor Him John Bukulu (December 19, 2014), Mengi, who was the mother of DJ Bey C and another whose name is not in the world.
The star, who announced his talent for running the verses of a dance song "the Premier League" was involved in a bad road accident in the Listen Mwezi Song in Nairobi when they traveled with the plane to accumulate two goals in the vehicle of Mark XI.
His friends are now!
