
President laying the signing up.
Juma Shamenda and John Lukuwi.
President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the signing of the Marist's law despite the presence of cries and blood that it will not be forced to return to parliament so that the views that were touched and agreed to be looked at afresh.
While addressing the nation through a television station from Nairobi city, after completing that law, President Kenyatta said she was not happy that the law will not loose the constitution about human rights and any other sections of the constitution.
"I have faith that Kenyans have failed to get a constitution as well as this law, you will not noticed that there is no law that goes against the law that those who use human rights or any other organs of the constitution and its intention is to protect their lives and property of all citizens," he said.
However, the law seems to be violating the freedom of of devolution when he says that on section five, the Minister for Security can appeal at the official newspaper of the government in areas where people can meet, to meet the public or make any demonstrations.
President said that for the first time, Kenya has got a good law that will enable you to prevent the mistake of criminals with the terrorists.
At the same time, President Kenyatta decided to ask members of parliament and said that the action they had shown on Thursday is a shame and the procedure used.
He said they are attracting many Kenyans to follow up the parliamentary activities fully in order to reduce those activities immediately.
On Thursday, the member of parliament of Jubilee and Correa scored by removing clothes, fight against corruption and even with the water at the efforts of persuading the debate to depend on their side.
However, after beating those violence, the speaker of parliament, Justin Kasibu, told the chairperson of Tembela, Mister Johnson Saro, that parliamentarians should be given time to discuss the recommendations of the changes in that side of Correa scored.
Those were accused while the religious leaders in that village of Kakoma, urging President Magufuli to sign that agreement.
The Bishop of Jah Prayer of the Kiroreli village (Iloha), bishop of Burkina Faso, Bishop Sedrick Ndonde of Motorcycles Rift Valley are the chairperson of religious groups in that he said that Bishop Bishop Nicholas Kay, had requested the president to be able to return the parliament.
