CUF wanted Tanzanians to defend, to protect the constitution.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

The Citizens Party (CUF) has asked all Tanzanians without caring for the ideology of their parties, to stand firm in defending the basis of the leadership of the nation by controlling the constitution and law of the country and to ensure that they are being followed by every one.

Moreover, he has reminded all the Tanzanians that, it will not continue to stand firm and to unite all Tanzanians in order to strengthen the union and their cooperation between them and claimed that the right to all and democracy of the national interests.
The chairman of the National Executive Committee of CUF, Julius Mtatiro said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was giving the CUF stand about the statement made by President John Magufuli while speaking to citizens in Zanzibar.
"We have moved out and asked him to talk with you with the aim of writing the statements made by the chairman of CCM, President Magufuli, September 2 and 3 at the public meeting that he did in Pemba Island at the Gombani grounds and Unguja at the grounds of democracy (Kibacha)," he said.
He said, the CCM Chairman spoke about many issues and also gave a statement about CUF and the secretary general of that party, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad.
"I be known that CUF is a big political institution in the country with representatives of being elected by the citizens from every corner of the country and CUF has 18 members from Pemba, it has 10 members from Tanzania Mainland," he said.
Moreover, he said all the qualifications to be given by Maalim Seif, there are legal according to the constitution of Zanzibar and the one of the United Republic of Tanzania, as given to other retired leaders in the country and not courtesy of any leader that are derived from the collection of taxes paid by citizens.
Also Mtatiro said that CUF and other parties which are contributing to change in Tanzania will not improve the strong plans of fighting for the existence of the free commission of Zanzibar and Tanzania Mainland (NEC).
