A number of students in schools is still a problem that is continuing with his wife while the issue of laziness of the teachers and the use of teachers who do not have the qualifications of having many students in the examinations of finishing primary education and form four.
The education officer to command, has condemned the problem following the research about the development of primary and secondary schools in Pwani province as our writer Joseph for those who are opened in the report.
The rains that will involve the teachers of Pwani province to arrest the information on the research conducted at the end of the reasons that performed poorly in class seven and the form four exams last year, I started with the education officer of this region they were told the new officer to give them what they believe in their research.
The news of desks is a huge number of students in the classrooms and the biggest buildings are there are teachers in their health centers.
The research is really terrifying.
Many teachers of their long-term teachers live and there.
Who has been very close to teaching and contribute to them in school.
And the executive secretary of the national board of examinations we have learned from that council, he said that the investigation that was done by the council to know the cause of cheating in form four exams last year and big drinks if the problem of the existence of teachers who don't have a goalkeeper in some schools.
Now.
Coming out when the mines are of form four students.
You missed to you.
Members of parliament who passed form two that he had gone to follow up on the wind when he called.
And.
How do you change?
In order to confirm the tests, as thirty o'clock.
We have a problem to what but now, even if we are required to do the teachers I don't know what's the problem there.
The order to change the head of the coast region, Mwantumu Mahiza was removed from the country and training is the directors of the council to be responsible to be responsible.
And on his part, the assistant director the inspection of stem cells, from the ministry of education and technical training, has admitted that yesterday it has revealed that it has revealed that the big number of students of primary schools in the Coastal Region don't like to read or write.
The trend of Kibaha province of coast region, Joseph Chibehe.
