
The media and construction of the nation (May 30th, 2012

Last week I started discussing the importance of media houses in the construction of the nation. I started with talking about the meaning of the nation in a easy language.
Likewise, I said in America in the country if Tanzania was set aside in the basis of the thoughts and faith in the thoughts, stomach, and not in tribe, faith, history or one culture.
I said that is why Tanoh, due to the foundations of the nation's building, there are my brothers and Africa is one of my brothers and Africa is one and I don't know her because I could not use it for my personal benefit, I will leave it.
I said that the origin of Tanzania is not a nation, because the real meaning of that concept. Tanzania is a collection of people with different meanings associated with the visitors who came to or through their businesses or through the aim of promoting the administration of the different culture in the heroes, and even expectations.
Therefore, it is clear that this issue of contraception is expected to be produced by people who had ideas with great thoughts more than their soul in America, if we did not return to a huge conflict after independence, if we expect to be back in the difference between freedom and when they end administration.
Anywhere in Africa we have witnessed how many ruling party has been caused by the war that was caused by tribalism, religion, and suppression of people with certain types of people before being removed, they had different types of people who were given reasons, interest and intention to fight every time.
Founders of this country started by producing a important foundation, the permanent one, brotherhood which could help to build the nation of Tanzania and later as possible in the whole Africa.
I went on to write this column that in building a working environment in America, our founders would like to see the need of improving several things. For example, they removed the citizens so that we build equality of all citizens of different culture.
We met with different culture of different countries but they were made that nationally, the people are forced to play and even so the southern people were able to play.
The second example, Swahili was continued more than the official language of the nation and the purpose of teaching in school for a third example, students moved to schools in various provinces of Tanzania and even those who joined the national building found themselves being filled up in development of various provinces of the country.
Employees also were killed and worked in different provinces in the country.
For the fourth example, education should be resolved by one tax to one and thus giving an opportunity for the children who had the ability to study education, this gave an opportunity to the poor children, prevent them not to get education up to university and even a hole.
I have been made saying in my articles in the past, that some of our retired leaders, including the presidents or retired prime ministers, ministers, heads, heads, and so on, the ones that came from the poor families, construction, law, and so on, they made them to the poor families.
I said that players got an opportunity to study for free - although there are the contributes from that education was not free but it was contributed to the cost of taxes for citizens - up to university and others went to a high level in education.
Many will agree with the truth that there will take children of different meanings in different religion, different culture, different environment, rich and the poor, help them to build in America that there were a lot of opportunities to learn more about others when they sell their humanity, more than them affected by unnecessary accidents.
Due to take place there are many people found themselves near the blood of the different people who have different religious people who have people from different culture who have people from different levels (economic) who have.
We are making country 'Machinga' and voluntary contribution, who would send himself to see you get more than of tribe, some of our religion, human beings, and certain environment, and one of a certain environment.
This issues has been caused by his parliamentary debates, there are those with ideas that concern benefits from the politics of socialism and self-reliance because of them, the system was bad and it was to take the country an opportunity to make more development.
I will focus more on issues that are seen openly as the results of the national building of Tanzania that was founded by the first leaders of this nation, because my aim is to try to take care of another debate which will be able to see if we did not see if we are unable to inform them as Japan or Kenya are continuing today, but we have their important gift from the system that we missed today.
I was trying to think that maybe the time of socialism we want to get married, which are important loss, so we can have faith that we should have faith in my heart and his intention to solve our problems.
There is a lot of shortage that was caused by some foundations of the philosophy of causing some of the policies, there are many challenges in the implementation of the financial system and the banks explains that there is no weeds, or ideology that doesn't have problems.
But the biggest challenge in our environment is the changes that took place here in the country after getting into a system of many parties and the market economy (local market), we started to see several changes in ideology, a system, which should they do so much change.
After CCM passing the field of Zanzibar, there were changes and leaders they have been able to save them and they were not independent self to do their businesses, even by using their job positions directly.
Once you will start controlling the privacy on the truth, it is that the public organizations we have started with our energy and donations from outside were affected, the termite and those who were given bonds is to run it but also they have been presented with political operation.
The exercise of contraception is expected to appreciate themselves more that most of them have explained.
Many investors from outside they are called to invest in different areas.
Suddenly we expect they started seeing you be stable and it started being seen as every person with her husband immediately, and every one with a certain place, for instance in the minerals sector, then it is a must to get his part in the contracts of minerals.
Once again, even the government's houses will be sold to some of the servants of some levels, because they had a lot of cargo.
Therefore, the nation of different times, different religion, different culture, different environment, different history, different expectations, will start allowing the condition of every person and its own.
Tanzania came as a lot of families, "you know" here in Dar that were affected by the globalization - or the new culture of every person and his wife.
That in one family, you look at the tea which is a very high level.
Then every person, including all children, they are looking for sugar and infants.
When this time he was able to come up with two new songs, the one was able to come up with recent posts and another he wants to come up with two evil actions as urologists.
But there is also one who wanted to come up with me, I don't know the reputation, two eggs and even when he is in the end, she is no one who doesn't know her, but each person gets to go through.
So, Tanzania has also been as a family of "Mtika '," we are still building one house but we have never been one and therefore we are supposed to help us again in the efforts of our founders, including the importance of developing all, including the ones that are many?
So, those who want to get married or using money, tribalism, religion and politics for their personal interests we are supposed to take this action?
