If issues are there.
Corruption and great accountability would like to reduce.
Request for employment is a problem to the youth and it is possible.
Truly that it is not a chance and we have the ability to provide training to the youths who can go to help or be self-employed or even to be registered in a big part if you look at the regions like that region of the lake region.
Big one being like a factory.
And a large section of their differences as a result of technical training, the students that complete.
When the disciples of strong winds up with making their attack, the purpose of being employed do not make the electronic activities it is not another.
Why and the problems change is growing?
What is great thoughts in the community.
What does the community without the Almighty God may be the last resort area after the students failed to get a budget, in the past, they finished class seven and they finished class seven.
They get a problem because he said that when he was talking to the community or with their parents.
It seems to be found.
The technical training will be taken against someone who is unable to go to the place?
This issue has no truth even because it is a big part if someone wanted to go and look for evidence concerning this, he can come to the areas that is giving employment to many people.
The meaning of people to visit the factory visiting minerals and even in areas where children there were various activities because if they go to the evaluation and students who have graduated from technical colleges where they have the ability to give a contribution to the minerals that are taken later so that we can be able to make sure they feel very part of the executives who are doing every day in areas.
The students who love Instagram.
And it is true that they are those who are doing production?
If it is important for the reasons that we have done in Dar es Salaam, I don't know the one and the mother is born and they need to know what when they get into other parts, but there are many people to know and help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them to help them in a big network.
When you give my good example, we get to meet with people with special needs because it is also alleged to have a lot of income and sometimes we have no problem but if the teachers have a special needs to ensure that teachers have been done so that the teachers can be used to have.
It is required to teach people with special needs in a few names, above are one but the second thing on time not getting the militants to read.
When they read it, that we can enjoy, if we start getting a story from when he was not knowing anything that they can also do anything that they can also be able to do an important thing.
That is the second challenge but the challenge of anyone who is in this view is.
There are a place like ten and one comes to see a partner doing something.
He says, and yet I have done this would have been good but because.
Some of the teachers to sell below we ask you to change it since he knows that they don't have at eight at eight hours when I'm in and they are still destroyed by having his hand in general, we are behind our community.
It is aimed at all the issues of some men and others.
It went to girls to see you feel.
Therefore for now, at the moment it is continuing to encourage and there are a billionaire, I would see and know that the truth about the issue of men giving birth to them.
Therefore, all the success is put on how all the primary thing is the news of being self-employed and the one that deals with the youth you cannot succeed that the groups should not affect the invitation.
It seems to have a lot of girls to love.
A modem.
This dubiety of computer.
Together with getting married.
But in addition to the challenge.
Still girls are still a lot of girls.
Pregnant women in a group.
Here in a technical bench.
It is a punishment.
Six up to where all of them are the most symptoms of a musician or a match.
Boys are boys.
If it has taken a chance to be able to help their young people of acting, each one that is a life that we have taken as youths.
We will have various challenges of every day as a result of changes in easy life, thus through that, every sides of our youth, our youth have been able to change the behavior of our youth have been able to change in water which is good.
In their photos and even when we are taking the same time we think that they will be a mirror in the community.
