Partnership between Kenya and other nations.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
China and Ghana are among the nations that have signed many business contracts with Kenya.
In the month of May, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the prime minister of China Li together when they visited inside here in the country preparing a total of 17 contracts that it aims to save Kenya billions of money so as to improve the economy of the country.
Two leaders were announcing to maintain business relationship between those two countries.
The contracts are the analysts of the economic issues to feel that the Diamond's government has started giving its relationship with the Western nations and moving to China, which is continuing to attract many African countries for the purpose of economic development.
That contracts is aimed to strengthen the business relationship between Kenya and China.
President Kenyatta, goes through the signing of a project of construction of modern radio (SB) that will connect Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda.
The railway will cost 327 billion shillings to be built from Mombasa up to Nairobi while China will cater for 85 percent of those funds.
Each other one is the one of the construction of the Chanjamjawiri Research Center which will be built with a length of 51 billion shillings.
In August, when President Kenyatta asked China to sign a series of contracts with the president of that country XI explaining how.
December the first time, the President Kenyatta, and his colleague in Ghana, John Ndembeji, who was in the country for a three-day tour, already witnessed the signing of nine contracts that will improve the business and political relationship between those two countries.
Speaking soon after signing that agreement, President Kenyatta said that the contracts will expand the business between Ghana and Kenya and urged business people to use that opportunity to improve their activities.
United States, others that attended the signing of the economic partnership with Kenya is Malawi, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Turkey, Qatar, America and America among others.
During his three day tour in the country, Nigeria's president, Goodluck Jonathan and Kenyatta witnessed the signing of a business agreement.
Nigeria is among the nations that are selling in oil in the world, while Kenya is expected to join that group following the discovery of oil in Turnbull.
On April, President Kenyatta said that the leader of Qatar and Sheikh Tamim's resignation from Al-Thani to sign the contract of cooperation.
According to the contract, business people and investors from those two countries should not supposed to be taxed.
Kenya and Mozambique in October have signed a memorandum of agreement to remove the roads of the aircraft.
That agreement that was signed by the minister of transport and Mihanje and the Assistant Minister for Transport and Communication Manufacturing Company, Joosub, Reekmans.
