
The children rights reserved.
The rights of electing him on Tuesday, Citizen on Tuesday @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam City, today is the commemoration of the African Child's day.
The intention of starting the African Child's day before being part of the murder of children - students who were struggling to claim the rights of gender education and other rights in Soweto ward in South Africa in the year 1976 under administration of the Boers.
The executive director of the Tanzania Women's Women Association (TAMWA), Eddie Sanga says the slogan of this year is' Miguel and violence in Africa.
We win the rights of presidency.
Sanga says that due to those statements, the community is supposed to ensure that children are very much and to get the rights they want.
"Acts of violence against the child are fighting and the foundation of children to live in a safe environment," Sanga has said.
The report of a non-governmental organization of C-Pesa, has revealed that three out of ten years of 18 years have been destroyed, while 75 percent of those children carried out gender violence and 25 percent opposing gender violence.
The supervisor of the phone service center for children from the C-Square organization, Alicios Theluji, has said that starting in the year 2013 to December 2015, they have received 180 phones, 3,017 among those children concern them, being beaten and dismissed from studies.
To 85 percent of children who are 13 years old and 24 percent have been tested on both types, equivalent to 75 percent of children under the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (UNFPA) has shown that 769 percent have been married before attaining 18 years.
"If the government will not have effective policies that will manage children's rights, 1,339 children who were born between the year 2005 and 2010 they will be released before attaining 18 years by the year 2030.
Says Ackyshine.
He says in accordance with the UNFPA, it is estimated that 140 million children have been married before attaining 18 years in a period of 10 years to come.
The coordinator for Tanzania to be a teaser from a non-governmental organization of SOS, John Batuli says Tanzania is the first country to provide guidelines for the policies in the Sub-Saharan countries, but still there is no implementation of the guidelines.
Batsays that the research that was done in the year 2000 and 2011 with the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (UNFPA) is estimated to be 37 percent of Tanzanian women who are 20 years of 20 to 24 who were shocked and they were in a relationship before attaining 18 years.
Batuli says the research has shown that events of sexually transmitted diseases are female and male children are taking place at home ground, in school and in the streets and that humiliation shall be done between six o'clock at night.
The real situation of the purchase of orphans in Tanzania (UDA-T) that was given by the labor force having the representatives of the ministry of government, education and health, the union of nations and public institutions, by 6 percent of girls used to do sex before starting the age of 18 years.
The report shows that six percent of female children have been forced to do a sex act before 18 years, again and the men who passed for age.
Similarly, a quarter of female children and the male children got sexual violence before attaining 18 years of age and that acts of violence against children is still a big problem in the country.
The biggest challenge among the challenges that are ongoing in the law, a small understanding of the community about the law and rights, traditional and a shortage of some of the race.
However, Mara province has been leading by violence by having 72 percent compared to Dodoma with 71 percent while in Tanga province having a little level of violence by 16 percent.
Despite the gender violence spreading in the community, the issue has been forced to be assumed and because the community has been involved in educating those who do violence and when they think about those actions have been resolved without being taken to the law.
What should happen?
The association of journalists of children in Tanzania (TAJOC).
I advise that everyone to carry the responsibility of fighting with the stomach, especially considering that the community cannot get development if there are children doing their evil deeds.
Secretary general of the party, Raphael Kibondemaji, says, "we give that call as a party to ensure that acts of violence against children are shown," said Kibiga.
Kibondemaji, says the strategy of TAJOC is to ensure that children get their primary rights including being given appropriate education.
The senior adviser and the supervisor of the phone service to children from the C-Square organization, Fatma Kamara says that gender violence is causing the many children visited the studies.
"It is a time to change the system of upbringing regarding the changes in time and educate the community to leave the traditional culture," said Kamoga.
Moreover, Kamoga says it is important to create a constitutional process that will be implemented to protect children against violence.
