Those students are saying that the environment for learning and teaching is very difficult because it's a environment that is why many students live a lot of lives because many men live as well as African schools are being transported.
On his right is a man to do something.
Now it is not only for the teachers to other people that he said is good but it's not only keen.
You don't know the teachers the heart of saying.
Now you know us to see you, you find the ones that represent in the world.
Now, then about the students.
They are leading a union that has been sent by three students so that the heart that training it is ongoing.
Therefore it gives them the students for that benefits.
All of them talk to him.
Wife's wife.
The investor is that they follow up on events of students.
Those students are forced to sign the parents not to get out of them to attend school as required to listen and talk about how they can work in homes at that time they do not get income even when the examinations are not able to look for things and they do not know how the results will be able to see him.
I'm heading to someone to stay with him in a school next month.
For example if I see here in school, the job should be eaten.
And you can cause what I do to work on how?
During the fourth form four students were only one of the class in other classrooms in that school there is no doubt that the students are not happy and not dangerous to the biography.
The education officer of Tabora Municipality Mister Frederick Johnson says there is need for sure to ensure the grandfather has done in schools, he is saying that if parents they will give food to schools, a situation that I have not been successful in school it has no longer a school.
I increase attendance but we do not want to learn from everything you have no food shortage in school, I am pleased that every parent of CHADEMA was doing well and they will agree with what is there and I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no message but I don't see if we will be no
He did long hours until now.
I will be hours from UNDP to come out to school up to eight hours after twenty hours when I think it's like.
Up to me.
And why is her child to care that you said there is no even twenty billion we will get a statement.
From another club.
Now Mpoki from the school.
He refused as he was in Boston and every father was a must.
There is still if they use parents not to ask for their children to attend in schools, they put him a student who has given them a child to reduce their child and then in Cardiff, Wales.
What is if the parent of my child is tired, he has not allowed me.
You can start using a full list of five and six education, there are the first retirees I went to my position on my son in the morning when it will give you a book.
He went to school because our teachers to be a lesson to school positions by using their hands is true, the issue of women in the field fined a school, but there is no need for parents who will inspect you, there are also a lot of parents and also a new system.
But even the poor is a student who is supposed to sell his condolences message in the country, but they are going.
Do you know that a child needs to get in a lot of pain when his new work we should know so that the parents do not be a retired president.
