When he arrived in him.
What is it?
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I am happy to look at this problems which I have found.
I have written so much.
The parliamentary countries are going on inside the parliament.
What can I use the criteria?
To see this is the more witches in the Tanzanians.
Ras Makunja has for a debate about the new constitution.
And the new constitution right now we know the process of the parliament.
Therefore the parliament is special.
Because, dizziness is forbidden from.
In the meetings inside who's boss, he has been the patient alone, we are searching in parliament.
But we have the ones that are outside and those who do you get after there are many things that are done, there is a debate and talk about.
It's a new constitution were found and therefore talked about how the phone has.
That are outside and themselves as their activities and they will give us a constitution to two things that without stopping.
But I was looking at here I see Ukawa or Ukawa leaders have had a heavy chance than those who are in going to our editors and I see what is happening inside the reality and the truth is what we are doing so that we are holding the late.
The source tomorrow is available and right.
To say the truth when Dodoma is not there.
To a division.
There is no reason he sees himself.
There are the community but basically you cannot through the constitution that we have done in general they started.
The late God is looking for now.
When the dream is done by Mkapa giving his details that basically the one on their side, that is why we see a lot of information we are of the country, the leaders of Ukawa don't know what he said on the side of outside the parliament see what is happening in the country.
Yes, for now, let you look for now even in the news elections, I see you even in the first side we want to see you even if you are happy, why do you have no merit and why you do not have bad friends.
Most importantly, those names are able to feel very much, the person said that we can lead to politicians you know.
Miss Dar es Salaam.
Therefore, when you do even if you want to buy a lot of losses if the social things are.
I wanted to talk to the economy that love politics that are being done by politicians since we see that those who have also been so much in the process of the constitution to politicians, but basically we are to the politicians though groups.
Say you are saying if they are saying that they are heard of leaders who has reported that the popularity of 'Imebaki Story.'
A lot of subject is only one of their names because Mister I am happy about my dreams and at the same time I think we can continue with there and then we can come back here in Dar es Salaam very close to him here in Dar es Salaam very much.
If you go to Grind.
Most importantly, you want to see I am happy to see that there they have tax tax on the side of our visitors when they have found.
When you love you!
Then on Wednesday night of August 30th.
It was held a meeting of those who are called Ukawa in their meeting while carrying the face, maybe the journalists now I will use a lot of three upbringing.
They did.
The church has said.
The Ukawa have announced his work to say that they get into the constitutional parliament and on the stage, to reduce the expenditure of the parliamentary expenditure so that the picture which he put it is the leaders of Ukawa and our citizens.
Ukawa Zitto Kabwe comes back on Wednesday, they will announce demonstrations by the whole country by President Kikwete that he will follow the constitution of the constitution they don't like to inspect that account and then.
And what is the truth that they failed to go.
Press Club, where he said that the accused of Ukawa is water.
When they came back to President Jakaya Kikwete, the creditors' side found guilty of hunger and the new constitution was beaten in bed sheets but the picture came as the chairperson of the special parliamentary committee, Samuel Sitta, leading a session of the leadership committee by evaluating the parliamentary committee of the parliamentary committee.
In Dodoma earlier yesterday, it was said that it was on Tuesday newspaper on Wednesday morning.
Six in the video for selling the newspapers, and you found himself if you're getting the picture?
Maybe I tell me what is it?
Supposed to make it first, it is a view.
The big problem I will come to someone who does not understand each other to me who I understand the way to run the newspapers in a primary school or we see the view of the news that made it to write a thing on the way they want to write a thing on the way and looks at each other.
Ukawa's meeting was done.
Club is the headquarters of the party of citizens to stop and put up the sessions going on in Dodoma town, because that was led by Samuel Sitta I think it is not a surprising thing.
A person who know is surprised is the normal issue and my faith that people do not let me tell you just after showing that the special parliament of the constitution, I would read it well and those who don't want to go back to the guest of the constitution of the nation, I would like to get back with the constitution of the private newspaper that I would like to get married on the policy of the private sector.
Policies.
I would like I would like.
Policies.
When we go to Dar es Salaam, we have made the plans and the activities of the revolutionary party that are continuing to fall down, the city is learning and know about TOT a revolution.
In a stern warning and policies are not correct because their main responsibility is the first and the foundation is to make sure that its' revolutionary party is to make sure that I will get you, I will also give you since something who did not know and the time has continued.
In another topic like the newspaper and the citizen of writing and I think it has been to look for a way each one we will depend on how everyone wanted to confirm that President Kikwete issued a special parliamentary parliament and announced that I have been trying, they have been presented in the process of the constitution.
Let us follow as Ukawa.
It is trying to ask you to thank you and let me see if they will take action or because they know Ukawa that the law of the constitutional change is not less than to power because the commission Jakaya Kikwete had the authority of the constitutional assembly on that statement of Ukawa.
