The very easy problem is what?
Why is his slogan of here?
Therefore, he wants you to work hard and I think they are also encouraged to see that he has been a chance as a gift.
If they do not work because, Honorable he wants to work if he said it has been given.
Then and they should be able to give thanks for the purpose of many citizens to be able to see that there is a hospital that has to supervise and you know this.
At a very much time, that was allowing the people of the citizens like that now they are evident that the local issues are being viewed as just as the ones that looks like it during this period?
Work will take place.
And those heads of provinces seated on the provinces that are there.
They do work and I think they will work because two seasons says I will come to play with dance with the whole he has appointed him in order to do work.
This is just a good way that is believed that there is now that is made to work with any work of work, from the end of the killing of farmers and pastoralists it is possible for every day to be released.
Almighty God rest these different problems in the provinces where we get agriculture is going on well.
There are those policies for agriculture first, if they will continue with even having all the others to look for another name even if this people want to go to learn from all that we want to go to learn.
The farmer getting food.
The first strength is food and all the others gets that and I think the government that has decided to do with this appointment is very good.
There is a youth Paul Makonda.
I have seen his work he did there.
He did a good work and I think that I'm the meaning Honorable President told Makonda to wake up in the whole city when I'm a lot of lot of challenges that would like in collecting rubbish.
It's not the name to be known and to take two tons Samatta on the way they had gone into the opposition, there is every person here I met with, Makonda can even do the ability to manage that I have faith.
