The government continues to face.
May 27, 2015.

The government has given recommendations of the budget of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) for 10 billion shillings, our citizens will be told.
The National Audit Office (NAO T) which CAG is the chief executive officer was set aside a total of 86 billion shillings in its budget for the financial year (2015 / 2016) but now it will be given 76 billion shillings.
On these teachings are historic, according to the Public Service Act of the year 2008, the government is not supposed to get that budget while they are ready to invest through its procedure.
On other words, the government has violated the laws in this issue.
According to the opinion polls, this newspaper has seen that the office which its budget is read together with that of the Ministry of Finance, it will have a shortage of 12 percent of the level that is needed.
According to section 44, the law of public audit, the budget of CAG was planned in a special session between the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), the Ministry of Finance and CAG.
That law explains that if the budget will be prepared in that session, with any level, it needs the government to give that amount as it is required without reducing.
According to the member of parliament for Bariadi East and the chairperson of United Democratic Party (UDP), John Cheyo said that procedure has been set to ensure that the office is implementing its duties well.
"The CAG has required to prepare his budget and then to present its recommendations.
Speaking to Raia Mwema, these reports are reduced in the budget, the retired chairperson of PAC, Zitto Kabwe, said that in the last session of the review of the budget of CAG, the level that was passed was 1 billion shillings.
"You say it has reduced more that and then it will be very big people, this is because, the needs of the CAG were 94 billion, but the government found himself that it has difficult conditions and he would not be able to give that amount.
"Yes, we did not meet again and agreed about that amount of 86 billion shillings at the moment, if that situation has reduced again, there is a problem to let me know if maybe there is a big meeting between the CAG, PAC and the government concerning that issue," said Zitto who is now the chief leader of ACT Wazalendo party.
One of the PAC delegates, Ismail Aden Rage, who is also a member of parliament of Tabora Town constituency (CCM), left the newspaper that there is no session that goes to reduce the PAC budget.
Efforts to get the Minister for Finance, Saada Mkuya, speaking about this issue, it does not have a chance because it is out of the country.
This newspaper has been told that this step by the government can have great effects on the CAG office because this year is expected to perform a special day in gas and oil areas.
The CAG has decided to get into the area of gas and oil with the aim of helping the nation to identify if the contracts which the country has qualified for now, it will have benefits or not in the coming years.
CAG has also added about the inspection of inspection by inspecting tax exemptions and other areas like products which are being transported to go out of the country but competing in the country through the increase of money.
