
The police force has given her 10 million shillings to one who will cross the father of Zanzibar.

While there is a report that the officers of the United Republic of America (FBI) have landed in the country for making the investigation of the murder of Father Evarist Mushi, the police force has announced a 10 million pounds per winner who was revealed at the padre so that the father of Father Mushi was killed.

Being shot on Sunday last Sunday when he was going to lead a service in the sacred bridge of St it is Ras Makunja, the outskirts of Zanzibar town, where it is claimed that the criminals have managed to buy a motorcycle riders and they registered to be in the third minute while in his car.

While the police announcing that sign, Sheikh Ali Khamis Ali (65), a resident of Kitope North Unguja, was killed yesterday by being death in Zanzibar, after losing to his home.

Bad news that were found in the day before yesterday say that the FBI officers are in the country and already have met with some of the government leaders for the purpose of starting that work.

Our news source has explained that those officers met with the minister of internal affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi because of looking at how they will do their activities in that investigation.

Together with FBI, reports indicate that the government officials of Tanzania have spoken to investigation institutions of five countries, so as to increase the strength in that investigation.

Another institution that is mentioned to be mentioned to participate in the investigation is the department of criminal investigations in England (Scotland.

The Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Pereira Ame Silima, left the newspaper that the government has started doing talks with various investigation organizations in the world for partnering with the killing of Father Mushi, but he said that it's early to vote.

"We have made a statement he made President Kikwete that we can be able to win different nations to investigate the killing that happened in Zanzibar, I can't mention names, but we have already started talking to various countries," said Silima.

Speaking in Zanzibar yesterday, the police commissioner of the islands, Mussa Ali Mussa said that until now, there is no one who was brought in court concerning the incident of murder.

"There is no one who was brought in court, but there are people who have been arrested being faced with this incident and we are continuing questioned, others we leave," he said and added.

"We have promised to give 10 million shillings to anyone, who will give information of the killing of Father Mushi, this will be just a gift."
