
24 December 2012

Chipolopolo did not mention a foolish thing.

By Elizabeth Mayemba.

The national team, Taifa Stars yesterday scored 1-0 goals in their international friendly match that was played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.
The ball started for all the two teams to be playing for the fifth minute, Zambia missed a open goal through their player, James Chamakemikali ward, he was given a heated one with his fellow player who had also wanted to score.

Stars in the fourth minute did a open goal after Hamisi Kigwangalla got a open goal after Hamisi Kisuke, at the danger zone he was shot dead in the 26th minute when one shot was accompanied by the goalkeeper of Zambia Danny Sserunkuma.

Khajida Kopa, the Taifa Stars continued after Ngassa succeeded to pass Zambia defenders while he had a goalkeeper and mocking him in the Tanzanian fans after scoring a goal receiving a pass from Mwinyi Kazimoto.

The second half started with all the two teams getting a goal through James Chamulesile who was a shot and Kaseja will leave the defender of Zambia while he had a goalkeeper who plays in front.

Stars continued to humbling of Zambia at the 71 minute, Simon Msuva, who took the position by Hamis Gadafi he got an open goal after he tried to give a good pass but the goalkeeper was shot dead in the second half and the ball went into the net.

Until the ball ended Stars 1-0, the fans of Zambia who were in large numbers came out and they did not believe.

The Stars squad, Juma Kaseja, Erasto Nyoni, Rebecca Malope, Kelvin Matandiko and Frank Dahi, Frank Demba, Salum Abubakar, Mrinde and Khamis Mcha.

Zambia's squad, Danny Sserunkuma the Freight Company, Hunter, Chiliphod Way, James Mtayakingi Kilaba, Christopher Katunga, Christopher Katunga, Christopher Katani, Christopher Katani, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katoma, Christopher Katunga
