
Asking for forgiveness, it is building for votes.
Last week, relatives gave out debate after closing the newspaper about requesting his wife.
In that announcement, a series of several thousand shillings, the brother mentioned the name of his wife and said that he was requesting for forgiveness for asking for a lot of things, although she did not know what he did and even with that step, his words were seen to be true and from his heart.
The independence of some of their daughters, that man was in the same way, but some of the women was a matter to each other, while others asked me, saying that the step was capable of switching off the community's status was stolen.
Although I agree with some of the opinion polls, her brother should be identified from my heart and not something to prevent others, Mister Kabila is supposed to be silent.
There are some of the women, which they are continuing to be ruled by old thoughts that when they ask for forgiveness, that is a sign of the weaknesses.
This issue should understand that each other and Pauline Mrango for building a bond of many was asked by that word especially when they feel.
First women today I will understand your home, "I think this, I have forgotten that your day is your first day," fish, and her lover whom they studied, "are words that increase the era of honor to the community.
The problem of lack of lack of people in the country is that they have been faced with a lot of joy by thinking that they are good products.
You should know that most of them want to get involved in public by being supported by the road, to be opened a constitution, to give him a chance since he is no chance in the vehicle.
These things are a result of some of the women here in Kenya, don't know her daughter or even in the attack against her clothes because their thoughts have explained that he has not given his honor.
It's not that I agree with how many types of people who are studying in a short message or faults that concern them or with humility so that we need our colleagues to prepare themselves but we are encouraged to prepare themselves with their colleagues from South Africa.
