Dully Sykes and I have reduced because of talent.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

It is 14 years now since Abdul Wakil popularly known, Dully Sykes "he started falling on the industry of music here in the country.
At that time, there was a small and raw youth in the field, emerged with the songs that were hit by Midtjyland type and message that did not like it.
Lukaza Blog is the song that joined the music world in the country and since he has been top until now.
The being received well for that song that had a talk in the streets using his skill of making his name to be in every place and to kill fans and be a great friend to her sister.
Despite the existence of a lot of challenges to artists who play music of Bongo Fleva, including hooligans, where it is competing with him and succeeded to defend his talent while other musicians gave up.
A big challenge was seen more to the families living from artists so as to prevent their children involved in their own music.
There was also the difficulty of presenting their work in entertainment centers, radio and television so that they can be heard due to the size of the areas of making and fly those entertainment.
However, he has continued to stand up and succeed to give many songs that are outdated, I think fans of Bongo Flavor who remember the songs of Salome, Julietha Kabete, Ziba, Pambani County, Tetemesha Entertainment, Bhebey Ndey, Ponyo Kicheere.
Some of the songs and wherever he is in the dais, has done her names by her fans like Mr Miskry, the subject is "Brazil," Madee has done an interview with Raia Mwema to discuss the situation of that music.
Almighty God is among the musicians who start living in Bongo Fleva, what changes are you seen in this industry compared to the beginning?
Dully said that every person was able to sing about the type of music that was there especially of Bongo Flavor, but currently there is big changes.
It has been difficult to get a chance from if you are not talent because it is a must for you to know the truth.
If you want to confirm that, most of the musicians who came out in the period that whom they had dropped out in the world of music, who remain in the counting, and those who were doing music with talents we have managed to have them.
Mke Mwema should emerge with many studios in non-standards, what causes the dangers to have in music?
Dully said that I have been asked, I have been asked if the studio can't have no standards and they have no standards and they do not have music because their work will not be remembered by very few people.
I urge the artists that if they have the objectives of doing music and to reach them to look for money so as to work with an entrepreneur with an understanding and experience of music and even media houses need to be better.
Almighty God, Dully Sykes has now difference with this period of music?
Madenge doesn't have a mind and I am understood different from the first.

I have changed and also a work of work.
Right now I did not be involved in my own work, different from the first, I do not do my own show and because I do not work more with the institution, the organizers of great festivals by getting to them and not a promotion.
Mke Mwema should you do with competition in the music market for now?
Dully said I do not work hard to compete with someone because I have worked with music for all the years all of us are very small and most of them have gone into the art they were found in the past years.
I see it is same as my advice they continue to do well and to be able to compete with me their brother, those who follow it to ask for advice and give them without problems.
Mke Mwema should make many artists to fail to work with foreign companies, there is something that allows you for a home organization?
Dully said that there is directors of good music artists, but due to the real meaning of many people, they see a good thing is what was made by a white if you want to make sure you defend everything from a person that is there.
Your citizens know what should be done to bring international music like other African countries that are playing in this world?
Dully said we need good news so that we can be able to reach Tanzanian music goals, what we need.
Our studios are using a lot, "he said instead of 'Ngomani" I have a meaning that we are using a lot of computer to make music than the media to support you are live.
