
Our problems are not Islam or Christianity between him, theft of 15 people, 2012.

Let me start this article by thanking you for my right time, about the election of the President of America, if you remember, in the first article this year I decided to deal with the trend of various issues of "the new year."
The year 2012 is one of the motorbikes that were made this year.

"By considering the analysis of different people and as to follow the American politics, a letter (MASACA) my victory is a win" to Obama's daughter-Raziah Ramadhani, a candidate that says that he will be called by the Republican Party if the political wind will not have changed. "

Queen of Grind managed to win as the Republican candidate and finally they will compete with Obama in one general elections that had a very high competition, and finally, I went to defend his presidential seat (here), when he spoke about four parts of religious violence at home and finally, I went to defend my articles on religious violence at home.

The restrictions that are inside the Islam are getting a solution to the ones known as socialists.

Two areas that are involved in the professional to be the foundation of preventing diseases and employment for all Tanzanians is important to Muslims and realize that you are discouraging them, about employment opportunities and education.

Meanwhile, Baraka Idd who recently gave some of the "Muslims who have a tough stand, they discussed their parents and see as a man in the future of the death of an international player, Osama Njekela said that by the people like their man, he did not leave because he got the call from everything of a bad name.

If Muslims agree that the system of discrimination is denying them an opportunity for education and therefore making a difficult environment for getting employment that requires employment, then it is important to them to invest more in education.

And one of the best way it can be able to enable religious schools (maybe from the poor education) that will follow the education of these articles how the Christian and Christian schools have contributed to producing Christians and Christians.

This is a painful truth, "if the Christian child coming from the school he is going to increase the knowledge of" technical education "though the friend of Islam are saying that if they are making good environment to succeed but if possible, religious schools (not even from the vocational training).

For my understanding, mosques are not a place to care for a service but also part of giving a lesson that will enable them to serve his creator as required.
Maybe there is an importance for the speed of the construction of mosques related to the speed of construction / the start of education institutions, or as required to use that mosques as part of "the fight to resolve the gap in education of Muslims."

Another proposal that is outside the ability of Muslims is to the government to check the possibility of what is was known as English language known as Christians and Muslims, then the government has placed itself to reduce the gap in education and employment between Christians and Muslims and then the government has placed itself to reduce the gap in education and employment between Christians and Muslims and then the government has placed itself to reduce the gap in education and employment between Christians and Muslims and then the government has placed itself to reduce the gap in education and employment between Christians and Muslims and then the government has placed itself to reduce the gap in education and employment between Christians and Muslims.

Some of the conflicts between Muslims and Christians we have a problem of constitutional changes that come from conflicts.

There are several challenges of faith between Muslims and Christians but the soul did not allow me or speaking about all of this. I will talk a good area, which I personally had a relationship as a very important thing. "

To Christians, Jesus is God and also the son of God (that is the name of God) for Muslims and let me say God has use the Bible to investigate why God has a child (Jesus), maybe if it is determined, there is an assurance from certain ways.

But as it is, I don't know the students of political skills to be touched on, more in politics and not the physics, that is how Muslims continue being touched on an entrepreneur and Christians in the Bible.

However, if I did not have political students, there are different times, we are forced to understand among other professional areas in the political parties, that are how many Muslims do an effort to create a Christian way of Islam where some Christians are a few.

And by bad luck (or deliberate efforts), those efforts to look for understanding of other religion "have been abducted by the name" couples "and we follow it well so as to welcome the bible on the Bible or returning it is not correct.
But in order to prevent it, "(concluded the total of a total), it is important to inform us that there are a few believers who have read the Bible because of religious issues (and not to deal with Christianity), a few who will read it as a result of a religious understanding.

The conflict of faith between Muslims and Christians about the Lord Jesus is God and also the son of God, the star will remember more in the case that was carrying a resident of Islam, the Capital Market Khamis Dongo, who in the year 2000 was forced to go to Morogoro in a scandal, "Jesus is not God" if they know Christians.

The 19th section of our constitution gives freedom of faith in any religion (although it cares for the importance of doing so without considering the law of the country, and the section of 18 gives the freedom of giving opinions (without considering the law of the country) therefore, the section of 19 of the constitution made him.
"Jesus is not God, the Son of God," and the 18 section got him to explain his faith.

Therefore, on one side the constitution allowed to give opinions which on the other side, this is a dangerous area which I want to get in details because even the British rule was banned and finally the legal action that was set aside.

In short, the success of the constitution in that issue depends on more wisdom of believers, especially the will that "I said this is correct for my faith that I will not be true and believe that" Jesus is not God / Son of God "?

And because the laws arising from our constitution are the ones that brought together Ditopile, but later it will be left to free, that action is to protect the freedom of worship for opinion?

What should happen?

We want to face the truth that we have problems but instead of having economic growth and employment between Christians and Muslims, it is important to have open ways of knowing the size of the water problem in different areas, and this is not to Muslims only but even other community groups.

Deliberate efforts are needed to address those problems because the disease does not have enough to build it as it's not there.

The efforts of inside and outside of Islam are needed to encourage the development of education to Muslims and the only complaints didn't be able to bring solutions so, the cooperation between Muslims and the government and other religious institutions are important if it will be accepted to have a reduction.

At the end, I recognizes our difference of faith, wisdom is needed to maintain our faith and at the time to give an opportunity to our colleagues to remain in the past, and we can also look at the past, and we can see this one or a man, others, and others.

Our responsibility is poverty that is depending on the life of our country without caring about this one, Hamisi Kigwangalla and the one is John Pombe Magufuli who are doing our resources and disappear from Muslims (or against him), but they feel each other to listen to his religion.

If our poverty is a good capital for the political fund to buy the votes, how our religious separation is having a great desire to the current politicians who basically the religion is not of Islam or not the end of our country until the last one.

The union is the strength of separation.
