
The press and the construction of the nation on May 31, 2012

Last week, it was a continuation of the debate about the importance of the media in the construction of the nation.
There are things that all of us can agree that it is important and it is a must that we are doing if we want to build a nation of one people and their expectations.
One of the things like I have continued to say it is a lot of news agencies, with different ownership, that represent different responsibilities, but also in important issues in America, there are different issues of ownership, policy, and the ones that are contributing to consider.
And there is a result of that contribute to you should not be understood due to sexual laws, for instance the newspaper from 1976 in our country.
And here is where he went to ask for a question like we the journalists is?
This is a very important question for every human being who asked me. She is my dear reader who introduced himself as Jungle. Kamala, who together with making sure you are important in our profession and also to people in all areas in general.
Still there is still a great importance for the journalists to discover ourselves.
This importance is due to the responsibility of the disabled and the nation in general.
As it is dangerous to release that country (any) it is led by leaders who have not know, it is dangerous to the media that is operated by journalists who do not know.
It is clear that when they know they are and they believe (or not) to do their work on how to build the nation and bring their honor themselves.
There are several examples of writing news that cares for the environment in America and the ethics of the profession more than these examples are even here in Tanzania.
I believe the readers also know our stations every one and his contribution.
There are other examples in the world, I will start with the most popular scandal of starting from June, in the year 1972, the United States has been caused by a big scandal that was carried out a lot of conflict that was involved in the parliamentary committee and the Senate that are required to make corrections.
But the government's executive committee did not get a gun to realize that it was done if it was not a great contribution from the newspapers like the New York Times magazine, human resource, especially what happened in the country, and who were helped with me and for the purpose of protecting the interests of who.
As such as it comes here in our city on behalf of the news agencies in America, to bring up information followed by acknowledging the importance of the institution involved, to take action that changed the administration of I wish him.
The journalists of Washington DC, Bob Entertainment and Carmel of those who were very prevalent in the media industry - on how they are determined to follow up, getting married and they missed him in public without hiding it.
The journalists did not directed by the intention of asking any person except that the foundation of protecting the interests of the nation and they did so as to consider the foundation of writing news.
The scandal came out of misuse of power, on the side of the president, I wish you all the group that is making political parties to break into the office and steal documents, to record communication services that they need to protect the foundations of good governance.
Finally, the end of the scandal is that several stars have resigned, others were scored in prison and President Richard I saw him who resigned from presidency in the year 1974 in a large percentage in the scandal that had been known as BISON.
In the year 1989, Zimbabwe was also faced with a scandal that came to be known as those senior officials of the government of President Robert Mugabe in a scandal that senior officials of the government of President Robert Mugabe was doing a business of smuggling so as to sell it to benefits in the country while there is law that gives the issue.
The editor of the Daily News newspaper, Geofrey Nyami and his team for journalists came up on the same time when they stopped him, they could affect the law of the country and citizens would have been affected by such actions.
Journalists that they did their work on the basis of protecting the broader interests of the nation and their citizens in general and they made the job by considering the foundation of writing news.
While other journalists have been arrested by the police to be taken by the police to answer the charges of writing inflammatory news, one prime minister, Teddy Mapunda, shot himself and rumored to him in the scandal that he decided to kill suicide.
But the competence of Geofrey Nyami and his colleagues did not end up to raising the great secret that had already been jailed for other journalists who were ready to be defeated in prison than mentioning their news sources.
I had Judge Francis Ntalazi - who today he is respected in the media industry - giving a decision that consider the requirements of the journalism profession.
While the case is going on Judge Manyema left the stand that the court did not have an opportunity to respect the foundation of ethics of journalists about not being the source of news.
There is also an example of getting rid of the journalists that they decided to follow up, to follow up, to look for what was done by Joseph Estrada, the president who came in power due to his popularity of playing soccer club.
I have given these few examples, apart from the neighboring country and Tanzania so as to compensate my motion that the media has a great importance in the construction of the nation and especially in encouraging the development of all people, but also it was not easy to show that the journalists know it is not easy to see in the environment of being despised.
That people who do the work that can dismiss him from the president of a big country like America, or famous president like Joseph Estrada, and causing a important person to fight the freedom of Zimbabwe as BISON.
They are people with great responsibility as people who are very important people to the public they get in charge.
It is a public service that makes them to convince the journalists to avoid privileged information that more than the interests of the whole nation and all its people.
Although the examples I have used is the one for writing news that could destroy the dollars, still does not mean that he could not have a good understanding of another kind.
There are many examples even here in Tanzania for the great contribution to the media in various sectors.
Therefore, if you use to me the examples of the scandal, there was an aim to prove how the journalists were given a great solution to the community and it is why should not supposed to comply with anything more than the broader interests of the nation and the development of its citizens in general.
