
What was forbidden from Bilal, Pinda, Judge Ramadhan, Sitta.
Jide 22, 2015.

Reasons for having senior officials and the famous people in the process of vying for presidency through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have been worked well.
In the process, 42 members came out, top leaders as the prime minister Mizengo Pinda and the Vice President, Doctor Mohamed Gharib Bilal, were not able to enter even in the best five.
Mke Mwema has been told the third reason which were used to arrest some of the famous leaders and heads in the government.
The age of age.
Reliable sources from inside the committee on security and ethics and the executive committee of CCM (CC) have told the newspaper that the party had decided to become a small age than President Jakaya Kikwete.
That is because the executive committee does not recognize that the country has a big number of youths and therefore it is good for their elections to consider the age of the age so as to attract the votes of that group.
This newspaper has been told that it's the reason for all the candidates who had more than 65 years.
Leaders who were given their names arising from that issue and their age in brackets as Samuel Sitta (73), Mizengo Pinda (67), Doctor Augustine Mahiga (70), Doctor Augustine Mahiga (70), Doctor Augustine Mahiga (70), Doctor Augustine Mahiga (70), Doctor Augustine Mahiga (70), Doctor Augustine Mahiga (70).
Mke Mwema should be told that all the candidates, although they had the reputation of leadership, the age could have an obstacle to them and also to also win the party.
"Chairman explained to the delegates of CC about those recommendations and insisting that it is not normal for high leaders to be taken early but this time I had to be so," said one of the delegates of CC who talked with this newspaper with conditions of not being mentioned.
That candidate has been sacked by that party, John Magufuli, who is 55 years old, who is the one who was with them when he was chosen by the party to vie for the presidency in the year 2005.
Groups.
There are other candidates, an example being removed from Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, Makongoro Nyerere and Sitta also, who the party decided to retire from explanation that they have groups.
This newspaper has been told that the party was believed to become a candidate who has no groups.
Mwakyembe and Sitta have been unable to be known as CCM members of parliament against corruption and they had a political rivals and the group that had supported Edward Lowassa.
Magufuli who finally has been called by CCM that his candidate is known to be involved in any group inside that party.
The number of candidates.
Outside the two reasons, the official reasons that were given by CCM about the killing of those candidates, there are those who believe that the issue of the big number that emerged for the presidency had its meaning.
"CCM cannot say but it was not bad luck that 42 people came out to be approved by the party to vie for presidency.
"Among those who came out, there are others who did not have intentions but were shocked by the system.
"The aim of here was that it will expire at the time was wanted by names, they also also big leaders.
"The big leaders will be avoided, it will be difficult for other people to complain until now as the prime minister or Vice President that they have been cut, who will be avoided," the source said.
