
History is written by the sun.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana, Mbarali.

It has been published in September 2016.

History has been written in Ihanga village, Rujewa ward, Mbarali District, Mbeya Region, after a historical event of the solar eclipse was witnessed by a huge percentage in this town yesterday.

Altogether with the area of Rujewa and Wanging'ombe, Njombe province where 90 percent of the incident did not be better than other parts of Africa, also the sun is seen although it is not good in the areas of Rukwa and Katavi provinces in Madagascar.
Thousands of people from the country and outside the country, came out to witness the historic incident. Some of them started gender, others to go to the church and the whole district to be heard more in the world.
That incident was started at 4 o'clock in the morning, the sun was started with the act that has raised the especially of citizens who started they were forced, but by using that special part of the month, it seems not to fill in the solar eclipse.
As a long time you moved closer to the weather, it has changed in light and how the sun started using 5 o'clock in the morning by approximately half a half and that village was covered by a small area of a month.
At 4 o'clock in the morning, the sun will come at the end of last month and found a ring on the month of the area that was caused by poor vision, while in the normal state of the past six o'clock in the evening.
The weather also changed and cold is expected to make a situation that caused a huge crowd of people to find themselves as a situation in that area it used for everyone to witness the historic incident.
However, the sun lasted at the peak of several seconds because of the sun continued to come out and read to each other and leave the sun that had been paid for four hours starting from 45th at 4 o'clock.
The provincial commissioner of Mbeya, Amos Makalla the member of parliament for Mbarali member of parliament, Harith Suoer is accused of a philosopher-scientist and the lecturer of the University of Huria Tanzania, Doctor Noorali Jiwaji demonstrating thousands of those people to witness the solar eclipse event that happened soon in the country.
In the morning people had gathered in that village that produces rice for 67 points in the country, and that they were collecting from the area organized by scientists which was special to witness the incident.
As time has continued to go to the big crowd of people you want to increase and finally, at four hours, the leaders of the province and the district have arrived.
Citizens who had gathered in that area were given out with special acts that enabled them to view that sun without getting effects as a result of people who came out to witness the sun glasses and agreed to satisfy the complaints.
Doctor Iyyovngchan is explaining to the citizens about what is going on every time, he said that the situation is due to the normal circulation of the sun, world and the month, "said the sun will be successful after those drugs prepare themselves in one line while in the middle and therefore causing approximately 97 percent of the sun that fell in the world.
This is a historic incident that many people have witnessed, my first time I saw it was in the year 1980, while Lembeli in Mwanga district, Kilimanjaro Province, since I heard of the period, it is something that has never happened every day, "he insisted.
The sun's action is to be in a very few minutes since the month of this month, it started to be seen in that village while citizens continue to follow up every step.
Doctor Rutambi said that the sun is at the peak of the solar eclipse while in the afternoon it has changed that as in the evening and the whole world does not have a lot of poor light weight due to the poor.
Several times the philosopher-scientist has been forced to warned the citizens and all the stakeholders who had flooded the village, not to look at the sun for their normal eyes and instead they use those special things to be affected.
This newspaper witnessed in that area, some of the youth with albinism so as to get into the belts of him and they sell it at 500 shillings and told the citizens that they are part of those spectacles.
Some of the citizens of Rujewa who talked about that event, most of them admitted that it's just the first time to witness and be noted that that is why the leaders of the village decided to stop thanks for that incident from that village.
A resident of Mbaruku district, Mbarali District, Juma Chikoka said that early yesterday, those elders were tested for traditional foods with other residents of the area as they go to the health house in the church and not he is given to the purpose of giving thanks.
"We believe that Rujewa and Mbarali in general, we have written much, we want this event to happen every day and we believe that it's why our village is part of the biggest event like this is why we have requested and happy," said the guest.
The head teacher of Rujewa Secondary School, Oliver Mbambo said the incident has given a good opportunity for the students of that village and all the ones that went to see because the issue of the solar eclipse has been taught.
He said that incident is not only important for those students, but even to the teachers, because he believes they are only few teachers who have ever played the solar eclipse while giving an example that he only did to witness the event in the year 1975 at the age of six and does not remember it.
On the side of a three student student in Rujewa Secondary School, Isaya Sanga said he is happy to witness the incident one day because it was several days ago and it has been taught the issue of blood circulation in the History subject.
The Communications Manager of the Tanzania National Parks Agency (TANAPA), Pascal Shelutete said that in using the opportunity of the event, officially launched the solar eclipse because of enabling the residents of Mbarali, Mbeya and the new province of Songwe to enter the Ruaha National Park.
Msama said that earlier, the residents of those areas were forced to get into the park through Iringa town, but now they can use that opportunity to ease the growth of internal tourism, he said approximately 30 tourists arrived in the country through Mbeya to witness the solar eclipse.
