
Investment funds through Azania Bank.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

/ = Tanzanian shillings.

The government has directed all funds of investment in industries that are provided by the Social Security Fund to cater for Azania Bank.

In addition, it has said that it will not depend on the mistakes that were done by another phase of the industrial sector that many are not working and the others have been sold and bought the industries not to implement the government's agreement.
Minister of Industry Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage said that the day before yesterday during the session of participation of social security fund in the economy of industries.
He said the bank of Azania is in bags and all the funds that have been built by the reserve for the purpose of investment of industries used for the bank, because its interest is affordable and money to help entrepreneurs to participate in that bank.
He said some of the banks have been involved with interest up to 30 percent, an issue that is a burden to the government as money competing in there.
"The construction of industries is not only bags, but there are many bags, but we will look for this opportunity to come if it gives one hundred thousand shillings to that work we give people, we are searching for people, we are searching for people's benefits," he said.
Also, he said the construction of the economy of industries is forced to ensure industries must be self-employed people from all sectors. "Said Rwanda has a huge processing of milk but if you check Tanzania is with a solution.
"We have problems of livestock that many and then in the country in a good way is to build a factory for meat," said Mwijage.
He said that there is an investor who has a capital of four billion as he wants to produce a life or which will be ready for 18 months and follow up on the issue, because he has been competing with Tanzania needs to a large extent in that technology.
"You cannot tell you a modern person at the time when his cows are in the body and it doesn't be demolished," he said.
He said that they have talked with Solo JKT for the purpose of rearing livestock. According to the minister, the world market needs 20,000 tons every week and Tanzania can be able to bring eight trillion shillings per year due to selling clothes outside the country.
He said the government had organized for fishing in the sea, therefore there will be a modern fishing ship that will be given in billions of money and Mwijage said they are preparing to provide the guidelines of industries so that everyone to know his position.
Previously, the minister of policy, parliament, labor, youth, employment and disabled, Jenista Mhagama said that every fund is required to conduct an evaluation and to follow the regulations and law by checking guidelines, so as to see how one fund will be able to decide and go to the industries.
Mhagama said the investment that will be done is the one that will increase employment and expand the scope of lack of Tanzanians to succeed, he said they are determined by October this year, in Tanzania it has reached a good step in implementation where up to now Tanzania National Social Security Fund (NSSF) has launched a good step in implementation where up to now Tanzania National Social Security Fund (NSSF) has reached 1 billion shillings for the purpose of implementation.
He said NSSF has invested in the industry of pesticides containing National Development Corporation (NDC) that had received that money through Azania Bank, and now malaria disease will be history.
Secretary of the authority of supervision and control of Social Security Regulatory Authority (SSRA), Meshach Bandawe, said that the fund has been in the implementation of the intention of investing in industries and other recommendations of looking for opportunities available and they did as the president.
