CCM has not finished paying, let him get.
Jide 15, 2015.

Finally, CCM has said that it doesn't ensure that we are supposed to do, especially in CCM, it should not ask ourselves, it has ended a difficult time when I believe it is the first time has started using me, he did not want them to prevent him!
However, before showing that time I commend so much for CCM at least waiting for him, it doesn't have a lot of money to CCM and it does not have a very long time because the medicine doesn't have a lot!
Now, we feel that there are other organs for booking tickets, are crowded with nuts or other organs that have been infected with bad luck and could be able to arrest him!
Yes, when it came up with the philosophy of getting married and it was told that he does not know that it will end up and it was not allowed me!
(1-1), there is an old man he is seeing the party and its procedures well and he knows the elders that we should not hesitate to participate fully in the level of up to CCM and those who doesn't hesitate in violence!
This old man on his age and positions that he did in the government and in the party was supposed to know but there are two different things that you can't understand but even though, the father will be recognized because the father will be responsible!
(2-2), there is a leader who has left CCM from Tanu to CCM. He has been a minister and he has been supposed to know the concept of leadership together. Mrema violated the concept of having two fellow colleagues, but he termed it is a must.
It is dangerous to stop the mid-fielder of this kind, or a device that will be used to also give them to one minister, another person who came out in a meeting which will take a session of the ministers and claimed that they agree with the decision by going a session in the information meeting.
The number 3 number 3, there are members of parliament of the party, all of them participated in the parliamentary decisions that made them to vie for the parliamentary procedures that they gave them to parliament and that the party was unable to give them a license to vie for a member of parliament.
During the 4th number 4, there are servants of provinces in the provinces and the district showed their love for candidates, especially among them, these are the leaders of the party, because of them, they will referee the presidential campaign of the party that is not known.
It's not good to continue on their positions even if there is a saying that groups should be blamed all of them being one thing, or for sure they can form groups, then they can be able to form groups, then they can be able to form the groups and then they should be dealt with and then they should be dealt with.
(5 number 5), there are many business people who attended the campaign against the procedure and the culture of the nation, and so more than their goals, if the woman is not present by the nation to stop their money can be very dangerous!
I am sure that our security agencies which were restored and it is not easy to have people who we have the normal citizens, we are making them money, but it is not known for this media or for sure, this group is very dangerous to the future of our nation.
Those involved are supposed to know that their wealth is not the whole process to intervene in the process of appointment of candidates for any position in the country.
