
The proposal of Kenya gets a threat from the Roma agreement is not true.
It is some of the members of parliament to prevent the law in order to remove Kenya during the Roma contract claiming that the court of ICC has condemned President Uhuru Kenyatta.
Considering that Kenya has been partnering with ICC, it was a lot of wisdom to the president to attend the session of evaluating the case against that step, it is an assurance that there is the cooperation that is required to make that court.
It is true that the leader of Fatna Bambini Journal said that she has never thought following corruption that had emerged from the witnesses who were with them about the case facing Uhuru Kenyatta, but it does not mean that we have enough reasons for leaving the Roma contract.
Even though they have been a lot of living about ICC, I have sure that the cases they are facing in Dar es Salaam to inspect them that we give the leader's leader to attend the conference, they believe it was heading there as a citizen and not like the president.
Leaders should stop foolishness of animals which have been there since most of them, today human beings are preventing themselves inside political parties.
Political parties have been unable to return the neck who is vying for political positions.
Or it is true that the most political parties and the time that you want to be forced to come out, they are told that they are told their political positions.
Hawa Ndilowe at the University of Ciano and a religious leaders in development, because its spherical guidelines for the leaders that promote poor politics.
However, political parties reached a dismissal of the leaders to be free, Kelvin Kihara Maina with Thika, why the president does not get tired of writing the tour of President Uhuru Kenyatta for the second time in he said that she has gone for several times.
Although there is no one who doesn't know the source of natural resources concerning the killing of his tour, the leaders of he said that this they have played many times due to not being involved in the head of Attribution, Raila Odinga, who has severe pain in this area.
The Member of Parliament of Nyando, Fred Kadama, has said to be an obstacle to the success of the president's tour to come out him to oppose those allegations and he insisted that President is free to land in the Lake Victoria.
Raila Odinga, who was quoted saying that President did not need him from his colleagues to tour his political stronghold.
Peter Ngayonga- Tanzania is a dream of the secretary general of the union of parties' parties (COS) Francis Godwin.
There are many reasons in the whole country which are the objection in the union.
Every leader in this community wants to be a leader and that it did not get a leader and it did not meet, these leaders don't understand the love they don't have.
Province NX Wopler (University of Mashada stadium.
Wisdom, have died from what they were seen among them in the neighborhood, Moses Noni, claiming that KQ workers had stolen him by showing that the identity is when they traveled to Mombasa.
Everyone who came out of inside here in the country is a must that showing his documents including identity cards or very disturbing.
Most of us want to go and be self-employed.
I think that if you know it is that you have died from what they need to follow the conditions and laws that need to be followed by each one who traveled.
I have died and she has no enough reason to complain since he violated the law of Kenya Airways.
Benson Maseru.
This incident, there was a lot of candidates so that then be able to save the calmness in their examinations.
However, many days don't know where three people have been killed in Barwan area and the wealth of livestock has reduced.
These cases have been forced to you for you because they are spoiling their lives.
These candidates are Kenyans and are going to be given security to do the exams for calmness.
The government started giving them defense and lack of success in life.
Edward Eucharist celebrated in Nairobi.
