
Makonda wants members.
Dar es Salaam City, the head of Dar es Salaam Province, Paul Makonda has started a campaign meeting of 90 days in 559 villages in the city and wanted that the ruling party of the province to form the commission to investigate the company that have been given the tender to clean the city.
While speaking yesterday during the launch of the competition, Makonda said there is a company that has it in its registration about the number of employees that were involved with working tools while some required to join the public servants and make a conflict of interest.
According to the ethics of the public service, there is a veteran section of the interests, I urge you to cooperate with the administrative secretary of the province.
Starting from Monday (tomorrow), form a committee that will destroy the public servants and the wildlife who use the cleaning company, where it is revealed that action can be taken against them, "said Makonda.
He said, they want the company that will do cleanliness seems to be no ghost company that took the cleaning money and the city's cleanliness, while they are using more than 6 billion shillings per year for cleaning.
That Head of that province said that there was one of the companies, it did not use their employees or not to give sanitation equipment and waste.
He said those people should be taken against them because they are doing those work without following the regulations and procedures.
"You will find my wife doing the cleaning time when they do not have equipment, even the availability of their money is a problem, this is not a problem," said the cleaning of Makonda.
Also, he urged the owners of the bar to review their contracts and talk about the time of closing their businesses, a result of running music.
"From May first (today) we will increase the strength in the operation and we want every person to stop the law without being forced," he said.
Said Makonda.
He urged them to prevent them on their activities in the areas that were directed together with the owners of the areas that are doing work on the areas of people's homes and look for the areas that have been set aside for the purpose of that activity.
Kinondoni District Commissioner, Ally Hapi said that he was talking about some people considering yesterday's day which was scheduled for cleaning.
"It's impossible for people to reach it to this activity even when President John Magufuli stopped the national celebrations by recognizing the contribution of cleaning activities, we will talk to him so as to put discipline," said Hapi.
