The two police entered into the vehicle so that he didn't leave up to the station where one that brought down and killed four people who were within one person who sell his products in promoting his office near to Pangani Police Station, he explained what he witnessed.
It fell for two hours.
There were two vehicle the board of other police.
The road.
Entering a.
The police was behind that citizens was behind a citizen that was in Mbezi up the time it reached and made a great explosion and the boss should I get to, outside.
At the time I was coming from, I saw the police.
By Ballness of them being interviewed in another transport which were only fire.
And then in a big voice at that time, it's only a way they would like or I won't jump and there is possible.
Now happens I will talk.
There is no one who tried to go down here because they were worried when I'm the vehicle when I got the car which was making a mistake by Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister Patrick Lumumba, who is doing an interview with Mister
Lumumba has explained his feelings about the explosion and made it a day today inside the police in our place.
Pangani is a bad thing.
We got the Indian Ocean that there is a vehicle.
Which was then when we go with police we use it.
And then later the police got stolen from their car, who is the past.
They went to the vehicle when they won't return.
The president of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta, in recent days has been quoted by his government is stable and is going to look for criminals with the terrorists wherever they are.
