If we end reports are related to agricultural technologies when in the world it will be a threat in various technology questions, information and communication technology to the public have met in Dar es Salaam city to discuss ways of controlling the theft on social media networks which have become a threat in the countries that are ongoing and that we use it as a dream of preparing for you.
See you visit the state of services offered by social media networks by the director of computer services at the university and financial management system, Jimmy Jihadist has said that the problem of criminal crime in the world is where it reaches the strategies.
In the middle.
Concerned institutions like when I get we have done a full strategy of this one we will see what we will meet.
But you know that there is been taken for example and then call him to fulfill the Kimbari.
Increasing the understanding and put various strategies in order to deal with fluency.
And a friend.
How can it be done?
If they will be able to listen to them.
He said that it is a must for every country to look at the way to deal with protect themselves from that problem because the internet has been making an account by using people's names in social media and steal phones that will highlight financial services through mobile phones.
To send money through a way.
Arts and we have helped so much to take financial services.
Close to the ordinary citizens and Himself to that.
Political we have done well more so we have already seen various people who have started making their policies on the internet.
Another person you say that I was to let me use a lot of money there and how his phone is true.
Therefore, because the danger is there for the same time.
There are two.
The financial agency in the office of the president, the management of public service of public service takes place where the challenges they face in the system of government reports.
You know there is a report that is wrong but the government to know.
And we are happy to do if the government is to make sure we become a system that is safe.
And put security standards that can be able to make sure that the information that is pleasant and the government is the ones that have died on well because if the country cannot be clear in everything, but it is not a must for us to have any information that are in government like or if they can be used.
He has said in dealing with those challenges, the servants in the system of government reports and the contractors have been asked to be given education on knowing the boundaries and follow the procedures of the provision of information that are not endangering health of the country.
It has said that director of Plasmodium falciparum.
