
A machine for clean water into the reserve is built in the coast.
By Mathias Chikawe.
Research that was done by breast cancer company from Japan, has confirmed that there is a probability that he had gone from Mombasa to produce clean water and drinking water through the sea.
According to the marketing officer of water, Miss Fatma Hassan, those of Toyota in Tanzania, did a present at the time after signing a contract of an agreement that he made in Mombasa city on December 11, last year.
Miss Akitanda, said that the company from Japan implemented the same time for a period of five months and that you will leave the time it has confirmed that, he said it can build a machine for producing clean water from the sea.
The company said that already it has already noted Shangani area as a better way to build a machine that will be using clean water and drinking water through the sea.
Miss Aguilera has said that the machine that is expected to be built in Shangani region will have the ability to produce 100 million shillings per day.
However, he also pointed out that type of Toyota in the moment is doing the time about the cost of producing clean water through the sea.
"For now, we want to know the cost of producing clean water through the Indian water because the cleanliness of water will be use of electricity," he said.
"We also want to know the cost of building that factory as well as an amount of fees that he said that it will be selling water from the residents of Mombasa," he explained.
Speaking to the nation today, Jan Petrie. He said that doing that project will expire.
At the moment, he said that he from Mombasa who depend on water from he from Kilongawima area, TaSnowden?
Miss Aguilera said that, the water company from Burundi through the amount of 2800 billion shillings per day to Kimara B Primary School, he said that his club is expecting to pay more than 6 million shillings through the sea in Mombasa, while he said that his club is expecting to pay more water due to the project of MEMKWA centers.
Miss Clinton also pointed out that, the project of MEMKWA centers that will be sponsored by the World Bank for an amount of 17 billion is expected to produce 186 million shillings.
Out of 186 million shillings of water, he said that he has dropped out of 110 million shillings while the blast was completed in the next three years.
Breast cancer manager, Hunter, said that the project of water production in the sea will be able to protect yourself from water problems in the area of Mombasa.
