The national debt has increased by fast as a result of the values.
28th of 13, 2014.

Recently, Minister of Finance and Economy, Saada Mkuya said that Tanzania has given loans, that the government will continue to borrow because it has no qualifications to borrow.
The minister said that the national debt has increased by approximately 1 billion American dollars equivalent to 2769 trillion shillings from December last year.
"We are continuing to borrow and the debt increased by the value has been increasing to loans which is being taken by the ones that doesn't be paid it is increasing because the country is still continuing to borrow," said Mkuya.
And insisted that currently, Tanzania has focused itself more on improving loans with business conditions which are different from loans with favorable terms, that is why we pay for business people with more interest.
He said Mkuya said that we are unable to implement the government's budget and then we continue to borrow for example, in the year 2013, local revenue were 48 trillion shillings while we started collecting 57 trillion shillings.
Even in the year 2009 / 10, at the time of the minister, Mustafa Allo was announced that in the first quarter, TRA was unable to collect 100 billion shillings intended to the budget.

We are supposed to inform you, since the investigation that was done in the year 2010 with one organization called the transparent, you will realize that every tax of one billion is using the government using more than two hundred shillings, each one wants to use more than what you got into the neighboring country and also the government also.
What is happening is that the government is unable to collect taxes, as usual you are forced to collect tax sources, as the Central Bank, private bank, insurance companies, private companies, and so on.

The government doesn't pay inside the country by selling it, he will not depend on a bond through the Central Bank.
This is the internal debt that was in September 2008 for 606 billion shillings it should be remembered that a big part of this debt could be collected so as to pay the old debt together with interest.
Secondly, this loans and Mlabu all is alternative for the tax that it has collected as a loan to run the government and not for investing in development projects and not to invest in development projects and as it did, Mwalimu Nyerere, the government did not tolerate.
Apart from the internal debt, there's a debt for outside the country, but we depend on for a grant so as to compensate the deficit of the government's budget of last year, 338 trillion shillings were promised and the partners but what is available is 29 percent.
The truth is that if you see, he wanted it to thank the government that depends on donations from outside the country, to be forced to fulfill the conditions of the ones who call them to discuss their results, we become a government that is responsible for development instead of the citizens.
If we stop the current debt for the moment, 1 billion US dollars were sworn in, we see that in 1970, our debt had 1 billion American dollars and the year 2010 was 10 billion dollars and on July 2009, it has given the picture how the debt progresses in every year.
It is a big cargo that is going on because we are continuing to increase the debt and then the interest continues to increase.
For example, December 2012, we have shown the debts of 19 million dollars, among these four million shillings is the real debt and two million shillings.
Basically, borrowing is not something in front of the important question is to ask you for what the government claims we use loans for the community sector, but these funds are used in order to fill the gap or a shortage in the government's budget.
The government is unable to collect enough tax or maybe the tax that is collected was lost since its results are forced to borrow for its results, therefore, it is being a big part of the loans brought back in the pockets of the corrupt people so that they are trusted by all citizens.

One example is that paying payments for the farmers, the money that were made through the World Bank (WB). It is a loan of 574 billion which was used badly and now the government is planning to organize themselves to borrow for the World Bank, it says 60 percent of the electronic budget was caused by corruption.

For example, in Langoni Area, Mufindi district, 70 percent of citizens are listed in getting fake phones.

Under this project, the government has set aside 1 million shillings through Vunga that he was given to the farmer and presented them to the R & Cotex agents, therefore the farmer borrowed 600 million shillings.
