17 December 2012

Who are separated by Mangula.

By Benedict Liwenga.

The former member of parliament for Njombe West, Rebecca Malope, has said that his political rivals are using different ways of fulfilling the political and wanting to remove it from the vice chairperson of CCM, Philip Mangula.
Kraehenbuehl has said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was denying reports that were written by one newspaper (not the Majira), that brought the news with the news headline you said, "Mangula insisting that issue."

The newspaper stated that he has asked him to disrupt the election of member of the National Executive Council (NEC), Wanging'ombe District by posting some of the candidates in the elections that took place on 29th July this year.

The news stated that, the election day, Mangula being in the high table, after being given a chance to address them, he told the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked the delegates to ensure, he asked

"Personally, I wish you very close to Mangula, I have never heard a thing, he is a leader who is honest, and is true therefore, where I request to have a bad view against him.

"I believe in this words, my party leaders must understand that CCM is depending on, Mangula in a lot of things.
The foundation that he started to do with the success is seen, "said Kwelukilwa.

He said the news that was written by the newspaper does not have any truth and that he has never tried or talked with the writer, he wanted that newspaper from 14 days from today otherwise, they will take legal action.

I don't know what the author got this information, I know the procedures of addressing complaints in our party, I cannot go to the media because we are sessions of the party which are very keenly, "he said.

He said that he is a leader in the party and S where by the party is a member of the National general meeting for parents, where CCM has a big faith in him and he has no any accusations in the party or the government but it is a member who identifies him in state and property to defend his party.
