"Production of alcohol in the queue.

October 19, 2016.

It has been noted that the biggest increase in people who use the great alcohol in the country popularly known as Vientiane, especially the youth, it has been contributed by some of the business people that sell the alcohol from outside the country and make them sell at an affordable price, thus endangering development of the country.
The investigation that was done by the Majira newspaper revealed that of the bad alcohol that will be sent away from Vierra, it is sold between Sh. 500 to 1000 shillings where those that are estimated to be more than shillings 500 to the youths who have a low income.
During this time it has done an interview with some of the producers that have different types of prices on alcohol that are there in Vientiane, it is caused by the type of natural resources that will be used, the cost of alcohol is dangerous to the users because they are not quality.
"Vientiane when the others are very bad, to the extent that even during talks with your colleagues they were unable to run away, the user can't jump," said some of the producers who were interviewed by this newspaper.
The investigation of that alcohol are in large numbers in the streets where many youths especially students who are in secondary and universities in secondary and universities are big users, something that is affected by the nation.
Those alcohol is easy to be taken against them, therefore the users have bought and place them in bags of their daughters, using them anywhere, where investigation has revealed that it is available on users about the alcohol.
Other producers said the difference of the sales of the alcohol between one company and the other is big, our fear is that people who sell these alcohol don't pay their income but it is a must that the smallness is not a business system but there is something.
And the Executive Director of the Information Institute of Poverty (MeCAP), Edna Mdoe, said that they have done research and identify the alcohol that are being sold at an affordable price while the government does not stop immediately there is a huge disaster.
He said in their research, they have noted that the countries of Kenya, Malawi and Zambia have banned the sale of alcohol of Vientiane when he went to the country through a reduction.
"In Mbeya they are selling this alcohol from Malawi, Zambia at the sacks that don't know the crops on the farm, so when paying, it is important for the government to take a step like the South Africa which decided to stop the use of alcohol.
"The aim is to ensure that its industries like there is a special device that was joined by offices of issues so as to coordinate production, in every corner, it should be easy to pay for correct tax of the government," he said.
He added that it has come for the concerned authorities to take action to look at the availability of planting which production is under the standards of the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drug Authority (TBS), Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority, said the importance of taking action in order to save the health of consumers.
