
Short time is postponed the case for lack of reports of the doctor.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Nyamiyaga court has postponed the case of a woman that was accused of killing her child following the lack of lawyer and report of the doctor in order to be noted that the suspect has a sober mind.
Judge James Kilaba said that the suspect was seen to have the charges on May 28, so as to enable him to be represented by the lawyer and the court to get full report about the mental condition of the suspect.
Prisca also would say he is faced with the accusation of killing her child on the night of April 9 at Umuganda Stadium, he from Nyami.
If he knew that who is 32 years to surrendered to Nyamilima police station on April 10, while he requested the police officers to have stopped him because he had a four months child.
Killing him while speaking with the journalists in the day of surrender, as he would say that he was humiliated and his act of killing her second child.
He said by grief, that he did not know what made him killing her daughter since he was still unknown.
"When I saw him, my child cutting a heart when I was surprised to be removed and regrets.
I did not want to escape and I was ready to claim all.
That I wanted to be sentenced.
Watch the time you love my fate, "explained the suspect.
"I don't know what to do as I did?
I don't know how if they get where I love my daughter, but I saw it on the pelvic, "he said more.
The suspect told the police officers at his home where they got the body of that child.
She would say he claimed that he left her husband earlier but he insisted that that was not his reason of killing her child.
I did not know that I would have written the act.
However, his chief suspect told him that her child had ever tried to kill someone but he was approved by good Samaritans.
For now, the suspect was continuing to intervene in Nyamilima police station.
Elsewhere, a woman admitted yesterday that the officer posted his child who is the age of one year to sign him for a long time.
Rehema Madusa has told the Kibangu court that the charge that he is faced in front of the senior judge of Benard Odax said, it was very true "Honorable I was unable to answer that offense.
- the news Pictures by Antoine Griezmann.
