
DC Muheza wants the manager of the water authority.

It has been written by Soundton Sound Band.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

The manager of the water authority in Kongwa town, Dodoma province, Salum Mwalim today has been suspended from being unable to supervise the availability of water.

That step that has been taken by Kongwa District Commissioner, Deogratius Ndejembi has revealed that he has suspended the manager and appointed the water expert of the district, Hamisi Ally to hold that position by making sure that water have been found in plenty.
Ndejembi said that in his investigation he has signed that the water authority has a bad leadership who will not be on his responsibilities and it has not care about the problems of citizens on the whole issue of water.
He also explained that on its priorities in Kongwa district, water is one number thus he will ensure water have been found to be used in large numbers to set up his leadership positions to the citizens of Kongwa because they have lost more than a period of the whole year.
In the beginning of his operation of moving water to water, Ndejembi said that they are mutilated with water tools that are in Selega and B ward, Sagna and urged all those who do activities of irrigation farming for vegetables, to stop immediately so that water can be filled with the basis and reaching the citizens.
Speaking on behalf of the citizens, Yohana Mose said that they have been associated with the statement by the district commissioner and requested him to stop the water schedule so that even if they will be found at least they will be found at least once in a week to get water one day in a week.
Ndejembi has completed the land conflict that was there for a long time between Mnyikulu of the Catholic church in Kongwa, by giving them the church in another area for building a private school of Mnyama primary school to remain in the area that were abolished.
He has promised to make sure that they complete land conflicts in his district because they missed a lot of development activities to the citizens and promised to control leaders involving themselves or protecting that conflicts.
