
21 shillings a lung disease in Ngorongoro.

It has been written by John Lukuwi.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

While more than 21 people have died in Pinyinyi ward, Ngorongoro district in Arusha province, for the surprising disease of vomiting blood, the senior health officer of that province, Francis ida Mtibua and has no information about the existence of that disease.

The executive director of that ward, James Mushi noted that there was no disease.
While reading messages to the head of Arusha Province, Mrisho Gambo when he went to visit the ward to see for development activities, being a five-day visit in the district.
After Mushi explained to his life about the existence of that disease for more than four years and 21 people lost life, that's where the provincial commissioner decided to get explanations for what province is not take action.
The medical officer confessed and asked the public servants who attended that public meeting that he has no information of the presence of that disease and or the province has no information about the existence of that disease.
The answers were happy and asking to welcome the Provincial Commissioner and decided to suspend the head of Ngorongoro District (DMO), Omari Sugar to give answers if he has no information about the existence of that disease.
Sugar, he confessed the existence of that disease and the truth has killed 21 people and has done an effort and extra efforts to take over to the ministry of health to experts, because he has failed to know what the source of the disease is caused by what happens.
That district's chief physician said that earlier tests were revealed that the disease is caused by the Ebola disease, but they still are self-asked by taking another samples which will go to the professionals of human diseases to know more, the truth of that disease and answers have not turn back.
After the answers, the head of the province explained his disappointment about the answers of the chief medical officer of Arusha Province and said that he didn't expect the disease that killed 21 people and is more than four years in Pinyinyi ward, but he does not have a report when the head of the district had a report.
Gambo said that, it shows that, some of the government workers in the province are doing work together and failed to know or get reports of every day in the district.
He said that he will not depend on a little and urged the heads of the regional departments, to be responsible for getting daily information in all the districts of Arusha province so that the answers of everything is to be used and get enough solutions.
This is a shame, a disease is for four years and already it has killed 21 people, but the MO Blog has no information and he has done the extra work to look for the source of this disease, "said the Provincial Commissioner.
"If you have been able to come here, it means this disease would be noticed or to get enough answers and when people could continue to go, now I want to make sure that the disease is found and drugs is available," said Gambo.
In that life, citizens have thanked the Provincial Commissioner for getting to the county, for the last time the head of Arusha Province visited the ward, was Mohamed Babu, in the year 2006.
