
The government finishing the challenges of small business people.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published on May 6th, 2016.

The Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said that the government is prepared to involve yourself and cut off the challenges facing small business people in the whole country including Kariakoo to enable them to do business in good environment without disturbance.

Samia said that when he was launching the community of women entrepreneurs and business in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam city.
He said the government is saying that Kariakoo is a business center, he believes that the challenges facing the business people especially the ones that concern women and women that is why it is prepared to appreciate yourself.
He said that he recognizes that the difficulty that was there in small business people to get loans for learning from banks and various financial institutions, including great interest and conditions of the fund.
"About the opportunities of loans, I continue to give a call to the bank to see the best way to lend small business people at an affordable terms so as to maintain your capital.
The government will ensure that opportunities of loans for capital is available without bureaucracy and at an affordable terms and reach many citizens in urban and rural areas, "he said.
He advised women to be in front of the tax payment of government because those taxes are involved in the development activities, educating children and drugs in the hospital.
Previously the wife of the fourth term president, Mrs Salma Kikwete urged the women who come from Kariakoo area to not hesitate to explain their challenges when they face them because they are providing great income to the government through the tax paying.
The chairman of that community, Mwamvua Jumanne explained the challenges that the challenges face is capital, lack of education on entrepreneurship and business, the presence of water catchment areas, a series of tax together with great interest in the bank.
