Your news for you are news about the human being in development, we are, we are in the province of breaking a good state.
In order to avoid.
Therefore, I won't go back, I am happy with my colleague, he brought Bob percent and lack of money to remain or get click here.
There is a pose.
I have mentioned when I was surprised by Plate of desks so that I can be able to leave the cost of water there because it was the second for the purpose of asking them to work hard and knowledge but before we have started doing so much little debts.
I am back to go through the purpose of bringing about drivers to go to how they can do.
A woman is one among the delegates.
He said that the water committee that can be able to come up they need to open the problem as a result of being a result of it.
Increase and also changes in state.
A mother can told the water uses like the church.
But after water.
Paying it being paid for that time uses water for use.
Use the audience to confirm.
Water has used to know the army to look for livestock so as to know the reduction of water and the councilors, the preparations will enable teachers to access water water but if you are saying they are able to look for responsibilities that give the sponsorship to the goalkeepers, Haji urges them to sell and also a mother.
In the water style in the future, the firefighting exercise will be able to investigate and take advantage of the prices to take care of the sponsorship and farmers, the main agency that will benefit us with the money of trees in the past and opened up with the late.
If you go to Grind.
The late?
You miss.
When you go to press here to watch the late?
Almighty God rest the late?
How do I tell me that what did you get to him?
In Manyara province, the authority of the World Bank has continued to reach all Tanzanians and wait for several times about the medicine policies and they decided to look for how many Tanzanians get pregnant and also to identify the problem and place to identify the problem.
In a very big way and do not see the card going to look for water, I would also tell you that we don't have a lot of water because we don't know if we don't have a lot of water because we don't know if we love their mother, I would like to see if we love the child through home to see the phone through home.
We finish with each other, you are all asked, but inside and outside.
To get a capital in the country's economy and the chest with my chest when I get very disturbing, he has said at his home I found himself and he didn't end the government because of helping someone who is still at high speed.
