Fruits because it is now that even each rivals in soccer agreed to get into the farming.
These days we can get other youths when we get in Dar es Salaam to be the Graduates.
I have written in Igunga, we have talks like there is a problem from foolish part in the middle and asked if it's like a lesson.
There are youths of joining other groups include Graduates as seen as the others coming from what is about agriculture so that people are easy to ensure that we are requesting the district to help many youths who want to get into agriculture why they do not want.
Then we are going to as the government.
Through the system like you, you can't get agricultural tools, you can't get the input so that they can be able to get into agriculture that we are in business and we are not to remain like one hundred thousand youth.
But all those we have been looking for that we have the young people when you go to the youth they go to me.
I am happy and that even here I have seen it is not happy to know who but some of you have seen they have been giving reasons to look for people?
There is no wonder, without Ramadhan he gets tractors from here at a little price.
At night, we were our participants like if we can be Chris Brown is like that Masser Ferguson.
And it does not have tractors in the country and they will go into the areas they will help to attract the youth to enter on investment in the country.
In order for short, we will make sure that the main committee put the environment that will enable Tanzanians to go for agriculture.
To be able to get land.
For you cannot get the input that you cannot get working tools in agriculture.
In the morning I was talking to some players, I told me that there is a lot of two sides like the ones like to come and make sure others get to bring in the machine for 'can't understand what they are impossible.
He added that one hundred and will not be able to ensure every person planned to protect yourself, we will arrive at the field so as to travel.
Instead of Turkey, what happens when I feel it is to use ARVs like what we know if it is self-reliance, since it's Entebe - the others can be.
And if it is a must that you like to talk about that problem here, here that others can't be taxed.
Now happens, I believe that you know the people of the way, when you go to Dar es Salaam, there should be a penalty or a long time and now we should have a short time of doing that activity.
But also if you have no reason that you know what you know is where to pass the budget they have done the way me, my thing that everything is wrong, you don't have a lesson.
You want to use the audience not to be remembered by more information, the late God rest them there are books that do not start blocking us as Tanzanians to get cooperation from our government themselves but also those who don't know what we can be able to help them?
But you must know that most of the people from inside the government have a new blogger.
Now, when I look at a price I think about another one, I was surprised by another advisers that when you see this issue coming from you, I believe that there are people want to do this time now the government can help them how to help them.
Now I was meeting with some people.
Even to get in business.
People they can use it as a person, but the food comes from what I was surprised and we believe that we are planning the embassy to be able to communicate with us.
To me in my ministry, we will not be able to look at anything that we are able to help them so that you be able to make sure that the Swahili people get the donations from Africa.
I don't have?
