Kikwete hurts me.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

President Jakaya Kikwete has put in the footsteps of his predecessor, President Benjamin Mkapa, who in power he had given a gift of the gold mine with his wife Anna Mkapa being given a knee injury to the gold mine of Geita Gold Mine, but now on his part, Kikwete has given his gold gifts to the concerned parties.
Mkapa once received that gift at the time of the launch of the gold mine of Geita, August, the year 2000, the mine that was in partnership that involved the Ashanti United Club of Ghana and South Africa Keke Letse Phoofolo, South Africa, and Kikwete has been forced to get a gift at the launch of Nyamkazi Primary School, in Geita City.
In a situation that shows the footsteps of his predecessor, the State House of Dar es Salaam, on Tuesday this week, gave out a report that Kikwete has given out a clean flour to 227 bags, he was given by Nyamkazi Primary School, by Nyamkazi Primary School, Geita Region.
However, Kikwete has returned their gold with special needs, he wanted to be used to help orphans.
"President Kikwete has given those instructions on Monday, November 11, 2013, after being handed the gold gifts during the celebration to launch the gold mine at the small town of Brenda Kharono where is where the new district headquarters of Nyan'hwale in Geita province.
"Mighty One, 227 which is equal to eight million shillings worth 16 million shillings at the modern price of the gold market in the world," explains the report from the State House.
What can I do with this gold?
It is said that after being given that gift, President Kikwete asked, "what should I do with this gift? I saw your gold, wherever you want to give them orphans."
Nyamgenda, who is a repeat mine, that produces gold due to Ebola was found in the year 2011 and until now, it has been directed to approximately 6 billion shillings in the improvement of that mine.
He is after Wagigi.
That decision by Kikwete to evade a gift, has only two years now, since the international communications network of communication has been awarded a gift that claims since he had given a gift of five billion, news that even so, they were aired by Director of Communication at State House in Dar es Salaam.
In his report, WLeyland type of the network did not think about the different types of nations and the famous leaders in the world who claimed to be the former President of the United Arab Emirates (United States) who is a citizen of United Arab Emirates (United Emirates), Ali Mtopa.
Those reports were claiming that Ambassador Ami er, gave those explanations in his talks with Lisa, who is the manager and director of the Kilimanjaro-Square Hotel in Dar es Salaam.
In order to answer those accusations, the information report on September 4, in the year 2011, explained that those information is not true, it's a rumor that aimed at hiding it and the name of the president.
"We would like to put it clear that there is no time when the president received a gift from Ali Mufuruki, the truth if there is evidence of this issue we would like to be informed in front of the public.
"It never happened anywhere, even when President Jakaya Kikwete, was the minister of foreign affairs or at the moment, as the president, he was transported with anyone to go to London and other areas in the world have been working and they are paid by the government of Tanzania.
The draft of the new constitution and a gift.

In the first phase of the new constitution that is currently being maintained in order to be written in the second phase, ethics of public leaders have been put forth, including the issue of being given a gift.
In the third chapter of that draft, it talks about ethics and lack of leadership and public service, while the first part in front of one of the leaders of the public leaders.
Article 15 (1), a gift in the public service explains that a gift or anything that will be given to the public servant in the government of the United Republic of Tanzania will be presented to the chief secretary general, through the ministry's secretary or government institutions involved in the first time, the type of gift.
Secondly, the value of the third gift is the reason for being given a gift by four, a person or the authority that gave the gift.
