
In the allegations of Mbowe, relocating the Hebdo magazine from Actor 'in Ackyshine.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), has talked to the allegations of false accusations made by some media houses against the chairman of the party, Freeman Mbowe to relocate money in the foreign accounts.

Speaking to journalists yesterday, the party's spokesperson, Tumaini Makene explained that there is no law that causes a person not using business and relocate its private money.

Mentioning those reports, he said that it is the importance of Jambo Leo ', Uhuru and citizens of Tanzania which he claimed to have the political interests because the news seems to have reduced by one editor because of lack of confirmation or evidence of the second side.

I am your fellow writer, I do not know this profession, if you read this news, you will see you by each other, a second until early, it was written by one journalist and to be distributed up according to all the three newspapers and the editors.

He said that the chairperson, is an international player who is doing his good business outside the country known as the Libeneke, said the newspapers are written in order to remove the citizens in a big agenda of the elections because the Revolutionary Party has sunk.

Yesterday the three newspapers have written that Freeman Mbowe is accused of insulting each other in order to remove Edward Lowassa as the presidential candidate of the party so as to try to do a transfer of billions of money in his account recently.

According to Uhuru, Jambo Leo said that it was a plot for Mbowe, to make his decision to put Lowassa to vie for the presidency without any person inside his party and in a short time, a decision that claimed to involve the party.

The newspapers in addition, explained that Mbowe gives us the money while the candidates through his party don't have money.

However, furthermore, he clarified that there is no parliamentary policy to use the money for a private person and its business for the purpose of helping candidates, but money that are available as a result of money is used for party activities and its accounts being known.
