
I have met with President Magufuli I will go to see four things.
Bakari Kiango, The Citizen of SALIA and Mzamiru Yassin.
Dar es Salaam City, the mayor of Dar es Salaam City, Isaya Mwita has said he met with President John Magufuli to fulfill four things that will help in the steps of the development of the nation.
Mwita has mentioned the things that it is a way to help the city of Dar es Salaam in urban planning, community services, the improvement of the old technical school and has ended with the system of tax payment.
The Mayor said that recently in the launch of a special interview with the Citizen that took place in his office here in the city.
He says that when he met with President Magufuli to advise that issue, through his foreign minister, so as to make sure that Dar es Salaam is being waited for skills and enable the community service to reach all citizens.
"The time you pass through some of the areas in this city, we will see that houses have been built without following a car, but if they ask those involved, we're following all the procedures of the construction of their houses.
You go to visit the cities like Nairobi (Kenya) and Kampala (Uganda), I will see the difference between us because it is being beaten as required, that is what I used to see in Dar es Salaam next year, "says Mwita, who is the councilor of Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).
Speaking about the issue of community services, Mwita says that they should also be able to improve the sector especially the interests of the teachers so that the education to succeed in well.
"Teachers hit the environment they will teach even if a difficult environment," says Mwita.
He also urged President Magufuli to make sure that the improving and be given to the old technical school similar to the others, so as to build better students when they complete their studies in those schools, which are currently being dealt with.
He added that if the system of tax payment has been submitted before the country and Dar es Salaam, in general it will go into step because some of the business people from neighboring countries will use the port of Dar es Salaam.
He says what's required is to eliminate the foundation stone on tax paying, because some of the business people have been using huge taxes, a situation that is causing to run another country for the purpose of passing their cargo.
"President Magufuli using the port of Dar es Salaam, as required Tanzania will take a lot of action, but by using those business people they sell," says Mwita.
March 22, this year Mwita was elected as the mayor of Dar es Salaam, after getting 84 votes against his opponent Yusuph Yenga (CCM), who got 67 votes.
Five important things we were sworn in Dar es Salaam City Mayor, Isaya Mwita has said that his administration will do five major things that will make the city to be among the cities in Africa.
Among those things is to start tourism of its kind, expanding the city, to set aside areas because of great shops, improving the education system and build a stable foundation of ensuring his citizens live in peace and calmness.
The 17 Mayor since 1949, says he will ensure he is cooperating with the government in power, together with various stakeholders so as to achieve his plans.
Speaking about tourism, Mwita says that through that sector, it will help to strengthen the local and foreign countries to enable them be stable the residents of its products that they will have 10 or buying of visitors.
"We are not happy to say big that I can't understand that, but these five have faith that it is the ability to make sure that through tourism is the period to welcome visitors from neighboring countries to visit this city.
Also, it is an opportunity for many people from different provinces to come out in Dar es Salaam, because of doing tourism it's not only these even from South Africa we will give you, "said Mwita.
He said that in his period he is supposed to move forward and reduce Dar es Salaam city and that he will deal with the government to wake up with the government as it depends on the city's office so as to remove the problem of people to get services in this office easily and to eliminate the foundation problem, "said Mwita.
He added that this is the right time for the city of Dar es Salaam to have great shops in different areas including the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), in order to promote the city.
"I have faith that you made this few things, I will be remembered that later my time you read for primary things that are in Dar es Salaam to make steps," says Mwita.
Regarding the issue of education, Mwita says he will have a special program to encourage and fight for the interests of the teachers of the province, so as to give the heart to teach students despite their environment being difficult for teaching.
"This thing that I will fight against them, to make sure that their interests continue to improve the delivery of jobs so as to give birth to President John Magufuli about this issue," says Mwita.
Mwita says that the issue of peace will fight without caring about the political parties because it is important and requested them that are in power to respect and allow democracy to take its course in helping them that are in their country.
"I'm in my heart, he found this matter and it is my big thirst to ensure Dar es Salaam and the nation in general, the ruling party in the future of the future generations," says Mwita.
Mwita says another thing in collaboration with private sectors have not been used to build the vehicle in vehicles outside the city, so as to remove the congestion of vehicles.
He says that in the short course of vehicles, there will be special procedure and they have been planned to ensure all those who will stop their vehicles in the concerned areas will be carried out by modern buses that will take place in the city.
"This issue will start with trials, then when we succeed it will be sustainable and I have planned to go around these areas to be, Mbezi, Gongo la Mboto and special areas," said Mwita.
He added that, in his five-year term, he will ensure he encourages citizens, close services to the office of paying tax instead of the residents of Dar es Salaam to follow the city.
He mentioned the citizens to pay taxes so as to be used in improving development issues for the development of the province of Dar es Salaam including improving infrastructure.
"I promise every year all the three councils, will be announcing the media to an extent that they had been directed to the sector where this is your right to know because the mosquito to know, even so, this will not be successful without the citizens to pay taxes in time."
Says Mwita.
