
Women play the minister for Simba and Kikwete on 29th May 2012.

While the union of women of the Revolutionary Party (UWT) in expected to get its new chairperson this week, it's there to be evidence of democracy that will enable the process of getting the chairperson, our salvation, it has revealed.
Among the things that came out is being mentioned by President Jakaya Kikwete to support one of the candidates vying for that position, the prime minister for good administration, Sophia Simba, claims that have already been unable to announce the top leadership of CCM who are not treated.
Together with being the minister of state in the office of the president, Sophia Simba is the member of parliament for being appointed by the president, a position that is interpreted as a result of her close to the chairman of the party, President Kikwete.
Apart from being mentioned to President Kikwete, who is the guest of honor at the UWT meeting today Wednesday, allegations of bribery and will be playing for candidates are investigating in the elections of that community with power inside the ruling party.
Some of the aides have reached an action of spreading information through mobile phones, some of the delegates using a disease with one of the candidates as a reason for wanting him to hold that position as the leadership of UWT, Mrs. Bina Kahama and Joyce Masunga.
The candidates through their aides are alleged to make the course of democracy of those times being elected to inherit the chairperson of his term, Anna Abdallah.
It is alleged that some of the participants of the campaigns of those candidates were forced to travel with some of the members heading to Dodoma in what they believe was the importance of electing the candidate of the group that are supporting them.
Members who ran away with the aides of those candidates are together with them from some of the provinces of the Lake Region.
Other delegates from South provinces found themselves being blocked for some time in Dar es Salaam city in what which can be confirmed to be 'put it same as "some of the delegates have not found themselves forms for accommodation services in Dar es Salaam city, before heading to Dodoma town to vote.
More investigation has revealed that those delegates have been active in collaboration so as to be given bribes by the aides of those candidates.
News from Dodoma town say that the aides are some of the candidates arrived in that town several days, some of the candidates arrived in that town several days to receive the delegates' votes.
But when the aides were arrived in Dodoma before the arrival, their competitors were forced to travel up to the provinces where those members come from them to Dodoma.
The peak of that election was not been reached when the candidates Sophia Mjema, and the nominated member of parliament, Janet Kahama in a tension with-finals.
There is a result of complaints from every part in relation to a series of shame, and more than Janet Kahama camp and the one for the minister, Simba.
Janet Kahama as it is in Joyce Masunga is the nominated members of parliament for special seats and the truth is that the process of getting the members of parliament of that kind involve the competition among them being voted for by special delegates in provinces where he will organize.
However, the claims that Minister Simba has been sent by CCM Chairman, President Kikwete to contest for that position have been signed.
Those allegations are not the first time to be mentioned, they have ever come out in the race for top leaders of the Union of Youth of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM).
Several times, President Kikwete has heard about those allegations but when the Minister Simba was in that environment, the candidate Janet Kahama was alleged to be supported by the chairperson of his term, Anna Abdallah.
It has not been known that, Anna Abdallah asked him to support the candidate, but it is possible for his faith that the mother who followed him for three years (Anna), he will be able to lead that union with more productivity.
Despite the presence of those allegations, Anna Abdallah has never been heard in public with a bang, but also there is no evidence that prove that he threw with Janet Kahama.
While those candidates were with that environment, another candidate Joyce Masunga is reported to have a veteran that he supports.
Some of the delegates of UWT claim that she is backed by the secretary general of CCM, Yusuf Makamba.
Different from those two colleagues, Masunga has been running the campaigns for being silent, and to other politicians who were able to be used for the campaigns of that candidate that can destroy the campaigns.
Anna Abdallah is retiring from power after leading the UWT in 14 years.
He entered into power in the year 1994, taking the position that was left open by Sophia Mjema, who died.
According to research analysis of political issues, if one of Sophia or Kahama will win the seat, his leadership may be faced with other challenges inside that union.
There is a big possibility that those challenges are being controlled by a great group that will not be able to confirm that it was a mistake to the party being elected as a result of the poor ability.
The situation is predicted because the call of breaking groups inside CCM has been keen, despite the call was given by top leaders, including the national chairperson, President Kikwete.
The position of the chairmanship of UWT as it is in other community of that party, has the only importance due to a result of the one being used to enter the position directly at the executive committee and the executive committee.
As a member of the executive committee of CCM last year heading to the general elections of the year 2010, there is a great importance, not only to the concerned member but also to other politicians including candidates for political parties including the presidency and parliament.
It is for the purpose of many politicians who have handed over their homes in the UWT elections, as it appears to participate in the Youth Union (UVCCM) which had a lot of challenges including groups inside the ruling party.
The election will be held by the National Executive Council of UWT which was held on Tuesday, this week.
Among the things that were released at that meeting of the executive council is together with the report of the performance of that union in the past period.
