Somanda Hospital has started to be unable to stop eating foods to their fellow citizens after several decades ago in the country.
A new plan which is funded by the European Union in Australia and two food departments of African countries.
It has helped the Somalia farmers to get great success in the country's area that was affected by approximately three years ago.
In the meeting of collecting together sponsors on Thursday six thousand, ten thousand, announced that farmers from the southern regions have reduced the Somalia army to buy two hundred tons of maize that is also spread in some of the areas that have a shortage of food.
He complained to the representative of the benefit from Somalia, he says that however, those drugs have been made to ask for our journey, by explaining something in the number of candidates to Manji in the country.
Play the headquarters.
Then, education and all the knowledge of the ability.
They can be able to meet the standards of the next week it started.
To buy food to the eyes of money.
.
We ask you to know that in the world all of us was there and there was bad.
To be able to produce according to the international standards really needed.
The community can grow especially in the south areas between Somalia and the whole country for two sides has been destroyed badly due to the war and going to time to time.
This led to the poor.
Two thousand only one year and one of the nations announced that this year four million people in Somalia are faced with hunger due to a bad drought.
And therefore, in order to help change that situation, farmers have been helped through the project that has received training on various agricultural activities so as to meet the international standards in Somalia, Ahmed Mohammed has said to revive the sector is important in efforts with the aim of improving the economy in general.
Wealth of the ball.
The name was.
In the world.
This bridge is twenty years of conflict in Somalia.
What is the readers in farming and it is big.
Therefore the farmers between them in our production now be the agricultural sector.
That is an issue of producing farming products and they should not involve each other and a full economy, they will be able to contribute to reasons.
Through the net.
Order to listen to school country to continue providing special support together with a series of rain in many areas in Somalia has reduced the number of people being faced with a huge shortage of food in the whole country, small-scale farmers are required to have a huge shortage of large numbers in the whole region.
The word of I do not depend on our culture by full story, this is saying that they are happy that the big part of the maize will arrive not to be wealth from outside the country and therefore they will be providing maize to Somalia and even South Africa.
There is a lot of peace now in a large area in Somalia and agreed that the statistics of production in Somalia will produce 50 percent of the needs.
Right is going on together with Zitto Kabwe, look for ways to strengthen the project to ensure small-scale farmers have a good opportunity to arrive at the agricultural markets and be competitors in the agricultural and international business and be competitors in the food and international business.
