
Officials in the Ministry of Agriculture, "farmers, Coast Sei 14, 2012

The big conflict is the wall between farmers of farmers in the Coastal Region and the government, after one foreign company, recently released a memorandum of buying farmers from those farmers to fail to implement the agreement of that contract with that company has been unable to buy thousands of fishermen tons of those farmers.
Up to the end of last week, 8,477,433,9034 tons had been presented to the five warehouses of the ITCA International, Mbagala area in Dar es Salaam city and another story which is in Tabata town in the city.
The reports discussed in the newspaper of Good Citizen and later confirmed to be the acting manager of cooperatives, Coast Province, Adam Lukaya, said that those elephants are worth approximately 25 billion shillings, are in danger of getting married because of going for a long time in those warehouses.
On another part, the information also noted that the event started after the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, came into a contract with Pindani Nyalile (Pan African Organization) in America, which is in his reception area shows a town of Santa Monica, so as to buy licenses for farmers in the Coastal Region.
The elephants have been thrown out by the Coastal Union of the Coast Province (COMING), which it had bought farmers through 88 primary parties that are in the district of that province which are Kibaha, Kisarawe, Bagamoyo, Rufiji and Mkuranga.
The reports have shown that the contract between COMING, doesn't understand the contract between the COMING, Loretta Lynch to get his copy that was signed on May 6th, this year, while the company was represented by its president, Mark Marusu.
The reports indicate that the contract with law professionals was called so cunning, they were chosen by the lawyers of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives and COMING, whom they were involved in the signing of the signing.
The weaknesses of that agreement is in several sections including the section of 10 (a) that explains that the sales person will be responsible to make sure that the transportation in its cost amounts to farmers from the warehouses is the buyer.
In that section, it's true that COMING, could not be forced to enter the cost of transporting passenger cargo that brought down and Pindani Nyalile in the morning.
Moreover, other factors that are mentioned in that agreement is the section that explains that the sales person (COMING) will pay all the costs of air crafts so as to reduce further the scope of benefits to that party and also being faced with several challenges, including debts.
Also, the contract was not home as the buyer of any way if he will be unable to buy those elephants and steps that were taken against the side that will break the contract as section 14 and 16 directs.
That agreement now is mentioned as the cause of Pindani Nyalile in the mountain to be responsible to buy food against the agreements that are in the contract because there was no section that was responsible to the company to be responsible in any way if they could be used to buy bed sheets for farmers.
Moreover, there is claims that the allegations were not confirmed to be, some of the officers from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives and the private interests in the company and the step of being given a bond of buying fish, farmers had blood from those officers.
"After the signing of the agreements for all the concerned sides, Publisher Company that was given a time to prepare to buy fuel but the surprising thing until June this year, they did not do that," explained our news source from the Ministry of Agriculture.
According to our news source, when COMING, waiting for answers of the purchase of farmers, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, Geofrey Kiruswa has praised the acting manager of COMING, emphasizing that the company has been involved in the process of testing.
That letter was written on June 28, this year with a total number of North B / 03 / 08 / 09 / or be easily read, "the ministry has been informed by the management of Pambani County, with the aim of fulfilling the needs of their market (its customer)."
As a result of that situation, our news source has said that the letter was very worried that Pindani Nyalile and another customer who have managed to sell fish by another customer who have managed to sell fish by another customer who have already benefited from the crime and to inspect farmers to know the capacity to identify farmers in bridges.
In that test, 3,31949 were closed down which the Publisher Company (the buyer) was able to buy fuel at a low price of 600 million shillings per one hour and they agree on the purchase of 1 million American dollars (more than 1600 shillings).
"District political parties have bought animals at a price of 1,200 shillings for one kilogram in the price that was given by PN. a bus did not reach even a half of the price to buy and those parties could not get a great loss," he explains our news reporter.
The writer of this news spoke with farmer Abubakar Saro, a resident of Mwandoya Village, Mkuranga District, who explained that many farmers are still waiting for the second payment of illegal immigrants.
"We have already paid the farmers for the year 2012 / 13, already it has already been paid the remains of our money, this situation is not good to bring a huge conflict between farmers and the government," said the farmer.
He gave an advice to the government to intervene in the issue and if possible they give out money to cater for COS LEAGUE and other primary parties so that the debts of financial institutions together with their interest were taken quickly.
Speaking about that scandal, the Acting General Manager of COMING, Adam Lukaya, confirmed that it is true that the party has gone down to sell farmers of farmers after being operated on corruption by Pindani Nyalile in the Cemetery.
"It is true that for now we have no way, we agree with the contract and Pickup, but up to now, there is no one who came to buy farmers and many farmers are still claiming from 30 percent of their final payments," said Lukaya.
He said that his party is in one of the hard time in its history because they are alleged to have several financial institutions that were given money during the purchase of farmers and those funds were used to pay for the first phase.
"The interest on loans from the financial institutions continues to rise in every day and also cost of preventing farmers in the warehouses is not allowed to pay," explained the acting manager.
That manager explained that even so, the decision by the officers from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives and give the work of the purchase of Publisher Company, the vehicle had a good intention after the cashew market for the year 2011 / 2012 collapsed.
He said previously, they sell farmers on the payment system and at the first auction they bought one kilogram of 1,820 shillings and the second auction were selling them in that price but after being approved for two fees, there are many buyers to come out.
Therefore, the government allowed me in search for the Zika virus so that they can sell the farmers but by bad luck the buyer who died is not faithful so that we can be able to blame the government, "he said.
On his part, the Provincial Commissioner of Coast, Mwantumu Mahiza was already found so as to talk about that issue, every time he was given his mobile phone was closed down.
Our reporter also communicate through the email support by Pindani Nyalile in order to know the reasons for them being unable to implement the agreement which they got in the COMING, but until they're going against them, there are no boundaries for questions that they were asked.
Earlier on April 24th, this year, wildlife farmers in Tandahimba in Mtwara province did a lot of violence including closing the school and inspected the police station and beating the police considering the government to pay their second payments for the sales of their crops.
Those farmers also decided to be beaten in secondary and primary schools in Mihande secondary school and handed 12 strokes, before signing a small police station in that village and he went to witness the two police who were in that station.
