Bakhresa and Mo Dewji is more than gold.
On the 25th October, 2015.

Tanzania has bought a lot of foreign funds through two business people, "said Bakhresa and Mohamed Dewji more that Tanzania has planned to run through gold from outside the country, has been known.
The Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndullu said that in Dar es Salaam city the day before yesterday on Monday that the amount of foreign funds that were affected by the gold mines has gone down in the last year.
In his topic called Ambassador Seif Hance, (transmitter), the important changes to the economy of the economy, Professor Baregu said that when a few years ago it was leading by bringing a lot of foreign funds, right now it is used by the tourism and industries sector (production).
In accordance to the collection of revenue, tourism brought in two billion dollars, 1 billion shillings (5 trillion shillings (5 trillion shillings) and the transportation sector especially the port caused a lot of 800 million dollars.
According to the OGP plan, the port doesn't have a lot of foreign funds more than the agricultural sector which are the back to the nation.
"Boznia will depend on agriculture to remove poverty since the importance of agriculture in collecting foreign funds seems to have reduced because of agricultural contribution at the National Identification Authority was 30 percent in the year 1998 in 2013 the year 2013 was 21 percent.
However, it is the first to continue investing in agriculture so as to reduce the difference of income among the citizens, because agriculture is self-70 percent of the citizens, "said Chissenga in the economic meeting that took place in Dar es Salaam.
Agriculture is seen not to do well in the recent years, because the OGP report has shown a drop in foreign money that is caused by the produce of natural resources like the cotton and coffee at value and fish only is the ones that seemed to go.
Gold prices has dropped from the world market and according to Professor Ndullu said that it can be one reason of the drop in foreign revenue for that product.
According to the topic of protocol, those foreign funds that enter Tanzania arose from the sales of products such as vegetables and maize flour, cement, cement, flour, wheat flour and maize flour together.
Many of those products are constructed in the country in the country in the industries that is owned by two business people in the country, Mohamed Enterprises of Dewji and those of Azam are under Bakhresa Business Exhibition.
The rich one model number one in Africa, Amitabh Bachchan has said that in the production of cement, you can increase more income in that sector and foreign funds.
Although the topic of Professor Shumbusho did not mention the division of that amount of 25 trillion shillings, reports of the previous years of BoT has mentioned the companies of Bakhresa and MeTL Group as leaders of production in the country.
In the recent reports of publications for international relations like the Forbes magazine, the names of Bakhresa and Dewji have been mentioned as among the most rich people.
