

Mark Bomani has passed with his partner.
And Joseph Mungai.
In the past that people are supposed to look for the same way including surgery, the dough nuts and health effects, there is a way that is believed more affordable from its availability, cost and effects, which however not many with the courage to use it.
Well, it's not many with enough courage and drinking their urine, despite that they can make sure they want small businesses even 10 years from their age.
But the old man of 91 years, Mark Bomani has claimed that the courage and he is insisting that this water from the body of a human being is the key to its appearance of the same kind with his own style of him.
She has passed, who lives with his 87 years partner, Joyce Fissoo, south of Spain, does not slap him every day.
Also it is also used to put aside the injuries he believes that the process of buying.
The user has told the Maasais' newspaper, "Joyce has and me all, we have great health problems that are supposed to be dealt with.
"I feared being married and my colleague is faced with muscle pains, what does not affect and other normal pain related to old.
Even so, we are running a life of dancing and friends, they are saying that I am seen as a difference with the size of my age, and my running mate seems to have electricity known to 65-70 years, "he says.
Former managing director of outreach, says, "let me feel you are saying, I believe it is a full treatment, that I started using it three years ago and that is the source of my own kind."
The user was claimed that he found himself getting in what he termed as the source of the same same as possible when he was looking for his pain and back on the internet.
He explains that "I had already started a three operation including being trapped in America and Spain, while experts were admitted to lack of alternative ways to help killing his pain.
"When I don't have a lot of lost, I believe I have been unable to try to help me get better life for my remaining years."
He started by an indication of praising what he needs to do, but he did not get anything to help him.
But in the end, I met with the surprise of urine in treating various diseases.
Due to that reason, the user was not only in the world of people who believe and use that treatment, which is there since the Kibiga.
Historical documents show that urine is clean, while dancing, with benefits being explained to the rules of many of India and China.
According to scientists, urine is a mixture of 95 percent of water and five percent of the minerals that arise from the food metabolism in the body.
Those minerals include, vinyl chloride, Songea as well as urologists.
After eating that saga is done, water together with the remains that brought down the bladder while being transported with the bladder.
