Since I was called Jane Matinde.
The Deputy Chairperson of Simba Club Godfrey Nyange has gone to say that if it would have been only down and we are supposed to perform well in the African premier league season since he launched a new branch with the soccer club known by the nation of Dar es Salaam to know how they are playing.
A national person in the city of Dar es Salaam city is in the new branch of owning a known as football and development.
The Deputy Chairperson of the phone, Geoffrey Nyange has said that he was the guest of honor at the opening and here with people of Simba SC all over the country about developing unity and solidarity.
And members of people are saying Simba are from the same way from Dar es Salaam.
Late Diamond Platinumz.
When it is done by many people in the country together with foreign countries, I know that I am happy to see what I arrived in this step is due to a big number of solidarity.
Together with unity.
Therefore, I believe that having that party they did not understand that, it will be his responsibility to a member.
Simba did not state in a conflict to talk about maggots or fight or insults cannot know that Simba is before a habit of peace and that all members together are supposed to get the constitution.
Because it is organizing the eyes of Simba first with a constitution and not to get.
On the side of members.
Simba's football and development treasurer is not in February pregnant and Jackson Mayanja, are explaining the aim of starting that branch, the aim of starting that branch, I have to have a voice of work.
However, there is no problem that is related to maybe by our team we can see himself.
Therefore, our leaders as a branch according to the constitution Simba that if we call him, he would like the leader they can listen or give advice what should be done so that we can move forward.
And Yanga's first club to make sure that we pray for our brain and we are participating in the international tournament.
It is not the first priority.
I will do not Ras Makunja is not in the blood of the corruption, therefore we will use that opportunity to encourage the players and leaders by checking their songs and gifts as possible for people to know that they are required to work for them.
We shouldn't know where he had died, it was only a shame.
At the same time, the deputy chairperson of Simba, Geoffrey Nyange has explained that it's why the leadership of that club of power you know his thing, Moses then again the team and the club is lack of certificates.
Ras Kiduku was not known that Barcelona is not saying that Barcelona is not there and he had already paid it during the time of the coach.
He was told to bring out his seats and so it's not only the requirements of the money because this do not work hard to be and later on you.
Who will get this time I will do the work with that performance with the same time, that is why he could destroy the song as we saw that we were able to get problems with the government at the way we are going on well.
Our and then for all these hours that is needed will be held before.
Welcome him to sign his condolences to the father who gave him a report about Dar es Salaam.
And he has already started yesterday, maybe it gets into the technical bench by sending away its coach who is swelled by her new coach of France who will be assisted by two coaches then again with the Jamhuri Kiwhelo Julio.
The place of messengers?
The day before yesterday.
