
Agriculture and the fate of the economy of Tanzania Viate on May 30th, 2012, this areas will be the conclusion of article that started in this newspaper since December 3, 2008, but after the conclusion, I will continue to answer the issues concerning a large extent that I have promised in the past part.
In this article, I have tried to put into the challenges facing the agricultural sector, they believe that we have been involved in our activities of removing poverty and end at the process of doing things.
If you wait for Maxwell, the people who look for analysts have not noticed, the plans to promote agriculture in this country is not of removing the poor when he is and took him to front, but he aims at doing an poor life and he has been forced to go down while waiting for other plans to promote the economy.
The one who depends on that view should be able to explain why after almost 50 years of using billions of money to promote the country, Tanzania has never been from 20 countries that are more poor in the world.
The country was done in the same level of economic development, especially the south of Asia and Literature in America, have reduced it economically and I believe that our poverty is capital to some people and especially some of the leaders and sponsors of us.
I ask you are many citizens of the Western nations, have been employed in one way or another in that is called the program and projects of removing poverty in these nations, we should understand that if this poverty we have been forced to instill fear from what they have been given by donors.
I believe if we continue with how we are doing our plans for development of the country, it does not mean that we will not continue, but we will do a lot of time to reach the highest level, but that is not why we want to see development that have been found to see development.
Our colleagues in western countries have been late to continue because they were not involved, they don't know what they don't know, but we know everything that will be identifying our country is supposed to be called economically.
Therefore, the statements that are given that we should be worried because even the western countries were late continuing to give them poor hope to continue using their poor condition.
For sure I have talked about many issues but the foundation is that all the efforts to remove poverty in this country which will not be able to put aside money in the poor households that will not be able to give birth to the intended purposes of billions that will be used or not the primary changes to the poor.
Those achievements we will help in statistics that do not affect the real situation in the community.
If you will be told, the inflation has gone down but the close prices of everything has lost in this period is for slavery.
I has insisted that the responsibility of the government in the process of improving the country has warned that the concept of the government to release a private sector to decide the direction of the private sector and especially in poor countries where private sector has not completed, it will not improve this country very fast we want to live with us.
The government is supposed to take the responsibility of looking for its way itself to promote the country, to wait and continue with the trend in future plans, they will not be possible.

There are people who have contested for thinking about thinking that are supposed to claim that agriculture development in the country have been unable to change the modern farming because I don't believe that, it is an issue of huge strategies such as I didn't understand that, it is an issue of severe pains.

Maybe it is true that your farmers and their culture are not for development, but I believe that as a leader, you know his people with their behavior, can make them get great changes in the country but because it is a must to get great changes in the country but because it is a must to get great changes in the country but because it is a must to get great changes in the country.

In the sixth part of this article it has condemned the issues that the strategies of developing agriculture is to provide a solution to the whole country, I visited the issue of increasing income of the many citizens, and that is the purpose of increasing the income of the many citizens, and that is the main criterion for developing the economy of the country, and that is the main criteria for developing the economy of the country.

Our leaders believe that more better ways is to attract investors to build the industries and employ a lot of people who will get salaries and so as to employ themselves as it is why the government is ready to forgive him taxes and allow them to allow them in our country.

It is good to understand that all business people in the world do not put their capital part of getting benefits, that is part of the reliable market, so that the market should have the ability to pay (EFD), and to have the ability to pay (VAT).
That makes it so that when you use the market that it will be complete and it does not be able to attract any business person, but even if we put it well, it will be difficult for investors to bring capital here, maybe if they get capital, we will take capital, that is where there is a lot of customers.

By concentrating on the information on the private, I was led by the head of an economist, John Mayomba, I believe that alternative ways of developing the economy is to have great plans that was founded by putting money in the poor households, that caused investors to come out and therefore industries will be built by the economy will be built by the economy.

And that is the main aim of the plan to unite farmers and markets, especially the huge explosion that I explained to in the past part of the program, together with other things, it aims to increase the income of the many poor.
If the poor income will increase, the use of a total of economic growth (SMS) will increase, something that will stimulate the growth of the economy.
Previously I mentioned you very much about how to give them the income you will be able to increase the speed of growth of the economy, here I request me to succeed more.

In normal state, poor poor and lack of many important things in life which he is required or desires to be with him, he would like to sell the children living in her family and to have equipment like radio, bicycle, houses, houses and seats.
Many types of things in this world missed their daily lives and therefore if the poor income will increase, a big part of the increase will increase.

This situation is different and if the increase of income would have been used to those who have already have financial ability, because these are a big part of the increase of income which will not be used immediately, instead, some of the income have been affected and therefore we shall be used but the ones that have been mentioned above.

On that logic, we can realize that if the country has many poor households that they can be used as capital to improve the economy. What is required is to create a way of giving them poor money, not as a gift but at a special program that I have explained in this article.

Many countries have used this concept and protect their economy and move forward.
Examples is obvious that let me start by giving an example of Germany in the administration of Adolf Rutayuga has said that this leader entered into power during the light of the world's economy (CCM).
He used a bad state of economy to convince the youth to vote and be able to resolve the state of economy that was called esa Ward, he promised that he had brought employment and that he would make the economy.

He decided that the quick way is to build a road as possible by using the roads as wrong, although he had a war goal later, he had money to the road infrastructure and the fact that the roads were built from the south and east to west.
The main aim was to give the money that is accompanied by the boundaries because using this money they started buying different things and the economy was removed and therefore growing the economy and the roads we see America and other parts of the World Cup.

Another recent example is to be defeated in the house of houses in America where it has brought to Nakalega.
In order to deal with this situation, China has decided to give 600 billion US dollars to the construction of roads and bridges and the aim is to give them money so that they can be able to use the economy, it will also contribute to the growth of the economy later.

To say that in order to revive the economy of their country, it has dropped from America, United States and other African countries have decided to use the Social Security Fund (Social Action Fund) in order to use money in poor households so that they can be able to use the economy.
For example, they have decided to start or put payments to the ones that do not have work (to the picture), payments for children (and child), the good pension fund for the elderly, provide grants to various services, and to remove poor taxes, they know that giving them poor money is the right way to revive the economy.

They can be able to engage in their environment and in our environment, we can give them the money by using a huge explosion.
Let it mean that the program will be more better than some of the strategies used by the Western nations to distribute money to its citizens through the social security system, payments that are not in peace and work.
The huge explosion I have proposed that you will partner with working in large numbers, not for free that will happen, we have banned many planes for one stone of hunger and that this country will remain in history.
I give a challenge to our leaders to try that idea for the benefit of this country, so that our correspondent can be able to prove that the shoulder what your grandfather was dain.
