
How business people understand.
Various businessmen use this Christmas season to get great benefits to a level which is difficult to get another time in the middle of the year.
An expert in economic issues Mister Kariakoo Clrnellius serving business people who use abusive language that enables many buyers to buy a big amount of products in a short period.
According to Mister Onesimus Laizer, this situation is beneficial to the professionals and losses to both buyers, although many buyers are unable to identify those.
One of the stem cells are a lot of knowledge about the ones that are usually paid through prices of products and given out to the gifts to the ones that buy products that will cost a certain amount of money.
"If you follow it well, let you follow it well, you can talk about 45 days from now, you will get the price of products that and Valentine from the moment we are told to arrive at the price especially the vehicles will be stopped but you will hear of the spread of the price at that time," he said in an interview with the nation, "he said in an interview with the nation today.
Listen to me, the price is reduced, it's only for a few products and many buyers are not ready to inspect how many other products that they buy is paid in the price.
At other times, the customer can see the announcement of products that are usually paid prices, but you missed in that shop and will be forced to buy another product that is not among the ones that are reduced.
Mister Martini has said that a lot of people visiting these sales ways are of high income which are not common to buy products in the middle of the year 2015 with low income and food has risen up so that there are many customers who have no ability to cater for the new vehicles.
"There are many citizens who usually have a must to buy new vehicles this season, but they don't have the ability to cater for the same shop's estate. This is our benefits because it needs to buy second-hand," he said.
This situation is same as it is in the business of selling food like chicken, goats, and fruits.
Transport services are also known to be very expensive during this season.
Mister Coutts says this results from the business people do not know there are a big number of citizens who have devised ways of buying new equipment, to cook different types of food and travel during Christmas season.
"It is needed people to be participating in mature and how many years is not supposed to be for those things that do the old people are still doing until today during the celebrations.
For example, it is not a must that transport can be in celebrating, "he said.
After the celebrations of the celebrations, there will be a difficult time to cater for their needs in the beginning of the next year.
