In that school we have learned from the different songs to be avoided, I hope that we believe in I can do one time, which is to make sure it's not a must for the fund that is called mobile phone.
Razkazon, which we can make themselves as students and also to community members, it's not true before the start of making it, we will begin to look for them as a person.
Kibondo?
After that.
I will go.
I will come up to date, we come up until now, we should be in the opening of the sitting room, you will take it to you, then I'm good, then I'm good, and take it to God, at the middle.
It was it.
The first list to make sure we have been, we have we have a lot of love so that if we can be able to increase easily and that I will take a place so that I will take a place so that he can come out.
Maybe that, it is looking for a foolish thing that we have been asked here at the center to sit down here in the country, it is still a good thing that we have changed and we are not aware that we have changed the income that we have changed until when we come to the end up and after that, there is no income that they have changed until when it started to date.
Therefore, it will reduce the whole issue to help that I have given the name my name and Marco I use when I come from me but now we request we have already been done and there will be no longer.
One clapping is thinking of making us to make sure that it is spreading up to each other and all other places have been putting up by soil after there is no soil.
Her sister's sister so as to see that we have risen up water at the same time, they will be careful not to give you a chance because it was at the same time, it was a penalty that has already reduced after spreading water after that.
What is it?
We did not want to move forward to our.
How do we have?
You can't pay taxes, has started not having their actions, which if you go through right you're getting rid of different types such as required, why the commission that it is God and after failing to take place well, maybe I have gone to you, we have managed to increase the ones that are there.
Pamba on the right so that it's not allowed to sell these things, follow the hospital and that there is no action after it was revealed that, after being given all those buildings, but one of the soap will not be availed to you even some of them.
That even if it is like the tomatoes, we will finish talking in the evening or other things are together but rather than one of the worship for one day, where in that, after falling off.
Similarly, they did not come up vegetables because of drinking alcohol into three ways.
In everything that is mature well, he has not yet managed to help them in great language.
Full story, after he was told to put aside a prayer if you've been unable to send himself as they did not see if I was there.
For the purpose of building the first half, in collaboration with our colleagues, we will partner with many people and even we ask you to see that this situation will not be ready to see the situation like this and they are not ready to see that this situation will be very successful.
I thank you who used small girls to show what they used for agriculture.
However, the young people are good and they are involved in agriculture, the mother will be very good in the first life in the first life.
Likewise, he disappeared from all community members also because he had already confirmed that, it is an incident.
How do you know that you need to me.
Making it a scandal.
And here we are at the Indian Ocean.
You want to come out of vegetables.
We are following more stories.
What is it?
To build our home, we can also give income to the family for example, in the streets it's not a very fast rate that he did not get a chance in numbers.
This means that they have been made if it's not true that the part of this place like houses that are not part of the houses that do not have part, it's not a must for her home, when you get ideas.
