President Jakaya Kikwete opening the annual meeting of East Africa Bank is happening in Dar es Salaam city and called on that the participants of the general meeting and put better strategies to deal with various economic problems including the availability of prices together with the deterioration of the tourism sector that has said it will help to come out of poverty.
Some of the meeting is in line with the participants looking for you to be.
Which he has explained the improvement in his security situation in his country that will enable them to return to the headquarters of the late father.
More information and more.
The opening of the annual meeting of African Development Bank, where President Jakaya Kikwete will be the guest of honor at the opening.
In his speech at the opening of that meeting, President Kikwete has said that for Africa to avoid the economy, the concerned countries are supposed to use its resources fully in the agricultural sector and the agricultural sector, an issue that will help to reduce poverty.
Likewise, President Kikwete has shown his worried about the danger of the second phase of the whole issue.
I think about four years ago, being able to be so Foolish Age.
In the first game of the world.
African countries did not get effects.
As a result of that the result of the officer was to be used to save in entrepreneurship in the world economy is how many effects were affected by different nations.
But for now in the second phase of the economy.
I don't know the journey it will be in the economy of Africa.
Maggid Mjengwa, it is a offense and it is a must for the European Union.
Previously, while speaking in a meeting of Neglected Diseases, Ivory Coast has said the state of security in its country is continuing to improve on the day and that development plans are ongoing.
Which is the length of six side, I would like to explain that the non-governmental institutions have been made and started working in the country.
The union of the union has been made with the work of Maalim Seif.
The general elections that took place in December, two and ten thousand in the month of February this year.
When the clothes we say together?
The Ambassador Seif Sharif Hamad, the president of the incident, has issued an assurance of peace with these security members in his country at the time when the bank's headquarters are expected to take place in Abidjan City, we are expected to go back to Abidjan City, where we are believed to have been moved for a long time.
