
The health of Lowassa takes a debate on the 25th minute, 2012

The health of the former prime minister, who is currently the member of parliament of Monduli, and the chairperson of the committee on foreign affairs, defense, and security, Edward Lowassa, has brought a lot of discussion in various areas in the country, including on various social networks.
That debate has been looking for time to time, in social media, to a point of forced him to talk time, Edward Lowassa, to talk about his health claiming that he is safe, a statement he insisted with our writer, yesterday, Tuesday.
On the 15th of March, this year, Lowassa got to talk about his health on his way back to Germany where he was being treated for his eyes.
"I am surprised a stroke as it was reported, that is a surprise of him, as you see my health is good and I'm in the fight," said Lowassa in his talks with the press in March 15.
When he was asked yesterday about his health and especially after the presence of a report that at the end of last week, he was forced to get an emergency medical camp, Lowassa said that if I am safe and continue with my work as usual, some of the health activities in order to use its health care.
Lowassa himself despite not suffering a stroke as claimed that in various social media in the country, she deserves to be in the eyes treatment.
In talking about the eyes problem, Lowassa got an interview with his doctor saying that, my doctor has told the eye on well and I do not have any problem, but I was also there here (Germany), when I met my health at large, I don't have HIV or diabetes. "
For a long time now, especially several years later, after resigning from the prime minister, Lowassa has been on the lack of good health.
Lowassa is one of the leaders who their health center for now have been using debate in the community. Another leader who at different times his health has been using the debate is the minister of state, office of the president (special seats), Professor Mark Mwandoya Village, who is also reported saying his health is good.
