
Separation of the body of Black Americans.
They are in a black bikini that was written by ODM Party, earlier this year when those national doctors came out where the violence played at the Kasanga hall, Nairobi.
The violence erupted in a short time after the signing of a special member of parliament to have a special member of parliament who had reduced the high table that he didn't have to be in front of elections.
That member of parliament said his name was supposed to be six during the closing of elections but was removed by his position being taken by Peter Mkaidi without a special reason to be informed or not to be informed.
He was vying for that position as the deputy secretary general in the camp of member of parliament, Felican Mkude, (now the secretary general) who was vying for the presidential seat for the national secretary general.
He claimed that there was a conspiracy by MC Pilipili showing the importation, saying that the election board in ODM Party, Raila Odinga attacked them to attend to his home.
By suddenly, you shouldn't jump, if it comes out of people (hooligans), who were in a black suit and what they had started doing a black suit and they did not affect the registration of the votes while getting down the table and when they do not affect the other organs of the elections.
The delegates who had voted for and wait for their vote of voting they were forced to do, while others find themselves from their seats and the seats that were being thrown out by those men with albinism.
The free cinema happened in front of Mister Odinga with other visitors who were invited including his fellow chief in Correa scored, Mister Kalalami.
Former secretary and former chairperson, Aaron Nanyaro, and Henry Massao did not wait and even heading to the situation but they were unsuccessful, the situation led to Professor Nyong'o to announce that he was satisfied with that exercise.
Several minutes before Mwaura listening to his home, the Member of Parliament for Donde Village, at the northern region, Simba Arnautovic and that he was given a chance to prevent it.
Mister Arnautovic who is the close participants of Mister Odinga was vying for the position of the leader of the party against Mister Odinga, a situation that seemed not to please some of the big followers of that leader, the former prime minister.
To be remembered by Arnautovic and the situation was not well in that activity and the fate would have given all those who had been thought, they have left the left wing, it was seen to go on with Mister Odinga.
