
It does not allow me to support good deeds.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
That plans to put effort has been revealed that every time the age of 15 years of the age of 15 are participating in the soccer competitions.
It appears to be a team that lack, very keenly to land in the final stage in any other competitions, more that the recent games that are being played in Mombasa, Mombasa, where it finished second.
The manager and the chief supervisor of that team, Bakar Omar Batuli who in the past was a good player of the attacker of Al-glutamine and Lamu Island, he believes that his boys are doing well because of his plans to support good leaders of that club.
"We have been with youth teams of different age and one of them is one of the club's good and youth who are doing well all times because the leadership of the club is good and youths who follow up well because his youth were given his training and especially in completing the competition with great discipline.
I believe they continue recently, they will be big names because the first important thing is to ensure that player is maintaining discipline while in the field and even out of how he lives home, "said Nasima.
The squad of those youths who participated in the "Back Our Secondary School," Cup, and finished in the second position is Hashim Mohamed, Virgil Hance, Ahmed Mnzava with David Mande.
Others are Mohamed by Abdulrahman Kinana, Abubakar Zubeiry, Abubakar Shekau Salim, Ibrahim Bissau, Ahmed Mohammed, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gogo, Salim Gwao.
"We are requesting three soccer officers from all levels to consider the youth soccer because it will help to have good upcoming stars who later they will be able to play for the national team of Twiga Stars."
He said the manager of Him FC of U-15.
Coach Nasir says that among the scientists from his squad, most of them are good and they will be able to represent other countries when they have improved and they have been on a age that allows them to play for the national team.
He gives the request for sponsors to come out and support the youth clubs as they are the best primary ones who later are believed to have good players equivalent to Victor Wanyama who are others who play soccer in Europe.
That team did well in Back Our Girls' Cup, but he was defeated in the finals due to a penalty shoots.
"We were unable to bad luck in the NBA league, I don't have time or."
Said Nasir.
