
Welcome him in fighting for tourism - stakeholders.
On the 20th of 20th, 2014.

Tanzania is expected to be between the countries that are leading in the wealth of resources that are involved in different types of resources in Africa and the world.
Due to that wealth, Tanzania has also been among the countries that were affected by the wildlife officers, a situation that caused its disappearance to some of the types of animals.
The big debate in the recent days has been about the existence of elephants, boys and others who are in the Big Results Now while statistics show that those animals are in danger of their disappearance.
There are complaints that crimes has come in different chapters in Tanzania and the one among them are the companies that have been able to fail to do that business against the law of the country.
As a result of those allegations, various tourism stakeholders in the country have started giving precaution to the government to take a step to ban the fight against smuggling of tourism or preventing permits for animals, the ones mentioned as the Big Boy.
Tourism agents picture.
A caution that the government was given at the end of the week by the business agents of transporting tourists (our country), who are requesting the government to ban a stern warning in developing tourism as a way of dealing with illegal immigrants in the country.
While speaking at a one-day conference of discussing the danger of disappearance of elephants with illegal drug trafficking, it will not be shown, those agents said the government should follow the example of the neighboring countries of Kenya that has banned all of tourism since the year 1978.
The conference organized by the Tanzania Tourist Board (TATO) and was attended by owners of the companies that concern tourism business and various stakeholders in the tourism sector in the country.
Speaking at that conference, the director of the company's agents of Travel Company Limited Company has given an example of the tourism used as summoning demons.
"If the government does not want to send himself in fighting for tourism, then you know the animals, a lot of animals, a tanker, Simba SC and others who are in danger of their disappearance to the list of animals that can be avoided," said Diaries.
Diaries said that the Government of Tanzania does not take action, there is a probability that the normal tourism activities were set, after 20 years coming from the disappearance of the important wildlife.
"Every year the government has put in billions of money from the revenue collected from tourism activities, and those funds are arose from tourists that go in the country to consider the important animals that are now in danger of their disappearance," he said.
"Together with the wealth of money, this sector has also given official employment and that are not official for more than one million people in the northern region and other areas of the country, therefore the government is supposed to do good decisions by checking these statistics," he added.
The Director of Louis Van Gaal's company, Andrew Malassy, said GAPCO Tanzania has no great benefits to the poor countries like Tanzania more than reducing the number of animals in a high level in the country.
"Statistics show that most of the tourism of this year is not more than 14 million American dollars, while normal tourism which will not have costed 7 billion US dollars and 83 billion US dollars," explained Malunde.
And the representative of the Arusha International Conference Center (AICC), Paul Ndandavala, advised the technology of social media to be used by security forces to be used to protect the animals.
We are following the security camera in all important parts of security, because we should not look for the possibility of doing so in the reserve and our national park to identify illegal drugs, "said Ndeki.
Previously the senior research officer from the National Institute for Medical Research (TAWIRI), Doctor Edward Koyi, told the participants that the recent results in the criminal systems in Ruaha - Ranaldo and Selous National Hospital has revealed that almost 10,000 elephants are stolen from poachers every year from the year 2009.
While presenting a topic about the danger of disappearance to the elephants in the country, Doctor Kobello, he said in the year 2009, the number of elephants in shambles was 38,975 percent but the last year has revealed that the animals have remained in the 87th system.
In eternal peace system in Ruaha - Ranaldo and 340,25 dollars in 2009, but now they have lost 20,090, "said Donde Village.
However, Doctor Kochanke who led to the stakeholders that deals with embezzlement of tourism has been banned and explained that there is no evidence that he has discovered that he is a source of reduction of animals.
"Yes, it is true that Kenya is banned in fighting for that country but there is no evidence that the number of animals has increased in that country, and South Africa is between countries that are doing well in that country and the number of its animals is also high," said Doctor Koyi.
The acting executive secretary of TATO 30th, Akyoo said the party is aiming to prepare several meetings in the country so as to give an opportunity for all stakeholders to discuss on the right way to deal with the threat of elephants and other animals that involve illegal immigrants.
Evergrande Football Federation in a picture is among the old activities in the tourism sector in Tanzania.
Historically, that business started during the colonial rule of 1949 in several articles in the country and continued until the country got its freedom in 1961.
