Yanga to get you where it does not allow me.

It has been written by.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.

Recently, Yanga announced to be defeated in the 10 years of Yanga Soccer Company which is owned by the club's chairperson, Yusuf Manji.

That step of being attacked by 10 years has come after the members passing through the special general meeting that took place recently, which a big percentage came out before being presented to the council of sponsors, which they passed it.
Even before being released, the issue was opposed by the National Sports Council (BMT) through the acting secretary general, Mohamed Kiganja who insisted that the procedure of the leasing project is not following the procedures.
Kiganja said there are some of the issues it is impossible because of violating the constitution because the constitution does not give an opportunity to the issue and therefore he had a sports center to intervene in order to avoid one person or a few to attract more to many members.
Apart from BMT, there are some of the members of the club to oppose the action of the purchase of their clubs to Manji and later following the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and not knowing that issue.
Yanga have made another special general meeting that will take place on October 23rd this year, where they will arrive about the process of being involved with Yanga to Manji.
The strategic plan to play for Yanga is not bad because if you follow the procedures you can help change the operations of the team and bring new changes in Tanzania soccer, especially on the side of the club.
It is possible for some of the ones who want the development of their club to see those who find themselves as part of the traitors and people who are doing well, but the fact is that those who are opposing that system want to follow up and not another thing.
Some of the lovers of Yanga, BMT to hand together with the registrar of clubs and sports parties, they can be seen if people under Yanga soccer club but we are saying that these are a good time when we want to follow up on the whole issue of bringing changes so as to prevent violence not to evade violence.
It is true that most of them have no weeds, but in the whole issue of democracy, even the few people do not have their opportunity and they have the right to be heard since they can have a motion.
And if the issue of the entrance to Yanga would get to the procedure starting to re-branding of the constitution so as to allow the step to take place with other procedures, then the exercise of the entrance to Yanga would have been no problem.
However, most of the members will agree to join Yanga in that emergency meeting of the next week, still there should be followed by other procedures so as to legalize the project that will be used by removing the machine that can arise.
Many times, members of the soccer clubs of Yanga and Simba have been a big voice, therefore, Yanga should use its members to change their constitution and take it to the registrar and to take it to the registrar and to take their reputation, then that system starts being used and here any problem will be used by any truth.
There is no one who wanted to avoid with Yanga, but what is required is a procedure that can be used by making corrections on their constitution and later is the other procedures to be followed.
We would like to say that in the whole process of the entrance to Yanga, the issue of some members of Yanga, BMT, TFF and the registrar and others to oppose that issue, they should not be careful so as to make sure Yanga is doing changes in calmness and peace.
