Karaaha in soccer and our leaders.
Mose 21, 2014.

Many times there have been problems in the soccer clubs here in the country, which for some time those problems has resulted in the major cause of players.
When looking for bad results, blame are directed to players, without knowing that player was unable to be stable when he is in the pitch.
When he is in the ball to have any other thoughts more than what he will continue with football or he will destroy his opponent so as to take his opponent's reputation.
There is a philosophy of leaving a percentage of this percentage, I have learned from the best player and the father of soccer Nassor Mohammed VI of parliament. "
In his explanation, he says that the Tanzanian soccer problems are spreading in the third place, leaders, coach, players and players for every step, a problem in the three people who are responsible for a large extent.
His meaning, when you decided to marry off their noise, there is no doubt that will arise from Simba's chairperson, Aden Rage, which he decided to fill in the meeting until when he decided to confirm it.
He has already been launched more than two times, but he continues to ridiculed his party members because they were doing their wedding sessions, or another time he is calling Mkabakuli. The constitution of Simba is saying.
Kiango, the members are outdated, but the bad leaders, a bad coach or a bad player does not have any other way to control more than him.
We don't know where we agree our problems, there is no need of stealing a certain group of people, because they are praising.
Because the main reputation of the farm is crying, laughing out when you came to the hand, but things should go and Kombo are collaborating with a group of many fans and start opposing them, then see the things are going on, then do you have to look for another team.
Likewise, if you are a leader of the club in any level, if you know the things are complaining, and then the players every day you are complaining, then do not stay on a big part that you will benefit with it is an opportunity to release that club a good place for the meaning of success.
Other times, someone can make me, "I am this club and it's not anything until today it has this time or what they are starting, you are happy about wrong things and good thing."
But people are supposed to know one thing, soccer club is not a family issue or an issue of person owned up but it's a love that you decided to volunteer in order to ensure that you love, is to complete a good place of being loved by many.
In religion when we give your thoughts that we know the holy spirit you will give me the answer and not otherwise, but in a person giving money or a donation, there is no doubt that he depends on joy.
Now, there is no one who is seen and you are the problem, why do you know how best to eliminate that problem with discussions or looking for a lot of ability than you cannot get the agenda.
I remember that I arrived at a press conference at the Simba Club, Aden Rage, he was speaking. "Said a very big issue concerning Simba club, gave himself saying when he gets into power, the club's building had to have electricity or a good view.
He went up so much and make sure that the shops that got their building had to help the club, but he failed to leave one thing. What has what made him is called the club's chairperson.
It is same as to inform me that your child has not identified himself, it does not have a good clothes, that is your responsibility.
If it is true that you have a love with your club then that we should inform you by going on the side and hatching of your money in the pocket to help the club, that's when we shall know that you have a lot of pain and there is no doubt that you will get out of anywhere.
But there is another problem, the way that is used by the members to get a message to their leaders is not good and they are not tough the logic or more than that, they have a language that are not severe.
They can be used a good way with sim cards, and the message was coming without a problem or sometimes there are elders of the club or former players of those clubs, they can sit down if the committee and explained their leader as a good condition.
But if we listen to the conflicts in the media or social media, instead of building you, because all the days are the last people saw the problem, therefore you need to be a problem, therefore it is a person and not a chance.
