Small mothers together I thank the first to consider?
Because we can say that in his technical unit holding the crown.
The operation of other things are now one thing.
They are required to put it well that we already benefited from what I believe that he has narrated it.
When I speak from the Parliament you asked that competitions.
That many players are there.
They are not bad or we are ideas but all the players from Dar arrived and that is what I think so that they think it.
Conflict, wisely, in the two hundred and ten thousand, causing the province of Mwanza, it is now a history number of investment because sometimes it seems to be aired on Friday in some of the provinces but in some regions.
She does not make him work.
Now I request for you to go up so that they started well and the time you start very clear, it means that many players have a big league but the Ivory players.
They had come from?
They are coming from that crown Herbert Louis together with the assistant in Dar es Salaam, I think people should stay on well.
Try to come to a period that there are competitions that are being done?
With all the provinces, maybe, it needs to use the players of return to her hands and I don't know if I don't know if you get out of the competition but I would like to play for ten best players who are going to play for ten years and five players.
Your thing is away from ure, so I would inform the province of the name number more than earlier this number is what is happening in the past history, another region is not allowed in this.
And what he said that is why your copy has no other that has not said, but in some of the leaders to prepare for the true position they are going on.
We can't know what we are very bad and the entrance will be in future, I see Christina Mbezi, there is this opportunity and then five minutes for a half and a half years.
Do you look at a little time when we get in Dar es Salaam to follow the review of the newspapers in the second phase, Christina said.
