
Continue to kick off by touching the news headlines.
By Chris Brown is the Tanzania Premier League (TPL Board) started with great speed while every club led by intentions of registering victory and scoring a campaign in the table position.
The clubs that were explained and register a low results were witnessed in the poor vision and blood, the results are being evicted, while the results are being evicted, they are being evicted.
Top Francis y, Ally Stars has sent away its coach of two months, Oliver Page after signing a series of poor results in four matches for the opening of last season, although, Ally Stars had the first club to get former coach Peter Otieno.
More blood will witness in the big club "that are the biggest number of fans especially AFC Leopards team and Gor Mahia.
I have been planted, "though, earlier this year for what was mentioned by the management of the club, the series of poor results," the coach believes that being evicted and though they are not seen that the issue had not been reached by the club's management with an aim of mocking him.
I have been planted, any club when you missed the results that is unsatisfactory performance by the management and his fans, then it doesn't have a lesson.
All what happened at the Hispanic club is normal in the series of challenges that are recognized by the coaching profession, "said Nicrox, who were planted a contract with Yussuf Chibu and who had been beaten by Isike to be the Assistant Coach of the Coastal Union in Tanzania.
The champions of the year 2010, Defense Force, has closed him away by coach Salim Ali March 20 and handed him for a former goalkeeper in the Stars squad, Francis Otieno.
Elsewhere, KCB Bank has gotten a statement to the coach Juma Abdallah together with his assistant Carlos Puyol or after the series of bad results in the TPL Board.
That step was not been reached by the management of KCB Bank, after losing 2-1 against Dar es Salaam city on April 16, 2014, being evicted by Abdallah, who moved to the AFC Leopards team, to give him the coaching of those drugs.
Although, the services of Abdallah in the though we were not permanent as it appears for the reason earlier on December, though we were forced to send its upbringing and sending him while his position was sent by the former assistant coach of the national team, Harambee Stars, Yussuf Kyoma.
After the completion of last season, different clubs that are participating in the TPL Board have witnessed great changes in those clubs which were appointed to sponsor their trainers and register new others as one of the important steps in the preparation of their campaigns next season.
The former coach of Twiga Stars, Maqbool Sx has been signed up by the club Gor Mahia FC to participate in that position after retiring from Iddi, Salim who joined the Port Club.
John Kitime who was sent away former Manchester United and went to Postal Bank, Doctor Kamoga will take the position of George Mzava who has gone into the level up to be his assistant coach or mother, who plays for Thika United Club.
What is being waited for is the success of those two clubs that there will discuss their trainers before the campaigns of the next season in various competitions heading to dock.
