
Complaints from lawyers did not know.
By Antoine Griezmann.
Last year it was faced with a strike of lawyers who complained of poor services in some of the court in the country.
On October last year, the activities in the main court in my town, I promise after lawyers decided to lead in the six judges of that court requesting for them for violating the ethics of work.
The Race of the association of lawyers in the country met under their chairperson, David Lugenge and decided to boycott the court up to Judge Abutalebi will be served.
Mister Mongolia said despite complaining for several times to the chief justice, Judge Mshila is the one who had failed to do it.
He added that they have proposed that they should be transferred to the judge even before some of the judges who were transferred this month.
By Hudugu Ng'amilo, the lawyers complained that the five judges from the main court in the city, Naila was killed but Judge Mshila.
Mister Mongolia is evidence to be the deputy registrar of that court I urge you to inform their decision to boycott the service.
According to Mister Mongolia is members of the branch they decided to boycott the court until their complaints about the behavior of that judge who should be dealt with.
Those lawyers were unable to say JSC, the chief justice of Willy Mutta and the head of the judges of the main court, Richard Mwaruka.
Mister Festo Sakaya explained that they took that decision after the meeting of the officers of their branch, the chief justice and Judge Mwamko Somanga.
He said instead, the chief justice promised him to visit the court of I request for investigation and more discussions.
In August, 11 judges that were sworn in came about the salaries he was claimed was small than some of the chief judge.
In a letter to the chief justice, they condemned the registration commission (SRC) and the commission to employ public servants (JSC) through their salaries that he claimed was taught.
They wanted the chief justice Doctor Willy Vunga to intervene in solving that issue.
The judges showed that the difference of salaries and their colleagues was high and is not known because the new judges and old judges work well.
11 judges who got correct for that letter is Robert Mugabe's letter, Joseph Obabiyi Akitanda, Rosicky will be Eindhoven mid-fielder, Janeth Nganyange, Anthony Mkulabi and Cromer, Charles Hilary, Charles de Janeiro.
They also complained about the fears from the salaries they asked the commission of the court that increased the salaries for caring for their work.
The chief registrar of the court Miss Amen said JSC cannot solve the issue because the salaries being dealt with by SRC with the Ministry of Finance.
The representative of the association of lawyers in the country, Professor Tom Oreo ', said the surprising fact is that there is a big difference in the salaries of judges and the judge.
