Fatema has emphasized that technology can grow the tourism sector.
Brightiles 18, 2016.

There is a saying that says traveling is like reading anyone who does not travel is like someone who reads one page of a book.

People live with different purpose and others face business, they are against school, or treatment but there are others who traveled with some areas including tourists and friends.

Any journey usually have a service, there is a service of transport themselves that you can enable you from one place to another place after getting in the relevant area, especially passengers of business or tour, then the important service is the same to sleep, then it's a solution.

In the past, a person wanted to go down from one place or another, the issue of looking for hotel or passport which was to take place where we involve you, a place where a person was depending on, it usually has risen up.

Another discomfort are saying when everyone is going, it is difficult for everyone to get part of getting safe and food if the person has not done enough preparations including doing an previous order.

But as a result of technological changes, the issue of looking for hotel or passport for business people and tourism has been made.

The Jewish company that previously was called for a special system of looking for hotel and distribution for passengers and outside which will eliminate the discomfort of passengers looking for a period of sleeping when he arrived in the concerned city.

The Freight Company that is working with 200,000,000 Tanzanian shillings in Africa has been a savior to the passengers of tourism and business since through their system, someone can get and pay hotel or passport.

The system that is easy and is available through the mobile phones will enable a customer to look for hotel or passport.

Speaking to Good Citizen in an interview recently, the new general manager of World Travel Company, Fatema has said that together with their services, then it will help to improve tourism services especially local tourism.

"Through our system we want to make Tanzania that it is a big attraction to tourism in Africa," Fatema said in an interview with Raia Mwema.

Fatema has said that the great reason that supports the growth of local tourism is faith in many Tanzanians not to pay as well as the lack of a special system which is enabling passengers to come out in one place to sleep when they travel from one area to another.

I am like a Tanzanian, I believe that the tourism sector is important in the economy and I believe that using solar energy will help in contributing to the growth of this important sector, "he said.

Fatema has said that if the use it has put a system that is easy to the user and it means that lack of food and accommodation while the system is connected to the hundreds of hotel and offloading capacity in various parts of the country.

Fatema said he believes that, the growth of low-income people in the country, will be a catalyst to the increase in local tourists and the World Travel Company is organized to be a key to the customers and service provider.

However, Fatema who has a degree from Cape Town university, South Africa, says that he took a time for many Tanzanians to accept the system because many do not believe in business issues due to the problems of criminal acts.

"I believe that in the next five years, we will make sure we are growing very fast and use all opportunities available in the internet," he said.

He says that very much, they have helped a hotel in every province and districts in the country to register themselves in their system so as to make their business markets and to ease the system of getting customers than depending on the old system of waiting for the guest of honor.

I will end.
