Youths will cause changes, we should not think of demonstrations by CHADEMA.
Frode Dyrdal of 28, 2013.

After the small elections of the councilors that ended recently and brought a big disaster in Arusha, the Revolutionary Party (CCM), as usual, they started trying to carry out a landslide victory and scorned those counterparts from the Demirtas and Development Party (CHADEMA), saying that the ruling party was defeated.
On their part, CHADEMA also shined with their victory of praying for CCM some of their wards to who won, and who were unable to take great changes in our nation, it is that we will make great changes in our nation, and those changes will be made by the youths who are in large numbers.
The issue, which wants to build it here is that we need people to bring change, but many times the youth are the very important group in any community that is unacceptable, as a catalyst to the criteria for change in the world, the changes have been brought to the youth.
The national father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, started the process of bringing about improvements on the age of 39 years of the revolutionary people of Cuba, Fidel Castro at the fight with a small boy by her friend, Celine Itatiro, who died at the age of 39 years, while in the process of bringing great changes in his community of Israel.
Therefore, the youths are very important in bringing change to the United Nations that are not keen with the youths that prepared them and show the way to pass, so that they bring positive changes in any community, it is a must.
The United Nations who fail to prepare a good system for young people to promote power, are to get power, to improve their lives and promote the economy of their country, already there are youths taking action against the citizens.
Many African countries who's tasted the war against themselves or the army's revolution, are those that involve its youths together with many times, violence, violence and war in African countries have caused many youths in African countries.
Even when a group photo with the war does not be led by youths, there are enough evidence that the youth are used to fight and lead the killing of Rwanda for example, the army would be brought by the youth.
Leaders who are greedy for power, involved youths to make use of their benefit from Kenya, who lived in coughnuts, are youths and even today, we are witnessing political parties here in our country to be assisted by developed countries with great interests in our nation.
There are many examples of showing how many youths have been affected by the benefit of few people who are greedy for power, as they get better education and also in the right way to improve the economy and defending freedom of the country, they have a catalyst to change.
In Tanzania, we have many youths who are divided into groups that are participating in which we have a big group of youths who do not have skills and skills in living in urban and rural areas, this group is continuing to be big day until day.
This is a group that is led well so as to bring positive changes, but needed you to raise us so that you like to go through it is because we believe it is enough!
However, the youth who are smoking in search of life in agriculture, business, fishing, minerals, and so on, they are not benefiting enough from their crops, including lack of capital, criteria, and knowledge.
This group of poor youths who bought up, it did not be the springboard of changes to what we want to be very difficult for this group of youth to maintain peace and have the direction of building a nation with sustainable development.
The central group is of scholars and those who had different skills, although not all the youths in this group, they are supposed to get good work in government and in private sectors, and even in the political leadership it has not been done well in order to use the power and the opportunities they have in bringing change to their community.
