Kikwete talks that there will be a gospel singer when he attains the youth about words.
The importance of visiting the health centers and now and to test the patient.
Our participants in today are part.
I don't have.
Not to be Jose Mourinho.
Esther?
And one of them?
I don't have?
We do not talk about the importance of visiting the stations for advice and caring for Chelsea.
There is a great importance of visiting those things?
And to test the HIV virus.
Because there is a youth that help the youth to discover themselves and be able to know where he is where he is like a youth taking the step of going to test the virus.
He will be able to know how to protect themselves first to go for you, you're with you for the teachers to be able to educate others about how it was able to go and test for you can be.
It is able to know your life and be able to maintain your life and be able to know more.
Or tomorrow at this time and other things of violence and they can also be able to do your life to be better because the youth has been able to separate yourself from your life and that the father can affect your life.
Without knowing that there are these houses of sharp edges like the fact that you can be infected with you but you will not take the responsibility of going to test the HIV virus and be able to discover your health and can be able to know your health and your fellow youths who live.
What comes to you!
We do not think there is any importance that you will be able to give advice to advice to one and.
One is.
We are talking about the importance of.
The importance of looking for advice to advice together with sending him.
I think I think.
What is the importance of?
First, when you go to you.
The stations for support advice and caring for AIDS are getting enough education about the issue of your health in general and also.
You will be able to understand that it started and what should I meet with everything?
You know it intends to prepare it is an important thing and another is that you need to help.
To plan your first wife so that they can be able to go.
Do to fulfill your dreams.
Do your activities and fulfill your dreams and?
We are happy about there is a need to visit health centers and serve them.
Absolom went to I see that there is an importance of visiting the stations because they saw at 4 o'clock.
As a youth if the youth do I know her.
Because you are dependent on this.
The nation's nation.
And because the concerned youth is also known to know that because in a nation with great strength.
In the community you know your health that I am a patient?
A patient doesn't know that, many people will go to advice to get married and how to live with people more than someone not like to know your health I see if I cannot have many youths that you are not ready to test for your money?
I was only a terrorist.
Advice and advice to ask you will continue to provide education to people on how someone can get your health as they are required to know.
How to protect themselves?
And if the age of age, you know how to protect themselves from contracting my son, we see if these days there are people with the tablets so that we can be about the victims of AIDS to be able to increase the days to live.
The time you get that is the benefit of someone who was affected without any health, you can get diseases like time to time when you check the disease.
For my friend, we don't know your way to make sure you know it.
We do not think that there is no importance of testing and even if there is no need to test the virus for AIDS or there is no any message in getting to the health centers.
Because it is saying that those are saying this because it is to go to test my health if it is known that I will be known.
First, I will go back to the second time I will be with a lot of thoughts that will be in my mind that I will be able to write my thoughts in doing something that will do you in my life as I was with ideas.
I will die another one that has never tried to go to test at the health center.
One of the times right now, they are saying that there is drugs for producing life but drugs are from.
If I will use the medicine I will go quickly because the drugs will go quickly because of those drugs in my system again, instead see the HIV disease I will not die because the fake drugs don't know what does not have anything?
I am happy inside you in the same way or I see I don't see the best importance I will end just recently, I found a fiancé.
Therefore, I did not love you, to go to the health centers that you want to say it is good that I put it.
Recently without going to test for because you know my life that I will go well in that sector that I will do my work because I will be stable but if I will continue doing things and even if I will be happy to go for my health.
To go to any station to participate and go back to you, is you asking anyone in this issue.
Yes, increase and am saying that because the youth is going to test the virus for AIDS when you go to visit health centers for forgiveness for AIDS you can know.
There is a situation that you can live a difficult life, I would like to fight with him and it's not true because there is a great importance to use the HIV virus so that there is a great importance for you to visit health centers and to stop the infection of AIDS if there are a great importance to go to listen to him and to look for advice.
Others do not put it.
They are disappointed when I am talking?
This is a must that there is a great strength to be happy and to be given her advice to Winnie, advice to him because I want to talk to Bill Nas, like I don't know if many people will have a awareness to go.
To know for that question?
Therefore, I don't understand that the government gets strength to people like we are private and we request a long time to look for us that we be able to know well but I think education is given.
A few parts of therefore am private.
If there is still a must they will be able to go to test and if the people want to go and put yourself then get difficult to be treated in giving education.
Mandla claimed that the government gets great strength in providing information and advice to those stations and be close to youths who don't understand.
If the youth do not have been seen in getting internal education and that people come out to realize that their health may test themselves if you are not true that we are not good because I get to test and up to this minute the visitors getting my brothers there.
At home, it will be a person who will follow me, I could be found and I could continue to deal with more strength in giving advice to advice.
You also added that concerning this issue, the importance of visiting the stations for advice to care for one and for instance, I would like to see a little of all the professionals so that I don't give advice to the team.
You will get ideas that these hours and given priority will be heard.
But these days there are people without knowing what they are doing everything to check the health is the importance of every one.
.
That this is a patient not to leave you know there is another job that is hard.
You can make you have been completed in other things and other work is supposed to do a person who deserves, I request for young people in the country to come out to test for AIDS to know our health because it is not a solution to you.
I request that we believe those are the youths about the topic, it says the importance to visit health centers together to sit the late.
