
UVCCM wants police to kill them.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The Youth Union of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM) has said that the police force in the country's supposed to recognize that robbery, theft of weapons and ownership is still a problem that need to be dealt with by all strength.

Also, he has insisted that the security of citizens and their property need to be careful so as to avoid deaths, losses, to join the people's property and people to be given out of life due to events that can affect the city and the villages.
The acting secretary general of UVCCM, Shaka Hamdu Shaka has explained that yesterday when he visited him to visit the state of Said Ally, the Mabibo located in this town.
Said got not been touched on different parts of the body and not being slapped on the eyes of the theft of weapons that were done in Buguruni in that city on September this year.
Doubt, he said the crime problem will be joining the change, registration and destruction of property by using strength and weapons and it needs to move forward it and the necessary-speed buses that are affecting the security of citizens and their properties.
He said there is a need for police to develop a new system of dealing with the groups of the animals, they put him and criminals before they do not cause the effects and disadvantages of what happened to Said who now has caused the ordinary people when he did not see.
Speaking in disappointment with a lot of sadness, Shaka said the aim of getting wealth through illegal ways to one person or a group, can cause a loss of life, Said who for now has shown the ability to continue fighting for his economic development and the nation as a whole.
"Let it reach a place of crime, robbery and ownership should be dealt with as part of the fight against AIDS virus, leans and chest, we saw this problem will cost the community and bring up a matter of poverty to the citizens and Tanzania as a whole," he explained.
Ally thanked UVCCM for showing him and to arrive at a situation due to his sudden death and gave them support while urging them to continue improving his government without being guilty of any offense.
Ally praised the arrival of a delegation from UVCCM's headquarters, that is led by Shaka, the UVCCM chairperson of Dar es Salaam region, Omar Matulanga and secretaries from the union from five districts of that province.
He said that if a youth has been very disturbing with his fellow youths while urging them to narrate to him because now he has been silent, and he has not registered again in life.
"If you missed us to our government and by good Samaritans who forget where I have strength, mental health and the knowledge of being unable to do my eyes and I don't know if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I'll see if I will
