
Service providers are being closed down in prison.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published today September 2016.

The Ministry of Constitution and law has said that it will be identified to give secret of people who give criminal reports and those who are revealed to give false information on crime, they will be fined three million shillings or a period of one year in prison or all.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam City, the assistant director of the constitution, Kamoga said that there have been people who know the secret of reports and witnesses of criminal incidences, an act that causes the people to get effects and to be afraid of continuing to provide information.
He said that the existence of the law to protect weather reports and witnesses for the year 2017, has been started officially on July first this year, it will help to give legal security to all those who give the crime of different crimes they are facing.
"There have been fear for those who were giving information but we believe through this law, there will make them be free and bring positive results in fighting crime and all of all types in the country," said Stanley Bagdad.
He also said that in that law they have set a procedure to give birth to all those who want to save the public property, being available to criminals, to protect the environment and life of a human being due to the crime that they made to the concerned authorities.
Moreover, he said that the law will also identify all those who will be affected due to the information that they will continue.
He also urged the citizens to come out without fear and give information against all types of actions that are being done against the law so as to help the government in the fight against crime and build the community and the nation.
"Citizens participated in removing the evil actions as well as the ones that cause a loss to the nation, I urge you to come out in large numbers without fear of criminal reports," he insisted.
