The boys' team is in Brazil, it comes back?
APR of 03 / 2014.

Recently, the Tanzania Children's soccer team from Mwanza City left back to Brazil to participate in the World Cup tournament for children in the estates, that takes place in that country for a period of ten days.

The competition is one of the preparations for the celebrations of the World Cup that will take place in that country from June 12 this year.

Apart from Tanzania, other countries participating in the field of children in the estates of the boys are Argentina, Burundi, India, Kenya, Ethiopia, Egypt and Pakistan.

For girls are South Africa, Brazil, El Salvador, Indonesia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, England and Zimbabwe Tanzania have no representatives to the girls in that tournament.

This is a good step to be proud of in our youth, who in one way or another, they are getting the opportunity to show their talents outside the country in big competitions like the ones for the time they were seen as youths who are prepared well in every way, which is body together with albinism.

This children's team has been organized by street children (KSC) of Mwanza. It is a station that is involved in helping the street children, therefore, it is seen that one way to help those children are together with improving their soccer talents.

On that meaning, that team is participating in the competition one day and even if those children can be able to win the championship or to hold the top positions in those competitions, they will still get experience due to the situation of meeting with other players of their age from other countries.

Record show that Tanzania participated in the competition that took place in Durban in South Africa in 2010.

The issue of asking themselves is that these youths do not return here at home, they are given how to meet the concerned parties of soccer in developing the village.

In promoting talents is the process that need long time to achieve their goals, for example, if we ask these children with the authority to run soccer here in the country as there is no longer a person, maybe one or the two who probably left.

However, if we leave this team of children in the streets, there have been other youth competitions which for sure you have not been used well as the source of growing talents and even improving our national team.

I have not just think about this time the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) is starting its strategy of looking for talents so as to improve the national team, "Taifa Stars" would have started to look for the youths who have ever participated in the moment they did well and maybe until now they are at the English Premier League while playing soccer while leaving their talents.

There's been a plan to look for talents to improve Stars, that is a good thing that is being implemented because its fruits will be seen since it is not a long time.

More than to come up with a new procedure up to up to form the committee to check the players' videos, after arriving at the field, while they have a camera whose users do not use their expertise.

It's not good to look for others who have not received opportunities, but also these who are participating in the youth competition or such as these children in Brazil were taken to a few compared to those who were wanted to be used by the video and finally they will participate in the national team's squad.

There is every need to wish all these children who were from Mwanza going to Brazil, participating in the World Children's Day.

We say when voters will return to them, though the few who will have done well-so that they can be taught in our squads, we will enable them to increase strength in the coming days in our national soccer teams.
