Stakeholders want a new constitution to win the freedom of the news.
Jide 31, 2014.

In the research that I used in October 2012 following the stakeholders and the scholars of the media industry, I asked a total of questions that concern security and accountability of the media in the new constitution.
Seven questions of first were beaten, so as to get answers that give good recommendations of stakeholders who were interviewed.
But the eight question was left open so as to get opinions from one person and if possible to get new thoughts that they did not participate in the questionnaire of news media in democracy of many parties (if they feel) and Rioba 2012).
Among those who were interviewed in this research are 10 students of the Tanzania High Court of Information and Public Communication (SCA) of the University of Dar es Salaam, 10 students from the University of St Augustine and VocationalTraining together with 10 journalists from different media stations.
Most of them were interviewed (approximately 93 percent), they had a high school education, that is a degree or more than 4 percent, that had a higher education and 2 percent that had a certificate.
In general they were interviewed in this research, they were people whose community depend on for understanding about the issues of position and importance of the media in democracy.
Stakeholders who were interviewed they were selected for the two main reason being used as a criterion for journalists themselves and therefore they were involved with all the editors and some senior journalists, the invited guests were used for the construction of two universities, the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and the ones that are at the headquarters in Mwanza.
In this group, they were also accused of nuclear facilities from UDOM from UDSM due to their understanding about the responsibility of the media in democracy and especially the opportunity for the media in the constitution.
If I have touched on the beginning of this article, all seven questions resulted from those who explained the importance of media houses in democracy, today, the first question was asked, I advise the current constitution to give security for the rights and freedom of the media but only 9 percent said "it will protect themselves fully."
For other words, more than 90 percent of stakeholders who were interviewed they see the constitution for now does not give the rights and security that is required to the media in the country.
Secondly, the second question is, the new constitution is supposed to give a full report on the rights and freedom of the media?
Most of those who were interviewed (96 percent) said, "it's only 2 percent of the media industry who are doing work in that sector, they believe that the new constitution is in the process of the process now should give its important contribution by concentrating on its importance.
The third question should be asked if they could not love the new constitution to give security to journalists and media houses against threats arising from the press or the media to do a few sentences but with the interests of the citizens and the nation as a whole.
When I get a lot of 96 percent, they said that "yes," it is only 2 percent said, "no question was asked due to the fact that there is a threat to the media in different parts of the world against the journalists, who are responsible in doing the news that goes by exposing the evil deeds in the community.
A good example is a writer Carlos Quad Mozambique who was killed in the year 2000, while following the corruption that had been done by the network of the criminals in the public funds.
The fourth question should be asked if they could not want the new constitution to be put in the issue of ownership of media houses that concern accountability in public, a big percentage (96) of the same time, "no '.
It should be known that in the system of democracy of Kiliberali that are run by the system of the civil market, the media is taken as any business because it is about the owners to decide on what is the users of the content.
