How is your day lover.
From Town that uses the weather in the coming days from three o'clock.
In those pictures, we have opened up to an extent, especially the lake regions have forgotten the special way that can cause violence.
And the rains were done today at three o'clock in the morning.
This shows that I was only three months which they were able to report for the rains and heavy rains, today it is ten millimeters and seven millimeters, during the attack in Bukoba town.
Do not mean his lover.
All the provinces together with the running mate will have the need to give an amount to all that are usually in place in a few parts.
The province of Kagera as well as Kigoma will be at Mango Garden together with the occurrence of it.
Now.
The province of Tanga and the Unguja Island and when he was going on Monday night will be the right to God.
In addition to being easy in a few areas.
The other side with the fights broke down.
He will have a right of God to amount and coldness.
And there tomorrow, her lover, we expect that the areas can be put in the lake region and we will be a condition of the way we were with us because of few hours and programs?
Kigoma province will make things to be faced in a few parts and programs, I know all the areas of the Coastal region will have a need to death together with rains in few parts and programs, I know the other areas that have reduced, we don't see what does not want to do.
Let you look for oil books to remain in the church and at the moment because of having.
And were sent away from the east by money because even at the moment, for having the south and the sea, we know that it has great network.
That is' Imebaki Story.'
And that tomorrow, the lover on a high level in our country, is supposed to be beaten and two in the provinces of Shinyanga and Tabora.
And that is not expected to arrive at ten o'clock in the morning and nine minutes and end in Kigoma at ten o'clock in the morning and 1000 in the morning and 1000 in the morning and otherwise he will begin to Mtwara at ten o'clock and five minutes.
And end in Kigoma at ten o'clock and fifty minutes at night.
And the high level of challenges in African continent for the day tomorrow is expected to realize that they get married and one in us will just stay in Sudan.
And that resident magistrate is the end of the weather forecast this night.
