
His boss, TANESCO will not tolerate any certificate of 1st, 2012.

The board of directors of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has divided about the decision of preventing the former managing director of the organization, William Mhando, who was not supposed to pave way for investigation on the allegations of embezzlement that had been directed to him, Raia Mwema, have noted.

For several months now Mhando and some of his colleagues who did not want to work and already the investigation on those allegations had already been completed, while Mhando was found with different crimes in accordance with some members of the board of TANESCO, not wisdom of returning in his previous position.

Among the results of the investigation that have made some of the delegates of the board not to be interfered on to work is together with 2013's Capital Market, providing information on claims that the accounts of his wife Mhando and claimed that it was given a contract with TANESCO in a working environment.

According to the letter of the Electronic Transaction Act of 2013-capital city, with great records, September 4, this year, going to the executive director of the Higher Education Student Loans Board (NBAA), the company has talked about the problems and inspection that it has never done.

The letter is telling the executive director of NBAA that the company of Santa says that it has caused them by 2013-Capital House, has given a report to prevent and that it has used a non-infectious company to ensure that it has been discriminated against.

That letter explains the issues that involve yourself by explaining that, "the source of milk used is not good for us because we have been using the fourth invasion in the past but for now, we are using a circle music.

Even a letter that has confirmed that the certificates that we have denied the accounts of Santa says that during our letter to confirm those issues, we did not give the right loss of the letter part in the middle, our letter was signed by Samuel Eto'o in the end of the letter on the left. "

That letter explains other issues to prove that it has been associated with the professional actions in accordance with the accounting profession and inspection and threatened to take legal action.

"The financial information officer of Santa says we are worried that we have been done by our company to ensure that this issue is same as an offense of contraception is similar to the managing director of NBAA which also confirmed that himself was received by NBAA by the executive director of NBAA.

It is as a result of that situation and many other mistakes that were made by TANESCO's boss, Robert Mboma and some of his colleagues have heard in TANESCO, while other delegates oppose them.

Our news sources have stated that those delegates have defended Mhando among them is together with the interests and the leadership that has been suspended from TANESCO, who also join the parliamentary committee that was formed by the speaker of parliament to investigate the allegations of parliamentarians to comply with TANESCO because of their personal interests.

It is said that in that session of TANESCO's board that happened on Monday night this week, Mboma says he is holding his position with few colleagues while other delegates insisting that another evidence will be done due to the investigation that was done by the lack of better ethics.

Mboma did not be found to talk about the situation or the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Mhongo and the secretary general of the ministry that is representing TANESCO, the organization that for a long time is being mentioned to ensure they are determined by their agents inside the board, ministry and even inside TANESCO.

"There is a plan that is evident, the delegates of the board want Mhando to remain despite the mistakes that was found with the war between integrity and corruption," he explains our news reporter.

Apart from the issue of 2013 cell phone has emerged this time, already the newspaper made report to report that investigation also found Mhando together with a conflict between Tessema and the MC of Manchester City Lugo Fashen.

According to the documents there, Mhando entered the contract with MC Donald Dar Last Technology Limited, being given a special responsibilities in that company Mister Mhando was given the responsibility of not to also participate in that company within the organization that was led by TANESCO.

Mhando and his colleagues who include the former deputy executive director of the organization Robert Shangani, the Executive Officer of Finance, Harbinder Singh Sethi, was suspended from making the investigation which is known as a result of TANESCO being silent because that board will be silent without the board to be silent.
