A suspect in the killings of Nelly Mwangosi.
Mufindi District Court has thrown out the charges that were facing the deputy secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Hamad Yusuph and 42 others.


The leader together with his colleagues were facing three mistakes including in the meeting without a permit, including surgery on property which are a motorcycle cap (very high) in Mufindi district, due to those allegations, they will put the objection because it was opened against the law.

The outgoing member of parliament, Lugua, has thrown out the order of stopping the meeting and causing the death of the journalist, the police commander, Michael Dearharm when he was unable to give that order, that he was not supposed to have violence and investigation when people are divided.


The other objection is that one who has contributed the first commandment of the meeting he did not have a position that will not vie through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Bububu, Zanzibar had a campaign meeting of election.

Police said that they are blocking the meeting because the census is going on at the time the elections law did not depend on other activities that are expected to take place and that they wanted the police to understand the census laws that will enable other activities to take place where they are coming from.

The suspects were told when they were arrested without stopping the meeting that was happening within the country because it was happening in the office after a rally to stop and that the suspects who were brought to the court were arrested outside the scene of the incident.


Those suspects were killed in Igurubi County, Iringa Region and Mbeya after being removed from the area that was ordered to die.

While they cast away the case, the resident magistrate of Mufindi District D.


"There isn't any objection that was given out by the defense, those are the wrong use of article 91, contributes to the defense, to answer the objection.

"It is also a bad use of time and the government's funds to be paid taxes because of those cases, this case is canceled," said Nyambo.

The deputy secretary general of UVCCM, Zanzibar Hamad Yusuph, and his colleagues were opened the case after being arrested at the time of the opening of September 2, 2012, which was killed by police for being beaten.
