Angellah Kairuki, President Doctor, Mohamed Shein has said the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar will continue to maintain human rights and good governance of democracy and they will not tolerate any union or any group that can endanger the union and to stop any actions that can endanger the peace and security of the country, more that our reporter has not allowed him from Zanzibar.
He started by saying that he was very disappointed with those events in asking for what she was given to the authority now, there is a political look, a situation that is contrary to the procedures made in huge sadness.
Waiting for a little close to one hour and when we have reached actions of breaking.
The statement of demonstrations and rallies in religion, but with a message.
However, our union is one of the religious.
Their leaders and.
Who can I prepare?
You have forgotten that I have ever been done by the culture looking at the peace that I explained about, I was surprised.
There is a relationship with the union talks and put down fire.
There is a relationship of creating a union and stealing children.
There is a relationship and to maintain the union it is not allowed to appreciate these people.
Gimbi said that you can make our constitution contrary to the law in addition, we said that when he wants his union, because the government has the commission to organize and collect opinions on the creation of new constitution but not knowing the community between the implementation of this new constitution but not misleading the community between these issues that are in six days to end, there is no problem.
Captain you know what they are in Zanzibar more than to asking for the face.
We will give the same way you come from when I arrived, it was not some of their views.
So as to enable you want.
Which will enable you take place every time in line with the constitutional changes we should not want to talk about them now in what these issues are happening, so if they have attended the one.
However, Jerry United or at the time he was told, he decided to come out and they were enough for them and it is not enough.
Your decision has hopes in Mister it has said and said.
No to you listening to a person that is coordinated when you missed the results.
If you came from if you will not turn another union.
The peace that he had when we want to meet its own blood needs in him, it gives fear from all religious leaders because this question will move forward if the government is together with all those who are unify their property.
Again it is clear that the believers of all religious leaders know that worship activities will be taken by us.
And this one gives those drugs to visit their service, I take this opportunity to give my condolences to all.
Those who tried to look for faith that you gave a lot of faith.
Likewise, I give my condolences to all citizens in short time, the government would remember that he will agree on a loss.
And likewise it cares for the steps to take care in the children, it allows the government to be able to eliminate all those areas is important so as to ensure that citizens are very important so as to ensure that citizens are very important in order to ensure that citizens be careful.
