
CCM, abusive language?
Brightiles 22, 2012

Various topics that happened in Zanzibar two days ago and especially after the general meeting of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Dodoma, have written many and opened a new page in the history of our islands.

When we go looking at while having the presence of the ongoing nation's constitution, the new constitution is clear that the people of Zanzibar have a two-term system for their union and Tanganyika being run by two governments, but you will be read about the foundation of the agreement.

To say that the current system of the union is a better system in the world and for example, it's to speak about the real situation as it is said that we cannot have a whole issue because there is no example of the agreement because there is no good example in the world, it is very important thing.

Most of the people of Zanzibar surprised some of the leaders of the national union of the national union while holding the union to continue considering that they are in Zanzibar to get to the delay of the administration which at the moment have not been done in the continent being under the killing of the judgment known as "the United Republic of Tanzania."

Maybe an issue that is supposed to carry out more is to see those leaders getting married and insisted that the current structure of socialism has failed in 48 years to start the conflicts that emerged for all the long time, and that will continue to come out, between the two parts of the union.

Those conflicts are the one that is called "problems.
The union "in the attempt to make sure they are doing things that are not good or the importance, just some of the members of the United Republic of Tanzania are the stand of refusing to remove the feelings and rights of basically the many citizens of Zanzibar.

We have witnessed those citizens speaking about their feelings when they were giving their views about the union, we believe many of them saying that although they don't want a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar even so, they feel that although they don't want a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, even so, they feel that although they don't want a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar even so, they feel that although they don't want a union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.

They want it is every one of the two countries ready to allow his administration authority, they are saying that it is expecting to start both two countries to make corrections, they have joined with having a union of agreement.

What raised the people of Zanzibar, we are supposed to be dealt with and agitation and that it does not benefit from CCM of not changing or give his policies according to the views of the people of Zanzibar.

What raised fears are statements that were given without fear and some of the leaders of CCM, these are leaders who by bad luck up to this, today you can't understand the decision between the responsibilities of political parties and those of the ballot box, in a democratic system of many parties.

Another one is how those leaders want to send and give a great heart to the ordinary members of CCM so that they have been cut off by abusive language that doesn't take place in Dodoma when peace was giving out his speech after retiring from the vice chairperson of CCM.

Later, when they went to the ordinary members who attended with great joy, while giving a band to go and when they were arrested, posters of the peace pictures of Karume and taking them and pictures will leave.

The people of Zanzibar feel that Karume has been operated on because of his patriotism.
Kiziguto has told them that he is a leader that wants the people of Zanzibar to go on their country in front of their political parties when they have been focusing on the interests of Zanzibar.

More that he wants them to be one and they should continue with the state of peace and stability of politics in Zanzibar Islands, what could make sure you to marry abusive words and scandal that were written in Zanzibar against Karume.

They are statements that do not have this issues or skin rashes.

By good luck, the era of one party of political parties that is already in our country as required is that this country should not be again with a few leaders not to follow the policies to follow up.

The religious leaders in Zanzibar came out in public using state agencies and wealth of the country to achieve their political objectives of their party, and can't understand why people of their colleagues want to change.

In addition, it is clear that they are supposed to realize that all the things will be safe since the year 2015, there will be a new constitution that will affect the structure of the union because there are some who want the people of Zanzibar in this exercise?

Let me follow up to another union who are not known so much in the world, this is a union that came up of May first this year, it will be from BADEA from England and this is for now, it will be out of depending on their fate in that union.

It is saying that after 300 years and more than their United Nations and England, the citizens should not depend on taxes, finally they will have freedom to decide if they want to continue being in that union or not.

As the people of Zanzibar did not be treated with the time in their operation to look for their rights and not it is a must that the rights to be available to the end of the period of the current constitutional process, but many continue to make steps to move forward to the current democracy when you want freedom to say, to give birth to the citizens.
