The minister of transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has today visited that port that is owned by a mobile company that is in Dar es Salaam city and gave two months the problems facing the vehicles agents who use the port.
He has also urged the port authority in the country.
To put this true system of the province that provides in the port having cargo of vehicles instead of the system now they had lost more information and bringing up themselves.
The late?
In the city of the city of Dar es Salaam and here is the port area that is owned by the former minister of transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe visited the port to see for himself the performance of this center where he urged the port's authority to inspect the port with the aim of distributing the vehicles.
Now she has told Millardayo.
Look for vehicles at the moment is the commission if I get married then it gets just the authority, it says that these companies are still there and it should not be careful when they get to the center, agents of public vehicles to ask them.
The chest with the road where you know here, but you know you have the needs of this service, I have been committed and raised me up until the day it remains.
Let us get that during the time I got in Makamba and this three days of I have not yet got the game for what day.
It ends.
You missed the words of Boston for a place like falling off.
He is meeting while about.
They are at six o'clock.
On Friday there are six goals against Friday, they are competing for six hours but the new day arrived as usual, it will go back to eight o'clock at the same time when you go around two hours we go together.
Minister Mwakyembe has given two months to the manager of that port and it will start to ensure that those problems have been consumed.
The new bar which will be joined recently are not all the services that the customer care service, we become the ones who went into a new contract but they did not get a new contract but he will have a new contract but not to get new.
Therefore, the drug abuse and what is that there is a report rather than a new contract that will be stand like the Honorable.
One university the director gave you a lot of work well and so one will increase the audience.
When a sister is taking each other things I'll come to visit immediately after two months, the streets will be disappointed from which we can be a problem of the problem.
In addition, that minister has urged the port of land in the country to work without considering that it is to reduce cargo to sit for a long time.
Almighty God rest a company.
I want you to inform us, when I give you this chicken at the port, you will also allow you to defend Mbowe for now, she does not fulfill the income of Mushi, Kibamba, Dar es Salaam.
