
Kinana continues to control lazy ministers.

The secretary general of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdulrahman Kinana, has continued to inherit the ministers and executives of the government, by saying that they will start a operation to fight and improve the bureaucracy and the ones that are there in some of the ministries, so as to bring accountability to citizens.

As a result of that situation, Kinana has said that he is not ready to see citizens fail to lack the community services while leaders who were given priority were admitted at the office and asking the crows.

Kinana, gave that statement when he was addressing a public meeting that took place in the Lupimo area, in this district, where he said in order to stop that situation, CCM will not have any person in managing the interests of the citizens.

He said that in order to deal with that situation, the executive committee of that party has intended to make changes to ensure citizens are heard by their problems being given solutions.

That step by Kinana has been due to the complaints that were given by the chairman of Jando village, Wema Sepetu, who said that since it was found in Uhuru the year 1961, they have never been able to get water services, a situation that is making to feel they are weak in their country.

As a result of that, Kinana said that CCM cannot have the leaders who were given priority to help President Jakaya Kikwete, while they were sitting in the office and preventing they were asked by air conditioning in vehicles.

"From now we're going to participate in the executive committee and we will start a campaign to fight and improve the operation of the government by bureaucracy and the ones that had no chance inside CCM.

"People are complaining of lack of water services in the contracts and contractors have continued to sit in the office instead of going to listen to the problems of citizens, we have said we are continuing to be the stars of our party together with our government," said Kinana.

However, in that meeting, the head of Rungwe District, Cindy, Mela found himself in a difficult time after being required to give information on why the project of water construction has been suspended while citizens were given enough information.

While giving explanations in front of those citizens, Meitinyiku, said that the contractor who was given the work to build water project gave the contract with not completing the time it is needed.

DC Mela, said that he forced him to break the contract and will be forced to prevent 200 million shillings in the country by the contractor.

"This project had been set aside from 7 billion shillings, but used it is one billion shillings, while this project started in the year 2011, but the project has already been dependent on time," said DC Mela in his answers.

However, the answers of the DC, the repetition showed that he didn't leave Kinana, where he said that citizens don't want to listen to the project but they want to know when they get water.

I'm important to know that this project together with the road was promised by President Jakaya Kikwete, what I want to tell them is it to be when he leaves the power, "said Kinana.
