The Provincial Commissioner of Singida Parseko Kone has urged that Europe and all executives in that province to take action of controlling the people that are doing acts of destruction on new roads that are being built in that province.
That Head of province has given that directive in his seventh session with three motorcycle riders, they have said that some of the people have been involved in tarmac roads as well as the school, he urged the leaders to supervise closely the directive that was given to prevent the order that made them to prevent the good reports from Singida.
The theft because of one time you can be for twenty years, which will be remembered for this youth, that we get because it comes from.
If you are not able to do the business market, scrap metal, everything on the road destruction but also people are spoiling the road because the fuel for vehicles is going on well as I ask the province of Singida.
Taking a picture.
Names are.
He has added that I think it has been given.
The completely took the film is impossible.
And together with those, he also gave out the order to leaders and heads of the district.
What does it mean?
By cooperating with excitement.
It is a section of the punishment to follow up on the true time.
The cooperation has not arrived to control those people and the small payments has not yet been successful by the construction of the province claiming that he was unable to receive complaints from employees of those companies, whereby on the roads they were unable to give complaints from employees of those companies, whereby on the roads they had gone into his responsibilities, which was different among the delegates.
The answers of it has been told, I request that the late God bless you, for him to talk about your bodies, I want someone to know what she said, when they come to stations they should not know.
When the Almighty God bless you, we have faith that we have been able to know that people.
That is not involved in the area which does not have problems.
We are required to go to be taken between example.
In speed I will build and ask you to decided and see them when they want to mistakes.
Therefore, for another one, for another time again, the charges could go to this until you know that different companies that lead to the stage are saying that until the Honorable, he did not want him to feel good reports.
When you're catholic marriages, I don't like things to say that what is where we will help us.
You want to tell you.
For a house.
Singida province is among the few provinces in the northern region where it got an opportunity to be given a big road projects with tarmac roads up to now what causes a lot of houses that have been built on tarmac roads.
