

By Aloyce Ndeki.
In one article that carrying the news reporter "by making sure you were affected by Nigeria" on this newspaper on 27th January this year, he told us the way the senior officials of the government of that country are saying that they have killed billions of money from the banks of that country.
That situation did not before the collection of taxes that was done by some people in the government in Tanzania and how the claims of snatched billions of money from the Central Bank, has caused several cases and even causing some officers to resign.
During Nigeria you can hear that the lorry of oil has been found and it does not be seen despite that, it passed on the road inside the cities of that country for Tanzania, you can't know if it passed through the port of Dar es Salaam being silent and not elimination, tax or tax doesn't know.
In addition to that situation, another issue that is showing that every issue that happened in Nigeria, will be received by Tanzania it is an issue of existence of ghost workers in the public offices and therefore making the government lost a lot of money and therefore the Institute of Corruption Bureau in Nigeria has reported the existence of 387 workers at the list of payments for employees in the government and that number will still number.
The acting chairman of the institution which is known as the economy and financial law (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu said that thousands of employees who are not in the list of employees in government has reduced the government approximately 1 billion US dollars which is equivalent to 5 million American dollars.
Magu speaking at an event to deal with bribery at the government ministry in Abuja, he said, "the number will speed up because we want to remove the ghost workers that arise from the list of payments for public servants in the regions."
The president of Nigeria, in the lake region launched the fight against corruption in the government since he was sworn in May 2015, the Ministry of Finance and Social Services (29 trillion shillings), the Ministry of Finance and warned those violating the law of the public service of Nigeria which will be sentenced to 10 years in prison.
He noted that the commission has started a special unit to address issues of cheating in the purchase and it was an agent of the government has been receiving several charges about the issue, "said the commission has intended to have received several accusations concerning the issue," said the commission claimed to have received several complaints about the issue, he said the commission has planned to get a lot of money more than it was previously to remove all activities of cheating in the ministry, departments and public organizations.
The fight against corruption that were started in the reserve have been caused by people with high positions in the government concerning the purchase of a total of 291 billion American dollars, a scandal that happened in buying weapons in the government's effort to fight the Boko Haram.
Those who were arrested in relation to the scandal include the former president of the National Security Fund, Sambo ', who is accused of receiving part of the funds to be used in the presidential campaigns of PDP Bank, December 2014.
Despite the establishment of the fight against corruption, the report that was given by the Power International Institute was noted that 75 percent of Nigeria are saying that bribery in the government had increased in a period of 12 months ago.
The inspection that was done in the employees' accounts by using traditional statistics to confirm the number and conduct of accounts to the banks where it is used by the government to pay their names not involved in the accounts and some of them were getting salaries from different sources.
