
Kikwete six seven in the Somalia of Kuala Lumpur, 2012.

Tanzania is in a difficult time to accept the request that had been presented by the Somalia government to build and improve the security and security institutions of that country that involves itself with the fight against them for a long time.
The Retired President of Somalia, Sheikh Sherman Ahmed, at the end of this week, presented the request to the privacy of him by President Jakaya Kikwete, in Arusha town.
President Ahmed arrived at the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) and was received by the Provincial Commissioner of Arusha, Magesa Mulongo, from Turkey where he was in the sessions to look for peace in his country.
The news that was found out of that session have said that President Kikwete uses his experience in diplomatic issues, he could not accept to be resolved by one request for Bayern Munich.
And the biggest reason is said that President Kikwete without a decision by one of them due to the fact that, the decision to accept the request, on a certain way is same as "thank the Al-Shabaab terror group to boycott Tanzania.
The group has been doing a terrorist attack in countries that or in one way or another they have been able to help in the army or economically.
Already the group of Al-Square has been made to make attacks in some countries that were seen to support the Somalia government of those countries including Uganda, Kenya, and Ethiopia which for now have been running special military operation in Somalia to deal with Al-Yo.
"Our president has used wisdom of one thing to one of the applications or refusing to pay for a long time of consulting with the management of security issues and his fellow leaders," explained our journalist who was following the meeting of those heads of the country.
Another reason that makes Tanzania to be warning is an issue of existence in power through the transition government of President Ahmed who in accordance with the agreement, it is supposed to end his term in August this year when the conclusion of existence of that government in power is together with taking place in a free election in the country.
"There are all signs that those resolutions are not easy to come out due to various reasons including the war that is going on and also a transition government that has been unable to restore the state of peace in that country," explained our news reporter.
After those talks, President Kikwete gave a brief statement to the press saying, they have been involved in collaboration with checking the condition between our two countries and that Somalia will need to get experience in different issues from Tanzania in the areas of security and security, "President Ahmed said," we have every reason to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and that Somalia will need to get experience in different issues from Tanzania in the areas of defense and security. "President Ahmed said," we have every reason to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and that Somalia will need to get experience in different issues from Tanzania in the areas of defense and security. "President Ahmed said," we have every reason to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and that Somalia will need to get experience in different issues from Tanzania in the areas of defense and security.
"We still need development, to build a strong and security institution and the best social sectors and therefore we request the support of Tanzania," he said in a short time.
The president arrived in Arusha from Turkey where there was a meeting that was organized by the Turkey government to discuss the future of the country that is not invited since the year 1991 after being defeated in the administration of President Siyan Barsheba.
More than 20 years of fighting corruption, it has caused the country to lose more than one million people due to the disease of hunger and war while thousands of their homes and live in the refugees camp in neighboring countries of Kenya.
In another step, recently the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Benard Membe, explained that the stand of Tanzania about the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC), in East Africa countries.
Participating in the television program run by a veteran journalist in the country, General Ulimwengu, that is aired every Monday at Channel Ten television station, Membe said the introduction of the Court of Channel Ten television, Membe said the establishment of the Court of Channel Ten television, Membe said the establishment of the Court of Channel Ten television, Membe said that the establishment of the Court of Channel Ten television, Membe said the establishment of the Court of Channel Ten television in Kenya was no relationship with announcing the accused of criminal offenses in Kenya.
This "this has no reason we aim to ensure the cases of Kenyans in the criminal state could be brought in the country, within the East African Community.
What is being started here is the court's branch, "said Membe.
