
Mchaga answered Yesuu!
Brightiles 21, 2013.

The veteran musician and Edmund Rutaraka who won the African Stars band who are using Twanga Pepeta Band, Hamis Kayun, "he has decided to leave the band after the last five years.
Previously when he was a secret news where Amen as he did not want to put it open about her Twanga Pepeta Band, but the media has begun to report him and he decided to come out and put it open about that decision.
Amen as he was being taken as a sign of being patient with musicians who have been normal to leave from one band to another one every year, while there were only one band for more than one person without stopping.
The owner of that band, Asha Baraka was quoted by different media houses and seen being beaten by Amen as he was surprised by his band which will make music at a big hotel in and outside the country.
One of his answers was quoted saying, "I don't have a problem and relocate from Amen as well as I have been with a long time especially considering that his age has already been stable as the past, therefore, by electing music from a hotel.
However, Mke Mwema came out so as to get his statement, Asha Baraka known as he found when he was speaking earlier on the report when it was launched.
"You do not leave, follow through Amen as' no for me, I am not news again, I am getting this information on the newspapers, therefore you cannot ask you or not a person," said Asha Baraka.
But our reporter told him that the journalists are not allowed to get information on the newspapers but it's from one of the concerned parties said, "I don't want him to follow me how you feel but to me, that is not news."
Amen as he spoke with the journalists at different times he emphasized that he has withdrawn from the band to check his life with his family, but he clarified that he does not have a chameleon with the owner of the band and left his intention.
African Stars that was officially started in the year 1999 and got great popularity as a result of its spherical guidelines which were apprehended in the country, an act of Mpemba, and the neighborhood has changed themselves in that band where up to now they have burnt down people.

Previously, African Stars was playing music at the hotel and it's starting with his home, Darcoboa, Andy Mkwajuni, Patrick Marimo and Amen as it was approximately 15 years ago.

Later to change his name known as African Revolution, 'China. "when it reached in the year 1999, then when it arrived in the year 1999, that was mentioned by the African Stars Band using a yellow card that is known as Twanga Pepeta Band.

They have started living with African Stars Band are Lucha Demokrasia na Nzambe ', Yvonne Cole, "Kataaha," Ally Choki, in Mkwajuni, Joseph Simbakary, Joseph Manguanjuki and Ally Choki.

Up to now, artists who have never passed from the band since its establishment is only two of Mbutu and Amen as he was given his band for now a good child for Asha Baraka and Luena.
