
DPO is expected to contest the ministers on May 23, 2012.

While the Civic United Front (CUF) organized by seizing a total of 47 counties in Tanzania Mainland, the presidential candidate of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor Willibrod Slaa, has started preparing to form a new government, Almighty God, have noted.
The political reports that joined Doctor Slaa himself, say that there are already experts of that party, they have already done research of a new government structure that will have a council of 15 ministers and five ministers.
Speaking to Good Citizen on phone when he was on his way to Singida yesterday, Doctor Slaa confirmed to prepare a small government that he said will be successful contrary to now because many of them were lost in administration activities instead of going on development and community services.
"It is true I am preparing to form a government with a few ministers. There is no department that is swelled, but he will not have enough authority to work together and there will be enough system and keen on accountability," said Doctor Slaa.
The presidential candidate who has been planting the charts at speed and involving his fellow candidates including the presidential candidate of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), President Jakaya Kikwete, has said that permanent secretaries and directors in the concerned ministry will be used more than every day performance.
The investigation of Good Citizen has revealed that the concerned ministry is together with the ministry of law which the attorney general is the only one that will be the deputy chairman of the ministry, while the Ministry of Education is the only one that will have two deputy ministers who are in charge of higher education and another education in primary, secondary and technical colleges.
One senior member of parliament has told Good Citizen that, the biggest reason for the two directors of education is due to the expectations and great goals in the education sector in order to implement the promises of Doctor Slaa in providing free education and therefore it is a must for the supervisors of the party's policies in the education sector.
Other ministries are the ministry of agriculture, environment and development in the villages, the ministry of industries, business and tourism which will have one assistant in the ministry of security, science and technology, the ministry of communication, science and technology, and ministry of local government and community development.
According to the news ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation joined by the Ministry of East African Cooperation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East Africa cooperation, on directions that there is no importance of having two ministries with the highest cost of tax evasion.
One of the expert who participated in the research on the purchase of the new council of Doctor Slaa, has said that they will make a new ministry of energy and resources of the nation with the aim of making sure that the benefit from the use of national resources are done very keenly and for the interests of the nation there are many.
Another ministry in accordance with the reports are health and new ministry of work and alternative benefits, that will supervise the interests of workers together with the retired to avoid complaints present now concerning the rights of retired and elderly as a result of bad performance in the government.
The last ministry has been known as the ministry of ministry of construction and transport which will supervise the issues concerning the new plan of the government of Doctor Slaa on the construction of the construction and transport with an aim of enabling them to enable more than 350.
Speaking in details about how the current government is used in the national resources, Doctor Slaa said the government is using more than 75 percent of its revenue for administrative use and small areas that remain is used in the use of development and community services.
"This government of Kikwete is the most expensive government in this country.
For example, only a small example will see it is used by 166 billion for the purpose of suffering from 109 teachers. The level of allowances is more than 59 percent of the salaries at the international level is 25 percent.
"Tanzania is a very poor country in the world, but when big nations are suppressing the use of we, we are using a lot of money for instance, we are doing a lot of money for now, he is at the University of Dar es Salaam, Mlimani City.
CUF uprooting the leaders of CCM on his side, CUF has begun being proud to be open by giving an evaluation called Michongo festival to show that it has the sure of getting into 47 counties of the parliamentary seat in Tanzania Mainland, a results that has said are different from Zanzibar Islands where he is expected to collect many parliamentary seats and member of parliament.
A lot of constituencies that are mentioned are the provinces of Lindi and Mtwara where information from CUF are saying that two government ministers that broke its time can be defeated by the candidates of the party.
Ministers being mentioned to be in charge of information, culture, and sports, George Mkuchika, who is also the deputy secretary general of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Tanzania Mainland, Mkuchika (CCM), who is competing for that position in Newala district, Lindi province.
Another one that is on the chest with CUF is Hawa Ndilowe, who is the member of parliament for his term in Mtwara Rural constituency.
CUF's campaign manager, Mohamed Miraji, giving an evaluation of the party in an interview with the phone from Shinyanga, Bugesa constituency, on Monday this week, he said the evaluation of his party since the start of the campaign until now is expected to attain it, from 47 constituencies in the provinces of Zanzibar.
According to those regions have been involved in the A group and that with a lot of controversy, have been put in group A + SHS in because there will be a large number of votes compared to those of A and B + B, Miraji said that 20 constituencies have benefited from.
While clarifying that award B which is different from B + E, that leader noted that the meaning of that award is that a great extent will depend on how CUF and the concerned candidates in those regions will play in Karimjee in the last minutes.
"With her meaning, we have a lot of victory by 90 percent, B + 5 we have victory which is not a huge number of votes and B we can win by depending on this which will be accompanied by the presidential candidate of CUF, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba.
He mentioned the regions where their assessment has given out points that it is Mchunga that was led by Benedict Liwenga.
Others are Handeni led by who got to be the third Vice President, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and Mtwara villages led by the minister of state, office of the president, public service management.
Elsewhere in the South Africa which has flown from Tunduru town under the member of parliament of CCM who is completing his term, Mtika Abdallah Mtika, another is Tanga town which was under the former minister for security for citizens, Harfanti from Lindi Town, Mohammed Alef Sherief.
Other are Geita regions so as to evade being under Ernest Mabina, Liwale District, Liwale District, Masasi, which by any time it will give a new member of parliament after receiving his term, procedure of humor and was defeated in the opinion polls.
Elsewhere in the northern region that was under Zlin Roida who is under Zito, Kilwa North, for Doctor Samson Mpanda, which was led by Professor Idris Mtulya (CUF) has been led by Professor Idris Mtulya (CUF), who is currently the candidate of CUF.
Singida Town constituency under the member of parliament who is completing his term, Richard Ndassa, that has been mentioned by CUF to be safe for a victory, as it is in Lushoto region that was led by member of parliament for his term, Ahmed Ally Salum.
Mtwara Town under the member of parliament who is completing his term, Mohamed Said Sinare, that has been mentioned to remain in the hands of CUF.
He said the campaign of this year, CUF has come out in the villages more than the city and that situation is due to the fact that previously the opposition parties did not invest in those areas.
"Professor Lipumba has prepared himself more in the villages and that is where the party has been seen to be heard more.
But in another step, that leader told him that the police force under the leadership of inspector general, Saidi Mwema, saying he has condemned the campaigns of different elections with the big police in the last phase.
On his side, the candidate of CCM, Jakaya Kikwete has continued with his campaigns in Lindi province from Pwani province, he has urged the public leaders to stop doing themselves in providing services including the availability of loans for entrepreneurs or tractors.
"These loans are for entrepreneurs we have provided to poor people that do not have great income and do not have an opportunity to get loans from anywhere, this is not the loans for leaders to maintain themselves themselves," said Kikwete thanking him in the campaign meeting of the general elections in Kasulu Town, Pwani province.
President Kikwete finished that call while addressing the residents of Kilwa Masoko in Kilwa district, Lindi province, at another meeting that took place the day before yesterday, Monday, at the Mkapa Bridge.
While insisting the importance of giving them great and small loans in the way of justice, Kikwete told those citizens.
"These tractors are not used to strengthen the officers so as to lend the ordinary people in the government's effort to uplift people from poverty," he urged the council candidates through CCM to ensure they sell the situation after the general election, and to make sure that the loans have reduced.
"Our work we have the leaders is to protect the rights and interests of the citizens so that we can work to defend the interests of the few people, we're here to supervise the interests of many people and this is the work that our party has been getting away from Tanu and until CCM," he said.
