
Why the government is not supposed to go back the firefighting exercise.
If jokes in June 16 that was being waited for using fake phones is about the previous day it seems to be a long time when it was heard easily.
But if you said Swahili language, the night of debt is a short time and the use of fake phones is the debt, we are required to pay.
Most of the still believe that maybe the firefighting and fake phones have been pushed forward by the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) as it was the time of registration of phone lines by not seeing the fans of TCRA to prevent it and I will not support the decision if it had been done.
It is clear that some of the decision of switching off those phones within six months is little, but the truth is that all the days of BADEA.
Issues of some people that the decision will be able to come many Tanzanians without communication because they use fake phones that are inspiring.
It is clear that the fake phones have helped grow the availability of phone services in the country to reach 18 percent on December last year from 50 percent in the year 2010, but its donation was not legal and we cannot resolve the illegal because it has been a donation when the possibility of having clean people have people.
There are many effects that come from counterfeit mobile phones, especially mobile phones or happiness.
First, any electronic device is a must to be done well so as to be satisfied with the sure of working for a long time and on security to reduce the effects on the user.
In order to go with those needs, that phone producers it put a bond (he was a terrorist) of the concerned products so that they can be destroyed within a short period of time they will end or do a new device.
Unfortunately, the users of fake phones do not give a lot of information and even when you know there, your device was destroyed and go to the shop is not easy to follow it when they do, try to find out.
This is a loss to the buyer who had a simple way to buy a phone that was seen as a easy price with all modern things, but it changed the cost and gives a loss to human beings that can be able to bring effects to human beings if its battery will be avoided.
The second risk of fake phones is that big areas will not be allowed to leave, I'm in the technical bench for more than nine years now, and the big problem we are facing with it in many sections, are lack of aspects of those phones.
If you leave a lot of noise, due to companies that make sure they need to run and spread in large numbers because of legal fear, still many equipment which were made in those phones do not pass it easily.
Most of the real time the real time we design for the real time, in a lot of fake phones have been seen in a situation that a technician who has poor equipment of an actor and doesn't understand that if there are real equipment that concern them easily.
Apart from the lack of those phones, some of the fake phones is an easy price in the market to an extent of even going in line with the cost of learning and vocational training for those involved in the poor.
Following those losses, fake phones have defended the government a loss because many reasons are put in a huge way to evade taxes by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in that logic, the government has lost its own part of its revenue before this decision of switching off fake phones.
The fear of lack of users after TCRA urged citizens to understand the reality of their phones by checking number 189 (IMEI), some people are using data and importance of phones in financial services as a way of persuading fake equipment not to be cultivated.
Sierra has said that those politics even a little of them have already discovered the importance of communication and phones have been part of our business and social life.
If a person found himself using fake phones since six months ago, why did not hesitate to collect a little money so that he can buy a new amount to 30,000 shillings?
In addition to that fake phones had a lot of modern services and the camera in the price, there are also real phones with the ability, at a price of an average of the availability of the relevant equipment.
There are many mobile phone companies in the country through a program of prices and kind of needs, the same price is easy for internet services and the camera spread of Samsung, Techno, Nokia, Him, StarTimes, Hallidum and various others.
By December last year, TCRA improved there was more than 396 million shillings of the mobile phones that are used this year, it means that even if the fake phones has been tested for more than four million because mobile phones are estimated to be three million.
However, those who did you will be for a long time and in a short time, they will run and continue with the journey, they can bring politics to bring development in the country. Fake phones are must to be discussed.
