The value of a phone is a better life for every Tanzanian?
Jide 17, 2013.

While the price of talk time on phone is high and with controversy in all social networks in the country, while we were surprised by talking to our representatives in parliament and ensure that what is called better life for every Tanzanian, we are added with this tax collection of phone.
In addition to the great benefits that will be used by this tax (as we are explained, which is not different from what we are saying every year without seeing the implementation, this is still a big burden to someone who is using his phone for a must and important needs.
Private, I have no doubt and the ratio between the money and a long time, what I get more than one thousand shillings, the system is used to ensure that I won the value of one thousand shillings, being one thousand shillings for three minutes, being contrary to someone who complained.
Also, the rate of tax and the use of the phone use of the phone has claimed that the ones who use a phone to produce one million shillings per month, has paid ten thousand shillings per month and the one that produces ten thousand shillings in a month and is over one thousand shillings per month.
We have been infected with this phone company (same as drugs) that the funds get in phones is a must go ahead and buy.
It shows openly that phone internet in the country are making benefits more than giving this service is the same because they are doing business so that their business can be good for providing better service and not under the standard of phone and paying tax payment.
For modern machines, phone companies can be able to know which people are using their services to make great benefits and what people are using their networks for a must, sending money, sending fees and other small use.
For example, those who use the M-Pesa service, those who use more than ten million shillings on the network for a month, how come to pay more than one thousand shillings equivalent to fifty thousand per month?
