If you go to Grind.
That station has been closed on agriculture, then in the province, to give assistance from farmers and it has been set aside, this video started a primary school in Butiama District and the one that will help them.
To reach the farmers in providing education it is a revolution in agriculture, we make sure that the project has also been improved so that five taxes of farmers does not like to affect the relationship.
There and irrigation of the type of life, it's said that will be used in the current farming because of building a economy, we have farmers, the farmers, the farmers, the farmers, the farmers, the farmers, the farmers, and if you are our members.
For the project.
You are required to farmers themselves as your impatient, you can't know whether to perform communication thus we will help them is a working team that the preparations will go to travel and today it gives his bicycle with.
One of the new villages that are on the project so that their technical ones can be able to walk and visit to the servants of the Anglican Church diocese of Congo who is also the chairman of his father's board, Ommy Dimpoz, that was speaking after visiting the fifty-scale farmers including the farmers of Mtwara province.
In five units, he said the aim of the tour of his board in groups of farmers is to identify some of the challenges and a lasting solution.
And the aim is to see the challenges where groups do not have development.
Therefore, see you eat at the station.
We saw these challenges that we see today, we will discuss this board to discuss this board not to explain the way it is not seen and this is not the whole of his part as the acting secretary of Butiama District, exchanging ideas with the authorities to give the great strength between giving education to farmers and pastoralists about agriculture and modern farming.
If it is able to change farming for subsistence, business people with an albino, to think that their work will be so much because they are not found.
The ones only help the poor are doing what is easy to you, we will be actor easily and see what things are complete so that you cannot end in the part.
A big challenge is.
That office goats in poor households.
Can I live.
But the reception poured.
The seeds of livestock set it does not have a savior but the three things are self-reliance because we are not involved.
As province, I am early ten o'clock.
Government trees.
