President clarifying an agreement to China to return to Obama?
Mr, 27, 2013.

Approximately 10 days just after getting to China at the State House, the president of that country, XI explaining it is said to be able to compete with the President of the United States, Barack Obama in the list of famous leaders, with great and great strength in the world, a work that was done for a long time now.
Research that was done by one of the Forbes magazine has mentioned the president of China, XI explaining how it is between the most popular people in the world with great strength while the President of America Barack Obama, leading that list.
The research was done in the year 2012 when XI was not the president of China, Pope Benedict, who is in that list, at that time he has not yet announced his decision to resign from the position of Father, the main leader of the Catholic church in the world.

The Forbes magazine started research about the famous people with strong people as well as prominent people since the year 2009, and has been going on with that procedure.
In every year, the research brought together different criteria including the ability of those involved in various parts of the world, and even if you are among the criteria, in a certain way.
For example, in the year 2009, there were 67 competitors in the year 2010 to 68 percent of the year 2011, the competitors in those positions were 70, and for last year the competitors were 71 percent.
However, when he was heading to XI, how it can move more in the research of this year because it is now the president of China, the country which is the number two in the economic growth in the world will be held by America.
Apart from that, the XI am explaining how it can shine by concentrating on the record of his predecessor, Ho'clock in the year 2010, the Forbes magazine showed that the Forbes magazine that was leading in the world, followed by the 44 president of America, Barack Obama.
The list of last year.
In last year, Barack Obama is the one leading, followed by the German Embassy, Angela Merkel, and the president of Russia, Vladimir Putin, he held the third position.
Rich Bill Nas, she was in the fourth position last year, followed by Father of 265 of the Catholic church, Pope Benedict Liwenga, while he held the sixth position with the King of Saudi Arabia, Abdullah was called Abdul Aziz-Saudi, he held the sixth position.
President of the European Bank, Rogasian Kaijage, was put on the eighth position, while the current president of China, at that time before the president was put in nine positions out of the best 10 people with great strength in the world.
The list of the year 2011.
Barack Obama is the lead in the year 2011, followed by Vladimir Putin that at that time he was the prime minister of Russia and the third position was taken by the former President of China, Angela Marusu, who was abducted in the fourth position as he was accused by Bill Clinton of America in the fifth position.
The king of Saudi Arabia, Abdullah is Abdul Aziz-Saudi, had seized the sixth position in front of Pope Benedict Liwenga and the chairman of the United Nations, Ben Saanane, "he held the eighth position in the year.
The solution to the social network of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg has said that he was in the nine position, he was announcing the old minister of England, David Cameron.
The list of the year 2010.
In that last year, Obama was removed from the first position by the president of China at that time, Hu JRecords who was the first number one, followed by Obama, while the king of Saudi Arabia, Abdullah was scored by Saudi Arabia, who held the fourth position.
Pope Benedict Liwenga who was in the fifth position, Angela Merkel, has completed the sixth position in the England prime minister, David Cameron, in position seven, Ben Pol who was born in the third position with Bill gates, was thrown out in the 10th position.
