Norway from the heart about gas.
Jide 24, 2014.

The Government of Norway has broken her silence about the issue of its Statoil company to enter the contract of gas and oil and the National Development Corporation (TPDC) which is contrary to the example of an example (SMS).
The ambassador of Norway in the country, though I thank our citizens in Dar es Salaam city this week that his government has reached about the complaints of the contract but he said that issue is business and will be resolved. "
"We have heard about those complaints but Statoil, although is owned by the government at a large extent, they run business and is the reason to be among the companies with more benefits the world in that sector.
"Any agreement which have been done between TPDC and ExxonMobil energy which were business and the government of Norway did not be involved in any way, as the side of Tanzania to believe there are weaknesses, then I communicate with each other so that eventually the right time to be taken to them," he said.
The statement by the Ambassador is the first to be released by the government of Norway or Statoil and since they came out for the contract on social media earlier this month.
Norway is one of the countries that contribute so much in training to help communities to benefit from their wealth, in the oil area, and lost the signing of this contract which causes a controversy in the intentions of the nation in the private sector in the country.
Tanzania is expected to lose billions of shillings as a result of signing up through TPDC, an agreement for looking for natural gas (center) that gives the big foreign revenue against the way those contracts are required to be in accordance with the government itself.

According to an example of example, which has been set even in TPDC website, those contracts is divided into two parts of the first time when the production is in the production time as a high level.
An example of example explained that during the production is small, the investor will return all its cost of production and the only thing will be available between them by TPDC.

That agreement explained that during the production time, the investor will return its cost and the only thing gets into the government to get 80 percent of the class while an investor got 20 percent.
That agreement of example has shown an assurance that the investor can be able to pay up to 70 percent of all gas which are using it as its cost of production and therefore basically it is divided among the government and the investor is only 30 percent.

However, the contract that attracted sentiments shows that during the production being under the production, crude oil will get 70 percent while TPDC received 30 percent and at the production being high.
This means that in every 100 unit of gas that will produce, for the first one will get 70 houses to compensate the cost and another one unit (equivalent to 85), while TPDC (Tanzania) ended up to 15 unit, while it is also expected to pay shillings because it's a license to own the area.
The government through TPDC, has not announced that agreement, except it has denied the agreement, except it has resolved to offenders, claiming that they are enough the issue.
Through his executive director, Yona Killango, (TPDC) said that in that issue, Tanzania will benefit from the agreement due to the collection of various taxes.
However, the chairperson of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), Zitto Kabwe, said the government has made mistakes to get into that contract because it could not get a example of an example that TPDC could not get the 24 unit in every 100 conducted instead of 15 that will continue with this contract that attracted him.
