
The leaders in Zanzibar should have the courage and justice to follow on the right of 5 o'clock.

Wembley Stadium said, "every wind has been in the country" and the wind that we have today is a democratic nation, on Thursday, we should live in a democratic environment although democracy will be young and has several units for several factors.
However, the people of Zanzibar and their colleagues in the mainland can baptize, because they have freedom to discuss and say, they have freedom to give their views without fear of interference from the state agencies.

Sufiani said that state agencies have not been trying to write this freedom and they have tried but they were unable to have one party with a political party with a leader with the ability and the ability to make him have a command on the entire political party in the country.

In the past few days, the leader by using legal ways or shivered, had a habit of doing so well and therefore doing so in conjunction with its responsibilities, citizens and ensuring that they shouldn't jump said, "against his action.

Contrary to the things that, at those days, you can also be able to see the laws that are not affected by our citizens, the situation that is in Zanzibar when the country is run in one political party system since the year 2011 until 1995.

The constitution of Zanzibar, in its sections involved in human rights, it gives the citizens of the law and decision of the policies of those who are chosen to rule the administration of the country.

At the time of elections, the citizens should be able to elect him for another time or to elect him for another time or when they cast their thing, the citizens do a lesson so as to consider the actions of those leaders and it doesn't concern them or not according to their requirements.

The establishment of the national government of the national Union has not been forced to have signed with CCM parties or CUF, which is how the political parties in the country did not affect the government so that those parties have established the government together.

But those parties will be together to cooperate in the administration for just some time.

In a democratic system for political party where it was selected to rule it is being given an authority to change the whole nation of the party usually has a bond of checking their votes in elections and even those who don't go to vote, therefore, the government and his president are expected to have good governance and to respect the law.

Normally in the system of such kind, the government leaders have learned from having policies to protect the citizens or the ones that sell their rights and basically the ones for having freedom in the union of the United Republic of Zanzibar.

It is important to see these laws although we look at a briefing especially when we focus on the state of issues as in Zanzibar Islands, it is important because Zanzibar has found themselves in the danger of the future of people of Zanzibar which must be affected by disaster.

No one will understand that Zanzibar's Zanzibar is Zanzibar, peace, calmness, unity and a goalless draw.

It is clear that the current exercise of the process of making the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania is giving an opportunity to all the leaders of Zanzibar together with all the people of Zanzibar in general to participate in the debate which took 74 matches.

It is a good thing and request to see that the debate has enabled many to see their views and each one of them, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, the Vice President of Zanzibar, ministers of parliament and their institutions.

In the end of my level I have been saying that some of the leaders have risen up about their disappearance and playing in Karume on their differences with an aim of assessing the citizens so that they can attract us intellectually and it is one of the challenges of a democratic system.
There is wrong things where he is used to fulfill that goal.

There are two things, others, but it is saying that when the leader caused threats from the first, using threats that he sees the weaknesses of his second position, is showing that she doesn't have a need to use force or get a threat to the people with fighting with her.

What's surprising thing is that recently reports are being used by some of the leaders in Zanzibar, it is one of their ways of blocking him in patriotism and to reduce the speed of the debate that is going on.

It is important that the debate continues to be free and open and so on, it is important that the results of the debate should be taken to them by the requirements of the people of Zanzibar with the fact that every time they go through their status and for a long time has been used.

It will be a great sin if any leader will use his authority to mobilize the citizens so that nobody would recognize them, it is a sin to any leader to lure them on the citizens with an aim of rebuking the eyes in order that nobody would recognize them.

The condition of the right is not another but to be afraid, and it is a big sin to be done by other creatures that are being done by other creatures that are being done by other creatures.

Sifuna Mchome has revealed that many of the people of Zanzibar have no faith in the current constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.

Normally, today the people of Zanzibar don't know their rights and there is no group among them, or even any community in Zanzibar, with an aim of launching a political situation in peace, calmness and unity.

That situation also wants the people of Zanzibar to be with one thoughts about the union without taking care of their party and that's why it is not true that he has already announced the opinion of people of Zanzibar people to talk like it and therefore it will be able to verify their rights.
