An ancient attack, Mbeya youth lights that are measurable.
Jide 17, 2014.

The late Emmanuel Kalobelo, (36), is the youth lights in Mbeya town that are measurable, "his death is proud of many, and in that song everyone is saying.
Emmanuel Kalobelo, who was born on October 16, 1978, and died on July 08, at Tumbi hospital, Kibaha after suffering from suddenly where he was explained by doctors that it is sugar.
For the youths that voted for me, they did not know what happened, that the other young man, who contributed to ways of heading to success, they are not there again.
They intend to believe that my fellow youth who came out in their generation and told them to actions that every issue is possible under the sun, that a primary thing in life is an aim and not giving up, that the youth needs to dodge the life and fight for them.
The late Emmanuel or popularly known by his name Kocha, has appealed to the education on actions, he had any statements since his past, he once started the journey to look for success in his life, he did not wait until when he was a student.
Adeline Marx has been an example to be followed by youth in Mbeya and the country in general, who have ever handed over their lives, her colleagues made him from their studies and until his death, it was a scholar a scholar.
The success of being seen in the community of a youth Emmanuel Kalobelo, will make a period of ten years, it's in that period when he started his form six secondary school, to complete his first secondary school's first degree in business administration (Business Administration).
It is in the period where he entered into politics and elected as the secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM in Mbeya town region, the independent lawyer, opening a modern radio station of Clouds FM in Mbeya town and when his death is in the final stages to start a modern television station.
Emmanuel Kalobelo, was a pillar for other youths in the city, they believe that if you put an intention, every issue is possible, and many started following her footsteps, gave them the courage to fight with life.
His success is the foundation of various items that are given after his death, most of them did not believe that it is normal.
"It's impossible for Mister people have decided to ask ourselves how his speed has reduced, it was heard a member of parliament," was heard a boy who complained.
However, the hospital reports indicate that the late died from the diabetes problem.
The deceased's brother who is an editor of the government's newspapers in the government, Oscar Chinchila explained that they could not know and believe it is a report that he was given by doctors that he died from the sugar problem.
Together with the family's statement, in Mbeya City, most of the people are very different, they do not believe that they are normal, they are needed more with politics with the pace of success in life, they will make some politicians.
Some of the leaders inside CCM, mentioned in the estates, claims that its stand against the management of public resources in the city.
A lot about the death of a youth Emmanuel Kalobelo, are not in youth or normal citizens, but even to some political leaders, they believe that his habit of putting open what he believes are not pleasing some of the politicians.
The late has been named in the race for the parliamentary seat in Mbeya town region, which for now his member of parliament is Joseph Mbilinyi (CHADEMA), and this is also confirmed by the chairman of CCM in Mbeya town region when he was giving birth to his party on the funeral.
"I ever asked, chairperson, what's the reputation of someone who wants to contest for the presidential candidate or member of parliament, I believe it had a dream, though I don't know me directly," he said.
The statement was seen to put weight in some of the residents of that town who believe that there are other reasons outside health care, but the time has been using more than the dream of that youth.
Most of them asked, the dream of their youth was what we are especially, parliamentary or presidential candidates, and many believing that they have a great opportunity to take the seat for the parliamentary seat, the foundation of that faith in fighting for what he believes and are not known.
There are some who believe that the late could kill them in the presidential race since the courage was to have.
However, the member of the national executive council of CCM (NEC) Deusdediti Rashid has thrown out the claims he termed as summoning demons.
