
What comes to you shortly.
And apologized.
The United Republic of Lufunga yesterday wanted citizens to come out in large numbers to oppose the proposed constitution as required by the government to implement security laws while it only had only one day before the fate of that game.
Probably, the leaders of Geology has given that call after realizing that there is a big possibility that was passed tomorrow due to the large number of members of Diamond who already has given them.
The head of Cord Raila Odinga has stated that the operation was dangerous and said that many Kenyans are the ability of preventing themselves as you do not be educated.
"
Speaking at a public meeting that was called to discuss the agreement in Pambani County, Nairobi, yesterday, that political leader gave ten reasons which he believes are enough for that process was born.
Those reasons related to the occasion of media houses, the national security department (I) has been given great authority that can be used to do the opposition parties and the citizens do not depend on the right to meet and inspect them.
"Tanzania participates in this way and you sell the corners of Swahili, he said if you see a fox which becomes a big hit by her husband.
Therefore, Kenyans are a must to be stable, "he said, while leading the hall that had flooded the slogan of the English Premier League," A and United Nations, Never Ending, (citizens were not allowed).
The former running mate of Correa scored, she denied his statements that the president Uhuru Kenyatta, on the Czech Republic, that they are opposing the song, "Masau boasted.
"We want to tell me there is no wonder, there is no boundaries and we are not terrorists. The attempt to disrupt the constitution will be stopped by all the strength we have even so," he said.
The Senator of Baamar said that it will be against the law in that game to be stopped before being presented to the Senate's parliament.
Mister Winfrey has said that they have presented the request of wanting the Senate's special session by tomorrow to discuss the agreement.
The United Republic of Diamond has noted that if the new security laws are needed so as to deal with many events of lack of security which have been ending in the country.
But the organizations for defending human rights have joined the opposition to protest against him and instead of wanting the new constitution to be done to strengthen security.
