
You will learn business people to guide the dangerous food to the health.

It has been written by I heard.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

The businessman of food, fruits that had been put in home, for food production, in the morning or night, is supposed to consider the basis of the health status so as to avoid using his client (consumer).

Business people are supposed to consider the cleaning and ensure the foods that were buried and when they get transported from one area to another, follow keenly, follow it is a sign that a business person involved in the environment is making food and value the security of the customer.
The book called Kitwiru, Competa- food in the country has explained various guidelines of how to live home and business that can be prepared, by considering the safety of the consumer and the organizer of food is important in accordance to the book, the safety of food is important during the purpose of preparing itself.
It has said that the crime that is being done by the organizer of food or a liquefied mixture of food, can cause the consumer of health problems with a long-term problems, "said or lost life." The book seems to have a lot of food or juice.
That means that, the cook of, before preparing important equipment for cooking, it is a must they get hands with soap and we have been able to be taken to the consumer, the book continues or found, going to the consumer of the areas they are needed.
Although the explanations have not aimed at one hour that when trying to get that food, on the side of B is a customer who is expecting to be on the side of a businessman, laying the answers of what was supposed to be followed by any person during transporting food.
By considering the explanation of the book, it should be known that transporting food by considering the conditions of health, it does not depend on a long distance, which is used to be arraigned in order to take a lot of steps, the possibility that he has enabled us to be a big percentage with 100 percent.
Experts of food and food issues from this network, have fallen in the 84th minute, they are saying, by considering the safety of food and consumer, where it was prepared, it was supposed to be done at that time.
Furthermore, that network explained that if the consumers are far from food where it was organized, the organizer of high table (health) or the cook, is supposed to be keen on implementing the following day (not in the picture) to make sure that it does not depend on more than the required consumer.
It is reported that, it is not good for the food security to be prepared earlier and are unable to stop for more than five hours before being eaten by the network that it has said, doing so is causing a lot of people not to be returned.
"But to the organizers of modern equipment, they can prepare food at three hours before being welcomed to the table, because they are not covered all times, even after a few minutes since they were found, a customer or consumer will be sold at the table ready to start eating.
It is said that it's supposed to happen if the customer or the consumer is not far.
About serving food and a place where it was organized, for example the second side of road or in schools that are outside that where it was organized, organizer or food attendant should be done to prevent food or food shortages.
When you have a batch of food to their hands and being open, due to the explanations of the Ambassador Kitila Competera, you can bring various danger including; therefore, in the open area, you can't jump and instead they will end a lot of time to return to each other.
Other danger which the book has explained and insisted that it is capable of causing the consumer to be deducted because it is capable of preventing themselves in food that are open as an effort to make sure they do not get married and they do not tire you.
It has said that when he was carrying food or fruits that had been stolen, he went to follow the consumer and sometimes they are forced to cross the road, he will have touched me in other areas of his body, or not having people's hands as he was greeting.
"The act gives the loopholes of those bacteria in dust and another motorcycle riders, moving to foods that they carried out, especially when they used to hold it," said part of the book.
Shortly, that book explains that, to guide the food that it is dangerous to the health of the consumer and also leads that, even if it does not depend on food, food was prepared and the table is a must to be keen on how to consider the environment.
The book that makes two types of bacteria who is popularly known as summoning demons, is affecting the food consumer, a lot of food from food (food) and another one, the bacteria, who do a few hours.
It is said that it is not a threat to the disease to the consumer as he is to be dealt with in urine, what will sell food to be poison because they communicate with the writer through phone.
The 752 kilograms of 790, 90 percent of the yellow card will prevent it as BISON.
