
Ludovick Utouh has signed EPA who went back, Escrow account.
Dec 18, 2014.

The controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) retired, Ludovick Utouh has said that the government is required to ensure its funds that were in the Tegeta Escrow account are going back as it was with EPA.

In his interview with Raia Mwema, that took place in Dar es Salaam city this week, Ludovick Utouh said that if he was given an opportunity to advise President Jakaya Kikwete about what to do an issue of Escrow without doubt, he told ensure he gets first money that got lost.

"First, let me say that he has contributed the proposal of the government that we are believed to be rigged.

"My advice is that investigations are required to take place and those who are found to do the theft then they take them the money they got into the court.

"People who complained about the scholars of MNH are doing so much and they were left back, something that is not true, the funds were going back to court and continue to date, what we have talked.

"Recently, there is a problem if someone will return the money that he took?

"I am saying here, a good thing is that one should continue with a case for many years and if you use public funds to return to them or at least make sure that the funds were taken as usual?

"Wanted money to be informed, it does not be careful not to forgive the suspects, but its meaning is to make sure that which was taken is first," said Ludovick Utouh.

In the interview that has been published on the 12 and 13 page of this newspaper, Ludovick Utouh said it is correct for the CAG report about the Escrow issue to say the funds that were in the Escrow account are public and also the public because that is the truth.

"If you followed up the debate on parliament, the first thing that was said and it's true that it is an issue of taxes within the money that was there in the Escrow account there were tax property, therefore, in that area of tax, the public funds are there.

"The second issue is in the history of the introduction of that account, IPTL and TANESCO had conflicts concerning the payment of Capacity Building, a conflict that was big and they decided to put up money for the payments to the Escrow account while waiting for their process to the International Court of Miguel.

"Now, I am talking to you as an example, if you are not ripe, that IPTL had already paid 30 million shillings per day, TANESCO had to think that they are born with those costs.

"They went to court to give him a decision that came from that, it is true that TANESCO had reduced those costs so as to give the voluntary contribution to the board so that the CAG does not have the authority to take advantage of the service.

"Therefore, if you take care of this service, maybe if you talk to IPTL, it would have been vying to 20 billion shillings per day, because its different from 30 shillings that are charged by 20 shillings that are being built by 20 billion shillings, it would have enough shillings.

"This means that, in every ten thousand shillings in Escrow, if you remove the value of taxes, 20 shillings were given to IPTL because of its electricity generated from ten thousand shillings which are TANESCO and public institutions," he said.

For more information about God?
