
Drivers who were kidnapped in DRC to continue with.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

10 drivers who were kidnapped by the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), have said they will continue with the driving work while going outside the country, because what happened is an accident at work as it is in work.

One of the drivers who came back to the country the day before yesterday and was received at the Julius Nyerere International Airport, Dar es Salaam, remember Suleiman said that the work that they did, therefore if they stop there, the day they will be employed in other parts and to do that job.
Those drivers who had a lot of affliction including walking for 50 kilometers and another part what does not go back to the rebels who came back to the country through the plane of Rwanda Air Limited (NBL).
He said after arriving they were given a five day tour by their employer and will continue to report to work next Monday where he will also go to know the decisions of their leader at work so as to continue with work or holidays.
They arrived in the country involved in cries of joy from the brothers, relatives and friends after beating them on Wednesday morning of September 14th this year and were awarded by the army of DRC on Thursday evening.
After realizing that, they said that they were tested at night, they found drinking water in stagnant water while conducting a lot of pain and caused them to walk without stopping.
Those drivers after they been redeemed by the hospital of Manufacturing Company, said that they were given pain after they were found dead.
The rebels group Tukulanga, met 13 drivers including a citizen of Kenya.
And wanting to be paid 1 million American dollars (4 million shillings) for everyone to leave the ransom payments which was done in the NHO area, Kivu South, the day before yesterday and four suspects were murdered at a fire.
Among the suspects that were kidnapped by the businessman of Tanzania, Azim Dewji and others are owned by a business person from Kenya and it was destroyed by cement.
Dewji said that he will continue to do business with the DRC country and never that incident and it will make him stop doing business, but that it will do is to ask for soldiers to collect those vehicles in dangerous areas.
He thanked the government of Tanzania and DRC to be with him in hand in the process of removing those drivers and being faced with a fire incidence of its four vehicles and has got a loss of 600 million shillings.
