The eyes of the eyes of a child is Bexhill, Ramsey Nouah.
January 17, 2014.

In addition of his speech concerning the death of the child Henet Ward, Doctor Hagai said that a person who represented the child seems to be a person who does not know him and believe him.

Doctor Hagai said he continued to say that, the child of Bexhill, was arrested like hostage and was found guilty, a situation that the child did not accept it, therefore, it was a game that does not have a lot, "he finished and said Doctor Cheni.

Normally, any case of the killings, the police begins on the eyes of the concerned family or a close person to the family and the family of Ramsey Nouah have been forced to avoid such a few days after the death of that child, John and his colleagues have been questioned for a long time at the death of that child.

John Ramsey and his wife have told the police that this Christmas day went to sleep early because the following day in the morning had a plan to travel to Los Angeles city, for a short time of Christmas.

As they followed the Bexhill, two o'clock at night and that night they did not agree with any other day, the surprising thing that was left vacant by allegations of finances and even so as a result of the police not having enough evidence to open charges.

The next day in the morning of December 29, after a family service that took place in the church of St. John's squad that is in that town of Boodhoo from Ukraine where they held the funeral of their child which was attended by one of the wives which he ever participated in the beauty competition.

At the same time, police were continuing to investigate and investigate about those killings and after several days who came to have reports with symptoms were revealed that between John Ramsey or his wife whom they were involved in the killing of a BLabel.

The police got several recommendations at their house of Boba Lobo, one was a bit tricky subject that was used by acknowledging to write a letter from Ramsey but there are several factors that have been used to write the message but they will be left out of them.

Police have been surprised because they believed that she would have prepared a letter to claim that their payment of ranches.
