Kabendera has promised to sharpen the Majimaji.

It has been written by Alexander Sanga.

I was released, 15th October, 2016.

The leadership of Majimaji soccer team in Ruvuma province has promised to do well and return to his home after getting the new assistant coach of the team Ismail Habibu Makusanya.

Speaking with this newspaper in a special interview, the director of the technical bench of the team, Peter Muhina said that their team will do well has a lot of faith in his team as a result of increasing the coach Kondo Seif as the assistant coach of the team.
Mgwatu said that their team has qualified for a one year contract with Kondo Seif, who will be able to support the Head Coach of WCB.
Kondo Seif is a former player of Yanga team and has defeated the Mwadui team as the assistant coach John Muhina who is the former coach of Majimaji and African Sports, said that there is a former coach of Majimaji and African Sports, said that there is a former player of Majimaji and African Sports, said that there is a former player of Majimaji and African Sports, said that there is a former player of Majimaji and African Sports said that he used their team to work hard, but he has great faith that they will do well in the remaining matches of the Premier League.
On his part says he has a lot of faith and insisted that it is one of the coaches who are used here in the country with great ability, therefore they will partner well in doing well in that league.
He says that who is the former player of Yanga soccer club, Azam and Bradford City of Sweden thanked the fans of Majimaji for continuing to marry off and support for his heart.
He also was surprised by the premier league schedule had been planned due to Simba, Yanga and Azam because they play many games in different parts and outside the country.
He said that what led them to be defeated in the match against Kagera Sugar is lack of only one place but his team played well and for now he believes that his youth have started serving and they are playing a good football.
