Read this topic.
More than a hundred students who arrived at Mzumbe Secondary School located in Mvomero County, Morogoro Province have protested in a long period of ten thousand shillings to the head of that province to present their claims that they did for a long time, he was told that these teachers do not allow students to use computers and the libraries in the school.
Not when you go to the class to teach their home and for those students wanted to be submitted to the head of that province was carrying them to the head of that province.
You are in school.
We are not involved in those environments, I cannot get into one university one hundred thousand students has left.
They use one together.
It is ready.
These are students of Mzumbe Secondary School who have started their protests since eight o'clock at night but after walking for ten o'clock in the morning after walking for ten thousand shillings, while they claimed that for a long time, those who had been built for a short period will be among them and they have decided to say that the period they were within one million and they have decided to say that the period of two hundred thousand students should not be avoided.
He says that our parties and diseases are there.
It is black?
We cannot stay in the dormitories like what I know that the ministers where I met.
I don't want to use any human being, it's not your name for example there's something called in Karume, we are using one group of school.
There in school.
We have done an environment when Jhikoman was able to write one of one hundred students, he has told him.
That one directly and I was ready.
It is a must.
Chemistry.
He is not ready to go back to the school being under leadership when they are looking at with the school.
Her assistant, teachers, teachers, will be paid income and lack of discipline because of the new teachers, she has no discipline.
However, the ruling secretary of Morogoro province, Ferouz Bano arrived at the area on behalf of the head of the province so as to listen to the problems of those students, but they refused the ward to listen and listen to the head of the province who came to him and start her to listen to Bongo Flavor music.
But make sure that we take them to follow me as possible.
But in secret if I visited many years there.
And here is where the reader is getting the complaints?
We know what happens?
On his part, the head of that school, Dismas although has denied the claims that had been given by the students on claims that those students want their claims to be dealt with in short time, an issue that did not want to rest and known it's not only.
And we have done a lot of work that there will be our own kind, which is possible for the time that is facing you, we have told him for Simba being unable to do well.
But to them?
Fast speed is told that I have given three hundred thousand recently.
