
The company that brought the prime minister was scored by Seasons Hotel, 2012.

The company that was the cause of the debate and finally getting married to the former minister of infrastructure, Omar Nundu, China's construction Company (TPA) has been suspended together with members of parliament through the National Assembly on Infrastructure, is accused by the World Bank through Skype and eating bribery, has been known.
Due to those accusations that even so, the company has denied its claims by Guelord Bambini Journal who is in the coastal region of South America, the World Bank has cautioned the loan and payment of any company due to being involved in the corruption scandal.
Apart from that decision by the World Bank, the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) has blamed the company for 10 years of work in the country (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, he warned the ball "the Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, to decide to market the company or not, by considering the current scandal.
According to the World Bank's report that is available on the website of the big financial institution in the world, which has had the policies of giving loans and bond to big international companies in order to achieve their activities in different countries which are of investment and construction, China will not be given any contract with the World Bank.
"The list is recently, it involves a company which will not be given a financial contract with the World Bank for their activities and this is the implementation of the World Bank's policy to oppose the issues of the World Bank that is in the website of that institution.
On the allegations against him, Forum CC is alleged to have a number of its contract through bribery and downloading in some of the countries, in different ways including through its main companies, among those countries, including China, where up to now there is a case between the subsidiary companies of TBL Group with the authority of the country.
But in their defense, through a report that was published in Guelord BTimes magazine, for forgiveness from their projects, they have been running a partnership between the authorities of the concerned country with their company and insisted that every part in the contract has justice and responsibilities.
One of the subsidiary companies of TBL Group, China road and Stamford Bridge (EABC) that was taken in the year 2005 and for TBL Group, it is accused of giving a gift in order to win the tenders for the construction of road construction and the bridge in the country that was funded by the World Bank.
The allegations against Mkamba Rangers have started to continue following the company several weeks after being supported by members of parliament who plays for the expansion of the port of Dar es Salaam.
As a result of the minister for transport in that time, Omar Nundu opposed the company the amount of question is why it is defended by the great force, that minister entered into an clear division with the former deputy minister, Doctor.
Athumani Mfutakamba.
In their tension, the minister reached the step of accused his deputy minister for the journey to go out of the country and the company that he accused the responsibility of the expansion of the port but finally, President Kikwete had given all the responsibility of the council expansion and appointed Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe to be the Minister for Transport, and his Deputy Doctor Charles Tizeba.
Apart from that situation in that tension, port together with the board in collaboration with delegates of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure led by the member of parliament for Kigoma Town, Peter Serukamba, and they were asking for him for Change, but some of the members of parliament including the opposition camp wanted that issue to be emphasized.
A warning by the opposition members of parliament, especially Zitto Kabwe, and John Mnyika, was that the government will put on the work of expansion of the port number 13 and 14 up to be satisfied about the real cost of expansion by looking for a free contractor who will not accept to mention the government at the end of the dock.
In that tension it was open between the port and his board by involving members of parliament on one side and the minister on the other side.
The Tanzania Revenue Authority (PPRA) has already decided to play for that company for 10 unbeaten contract with Minister Mwakyembe about the company that was sent by politicians and the leadership of the port.
In his advice, AG) says that the company already had a contract with the Port Authority about the expansion of the dock number 13 and 14 before the decision by the World Bank and that by considering the new reports of the scandal to that company, any decision can be taken.
Our news source has informed us the writer that, now it is the responsibility of the ministry to decide to stop the company to continue with the work of the expansion of the port or to market the agreement.
However, more investigation has noted that the expansion of the port is run for money from the Barclays Bank of China, and that even if the company will participate in that work, it is a must that China company gets a contract because the conditions of loan is that the job will be released to China company.
Our writer led by the Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, to know the decision by the government after the World Bank continued to put the company from China Communications and Concepts Tanzania Limited companies.
In his explanation, Doctor Mwakyembe apart from saying that PPRA has put "Nisubiri" he has said that the company will compete in the public contract for 10 years, but also confirmed his ministry to receive advice from the attorney general of the government.
"We have received advice from AG (attorney general), for now we are working on the issue so as to see how the best way to make this decision can be able to leave that company without being late in this month, we do not want the expansion of the port," said Doctor Mwakyembe.
