Madenge doesn't cause water?
Sep 25, 2014.

The former prime minister of water, Anthony Mavunde, has said the concept being built as the water project of Lake Victoria was presented by the strength of the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa, who are correct that they have been mentioned.
In a conversation with Raia Mwema, that took place in Mwanza this week and that will be sworn in by the sister's newspaper of the Tanzania citizens tomorrow, Mousa Diallo who is currently the chairperson of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza Province, has put it open for every step about that project.
Basically, Mousa Diallo has explained that the water project resulted from the promise that was given by the third phase president, Benjamin Mkapa, for the citizens of the Lake Region, the year 2000 and if it would have been better if they would have to go to it.
"First, there are two other things that the first projects that was paid by the tax of citizens is the responsibility of the government that is in power, I don't see one person claiming that it has done this opportunity.
.
"I will explain things that are the secret of the cabinet, I cannot release it, but one is that the project had a promise to President Mkapa, in the year 2000, while asking for votes on the second half, when they go to Shinyanga and Kahama.
"Now music was money that will be realized where in 2002, we will begin a lot of talks with these countries that are in the Nile river water and then I am pleased with another minister who will help them, Martha Karima of Kenya, who was the minister of water at that time," said Mousa Diallo.
The statement of Mousa Diallo is first to put in public concerning the project which many times have been mentioned by the aides of Lowassa being among them being important in his party towards the general elections of the year.
Those aides have been saying they are Lowassa who came out and attended the process of removing water problem to the citizens of the Lake Region, especially Shinyanga and Kahama.
In those talks, Olsson explained that as the deputy minister under Lowassa, how he was participating in every step before being transferred to the ministry.
"After that, there was no song that the project will get money from where I have done a small research, I have done a small research, I've not noticed that we can be able to get religious funds anywhere because World Bank (World Bank), people from Egypt have affected us.
"But we also agreed to remember the years before yesterday we are proud of taking these water to the Wikipedia project, many countries have witnessed many tractors and because we have no worries at all, many village have come as a lot of money that will get them.
I explained and the thought that we should not ask for money from President, let us use our money themselves, at the time the money for tax collection has started in a lot of money, then we told him the possibility of getting a very little money, therefore he decided to use our money themselves.
"At the same time, the project was estimated to be completed on 27 billion, I am saying that there was no reason when the ministry cannot end, why we need the council of ministers to do in the phase, we agree that our project and all expectations been accepted.
"So that we build the first to save and that of the solar eclipse from the lake region starting from that project, it was the first phase of 27 billion would have reached there and I became I am sending to the ministry that a ministry which will enable them to take them water in front.

"The second phase had electricity we will look where because (in the water source), it's just the first time we agreed that we build a Station (little center) but TANESCO was not careful so that the project can be born, because those who put high prices (low level) should not be responsible.
