
Put aside the interests of the country in front of finishing conflicts.
Sei / 09 / 2016.

President Salva Kiir will South Sudan and President John Magufuli, the chairperson of EAC?
President John Pombe Magufuli has urged leaders and citizens of South Sudan to put in front of their country's interests so as to help end the political conflict that will happen in that country.

Speaking at the 17th meeting of that community today in Dar es Salaam city, the chairman of that community and the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Doctor John Pombe Magufuli said the community has failed and the fights that were emerged recently in that country.

President Magufuli, the issue of peace and security is an importance of not for the development of the development of that nation only but also to the future of other nations that are in that community.

Moreover, President Magufuli congratulated the Community of International Cooperation in the East African region (IAGRI) that was done by air crafts, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Sudan and Uganda in its efforts to resolve the crisis.

Moreover, President congratulated the South Sudan country to be a full member of that community and to confirm that the community will give enough partnership to ensure the country gets enough peace for its citizens in the development activities.

"The Secretariat of that community continues with preparations of joining the South Sudan countries in various development projects that are being implemented by the party members," said President Magufuli.

On his part, the special representative to the president of South Sudan, Aggrey Mlimuka thanked the community for the decision of serving that country to be a new member of the community and caused the nation to vie for the state of calmness and security.

"The attempt to change the month of July this year has caused many effects to our citizens, even so we assure you that we will be a true man for this community," said Sabuni.

I will end.
