
51 years of 1978, it does not have the meaning of basically there are some Kenyans.
Even though the Kenyans met this Sunday to celebrate 51 years since we started registering him, I did not see any reason to enjoy.
Tribalism, discrimination, corruption and it was divided for some Kenyans, the foundations of religion and tribe and the government has been a normal issue.
For instance, the community of Somalis Muslims rest their lives and security of our property, as a result of how government supported.
We have been taken to be different from other Kenyans.
When we pray to political parties, our areas are not seekers, supply, equal to national resources, the killings have continued in North East, affliction and misuse of human rights reserved for us from the government officers.
A series of mass murders that have not been forgotten, apart from other killings and affliction of communities living in Hong Kong, having a bomb attacks in students.
The list of affliction we work as a community is long and there is no changes we witnessed, though the government comes from one leader until another.
Abdul Mazrui, Baamar, Elysee Palace as it is fraudsters who failed to be announced by the citizens who have a lot of education that are taking them to the witch doctors.
We have lived so much but they don't have a lot of knowing that the intention of a person is to register it.
Those are usually giving up the ones that are not seen, together with the virginity that are not seen in the past.
That is why they are unable to ask ourselves why the witch doctors do not know, and get money! Even the politicians have been reported to the corruption of those witch doctors and lost millions of money.
Obabiyi George George, Nyamgenda, has ignored the opinion polls of Lufunga with the leaders of Geology, who is also many Kenyans.
Those leaders have a right to be heard if they have a contribution they want to give them to promote this nation.
For now this country has a lot of problems especially security and in cooperation we can succeed.
It is important to include the opinions of different people in the efforts of looking for the solution to the problems facing the Kenyans.
However, it is important for the leaders of the United Republic of Correa scored by threats from their meetings and I believe it will be available.
Tom Byabagamba, Nairobi has talked to you on the NTV television station of Kenya who are waiting to get an example of NTV station in educating the public.
When I was a vibrant actor of NTV television, is continuing their plan of events that you have no discrimination and incitement.
I commend the participants in order to consider patriotism and be responsible in their work.
Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in that television got into any political side and also employees in that station all of them had come from different parts of the country.
In the past, through the email letter, 'father' is the solution for instance, the feelings of many Kenyans live on her back to the former boss, Raila Odinga, popularly known as father 'from America.
As a Kenyan artist, Mister Odinga has the right to be demolished and those involved in construction.
Happy about it is that, followers together with other religious leaders don't see him as a solution to every problem that is facing the country.
The truth is that problems and challenges that do not forget that many Kenyans will be dealt with if we will agree that we're on the era of new constitution and will take a long time as required thus we should be respected so as to consider the heart of patriotism.
Elysee Palace will be aired in Mombasa, Mombasa, Carlo Ancelotti, and they have a conspiracy in my view, the United Republic of Geology has the intention to listen to him in their call and consulting with the government.
The challenges that are facing this country is the old because even during the administration of the colonialist, there was hunger and to get money, it was a problem.
At the time of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, there was a problem of water from Somalia who can baptize.
At the time of Daniel Sturridge and we witnessed people affected by economy affected.
The local government is the one that was forced to get a lot of challenges, now the Diamond's government is what will involve all the problems in one year or Ephraim Sekeleti of the Jichunge.'
