News reports are believed to be the government, now we are waiting for investigation.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

In the beginning of this month, the news spread on earth about the discovery of illegal drug trafficking in Tanzania.
It said that the president of China, XI a new song when he visited Tanzania in March 2013, his skill used the opportunity to buy elephant tusks in Dar es Salaam city and ended up on illegal immigrants.
The report shows that this was the second time since the first time happened during his first time happened during his tour by XI am, he says officers in China embassy in the country have been able to transport services since the year 2006.
That report has been given by the minister of foreign affairs and international relations, Benard Membe who denied the opinion reports saying that those reports have an aim of moving the name of our country and destruction of friendly relations between Tanzania and China, especially because they were spread few days after the tour of President Kikwete in China.
He added that the two countries have been participating in fighting corruption and illegal forest businesses, he said Tanzania and all two China have signed a international contract to fight those business.
And the Minister of Tourism and Natural Resources and Natural Resources and Natural Resources, Lazaro Nyalandu did not stay behind in order to answer the title deeds that they were taking place here in the country. It is clear that this report "a misleading reports will be done here in the country.

"If they used the strategy and they used a lot of money to ensure that those accusations are spread in every type of network in the world. The first plane of President XI was very much by hundreds of people who are behind it.

But when he is Nyalandu, that person has been quoted saying that the investigation that was done in the Selous National park has shown that the number of elephants has reduced from 39,000 in the year 2009 to 23r of last year.

Now, this means that it is not an increase in crimes and if it is, therefore the ivory comes from if it is not outside the country?

We did not need me to tell you that the existence of illegal drug trafficking are spread in this country. That is why the government statistics show that in the year 2010, the total of 23,000 elephants were killed.

The year 2012 a total of 13 tons of the corners of elephants from Tanzania came in Hong Kong going back to China.

Two weeks before approximately four tons of elephants' teeth that were arrested in Hong Kong City, in general the two cargo is equal to 300 elephants which were affected in the country.
At the same time, police in Arusha Province have seized the government officials, including Simba and Bayern Munich which were ready to be sold outside the country and then in Katavi Province were arrested for several people and they were left for a result of the head of the wildlife officers.

More than 20,000 elephants have been killed in Africa in the year 2013, according to the report given by the secretary of the agreement on business of Vientiane when the report says Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania are leading in that crime.

Currently, Tanzania has elephants like 150,000 shillings although others say $250,000 to be used then by the year 2017 or 2018, this country will not have elephants even one.

All these are due to the great strength of elephant tusks.

Because the crime network is dangerous and has the strength of money, political and it has not prepared the authority, this network started in high level and reserve areas where poor people are used by the rich by manslaughter.

There are two people like police officers, the wildlife officers and drivers of the government vehicles which are used to high level people and it is said even politicians who are responsible for.

That is why the deputy minister of natural resources and tourism, Peter Msigwa, gave an explanation on how the crimes are seen in the country because it is operated by people who came in the country because it did not follow the laws of the country.
