
I urge him to ask for business people?
The number of Kenyans who continue to lose their lives due to the availability of illegal drugs is very high.
It is surprising that despite the authority on fighting drugs (Nacked), to collect more than 2 kilograms of drinking alcohol, so as to stop for two months ago, the alcohol still continues to endanger the lives of Kenyans including students and lecturers.
Although there are some Kenyans, they don't have high speed by using alcohol which have no quality, the government is to be forced to make sure that its citizens use products that have been used to make sure that the users use products in the country.
These products are dangerous to the health and the lives of Kenyans and the government has no reason to start strategies to fight with a company or private individuals who are led by giving up of money without caring about the life of a human being earlier this week, the Deputy President, William Ruto, advised the government to build better laws that will destroy the drinking of alcohol in the country.
Although that advice is good, it shows that the government does not have any strategies to fight with the companies that have been involved with poison.
We cannot wait for the local government that he had for us to expand the laws of fighting and alcohol though Kenyans continue to lose their lives every time.
The national government is a must they have a must to work hard so as to deal with this problem instead of chased the suspects, police officers from areas which are affected.
After seven people have been reported, in the beginning of this week, he noted that he had gone to an issue, the government of he said that he stopped the emergency session to discuss the tragedy.
The sitting organized that the selling of alcohol should be sold for some time while the officers of Nacked books were awarded certificates of alcohol to go to them.
Prevent the selling of alcohol is not a solution to the deaths from drinking alcohol.
That step may make people with a shame of the drink with alcohol even the danger of.
