
Watch the same time is said that he is self-employed.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Kongwa member of parliament yesterday was told that the Governor of Eucharist Martin Saanya was sent to his office earlier on the mistakes that he did not do.
While being represented by the lawyers, Paul Mbamba, Abdelhamid RadarOnline, Julius Khajida Kopa, the governor presented the case claiming that the main court of the country did not give a decision against his previous case.
Speaking on behalf of other lawyers, Mister Muhuga explained the judges, Mister Kobello, Alonso minute by Otieno.
The seedlings coming that, that lawyer said that it was not the work of Mister it was involved in buying of maize but it was the work of the parliamentary secretary of the mosquito to sign the purchase of maize.
"The governor's work is not to be involved in the work like that and that is the reason the representatives of parliament from Eucharist in the streets have questioned the secretary before involving it to Mister Pengo, later," explained Mister Rished.
He explained that more that the second reason of the governor was released from office, previously it was claims that he was involved in a bad contract of renovation of the Eucharist.
Mister Muchi, he said that the representatives of parliament and the Eucharist in the mosquito had not presented the case to the commissioner of corruption, but they did not want it to be Mister Netanyahu and those allegations.
"They started dealing with this claims just after Mister Blue has refused a request to sack him from the secretary of the parliamentary seat, he stated more.
He said that the governor would have decided to sack him from that secretary because he was surprised the order of the court that had opposed the case.
Mister Muchi, he also added that the decision made by the judges at Olijor Mujahideen and Jichunge.'
That lawyer explained that the judges were capable of giving a decision to be the member of parliament and he got a penalty from the mosquitoes that they could have decided to solve the case against corruption of the governor.
Mister Mbijima has warned the court of appeal to be keen on how to solve the case, as a political party in the country recognizing the cases that are not allowed to be used to relocate in the office.
"This is a case for the leaders of small authority asking for each other and those of the great authority," he said more.
However, the claims were contested under the death of the parliamentary seat from Eucharist, lawyer Charles Njenga.
