You should know what happens.
Kenya.
Because of it?
We will just talk about the documents that has come at the time we were following up because when you put up a check let's go and buy part of the phone to complete the examinations, if he wanted the time they have been blocked from now Escrow account will come out and make it a child to look at phone communication.
For you, even when I get the way I will thank you because I said that they were waiting for two ways to be taken to the law, but we want to get married even if you want to get the truth, but you want to get the truth, but if you want to get the truth, but you want to get the truth when we want the residents of our legal environment in a way and bus I want jokes.
Fifth time.
Journalists is the room for the news and because we are looking at the side and make the citizens of the area.
It can't know the village even one day would not be taught.
He has done a ward like this.
Tribalism and I believe I don't want to open a case in the east and we have refused.
You thank me.
He is where water got dirty and was affected by people.
Swahili is alcohol.
In order to remove pain, it is possible to break this same as an old man of the grace is not seen.
There is a possibility of a problem.
The minister of energy in the office.
There is a probability that David Kafulila will be supported even that night as he claimed that the secretary general there is several things that he will look at the people they are complaining, but it should stand up because there is an aim to strengthen the father to strengthen him and I have never been found with the wife.
Nakula Undule.
Now.
In the future, I will get a message if you are saying that we are not seen, although we read it to the fact that you see these ways of war has been allowed to talk about war ways but I want to talk about what I want.
I think you have a lot, when you go to Dar es Salaam, it is a very easy thing that the journalists is supposed to do with him, what is three things needed.
Which state can move.
It will bring them a solution.
First in which if he knows it is because of the news readers for us to know me, which we do when I see it, it is this one who is this one.
Therefore, the first writer is now present at the time he will be availed to you.
Thinking of thinking about people and then make the gospel to be found in the journalists, and when you think I don't know more in the debate and in the newspapers is wrong.
It is clear that you have a person to give you a lesson so that when we go to Dar es Salaam, there is no reason why we believe that there is not a shadow of the person when those studios, is seen to help in the writing of preventing those statements.
We got it more than to start giving them an issue.
The problem does not see a problem or the importance of heading to Dar es Salaam when it comes to crime and.
But another motorcycle that if we look for now is right now, he said that these days those who don't know if there are many questions that I don't know how many people want to improve these people.
To make us believe you are affected by this matter which we do?
