The news report when the special constitutional parliament is going on with the process through the new constitution draft which today I have started that draft through two weeks, then the religious leaders and analysis of issues have continued to have different opinions about the trend of the parliamentary sessions so as to give advice to the delegates now to focus on all the work ahead of them.
And they have said that it is currently the time when he was at time to leave, they were forced to leave, when I started it, when I started and instead ask for delegates to build a new constitution from your community immediately.
While giving his opinion in the city, the Archbishop of the internet for the organizing committee, Doctor, comes back.
I join with other Tanzanians to show that, the parliament that was seen to have issues of politicians in every argument that are discussed without caring that many Tanzanians are depending on a new constitution for all Tanzanians and not only politicians who have shown your rights for their interests.
A lot of speech that have been issued by the delegates.
They have been dealing with fighting and they don't see the goals and also being cursed by the truth.
The late God is now a political situation after showing patriotism and also showing the goal.
Follow.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we should follow the political issues.
And the issues of political parties, something that is not true is not the aim that members of parliament have gone to talk time, on his part, the coordinator of non-governmental organizations in the country, Faith Asenga.
He says that the process of availability of the new constitution is a very important issue where the participation of the citizens is an primary issue without caring for their political ideology, but color or the religious constitution is facing.
You cannot change you.
I don't be used so that she didn't return to the government.
I see this issue of the same constitution.
It is not?
Mwasabite said that I'm in the areas to represent in a period of five years but I don't understand what you want to inform you, we have refused to change that we have never been commanded?
All of us know that they are supporting the law for the purpose of many.
Without Omar Shekilindi.
