Why do I ask for three governments?
December 11, 2014.

I would like to wish you every one new year.
The important word that I would like to thank you together with you are this, there is an importance of giving prayers, good prayers for our nation, it is supposed to look so much for the purpose of our nation.
These days recently, we had heard that the third government has no need to have, for our nation's purpose and many are saying that many are many.
But I don't think that this is enough reason that many said and that we do not like us to talk about the past, we do not see my mother, I don't know if I am very happy, like it is for the benefit of our benefit.
I am very happy, I would like to see this matter not because I am a politician and I would have passed since in the past politics and I think that we could have been shot dead in the past, because a politician, you cannot get my problem because the three government is compatible with the union of Tanzania.
Because of having a lot of money, the first one is that during poverty that were held here, that this nation can carry three government and we are still a lot of people to carry the three government.
We're going to go to three governments as a result of the love of the United Republic of Tanzania or for other different reasons, before this process of getting a new constitution (that you want to serve us on this three government, there were talks that do not show the nation that is supposed to be one.
One of us, as Tanzania Mainland (Tanzania Mainland), we were unable to prevent us because Zanzibar has been a lot of benefits more than us, we can have any reason to say so, but people leave each other, but the others see their colleagues are not a load and I don't think that we are making a good condition for a day you will have.
It would have been three governments as a result of the heart of the heart that we would have been able to prevent it so that Zanzibar has become a load of us.
Talks between those kind shows a certain state of being unsatisfied with the lack of love to our colleagues in the islands but as in Zanzibar, there have been preventing us from the islands of Tanzania, that Tanzania mainland is blocking us from Zanzibar Islands, there have been complaints of this kind.
Therefore, even on the side of the islands decided to be the only government due to seeing that their colleagues were any reason for their benefit and I don't see if the country can destroy the country that has no unity, the president of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere together with Mzee Abeid Aman Karume they want at the beginning.
My fear is that three governments will be the end of the union (Tanganyika and Zanzibar) and the economy of politics and the economy can have different opinions, but I would like to sit together and get a chance to remove these problems and look for ways to eliminate these problems, we are supposed to be divided into three governments.
My mother need to pray to our nation, to pray for us especially in this union goals.
And we should also vie for our political parties, unity and family planning, on political parties as not the party to the party, maybe it can be later, but inside any party, there should be a party that does it mean to be candidates for the leadership of our nation.
If every member of any party in that party does not like that before the party, it does not recognize that because his party has not seen, because it is not true and who is not supposed to be bad, they can be very bad.
This article of Polycarp Cardinal Pengo, resulted from part of his speech, last Saturday, during the opening of a service of thanks, that was organized by women if they do not go to Tanzania (IPC), in Dar es Salaam city, the gap is Cardinal Pengo of the Catholic church in the country and the reader of this newspaper.
