
Magufuli swears in a stern warning, Dec 27, 2012.

The expansion of the Mwanza Airport have dropped to the tension between the ministry of construction led by the minister, Doctor John Magufuli and the transport sector led by the minister Doctor Harfanti from Mwakyembe.
The foundation of that tension between those ministers, the one being mentioned to fulfill their duties well in the council of ministers, is a decision by scoring or not playing road from Mwanza Airport to be beaten, otherwise he will play with him.
According to the engineering reports, the road that is seven kilometers can be able to stop the expansion of the stadium which will cost 105 billion shillings from the African Development Bank (IMR) together with the United Nations Development Bank (T) through its International Development Fund (1).
China company, Beijing the construction of Group Company (BN), signed an agreement with the government to start the expansion of the stadium since September this year, and already the previous payment of 14 billion shillings have been made in the construction of that stadium that will take 24 months to be completed.
The reports indicate that the contractor who participated in the stadium cannot start the construction until that road is not stable, but the relevant authorities have been involved with the ball about the decision of closing that road.
The adviser of that project, the Senego-Gambia Union, Engineer Karumuna has congratulated our reporter that the construction will start as the road will not be aired because the road construction is expected to be built on the area where preparations have not been completed by that road.
"The road has not been faced with our schedule until now because we are building a office and office, but we have made a step to start the activities especially the construction of that road is a must that you will be able to start the construction as it is used, I hope during the start of Civil Society (construction), it will be a solution," he said.
However, he did not explain the sure that when the construction will start, but he said it's just a short time and they have already inspected the alternative road.
According to the manager of Mwanza Airport, Madnat Hotel, that expansion of the stadium will include construction of the passengers' building (Terminal II) and increasing the length of 3,800 meters from 500 meters for now.

In his tour in the middle of this month, inspect the implementation of that project, Doctor.
Mwakyembe revealed at the existence of a long-term discussions between the leadership of Mwanza City, Tanzania Airports Authority (TANROADS) in Mwanza Province about the road.
According to Mwakyembe, despite the discussion that the road has not been supported and instructed by the 15th January 2013, the road is supposed to allow the expansion of the stadium.
"We cannot maintain this situation that's there for a long time, but the road has not been buried, this stadium is the national resources that will benefit from this stadium, I say that the road will not be approved, I saw Doctor Mwakyembe during the tour.
He emphasized that he does not want to see the contractor who failed to work and finish on time and later to be paid compensation by using cash money and added that, his ministry will not pay even one hour.
In another step, one officer from Tanroad in Mwanza has told our writer that, they have no authority of closing the road because the minister is bail and road.
"It is true that the Julius Nyerere International Airport is not for us (TANROADS) but even the manager of the province cannot say that he is waiting for the road, that is the decision by the minister of construction, he said the officer who did not want to be mentioned in the newspaper for fear of being seen by the minister.
However, the efforts of our writer is to communicate with Minister Magufuli, it did not have fruit after his mobile phone getting, despite being beaten for several days after time.
There is a tension about who will get the alternative road with a length of 95 kilometers at the Saba Saba grounds, Buswelu Ilemela district have been reported currently, it does not have money to build that road so as to be alternative.
As a result of that tension, the head of Mwanza Province, Engineer Evarist Ndikilo who is also the chairperson of the road board in Mwanza, praised the Minister of Construction together with encourage the citizens about being beaten by the road because it can be built through the roads fund because that council does not have the ability to now.
"The letter has been received at the ministry and we are continuing to follow up so as to see what we get according to this kind, because the road accidents come from the head of the province, we believe this will have already been successful," said Ndikilo.
According to the engineering procedures, the contractor is a must to talk about wine (alternative) because scoring the road without an alternative means that it will be creative to citizens who depend on the road to get various services, "added Ndikilo.
If that tension will not be keen on time, it's not only the completion of the important project in Mwanza Province and the Lake region as a whole, but also the cost of construction of that project will increase due to delays, that is caused by a customer (government).
The polling stations in the stadium is expected to stimulate the growth of tourism in the provinces of the Lake Region and contribute to a large extent, making Mwanza City to be the business hub in the developed countries.
