
The leader of political parties, religion in the testicles (06), 2012

The political and administrative situation has continued to be volatile in the country due to various events and decision of the senior leaders about the way of getting a goalless draw, which some are dangerous for the peace of the country.
Some of the events and especially the violence recently in Zanzibar Islands involving the existence of robbery and some of the economy of private individuals, are being waited for guidelines for the heads of security and security.
The guide is being waited for so as to be done by the citizens together with religious leaders so as to be satisfied if they will put in a draw of those events to come out again.
But at the time the guide was waiting for, on another side, the step by the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (TAKUKURU) to arrest him to check the charges against the member of parliament of Bahi, Dodoma province, Omar Shekilindi this week, has presented different information among the members of parliament and other national leaders.
There is a situation of fear among those leaders, especially those who have already been questioned by TAKUKURU officers about some of the reports that involve the bribery actions.
As it is a continuation of political situation, approximately new ministers who are faced with a huge examination of defending that budget in the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, it explained that due to a huge weaknesses in those ministries, those ministers without caring about it is new, they will face how they were discussed in parliament.
The state of Zanzibar to now, the debate on is reported to continue among the religious leaders despite the leaders on the Christian side, through Bishop Valentino Mlowola when he put the stand not to cause their believers in the islands of Zanzibar, "he emphasized" as a citizen of the second bridge.
On the other side, some of the Islamic leaders showing the stand of not supporting a situation of lack of patient experts among the citizens of one country.
The information now say that those religious leaders in their way have been following keenly the steps of the investigation that is going on about the events of violence in Zanzibar.
We are following up closely the state of Zanzibar and a solution that is expected to be released on the government's side, and we have our way to be satisfied with what we would have been impressed by the management of the country, "explained one of the religious leaders who talked with our writer in a condition of not being written in the newspaper.
New ministers and the first examinations results from the parliament states that approximately 10 new ministers are in the heavy examination about the defense of the budget for their ministries, as well as planned or close to all those ministers are scholars of a doctorate degree in PHD).
Those ministers are the Minister of Finance, Doctor William Mgimwa, who is a task to defend the national budget in parliament, Minister of Construction, Doctor John Magufuli, Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, Minister of Transport, Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa.
Others are the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, the Minister of Health, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi, the Minister of Industry and Trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda and the Minister of Water and Technology, Professor Mbarawa Mnyikulu.
On the other side, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, Minister of Provincial Administration and Local Government, Hawa Bayumi and the minister of service, Celine Itatiro was not in safe against attacks from members of parliament.
As a result of the next financial year, we are supposed to focus on priorities in infrastructure which have been selected to be railway, laboratory equipment and electricity, issues of members who will referee in their ministries are expected to focus more about the weaknesses in their ministries and the weaknesses of the agents that are under those ministries.
The Minister for Transport, Doctor Mwarija is expected to have a difficult time that will allow him to decide the weaknesses of some executives or serve them.
However, already Mwakyembe has been quoted by this newspaper about an explanation that they have not ready to persevere the executives who appear to be the source of that ministry.
And Professor Muhongo, the Minister of Energy and Minerals, being assisted by his former ministers, George Simbachawene and Steven Masele, is faced with great shape and especially by considering numerous promises of electricity projects which many have not been implemented.
Minister of Tourism, Ambassador Mbelwa is still a shadow of the security agencies and the nation-governmental organization as it is for the minister of industry and trade, Doctor Kigoda and some of the agents that are under that ministry, its leaders are in the controversy, including the director of Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS).
Professor Tibaijuka said the ministry of land is still led by the mistakes that are ongoing with some of the officers that are under that ministry as it is to the Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi who's back in that ministry meeting with a conflict that was postponed for time that will involve doctors and some of the directors of his ministry.
That is expected in the next budget among issues that are expected to be done in the next budget is together with the government to identify the strategies of controlling the price of products and important services in the country.
To continue putting strategies of controlling the sale and distribution of oil and distribution of oil, increasing the division in the budget of important sectors like education, health, agriculture and infrastructure.
The lack of leader or bribery in the incident of being arrested and opened up to the charges by members of parliament of Bahi, Omar Mateen, has opened another new message to members of parliament who are not in safe, and especially those who have been involved in borrowing.
For a long time now the existence of complaints concerning members of parliament to ask for bribery in different events. Among the events that have been faced by members of parliament to ask for bribery, includes the parliamentary elections of East Africa, that took place at the general meeting of parliament, in Dodoma town.
Apart from that incident, other events have been mentioned to involved some members of parliament to ask for bribery they are in addition to the making of law relating to criminal acts and other various laws that concern some of the business people that concern some of the important sectors in the country.
The state of political parties following the situation in some of the administrative areas, within political parties and especially the famous parties in the country not to stop, the fear of doughnuts, the fear of sexual abuse among groups.
Different from a long time that the state of fighting and politics has been a culture inside CCM, Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA) and among the activists who are trusted and being supervised by the member of parliament of Maswa District, John shibuda and some of the councilors of that party in Mwanza town.
However, when the political situation inside CCM and CHADEMA was like that as it is in the CUF party (leadership against the member of parliament for Wawi constituency, David Kafulila (the leadership against the member of parliament for Kigoma South, David Kafulila.
In politics outside the party, there have been a high level of opposition parties, in that tension, some of the leaders of CHADEMA have been writing political parties as the constitution of Zanzibar members of the United Republic of Tanzania, to give him the president of Tanzania to select 10 members of parliament from the United Republic of Tanzania.
