
Her biological mother from her husband wants to go back to Zanzibar and rule?
Frode Dyrdal of 6.

At the time of the union of a union passing through the Zanzibar Islands there is a plan to enable her to be Sultan on the Honorable Jamala and Said Al-Said going back to the level of the group of people who want the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
The plan involves back to Sultan Kipingo, who was removed from the blood of blood in the year 1995, where him of them were banned and rushed to England where their lives until now.
Since his dismissal of his strength by her father, Mama Salma Kikwete did not recognize the legality of the revolution that brought together with his followers who have been successful in every way to change the political environment that can be able to do with her back to Zanzibar islands as Sultan Kipingo of Zanzibar as it was just after getting independence of July.
History shows that after the killing of President Abeid Karume and Jamaoke who was interviewed by one television station and showed up to his murder, he said that perhaps those were seen the act she called "Kibondemaji," said Karume.

Jamaed who is Sultan on the end of the Zanzibar Islands, with Sultan Kipingo of 11 - he was holding his seat for a period of one year and eliminated from him, there was a result of a house that was stable after a huge percentage.
It should be remembered that the revolution of January 12 that he knows on the rule of more than 300 years of traditional and close to 100 years since Zanzibar will partner with Oman, and that they are not independent.
Inside the few hours of Zanzibar impressed me in Dar es Salaam, the leaders who had a lot of 300 years have turned out and those who were arrested or those who were married or they found themselves in our weakness what hearts were sent.
But the most important thing that people who protect him are unable to break up with them what they did not want to say it's good effects that the leaders had already done it to hear and see you in the continent or even if you feel it is hard to see you.
This has continued even to some people who were born later who were told to have blood in the Arab Emirates that doesn't be careful of certain types, compared to where they sell the blood of human beings.
The feelings of the quality (Superdoll) was defeated by the Revolutionary Party because that was the one that was sold at the same time was being sold as I was surprised and caused a huge effects of brutal killings and violence of the people who have been forced to feel poor.
At the moment, the revolution always does with Sultan on power from the truth is that those killings are affected by many parts of Zanzibar and who believe today as a big part of your family or the ones that caused them to become a whole country.
Now, a big thing that you cannot hear people who want to break the union are talking about it, what happens if the union will benefit from the people of Zanzibar that were affected by the overthrowing of Zanzibar?
It is possible that the new historians did not tell the citizens that happened after the revolutionary council of the Revolutionary Council (the Council of Revolution) under the Abeid Amani stadium the day before yesterday and forced the authority to make laws and stop the constitution and stop the constitution that will meet the revolutionary council.
The question above and quickly when people can improve it is easy to answer.
If it is required by some people that after the union, then Zanzibar should be a solution to the constitutional assembly (not in the picture), it's impossible to have a Revolutionary Council.
It should be remembered that Revolution which they decided to stop the rule of that kind that was there after freedom of Zanzibar on December 10, 1963, after his freedom in Zanzibar had his former prime minister (the Head of State House) in which one of the British government which is under Queen Elizabeth II.
The main question of the primary which are opposing the union have never thought, it does not want to go back to Zanzibar after the resignation of Sultan through the Revolutionary Party that Zanzibar was announced in Jamhuri (a picture) or is Zanzibar after freedom and before the overthrowing of Revolution?
If it is the second time it is a must for people of Zanzibar and we expect the others to recognize that because his meaning is that Jamala who is going back to be the president of Zanzibar due to my thoughts (on their birth).
Tanzanians are different rights and they will be served by all people of Zanzibar - their lives, security and other costs in Zanzibar where people are forced to speak about the difficult state of life and lack of employment (if it will not easily get married), those troops are unable to join the union.
If they want it is Zanzibar of Revolution, that they should not have any opportunity because these people do not accept this week not praising God and the results of the revolution?
In his interview I have been speaking in the picture with Sultan Kipingo, from Karume and claimed that if he "his people" couples are tired, he is ready to return.
Here there is a big problem that his great joy by Sultan Kipingo, from his administration had been able to build the beneficiaries of the beneficiaries being same as a certain way and the administration of CCM where there are people benefit from CCM to be in power.
These people can't be able to do anything so that CCM does not get rid of him because from him from power, they get married and they were abducted in the century where these people are there and they have decided to be easily read.
At the time they are joined by Islam?
One of the huge corruption being done by those who want to break the union is the claims that causes them to oppose the coalition are Islam where this issue is very attractive, people who do not want to think or those who don't want to think or have no fear because they feel very much.
Brethren, the examples are clear in us - what is the foundation of people living in peace?
I would be able to go back to give examples but I will be afraid that, Egypt has many Muslims for 90 percent of its residents and those of them are some of the Sunni religion; therefore, Hosea Ndagala and some of people who are facing people living.
There have been demonstrations in Oman since the political awakening of the year 2011 and there is a place where more than 95 percent are Muslims, but there is still complaints until when in Zanzibar there were many people, but if it was in Zanzibar, there were many complaints to someone who knows the foundation of relationship between the leaders and friends.

But a question that did not be written by anyone who is following the politics of our area is this - and is going back to Sultan - him or his successor.
If the administrator to thank the constitution of parliament or otherwise, there is a meaning that Tanzania mainland can be fast quickly so that someone can say 'it does not concern them.
That is if the people of Zanzibar want each other to the people of Tanzania?
Whoever does the answer is among other people not knowing the history of relationship between the mainland and Zanzibar.

Currently, there is a person who has prepared himself why in the areas of Mombasa today, they are making freedom from Kenya?
The people of Mombasa (C) who claim that the Kenyans have benefited from many economic opportunities more than the residents of the provinces and claim that many jobs are being taken by "mystery" due to those people from coast they made the council of Jamhuri.
However, different from Zanzibar, the awareness of wanting to celebrate the building of Mombasa and its close areas seems to have involved religious people and a religious agenda is not very delicious with the elder Kenyatta for an agreement that made it giving her a lot of money to sell its rights.
A person who does not want to ask ourselves, it's just a mistake to claim the freedom of the old area of Sultan here in Zanzibar should go together with the movement that is in Mombasa, Kenya?
While the student of Mombasa when they tried to build a argument of wanting to relocate and Kenya during a discussion with the fate of Kenya heading to Uhuru, Elder Jomo, gave a answer that today it did not be given by Jakaya Kikwete or another leader in the mainland.
Mzee Kenyatta said, "Kenya is one and there is no one who does it get to any place without conditions of our nation, but the attempt failed to set aside part of the northern region of the colonialist.
But the foundation problem for people in the mainland will be the same - if it is Sultan or the ones they go back to Zanzibar, it will have the right to have their property which were mainland including buildings and land areas?
After that, "many people" when they started the process of claiming that these areas of the mainland people do not understand what?
It is possible that many people do not know that buildings which were wealth of Sultan are present in Dar es Salaam and Pangani, Tanga.
However, the issue I have said here can be dealt with quickly and said Mister.
Lula tries to save the people of Zanzibar by touching the history of Mister Lula wants to save "people of Zanzibar who are one people," said Mister Lula does not want to say the truth.
"Zanzibar people are one"!
Now the answers can attract youths and children who do not know the history and how the love of blood is in the veins and one generation for the canal to end the history.
People should not have lied to and not to try to do it in today, there is a union "in opposing the union that it can be true, but it doesn't give you a great truth that the overthrowing of the country can be true, but it doesn't leave inside the hearts of the people to an amount.
As the people of Zanzibar, they can join together to oppose the union and they believe they have been true but history is a good teachers just after what they were watching and they will be forced to go back to them because there are some who will fail to pay.

Therefore, those who want to break the union you are asked where they are going on about the possibility of Sultan back as the administrator or citizens only, he was surprised the answers of their answers recently, because they want to join - after being arrested the union of Zanzibar then the people of Zanzibar will decide to want the government to do.
- if it is under us then it will be their decision and if it is the republic then it will be their decision.
If it will be with Sultan then, it will be a environment of Ugali, if the United Republic will be there, but if it is the republic without revolution or Sultan know that the Democratic Republic of Zanzibar has never been there!

Sultan Kipingo of Zanzibar and all of them are still recognizing and to introduce himself as all inheritors of Zanzibar's seat.
If it is true that the people of Zanzibar, even so, they want to carry out and build the administration of the constitutional platform like England, so there is any way to be able to speed up that without using information and listen to us that are there in Zanzibar?
