
Important ways of modern so that they can increase their crops on farms.
By OthmanMapara.

Many times the farmers, especially the small ones, they don't have a lot of crops as a result of their farms not professionally and they are called on time.
Many farmers do not affect the best farming means, a situation that makes the users to get injured.
But if they can consider these opportunities, farmers, big and small traders can benefit more and even involvement in agriculture.
These ways are as the use of high speed in plants (a grader), the uses of drugs and drugs for plants were not registered and pest and diseases.
A lot of time the farmers collect taxes in the farm to control the environment, the level of water and minerals only due to that situation, the level of production especially vegetables is under compared to the growth of plants which are being controlled and taken care of them.
In order to control the growth of plants, with the aim of strengthening the produce, farmers get to rise in their plants in the sun and store in plants (a grader).
Research has shown that the prices of plants in that house are very great benefits, this is because all the state is needed in the growth of plants which it has been controlled.
Poor standards, the light and water is usually controlled so as to contribute the ability to grow in good ways.
For example, the light of climate, out of plants are usually set aside, a situation that helps the plants to produce more crops.
Also, that technology has helped plants to continue to grow even during night, while there is darkness.
Those rooms that will be built through a mirror or I do not have the ability to bring in the light of diseases that are not affected by wind, a lot of rains and other weather conditions.
There are a lot of types of plants which can be planting in these rooms, more than what compelled him to pay, eat, lemons, doughing, lemons, lime, and flowers that can also climb inside and supply equipment.
It is not the use of those houses only which can help the farmers get more crops, farmers can get many crops by putting their own farms.
That fertilizer is faced with living standards in plants, so that it can be able to grow well as if I get married, do not depend on themselves, do not depend on quickly and make corrections on a large extent.
Every type of salt does not care about the sections of the minerals that are present inside that disease, therefore it is good for farmers to be careful using the bus that takes different times of the growth of plants.
Further on the user, the farmer is supposed to know the level of natural fertility.
But it is a must that the farmers in their farms as they can fulfill two goals that are there on, but they lack them to get anything due to the effects of insects and diseases in plants.
Pests and abuse of plants and they can be controlled for sprinkling for drugs to destroy the user or using the pests who destroys crops.
The farmer is also a must to control the weeds by buying his plants or by using drugs that destroy the weeds.
But the use of drugs for big standards have been seen to affect the environment.
A farmer is supposed to focus on other issues such as a type of marriages and the type of plants that can destroy the and grow well in a bomb that is in her village.
It is supposed to focus on the type of seedlings the day they used to rise, this is because some of the seeds you can't produce plants that can destroy the poor.
He is supposed to consider the weather in his area so as to help them to make better decision about the seeds that they had reduced and therefore he can decide if he will help him to get better harvest.
Plants are very much to get to be infected with the animals such as goats or cows or other animals as compared to the farmer strengthening its crops, because with a large extent the destruction of the produce does a farmer reach a low level.
