Is it a person who want CCM to be released to power?
Mage of 18, 2015.

By Larger to start.
If there are different groups that want CCM as the ruling party to continue to be in power, therefore there are groups of these groups, there are important to check up because CCM is possible for someone to be a group of one group as it is possible.
Those who are tired with the administration of CCM.
This can be a group that is believed to be a group that is accused of many people, but the biggest reason is to be together with changes in development because of more than 50 years after more than 50 years of that administration, that group can say what is facing many people with support the opposition parties.
They want to remove CCM from power and the others have started removing them from their streets because they have gone from any good thing, from the CCM party, they are proud because looking at the history of performance and the results of that performance in the years of the year.
These want to remove CCM because they have gotten tired of his leadership, they have gotten tired of his policies, they have gotten tired of his promises, they have gotten tired of his promise, "I ask CCM to answer CCM," I refused.
"And all his things?
"Yes, I refused.
"And all his promise?
"Yes, I refused.
I promise those with joy and strong winds of the big problem of this group, it's not very happy because they don't like CCM, therefore they don't know the administration of Kenneth Kaunda for the way they don't know what they don't know, "Masau boasted.
They want to be better administration.
This group is possible that it is being done by that, but these know they want to remove CCM and his policies, its system and its vision, thus they have found the houses that have been used for many years and when they are used for many years to come.
If the new members of those who want to get all the old people to protect themselves - these are those of the first group of these they want to destroy their house so as to stop the basis and building a high level and build a high level of better houses.
This is a group of people who want change is not for the purpose of having great changes but they want to change so that there should be a threat to CCM, but this is what we want to do, but there are people who will implement the promise of CCM even if it's a promise that would be called by time?
Therefore, this second group was unable to give him different wells that is supposed to talk about the water pipes for there there are different!
Those who want to go for them?
