
Investigations they have arrested the director TANESCO on October 12th, 2012.

While the Executive Director of the National Bank of Business (NBC), Lawrence Mafuru, being released as a result of the investigation that took place at that bank for the consent of the board of directors, who was the executive director of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company, William Mhando, who was suspended from work so as to pave way for the investigation, things have risen up to our citizens, it has noted.
Mhando and his colleagues were suspended from TANESCO to pave way for various accusations including bad use of power and especially the existence of conflict that is run by the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG), who has revealed that conflict of interests to the leader.
According to the reports of the investigation that has lasted for several months now, Mhando has revealed that there is a conflict that came out to sit with the MC of MC Donald Ngoma of Technology.
According to the documents there, Mhando has a contract with MC Donald Live (non-Technology), being given a special responsibilities in that company Mister Mhando was given a responsibility of not to also participate in that company within the organization that was led by TANESCO.
Already the investigation report from the CAG has been suspended from the authority in the government, being together with the board of directors of TANESCO, under its chairman, General (retired), Robert why and the deputy chairperson of the board, member of parliament for Lennarth Hjelmaker.
According to our news sources from the government, the report of that investigation is putting in a difficult environment, Mhando who together with some of his skill, who was the deputy executive director of financial services, Harbinder Singh Sezibera, all were suspended and pave way for the investigation.
After Mhando and his colleagues being given by the former director of marketing and distribution, Felican Mkude, where he went to the position of the executive director of TANESCO.
In addition to the scandal of MC Donald Dar es Salaam- Technology LTD, the investigation of Mke Mwema has revealed that there is also bad use of power, if it is not yet confirmed that it cares for the organization's work that is led so that they get in the conflict came out anyway.
That scandal is the one that ever been written by this newspaper in order to give the contract that was caused by his wife.
According to the documents, Mke Mwema have been seen relating to those scandal, Mhando entered the contract with the MC Donald Dar es Salaam- Technology Limited with the responsibility of the company of looking for projects including the ones of TANESCO.
Due to the existence of those reports that confirmed by various documents, our writer met with Mhando so as to know if he knows if he knows the MC Donald Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange Limited and if he is involved with by being handed the responsibility to also to also the private companies.
Mhando told our writer saying that, "we are in all issues that they ask there are under investigations, therefore, I cannot talk about because they are reduced," the board of TANESCO has found itself in a trap of finishing the work of through that investigation on the management of TANESCO.
Our news sources from inside the board have noted that, the decision made by the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Steven Masinga, who was quoted by one newspaper from every day announcing the intentions of their leadership at the ministry, to ensure that the share of electricity is not wrong again.
In addition to completing the share of electricity, Masinga, was quoted saying that the completion of the gas pipeline in March next year and started being used by the gas pipeline in March next year and started being used by that gas and homes, it needs a stable board with professionalism and patriotism in the country.
That statement has been taken by weight to the delegates of the current board that the leadership of the ministry has explained their judgment that they don't have professionalism and not patriotic in their country, thus showing the aim of the statement, he is proud of them.
"Which Tanzanian who is common between Masinga, who was given the prime minister recently by the retired prime minister, General Mboma, who was playing for this country," he told one of the delegates of that board and added.
"These youths have been sacked from power, you cannot inform the youth the day before yesterday you told General Mboma, who is not the chairperson of that board together with his delegates, and they decided to resign as the statement of the deputy minister, and they decided to resign as the statement of the deputy minister, and they decided to resign as the statement of the deputy minister.
However, he was submitted to the report of CAG of the investigation on corruption inside the management of that organization that made the board to vote and instead be unable to hold that decision before them as the employment authority of the management, and they also gave instructions of the investigation.
Mke Mwema has great information about the existence of a tough relationship between the new leadership of that ministry under the Minister Professor Muhongo with the board that is in that organization, some of the delegates of that board claim to have talks with that minister.
"Just after his appointment, the chairman went to the ministry to congratulate him, but the minister had issues and spoke to employees, they were collecting their claims among them against Director Mhando, that's where one of the delegates of that board.
Until when we go against that board, the board was still giving information on investigation, and the efforts of getting the minister Professor Sospeter Muhongo and his assistant, Steven Masele did not have fruit.
