
Internet theft is abolished.
The growth of communication technology to enable them to bring development and to ease the lives of moving the world in the toe.
The growth of industries and social business especially in the financial sector because of the bank institutions and to put up a lot of things instead of going to the bank and sometimes to meet the face of the businessman.
For our culture, we were like we believe there is a safe place like putting money from the bank.
The bank has been a solution to make sure that all the money are in safe hands, but in recent days the things have been changed and they have been found.
Technology has launched this faith and it is to build it again your money is safe in a bank by one hundred percent.
The theft of network has been in the highest speed every day is the cries to customers who were given their money to the banks without their hope.
For instance, they are using the growth of technology especially through mobile phones and steal people a big amount of money without them to know.
Likewise, the theft on phone internet has also been fast, for instance, they are using a little weaknesses and their professionalism of this internet technology, but given many issues that contribute to the reduction of the theft.
First, it is a lot of security system in the bank and many banks in their systems are taking a long time without the needs and it could be used easily especially for people who are in the ICT technology.
Technology is ensuring that they can be able to fulfill our customers easily and to continue playing without the bank to know.
But there are also the employees of the bank that were sacked are doing those things.
There are also those who are in work but those who are not faithful who are providing secret information to the sponsors of the financial system in the bank which are working for.
Security agencies have also been set aside for war crimes.
It will be remembered that recently, the police commander of Morogoro province, Uluguru Myovela, has requested the government to enable the police force to get a modern machine to enable them to fight with these networks as a threat in the network.
Recently, I met with a woman that she would like to know after being stolen from 11 million shillings in his account that is in one bank in Morogoro town through a phone network without being a report.
It found that the amount of money after wanting to take 4 million shillings in his account and was told the person that she does not have enough money to take those funds.
He says he didn't understand the agents of the bank because he had an assurance that his account had more than 13 million, but yet those funds were stolen a little time.
This means that there is a big possibility in our financial system in some of our banks and thus making them to reach them easily.
In that meaning, there is need for financial institutions to cooperate so as to know the right way to deal with the corrupt.
Money for a customer being stolen from a bank or in its mobile account be a shame for the financial institution to be a bank or mobile phone if I think it is still required to move forward it is better.
Aziz Abood, is the writer of this newspaper in Morogoro to 7164,162 shillings.
