
All the previous days in Dar es Salaam to pay for 10 percent.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda has said that anyone who is found stealing or destruction of campaigns that had been set aside in the outskirts of the province, will be forced to buy 10 years as compensation.

Makonda denied those remarks in the city when he toured Kinondoni district to see the situation as it is in the implementation of the year 2010.
He said the aim of the government is to see the city is growing very high appearance and that he will not be patient with anyone who will stop the campaigns.
"There are people who have not been so used to see good things, we make sure that we go to the city and they are unable to stop the whole elections and destruction of environment.
If you have been arrested, he will pay 10 years for everything that he scored in the sexual or environment, "Makonda said.
In addition, he said after completing that decision, they will be forced to put lights together with main lines, so as to prevent citizens who want to do the destruction.
Also, he said it's not the reason that will be clean water from the clean water and distribution company (Dawasco) which will enable them to expand more than waiting for the rainy season or take water by using vehicles.
Makonda also urged the residents of that town with a company that are at the outskirts of the road to take the responsibility of providing them and they will be given water meters every one, including the responsibility of managing so as to ensure they are left to a good view.
"The aim is one and the participation of the company is important, all the companies will be given procedures including being given water sources and to make sure it is in front of every company's office has a good appearance," he added.
In another step, Makonda wanted the head of Kinondoni District, Ally Hapi to also thank the business people that are selling goods from the roads of Morindat area because the area they are using for now is not legal.
On his part, Hapi said the district will rise more than 5000 shillings and that for now they are continuing to get water infrastructure and build houses for planting trees.
