Wales youth have no popularity after he shivered.
Autoworks and 18, 2016 by Shaban Kalile.

Relatives and friends that were coming out and put flowers with a card at that tree that was affected by Pindani Nyalile and even so, some of the cards were written, "we will see a long time, I don't know so much," all the cards are not signed thus it's difficult to think those who put those cards at the end of the tree.

Some of the citizens in that country started blaming the media and especially the newspapers in front of the report that it is involved with the wave of young people to kill him, therefore they have been writing news to send himself to those youths in a condition of giving them the ones that he sees them.

Speaking to journalists, the police spokesperson in that town urged the media reports on how that he wrote reports of switching off fake phones, because some of the residents of that town were looking at this matter because some of the residents of the city were looking at this matter.

One resident of that town of Bromwich, said it is not wisdom to blame the media and instead he urged the youths to kill him in the city of 2006, but even so, the woman did not involved the death of her child and a cash flow to kill him in that town of Bribery.

And the psychology lecturer in social issues, Isaiah Shoki said that he is running a network of preventing the wave of young people to hung himself in Mkonkole area, a network known as Youth Against Dictatorship in the picture saying that those deaths were not caused by the newspapers reports.

"We have no evidence that newspapers in the report have already participated in one way or another to enable these youths to kill him, because most of these days do not use the newspapers but they get news through the internet," said Professor Shumbusho.

But some of the economic and economic experts made the action of the youth owned by sending him that it is due to many youths to lose their lives after completing their studies, being obvious that the city of Bribes have been surrounded by the poverty, employment sources especially for young people in insufficient.
History shows that the city was at the Matinje mines located in the previous years, thus after the quarry got there, there was no another source of alternative employment and many youths in the city have found themselves in a difficult time after completing their studies.

One child who was born on 14 years whose parents in accordance with his name explains that, the internet has been facing these youths who missed him in a special page of sending and sharp teeth.

"I believe these youths were well known and I have heard six youths among the people who had ever visited their Facebook page, Beatles," said the young man that lives in the neighborhood with one family that had lost their young man at the same time he sees himself.

With his friend, George claimed that many youths they were forced to send himself as he has been on a long time.

However, the owners of that network have been giving some of those reports from their network.

The spokesperson of the network said they have been giving any letter in memory of the death or symptoms of the sender and showing that maybe he may have been requested by the family's family or they have been directed by the legal authority.

Owners of the network of Beiersdorfer had been cooperating with the police in inspection of those deaths, but even so, the situation has never been discovered that Beiersdorfer said that other networks have taken several steps in making the wave of youths to kill him so as to know if it comes from the internet.
