
The good way for planning you are asked to meet with you.
Although the patient is understand in details on how she gets care of his body every day, what he believes is taking alcohol, a place when laying and environment around him, there are few patients who know the responsibility of knowing what he was found is the responsibility of the doctor alone.
Although the doctor from his education, professional skills and experience activities can recognize the problem of the patient by looking at it, but to diagnose that problem, it depends on the ability to explain, experience and skills of the patient about the history of his health and symptoms of the disease.
Many diseases are like that in living with the fact that the symptoms of many diseases are similar to that health problem is the process of controversy to an extent that without a donation of the patient, the doctor alone cannot succeed easily and know what he was sent to him.
According to the patient, the history of his problem, the flow of symptoms and things that contribute to the disease, that is how he gives a great support to the doctor to identify its problem and give them early treatment.
Treatment experts believe that to diagnose the patient problem being done by the doctor by 70 percent or more, it depends on the history of the patient and the way he knows it.
The details of the patient and how he knows the questions during the process of the doctor to take a history of the problem, it helps him doctor providing them and compared to each symptoms and skills of diseases to identify him as a expert.
This situation makes a doctor to think all health problems that use symptoms which he explained his patient.
According to the way he continues to interview with the patient, a doctor gets problems that he has done and finally address a few things that he will work to identify the source of the problem and its symptoms.
When the doctor is at this step, that's when he decided to conduct inspections in professions and make tests for laboratory so as to get important evidence concerning what is happening in the body, as a result of the process of murder cases or suffering.
Strategies of doctors to normal doctors use four strategies that will help to recognize the problems of the patient, this is according to Doctor Lawrence Somba, he says the first strategy is to recognize the problem due to the appearance of the patient.
The second strategy is where the doctor does not have a lot of concept about symptoms which he is told and it starts while carrying out the concept of testing the body of a patient and listening to what the body itself has said.
The third strategy is when the doctor is in the first list of symptoms which are special because of a certain health problem.
By using this strategy, the doctor will follow the symptoms of the patient's problem in step and symptoms made by the first list so that they can lead you.
And the fourth strategy is the one to take a full history of the patient about the symptoms of the problem and its life system in general.
When the doctor depends with his work, start when the patient depends on when the patient starts and listen to then they do the news analysis of the disease by considering the symptoms that he went through.
The treatment experts believe that the ability of getting a disease is one of the important things in the process of knowing the problem of the patient.
As a result of that fact, because doctors cannot get enough time to sit with patients due to the large numbers of people who need their services, it is important for the patient to prepare well and understand the symptoms of his problem before he has not met the doctor.
It is good to plan your questions that you need to give you the doctor and planning well so as to answer you with fluency of questions that are asked by the doctor.
Avoid false or depending on the matter, a patient is advised to inform me that the signs are false or to see any thing that can help the doctor to identify the source of problem and providing productivity.
If possible it is good to write the symptoms of the disease you got and go to the doctor, he advised Doctor Don Bosco College, who is the president of the Institute for preventing diseases from America (Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency).
The JayMillions Promotion has added saying, "how it gives you the symptoms of your disease, the doctor will benefit from treatment or to get losses."
In today's world, health services are high costs, it is difficult to ensure that it does not have a lot of money by failing to help the doctor to help them get a health service that you need.
It is easy to look for your opinion polls, because you can help you about your health in a way that you can't explain.
Opinion or questions do not get health, Kalist Yachile and 77114889 percent.
