Directly, then you should know that together with me here in this studio?
The manager of the agribusiness project to be close to them.
But if we were waiting is Johnson Mbwambo and she's tasted the manager that will reach the development of education in Morogoro Province close to Morogoro.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, you cannot get to discuss about the education institutions and education was in Morogoro that is called to help to help the female children in getting correct education, maybe we start with them.
The institution is needed more in Morogoro province, maybe the viewers would like to know what is in Morogoro alone and not for the whole country.
Our hours for now has failed so much in Morogoro according to that I was in Morogoro.
According to I heard the first in Morogoro province, therefore it is bringing together many provinces, we will also give us only to have work in Morogoro.
We will also go with other provinces.
And one.
The success of our goals in which our goals have also been recalled back to us.
To build a education center in Morogoro province which what we will see that it will help the children not only children in Morogoro apart from children from different places we have taken from?
So that the voluntary contribution in Morogoro can grow to make those children get married in different provinces he cannot be and promised to go.
In that, so as to be able to get services since they were in Morogoro Province, it has decided to connect many provinces but because it could not have any other province and then it was told to explain the lady's manager.
Today in Morogoro in a way like that, it is not saying that in the past now, we have approximately ten children who are believed to do not want there to be like Morogoro.
Third in short summary.
The late?
We started in Morogoro because of one main reason I want to only have a teaser sin?
So as to see the success of the children where I have started to be at the moment.
Two of the people that agreed to end.
Therefore, we believe this project is also known.
One of the five hundred thousand, giving me the education it will open a broader field.
For many female children to be able to get that, but from a lot of insects in me.
These are not less than one hundred children after the second phase of this project from more shop in the year.
We will be able to take.
The whole game of children.
They sent it every year.
Starting from we started in Morogoro because of geographic division Mwigulu as usual the manager.
It is faced with you and when we look after doing research that was done by the drugs and the drugs for the team.
We will start requesting for a woman involved in several provinces and still there is a big challenge of a female child to come and therefore, so they should come is true that others which will give the female child education but Morogoro to enter in a high table.
Many female children cannot get close to which I was other like here in Dar es Salaam Region.
And they have said that it is blocking us from there, it is enough for a female child to get education maybe this will be a special child to get the education if he is so he can contribute to fear among the female child gets.
Themselves we are required to continue getting married without getting married there.
Electricity is complete.
When we celebrate the number which Tanzanian getting anything of any kind of income as you play very fast, I would like to help a girl child care in our environment, there are many people who live in our environment, there are many people who live in our country and one that is available in our community as usual.
We take this example, the father's taking the left does not have two female children and when one father comes back, we had already received approximately five hundred girls where female children from different provinces from the province.
When the press resigns.
Take action as a result of how to come from the consumer beginning a flowers so that we can convince stakeholders to see if there are female children, but we believe it will help the community to help women and we believe it will help a big community of Tanzanians and we have a good example.
