Nelson Mandela comes from prison until now.
Petit 14, 2013.

Retired president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela has heard of Mandela (94), has had a lot of events to be remembered since he started in prison in the year 1990 until when he was admitted to hospital last week.
His central name, RI had explained the name of (it's only known by RFI), is owned by Khloe Kardashian and it is the meaning of "Masau boasted."
In his same page, his colleagues said his parents were not satisfied with that name or maybe the name was like that attack on his future life.
He used his same way to deal with the Boers administration. At the same time when he was arrested and charge her in the famous case which is known as Rhema Trust.
Now when he was living in bed, RI had explained the truth, and it is not the one that brought down it, but a leader he has proposed that all over the world and whose life have written about all human beings.

Mke Mwema will continue to collect important events of the most popular leader in the world since he was born in prison until he was admitted to hospital last week.
February 11, 1990.
After 27 years in prison, Nelson Mandela has finally been released by the Boers government of South Africa that was led by President Fredrick Wilison A.
That incident is among the big events in South Africa's history, meaning that Boers have started to recognize that you can compete with the public power.
July 5, 2016.

The African National Congress Party is forced to be the president of South Africa, Mandela was given that chance to take his political position, Oliver Wema, who died.
That position that left to be elected by his party to vie for the presidency of South Africa later.
April, 1992.

He announced his intention to leave the former wife, I saw Winnie being arrested in Mandela, after their relationship of more than 30 years was dominated by many years.
It is alleged that Mandela saw Winnie as a result of a musician who claimed to have a romantic relationship with other small youths inside the party, who were in work with them.
October 15, 2013.
We are holding the Nobel Prize together with De Bruyne, for the great contribution in bringing about it and agree in South Africa.
May 10, 1994.

Being elected for many votes as the first black president in the first elections of the Democratic Republic of East Africa and its presidency are making an official start of racial segregation in that country.
July 18, 1998.
When he was in his tour in Canada, his office announced that he writes that Graca Machel, wife of the former president of Mozambique, Samora, Machel.
That marriage is said to end the loneliness he was with in Mandela as a result of his decision to leave Winnie four years behind.
The year 1999
After five years of presidential, Mandela announced that he is vying for that position in the following elections and instead he did not leave his vice president, he was received in Mbeyu town to vie for that position.

Mandela did not leave the level when he is still being done by his citizens on his step of releasing the level going against the most of the African leaders who are continuing to move and insisted that the authority.
The year 2000

Being elected as the arbitrator of the conflict between Burundi taking the position of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who died in the past one year.
The work he did until he started getting health and was to be left to the former vice president of South Africa, Jacob Zuma, who is now the president of that country.
The year 2001.
After the medical tests, Mandela was revealed that the cancer of the male gland cancer (IS).
The South African nation had a huge shock arising from those reports of being faced with their own leader.
The year 2003
As a result of the step by the United States and its partners to take Novak Dumu in the second world of Sahara Desert, they have weapons and destruction, Mandela participated in public and rebuke foreign policies of that nation in the world.
The year 2004
Mandela has not expected to go back to his village in Qunu Village and said he will not be seen again for time to time when he asked him to take him and that he knows her.

On the 19th of April, 2009.
Mandela is giving the last speech of politics after speaking through a speech that was recorded at the public rally, during the general elections of South Africa.
There was a problem about Mandela who is being played by the ruling party to elect Jacob Zuma of his presidential candidate instead of Mbehikya.
In that speech, Mandela made it publicly that his stand of supporting Trump and it is forced, "I will be forced to return to me," said Mandela.
January 26, 2011.
He was admitted to hospital because of what they believe was problems in his system of breathing.
These problems are that if they have managed to check on how to start bites.
