The price of TCC, economy, KQ Chief.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2016.

And our correspondent.

Responding to the stock market at work.

The shares of the shares of the cigarettes in Tanzania (TCC), Uchumi supermarket in Kenya International organization (KQ) led the increase in prices, compared to all the companies that were listed in the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE).

Reports of the market show that up to the end of last week, the price of TCC has increased by 15 percent and making the company leading in an increase in price against other companies.

The shares of TCC were increasing until approximately 730 shillings at the end of last week from 10,200 shillings, according to the report.

The second company which its shares were increasing last week according to the DSE program is economy which increased by 1429 percent at the end of the week, the government of Kenya announced that it is looking for money for the purpose of increasing the economy from not doing well in business.

The company that scored the third position by having an increase in price of the shares last week was an airplane of Kenya's aircraft (KQ) which were increasing by 12650 percent.

According to the year's report that was announced last month, KQ got a loss of 2800 billion shillings (more than 500 billion shillings) in the year 2015 from 56 billion Tanzanian shillings (500 billion shillings) last year.

Maximilian Arnold at the Executive Officer of KQ, he was quoted by the press in that country saying that despite the year 2014 it was a very difficult time in business to increase crude revenue to five percent in the year 2015 / 15.

In improving services and reducing the cost, the company has announced to reduce about 600 workers which are 15 percent of all workers.

The Acacia company, which owns big gold medals in the country followed after the price of its shares has increased by 546 percent and those of the stock market (DSE) which were followed by 417 percent.

DSE has listed its shares last month after the completion of the selling shares in the month of May and June at a price of 500 shillings and even so, the price of DSE has increased now and reach more than 1000 shillings.

This means that an investor who had bought 500,000 shillings on June this year, then its investments have been reached to an amount of more than one million shillings.

DSE's report has shown that another company whose shares were increasing at a period of last week is the East Africa Breweries Limited (EAGI), CRDB, NMG and Company of Tanga Cement.

The price of the solar power company in the whole country has increased by 230 percent to the end of last week while those of the CRDB Bank which are among the companies that its shares are sold and brought down in large numbers in the market and increase at 172 percent.

The media company of NG, its shares were increasing at a total of 739 percent, for three consecutive weeks, the shares of Tanga Cement Company (TCCL) had increased by 8 percent.

The report has shown that the shares of the Business Bank of Kenya (KCB Bank) and Jubilee Holder who died in that period of last week compared to the previous week.

Reports have shown that the capital of the market is expected to reach 1,067,888 trillion shillings for a week that occurred last Friday from 248,47340,536 shillings for the previous weeks.

I will end.
