Awaiting for the new year that is used to come with this news.
Only we should talk with the government so as to help as to attract the market perhaps other countries are outside.
In order to protect the boundaries, we have continued to avoid the borders so that we can be able to get money that will be able to provide us as they have been able to make sure they have been able to build a modern house so as to build a modern house.
Because they are not government.
Lulu has asked stakeholders to take care of markets which are sure that this markets does not mean that if you get in those we are able to come up and because he is not to remain here but I do not get a lot of results, then we believe you can get enough price.
Therefore, we failed.
It is making a strong intention if a person gets good production and a good school and it is a must even if the ones that were prepared to come out, I will be asked in large numbers because the person has already received.
Long distance to follow the construction equipment and the high price is still a challenge.
Although the government is doing a solution to this issue.
Anything that woke up I think that the government is required to be made or non-governmental institutions in the community.
He has said that in the community it can be able to attract more business people because anything that I have been so much the challenges that other citizens are from very far to follow this service.
That the government is able to encourage many players to be able to identify inside the district of MC at least they live so as to get this service closely because you don't know how they live more than ten thousand shillings per day so that they can be able to open and put more close businesses to the citizens.
And sometimes, while dancing with a problem in the main way is to be taught in it.
I was told me every day I met.
When I take over, you will not be able to reach now, then we are attending to Mister look at a woman, there's no one who will help him are my father to know if you're at home?
And why does it depend on himself and we are struggling to rest his life?
The late God could continue to advise the government that you can change each other than Otieno.
Likewise to see citizens, different services like these shops like this shops.
If they would have been able to get products here in the country.
I would have been forced to start when I get using a lot of oil maybe he still hundreds.
The ones for a pose.
But the close councilor could be affordable because I will not ask each other and will help them make sure the shops if there are many things and equipment are available on the construction only, but?
Because, I was still underway.
Still, I have not want to talk about those who want to speak about what those who want to borrow at a little price I want to get your advice, that is the results that surrounds the citizens but Zenit, after a little time when I think people can move forward if I think people can move forward.
We are there.
