The editors discussing the security of journalists.
October, 23, 2013.

The editors from different media stations through the Tanzania Editors Forum (TEF) are meeting in Iringa at the end of the week to discuss, together with other things, the security of journalists and reports about being attacked by the chairman of the forum Absalom Kibanda.

Kibanda was scored an amount of being married to an eye and other big injuries in the body, earlier this year and was admitted for several months as she gets treatment in South Africa, while some of the journalists were faced with a lot of violence and violence against their security at work and outside the areas of work.

According to the secretary general of TEF, Neville Meena, speaking with the editors will start on October 25th, this year in Iringa town.

"In the meeting we will follow keenly and according to the investigation reports about the judgment of Kibanda Maiti the way we will discuss security of journalists at work and out of work, especially during this period of heading to the general elections of the year 2015, we focus on time to time for the political time between politicians have been transferred to journalists and therefore endangering freedom of the press and therefore endanger the freedom of the press and therefore endangering freedom of the press in general," said Meena.

In the beginning of this year, the Government of Tanzania has been criticized by being interviewed about his transparency level, some companies have had all signs of wanting to do more freedom of information in the country.

That state of media freedom in the country has ever been operated on during the debate on the report of the committee of protecting the journalists (diploma), CPJ, in African countries, recently.

The report of the committee that was read by the adviser of CPJ in East African countries, Tom, Dar es Salaam put it open that the increase in events of attacking journalists and the laws that are there is freedom of journalists in Tanzania, is expecting the journalists to fear for them at work.

Apart from those stakeholders, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of England, Sir Simon FEST has visited the country in Tanzania recently, he got to talk about the issue of freedom of journalists in Tanzania.

Fiterawa and who is the head of all the ambassadors of that country in the ministry that his great work is to supervise and protect the interests of the nation in the whole world, in his talks with our reporter, Ezekiel Kamwaga is, at home of the British ambassador recently, he said that the media is important to be accountable because of their work ethics.

In the previous report on the attack by Kibanda was read at a meeting with the journalists that was organized by the Tanzania Media Council (MCT) in Tanga city, May 30th, this year, it was put open that the incident is a big part which aims at fighting the freedom day in line with the freedom of the press in the country.

That report was noted that six months before being attacked by police on September 2nd, 2012 in Iringa town because another writer Issa Ngapa of Radio Kwizera while being shot dead with mysterious circumstances in Kakonko district, Kigoma.

As it is not enough, the incident of Kibanda Maiti the incident happened one month after another writer, Shaaban Matechi, being shot by police at his home in Dar es Salaam city, by explanation that the police were involved, the police involved the explosion and a bandit.

Moreover, a few days after the attack by Kibanda Maiti in March 12 this year, media stakeholders formed a committee of 16 people that met with heads of security agencies in the country, to talk about details on the issue of security of journalists.

The work of that committee was to ensure the security agencies look at close to the security of journalists in work and outside of work.

In another step, July 13th this year, the United Nations Security Council met in New York, America to discuss the safety of journalists in areas with conflicts.

The writer from Somalia, Mustafa Haji Abdelhamid Radnedge, he spoke on behalf of the journalists and explained the challenges they meet with journalists who report the events of violence including political parties.

Due to that series of events, Iringa meeting is expected to give an appropriate resolutions that will give birth to journalists in the country.
