You don't know where the east of people are in the islands.
Anywhere, where they are looking at (d Hs) that will make more than two hundred thousand shillings through Skype.
God bless you like very close to live (flyover) that he asked, that is a very few people who had two people.
They are looking for people but to get two hundred thousand people and they get married, the dream of getting twenty million Tanzanian shillings or when they lost today night, the two people leaving today are very close to our friends of form one, but without forgetting Bill, and the battle of Foundation.
A piece of behalf of all the main people of many people, why doesn't affect this period to be taxed.
Only, in the second week, we got here in the village on Sunday when the two person did not go back and today Sunday, the two person did not go back to her home, but I don't know what you will get into my heart but I don't know who we will do?
This night of today, I gave birth to our friends, different media stations in all the East African countries, a lot that journalists have been saying that the media is because of the journalists, but we thank you.
At the VETA college which the day before yesterday if it was looking at the same period, they have given two teachers just to speak.
The whole of the whole program of reviewing, we give thanks as well as a fox which owns some things that are causing the habit of going against them.
If the participants we have been the late here in Africa, it is looking for a chance to inherit the youth from VETA because they are getting rid of two teachers from the VETA college and tomorrow they are starting to officially work with these youths, Komba together with teachers.
The pastor, which took place at the same period when the patient is seen every day.
Friday and this Saturday we will be found at three o'clock in the night and from Sunday until Thursday is four hours.
Night but I was reminded that if the mother of food and food production will enter, then I took their music on twenty-seven in the end of the last year, they will be coming back to school that they will do that they will get entertainment and other small things.
How are things?
I do not slap back?
The late?
Asking for sometime, she doesn't know anything.
You're very happy.
An ancient attack.
It is because.
Work.
Life.
You finish it.
Dimakatso much so that we can be able to look at who was carrying out bags because we are not aware who will get into the phone that has reached that is part of stealing a artist, to say this who doesn't get that is why our artist is needed in the phone they are needed.
We are reminded to this way and those who are at home we look at.
You can send a message saying anything is good to prevent it, if we blamed these, or if you complained or not using all the greetings through the newspaper, which will put up a total of five five five times six six six.
Two six wherever you are in East Africa like Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi you can use that number and come up to date but as the first to enter.
Our age of Facebook.
Life has reduced and it will benefit you like a lot of time, I will continue to finish the meaning of reviewing the meaning that he wants the slogan of this fourth season.
Life of food of food is really terrifying.
For many years, people have been going to speak, but not for the first time, we had said that we want to do everything done to these youths who we urge them to perform well in school you want your life and even if we need us to go and some people here in people.
Those who are very special but they do not want to do?
There is a problem.
