
Artists will welcome him a day.
By Mathias Chikawe.
By Mathias Chikawe, the head of Mombasa led by the governor, Mister Ali Hassan Johannesburg, where he was welcoming the new year by attending an ancient attack that was organized by the famous musician of Tanzania, Ali Kiba.
An entertaining entertainment, which involves most popular musicians from here in the country like REDEOA Juma Ally, was eliminated at the hotel of Flamingo Beach Resort Hotel Shangani, Mombasa.
The artist Ali Kiba who has got a great popularity as a result of his songs of Bongo Flava music, showed up the music fans on its obligations as it is unacceptable, he came out anyway.
Artists who come out on stage just after the residents and a big music fans celebrated the new year at six o'clock at night, apart from the musicians, the popular artist of comedy in the country, Mister Oreo 'and famous model Vida Maasai.
Music fans and even some of the residents told him that Mrs Sendo got an opportunity to vote with him due to his great shape.
Just soon, the artist Ali Kiba has decided to leave the field to entertain fans, Mister Johannesburg, arrived in the entertainment hall.
That Governor where he was welcomed by Othman ele and the residents who were in that event while the artists have praised the for failing to serve him in Mombasa.
Mister Johannesburg, was sacked for a short time and then comes back in the area that had been set aside, Mister Rashid Bena and the former member of parliament of Vigwaza village, Miss Joyce Lay and the Girl Child Care Officer, Miss Joyce Lay and the Girl Child Care Center, Ms. Joyce Lay.
At the Bahari Beach Hotel which was held in Mount Meru Hotel, the visitors of that hotel about more than 1000 in the evening before being welcomed the new year with the assistant manager of the hotel, Mister Fadhili Dononda, said the hotel preparing for Karimjee stadium to thank him for attending the celebrations of the celebrations.
The Manager of Serena Hotel, Mister Shogholo Msangi said that the hotel is as preparing for its visitors in Karume Memorial Stadium in the evening.
