
The bombs are inspiring.
Four who were taken by the police on allegations of being involved in violence, a soldier being shot.
Julius Mtatiro and Colombo and Colombo, The Citizen, popularly known as summoning demons.
Police have closed down the Nyerere road at the Vingunguti area in Dar es Salaam city yesterday after the employees of Pepsi Company Limited (SBC) has unable to convince the leadership to change their contracts and increase salaries by Omar Mjenga.
Dar es Salaam City, a few months after the former head of Kinondoni District, Paul Makonda, followed him to play against the Ubungo member of parliament, Saed Kubenea was the source which is the conflict between him and taking them to court, yesterday the bombs are completed at the factory while employees increasing the charges of salaries.
Previously, the leaders entered the court after Kubenea was alleged to marry Makonda who is currently the head of Dar es Salaam province when they visited one of the strikes among those workers.
Kubenea was sentenced to three months outside the country not to have been accused of using abusive language as he did by the head, but the claims by the workers at Friendship.
In those violence that started yesterday morning, one police had been shot on the head while three workers died.
The police commander of Kinondoni region, Christopher Timbuka, said that those violence have started after the workers not understanding each other.
"They were ready to continue with the work they were blocked by their colleagues."
Said Fuime.
Speaking about the police being shot after arriving at the scene, the three workers visited him.
"We have been taken to hospital and we are holding four people." The strike started at the end of last year when those workers claimed the salaries of salaries and allowances for transport, food and fruits.
The judgment on claims that was released on February last year by the Ministry of Labor (CPA), ordered the employees more than 800 billion shillings from April 30th.
Yesterday when he was following the implementation of that judgment, violence were received while more than 10 vehicles that have been tested at the factory area and managed to enjoy the violence.
One of those workers, Juma Abdul said yesterday was the day of starting to be paid and continue with work, but there was no agreement "we wanted to continue with different work with an agreement," said Abdul.
The human resource manager of the factory, Dickson Pangamawe, said that the leadership is ready to pay their copyrights, but it has been able to pay for a phase.
He said that the production of the factory has gone down and even employees who depend on one different times and previously there were three phase.
At the same time, the employees of Pepsi Company Limited (SBC) yesterday were adamant to implement their leadership to give the contracts to be given salaries.
In that strike, police were forced to buy a bomb attacks to marry off their employees who were before the goal of the company singing.
Those employees accused the company for giving him the responsibility of enabling them to pay their salaries, an issue that makes the delay of payments.
"The agency does not tell you and because this is a big company like this, instead of employ people, they are giving agents and causing you to use our rights," said World Shabani.
Relations officer of that company, Iron us Ngongi said he was surprised the act since they made talks with those workers and they were in the steps to look for solutions.
"That plans to work again according to the law am surprised before agreements have started," said the labor officer of the office of the Prime Minister, Labor and Employment, Omari Sama said those allegations were taken to the ministry and discuss all the sides to discuss their claims within 30 days.
