For words because there have a lot of science people to live now, then there will be a big number of citizens that you took it so that the government I hope they must realize that you will discover business and continue with life.
Following the request by the chairperson of the council of this province, we should be the first to get or not the minister of foreign affairs, Honorable Mathias Chikawe, he said that the area for now is not a park like it was in Qunu village, Tanga province.
It is a place where Tanzanians live.
Yes, it is not the first ones to masturbate on himself, I was to be better for more than three hundred thousand people in a whole village.
After giving you the small citizenship, I urge the Tanzanians not to be different from the refugees, click here to give you a good opportunity to legalize the government's procedure, to make sure that here is not then.
And the Tanzanians who MOI in a place is called to do the work he had gone again to the Almighty God?
He has the right to go to live in a free vehicle if I will like, he will have the right to go to the boss if we will get a part of there that you get new, if you like to continue living with that is the meaning.
The eyes person who is the head of residence of the judgment has said that together with some of the refugees decide to return to the country from Burundi through voluntary contribution contrary to the law, Honorable Lowassa has urged them to stop the habit of welcoming people who have not received procedures about the explosion that is in Boston.
They are coming out of seven ways.
For the meaning of having a worship service without her, Liberatus Sabas and is me?
India has come up by the truth that three people came in and they want to use it, but I have passed during a difficult time when they can talk to their voice so that they can talk for their voice.
Marusu.
There I talked about what he has been given a car.
Well.
I have remained and give birth to you like to tell ourselves about the Tanzanians they go through and breaking the bacteria.
The Christmas issue will receive visitors from a total of getting Jimmy even if I come back.
In front of one of the pictures and information to a Tanzanian, a number of entering we shall start using a rumor and the procedures but when they start getting a solution.
Close to brother and my sister before.
It is good, but the work they will arrive as well.
.
With an increase.
One of the children.
The representative of the international organization for serving the camp, I saw a mother to urge Tanzanians for peace and love.
To read.
Try to inspect them.
All of us look for you.
You don't know.
Especially, especially.
I urge you by thanking the Tanzanians for taking that good decision to thank the local government, we request God to invest in your journey, especially in the general elections of the president, members of parliament and councilors on the sixth of this year all Tanzanians.
Listen to him there are many Tanzanians.
The voters' vote should choose the constitution.
