For instance, we have been reported, now we have come out.
Marion Moore (28, 2013.

I have managed to make sure that we have increased the culture of see if we are in the island, by checking up and a capital city, that does not affect the world, and even in the African Continent.
Then we have used to be in our history by many people that remember that Tanzania in the year 1960-1970, Dar es Salaam was not known as "the"
Now, because of the liberation movement of political that was completed in the year 1994, it is possible that we have not got the direction of taking so as to continue being part of the leadership of this continent in other sectors that are in need, and because that we are waiting to do without knowing where we are marrying.
A long time has been released since I heard of the heads saying that these days are the era of diplomacy, but I have not understood the meaning of Diplomacy, is to build a relationship between one country and other countries in the world in all sectors including politics, economy, economy, art, and so on.
It is not true that the country can decide that Diplomacy, will be, of Diplomacy, "only is the first we have to know that Diplomacy, since independence had a big part of the economy and they did not support economically.
Countries like Germany, (after the previous fight) was very close to Tanzania, and some of the heads of that country like Willy Bridges Ludacris with our country's good relationship with our country, as it is evident in the modern partnership between us and the Chinese.
I could be able to continue with other examples, but that will be enough for now when I wanted to show it is that all the time, and in all the countries, the economy is the place of Diplomacy, and cannot be the only part of Diplomacy, but just like the country will change it is "
No, we have not been involved in the only economy, but the economy should be an important part of Diplomacy, there is also importance of building a friendship with an issue in East Africa, our relationship is for many things, together with culture, religion, politics and so on.
There's no way to avoid the fact that our people have been impressed by people from the neighboring country, the countries that have been done to be "neighboring, and any other efforts to continue being seen as" neighbors "because our minds are still unknown.
This is true that in all the boundaries that don't have collected in Berlin in the year 185 to 85, they did not care about what people were living in Berlin Marathon in the middle and that is why African countries are the only one that is affecting the boundaries.
In the truth or the whites did not see that they are distributed the people, because of them we did not have a very big value than animals, plants, water, livestock, animals, and half-scale farmers, whose status was near the animals.
I have a reason to say that if I do not think about these were full human being, or if they would have surprised the procedure used to enable the communities that were affected by the interests of the colonialist.
