
The councils are given a lesson on statistics.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

Government institutions have been asked to ensure availability of accurate data to be used in the implementation of various development plans.

The Deputy Secretary General, Office of the President, Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi), Bernard Membe said that in this town at the opening of the workshop of educating the goals of sustainable development in Manyara, Dodoma, Singida, Iringa and Tabora.
We need to get accurate data for every step, but its availability have been a great problem, especially the levels of the council, when you get the council, when you see statistics people proud to be in the University of Dar es Salaam to help them in that, "he said.
He said the sustainable goals of the world is the continuation of the World Menstruation Day (MDGs) whose time ended in the year 2015.
Where the government took action to allow citizens to speak their voice about success and the problems of the implementation of those goals.
Also, the preparation of the national development plan for five years, 2016 / 2017 to 2020 / 2021 has discussed the objectives of sustainable development and therefore makes execution of those goals in the country at all levels.
He said the objectives of the World Habitat Award is under the headquarters, the objective of 18 issues and many issues in the program caused poverty to the community in education areas, gender and environment.
"On the other side, the objectives of sustainable development has benefited in the 17 goals and the aim witnessed are representing people and the general world in all development areas," he said.
He said the government in collaboration with stakeholders has organized a five-year plan which is supporting Tanzania to be the central economy through the changes in the industries sector. On his part, the assistant director, Ministry of Finance and Planning, Angela us Sagna, said Tanzania has made great steps but poverty of income is still high.
