Simon Ikhwan, is a bonus of happiness, who identified himself in Kenya.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

On Tuesday, February 20, year 2007, it is a day that will not be forgotten in many Kenyans, especially the police of that country, a day that more than 100 people from the country from the special unit of fighting crime has been wanted by a sharp object.

While still a small youth of 30 years, Simon Maasais' was a dangerous winger who used to land in Nairobi city as an ancient attack, an extent that police are forced to put his head a bet of 100,000 shillings for anyone who had made his arrest.

It was at eight and a half hours during the night before Tuesday, more than 100 police entered the house of Simon Maasais' that was in the Cristal Arena Stadium, approximately 30 kilometers in the south of Nairobi city.

In that event that was dominated by garnering 13,276 votes, finally we had a police to ask him from outside his house so as to save the lives of other people who were in that house Mister Simon decided to surrender.

When he was coming out of his house, police had shot dead and killing 'police succeeded to kill him after getting information through a good citizen and by using a good phone, after getting his phone number from the good citizen.

The Spokesperson of the police force in Kenya, Gideon Shoo, said that the police force was being accused of the killing of more than 18 people among them, being a specialist doctor for AIDS, Professor Job Ndugai, who was killed in the beginning of the month of February, together with a worker at the United States called Lowa Mitego and his daughter, Ziba.

The killings of those Americans came out in January in the year 2007 in an incident of switching off the vehicle where it is alleged and his colleagues were the ones that were involved and those who were involved.

And the regional police commander of Nairobi City, Njekela said that when the event said, "today is a big day for the police force, because we have succeeded to sign a sharp object in the police force for a long time."
Commander Njoku has continued to say that, the person who came to have found himself as something to happy, (not pictured) but with the ability of God, today police have been able to remove its actions. "The commander continued to prove that the police force is still going to look for five people who are heads of those who are heads of police.

Police in Kenya believe that Makulu was leading the cries of those criminals that were tested, in the capital city of East Africa, where residents of that town for a long time have been victims of the robbery that were being run by Maasais.

After killing her husband, police at the event that they did in his house they found a gun of AK-47 together with 26 points, even so, there is a controversy that has emerged from two sides, that is the police force and the wife of the police.

On the side of police claimed that when the police got married, the police got married when he was having a gun of At-47 and therefore he was having a lot of seven months at the time he was being interviewed by any weapon, but by seeing the police that he had gone to her husband and killing him to continue.

While you have narrated that the tragedy in the television station, Who Lives Forever, said that on the incident he was a good position with her husband, but her husband was not worried that he was not worried, later he was not worried about her husband to come out and then it will be able to return the fire and killing all the ones that are inside.

Her husband said that he did not know that he bought his bed sheets so as to save his life and after seeing that police continuing to insist their stand, he had to urge her husband to help him to save the lives of their children, because of that house they were forced to help him to save the lives of their children, as they love them, being the pregnancy of seven months.
