Lowassa went to listen to the reputation.

It is for implementing the election manifesto.
And our correspondent.
Monduli.
The Prime Minister has resigned from his member of parliament.
Monduli, Arusha Province, Mister Edward Lowassa, has praised the fifth term government.
And claimed that it is implementing the election manifesto of the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
To a large extent.
Than another past phase.

Mister Lowassa made those remarks yesterday when he was addressing the meeting.
The public after setting a foundation stone for construction of a modern hospital.
In that district and insisted that the construction is the results of the implementation of the manifesto.
Election results.
"My brothers.
Monduli, this is a confirmation of the implementation of the election manifesto of your party.
We must say openly that, there is no period in which the program has been implemented.
A big level like this phase under the president.
Jakaya Kikwete, "he said.
The hospital.
Its buildings will be complete in February 2014, its construction will cost more than shillings.
Two billion having the ability to were admitted at 72 patients in four wards.
"When I released his promise.
To build this hospital, I have talked about the manifesto of CCM, therefore our party is needed.
We thank President Kikwete for managing the creation of our election manifesto. "
He said.
Mister Lowassa added.
That, that hospital has been completed, it will have modern equipment and to make it.
The best hospital in the country.

He said when he met President Kikwete and asked him to ask for money for the purpose.
The water project and given three billion shillings which are in the bank.
It aims to fulfill the manifesto of CCM.
"Is the meaning?
There is no term that has implemented the election manifesto to a large percentage like this phase of President Kikwete, also the Housing Corporation.
The National Hospital (NHC), has entered the contract with the council of Monduli District.

"This contract is the construction of a house.
100 and among those, 50 will go and another to sell, "he said.
