
We do not want investors to help each other.

We have been a heart and step by the government of Zimbabwe to ban foreign companies that do business that can be done by the local government.

Starting from January next year, the government will also take a step against any company that will enable the foreign citizen to work that can be done by the local government.

That order has been discovered since the year 2010, but it never been implemented by President Robert Mugabe was brought back to power in a landslide victory in the last general elections and promised him.

Up to now the government's plan to uplift the economic growth has been increasing at the agricultural sector only with great farms which have been set and set aside for patriotic farmers, the government has said citizens of that country have been prepared well so as to take advantage of running the activities that were run by visitors.

As a result of that issue of lack of land, the government of Zimbabwe still has set aside economic restrictions and those of the western countries, the current step of preventing the foreign citizens to run the business that is operated by local citizens, it will cause the government continue to be shaken.

However, the business that have been built for local governments are together with accidents with the total number of dairy products, business of buildings, transportation and many others, the restaurants that are owned by the visitors that will not be taxed.

When you look at that step by the government of Zimbabwe, we can be able to build a sharp edges.

But if we look at the history of the country since they get independence from England in the year 1980, we will realize that most natives of the country until today have not been able to reduce the colonial system that was founded by the government of President Mugabe's medical camp from England in the year 1965.

Therefore, in the year 1980, the government of President Mugabe was given freedom of flag, it's not economic and international business, land, energy, energy, resources and others that were announced by the government of Zimbabwe recently are required to be looked upon.

There is no objection that the action is dangerous and should be followed here in Tanzania, many foreign citizens are doing the work that can be done by the local government while some of the foreign companies have the conditions of contracts that come from the government.

Many foreign citizens, especially the Chinese have spread every place from industries, mines, forests, animals, animals, while others have been bad luck, dough nuts, new clothes and second-hand clothes.

Many others are involved in acts of crimes and drug trafficking, the citizens have banned our country a lot and we can say that they have failed in the republic.
