
Order to inform the environmental conservation in the production of production and development in the country.

Rashid Mkonga.

A total of 124 projects were chosen by the Council of Environmental Management (THRDC) in three provinces of the Southern Highlands, Mbeya, Rukwa and Katavi for a period of two months of July and August this year.

Those projects inspected include 42 mines, 13 industries, 13 fuel stations, the 2-2 stations and other projects of 8 villages which are a mixture of various community activities.

Speaking during a meeting to strengthen the environment at the Mkapa's hall in Mbeya City, the executive director of the Environmental Council in the country, Engineer Bonaventure Baya said that the aim of that inspection is to follow up on environmental protection in various projects of production and development.

He said the environmental council made the squads in order to follow up on the implementation of the environment activities with an aim to identify the standards of the environment as well as various regulations of the projects.

Engineer Ndikilo said that the forces in the country would take place in details in the provinces of the Lake Region, some of the projects in the region of Dar es Salaam, East and northern regions and that the inspection of the environment projects has intended to be sustainable and involved in all regions in the country.

He said that projects being inspected, is divided into three groups that will be implemented by following the requirements of the law, regulations and procedures of environmental protection, projects that have been putting efforts to follow the law and regulations of the environment and projects that are not involved in the environment of the environment.

He noted that the projects that don't have reliable energy plan has resulted in breaking the law, regulations and procedures of management and environmental protection and that between seven projects are only two percent of projects that are implemented by following environmental laws.

Baya said that 11 percent of the projects have permits for environment, but it did not consider the implementation of the law and the plan for protecting the environment (EMP) where 87 percent of those projects are implemented without certificates.

Previously when he was opening that meeting, the head of Mbeya Region, Abbas Kandoro, urged leaders of various community levels to participate in together with the conservation of the environment so as to put a good future of the human life and its development.

"The responsibility of the environment of the environment is our we are supposed to be environmental activists for our interests and of generations to come," said Kandoro.

He clarified that there is a big ratio in the health of human health and conservation of the environment and that if the environment will be used in human health and they will be in danger.
