
It is dangerous to the executive committee of the party.
December 31st, 2014.

There is a dangerous issue that happened in the country, which we have agreed to see that they are legal, this issue will have a result of government's performance in where politicians when they decided to decide the fate of government directors and also to intervene in performance of the government in a system that is not in the constitution and our laws.
This problem is very big and it's true that we are not our politicians (ruling party or the opposition), and not our scholars (constitution and others) who are standing on this matter so that my readers can be able to understand that, so that my readers do not depend on it, because my readers do not want it.
Why is it a matter to oppose?
First of the time President Kikwete has appointed ministers not to ask opinions from the executive committee of his party, the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania has set the appointment of ministers such as part of its own duties as the president of the United Republic of Tanzania has set the appointment of ministers as part of its own responsibilities, it's like to forgive the prisoners, to remove the prisoners.
Article 55 of the constitution is saying that the president can appoint ministers and deputy ministers for any number after being satisfied with the prime minister's consent, and the deputy ministers will hold their authority for the consent of the president, and they will be paid taxes, allowances and payments, according to the law that was done by the parliament. "
This means only one of the ministers don't work and did not be accountable for any way in front of the executive committee of their party to be responsible in front of the president alone.
Secondly, the president alone is the responsibility to question the performance of ministers and his deputy ministers. This is an issue that's an indication that the first time for the ministers are chosen by the president and if they are working with him, you cannot inform the president and if you want him to be satisfied with that time that Ukawa are going to respect the wife.
If the ones who were silent, and the one who had been going to live up to people, we don't know their performance and it is not supposed to do the work of President Magufuli and it is not supposed to have a third term because this issue is dangerous and he was unable to do it.
Third, the constitution of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) does not give the authority to the executive committee of CCM and senior ministers.

Article 109 of the CCM constitution have set aside work and responsibilities of the executive committee of the National Executive Council of CCM and all his work is related to any party's performance and not the government's executive committee not to be given priority and therefore it is not given a fourth issue.
Four, article 63 of the constitution of the United Republic has given a chance to ministers of the government to be asked about their ministry and their work performance during article 3 (a) of article it has said that the parliament can't ask any minister anything about the public issues.
The United Republic of Tanzania that is in his responsibility, "for this responsibility," this is why the party's executive committee cannot see the ministers what has paid the parliament the ability to make sure those ministers do not have faith in the government (not to have faith with the prime minister).
If there is a leader or any member in CCM, who don't have done this performance by any minister in the country, who don't have a easy way to follow the minister or other ministers, to make sure that CCM has a lot of-thirds of those ministers to be interviewed and held by parliament and that can be done by members of parliament.
And as the members of parliament to see the government itself is the problem they have two other ways of doing an account to vote and have faith in the president or to look for a constitutional reason to dismiss him from power through parliamentary charges (it is available).
Following the announcement of a new council of ministers, these issues are important to talk and be keen on if we will leave this "the political party, where we will not have a good government, instead of doing the consent of the president is working for the consent of the party's executive committee.
It is because of my own power I have given me my intention and urged all new ministers and those who want to refuse to try to stop completely the responsibilities of various agencies in the country so as to ensure there is no cause of illegal immigrants.
And to the authority, I want all ministers who will make them to get their positions in front of who participated in their political party to decide to resign from their work immediately after forcing him to sit down in the executive committee of CCM.
And when it has come for President Kikwete's start to accept to be responsible for the mistakes of his ministers, it's not supposed to see Nay claimed that he is supposed to stand up with his responsibilities or he would like to see Nay wa Mitego so that he didn't want him to continue with his responsibilities or to make sure that he is unable to continue with his responsibilities or to make sure that he is still unable.
Otherwise, he will not know one of the country, one do not have a lot of administrative people in the country which will be accepted if it has decided now, our government in front will get a lot of work to stand in power.
This article for the first time was published on the media network, we have met here due to his weight.
