The condition of someone to be independent is like the most of its kind is important in his daily life is not the mother in this city to save the history of having one value in this town to save the history of having a great relief in this period.
Welcome him at my home.
There, we had the queen.
The teaser sin?
And customers.
And many people don't agree with the ability, he wants to provide services to people we do not put in environment.
How will I be read to these people the ones who don't know or groups were known but we went to the village, we can enjoy the environment because many people arriving and maybe be enough for people to know how many people want to know their lives.
Therefore, when a time comes up and even his executives think they know that they will not take their responsibility to these rumors.
It is difficult to realize that it will not stay, where his support will not live as Musa Juma in the evening a resident of long-long balls in Shinyanga town, its activities is to increase the ability to witness the many affected in the city, including they say it's also a mother.
For a long time since he is in a environment.
Very much, our mother for sure you want it so much by using the English people so that we can be from every person the Almighty God will get married, we become an expert to know what is an expert who dies with them and we will help them a lot.
What is this school of happiness?
And the society that takes a veteran city is going on.
They are providing that service to my father.
Therefore, or do women entrepreneurs so much and we are.
They are supposed to help the disabled because they are people who have power but to know that someone can get food around several days and go as the allowances until it gets a lot of food I urge them to drop out.
During the meeting, you want to talk about each person who knows me on how his mother but he is involved with her life every day, is a disabled person to hear him arrived for time to go down from a total of five years ago for now, to say the family of this mother and while being an important mid-fielder in the management of daily activities.
It is the first to make sure that the parliamentary studies have said.
I took an example, a nation or every day you will be seen, they don't know that you have not been done, I wish you it for this and it is that you love me but I would tell me what he is my daughter, I urge you to tell you this is my daughter!
They do not know that, it is to do that if you finish it and asked.
The cause of, I have been infected with this meaning?
He was a great and he put me.
It is.
What is it?
.
