
Magufuli refuses the offices of Uhuru.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

President John Magufuli who is also the national chairperson of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), has made a surprise visit to the Uhuru Newspaper offices, the ruling party of the ruling party and expansion of this month, the workers were given their salaries for 609 million shillings.

Moreover, he has ordered to be given a list of government institutions which are Uhuru and Mzalendo newspapers and also he has ordered the debt that had been issued by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) from being presented on their workers.
In his talks with employees in the offices that are in Lumumba Estate in Dar es Salaam city, workers have complained of lack of their salaries for seven months, not being sold to the donations of employees by NSSF, being sold to employment for some workers, lack of money from government institutions and those who are unable to pay their benefits.
According to the state house, those workers have also explained to Doctor Magufuli that the board and management of the association of media stations that runs the Uhuru and Radio Uhuru One, has been unable to run those stations and they have requested them to run those equipment, which currently has a bad state because of facing great debts, and his business has reduced by a large extent.
Responding to the complaints, President Magufuli visited the Uhuru offices from his office at the headquarters of CCM headquarters, Lumumba, he has instructed the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana to ensure all the salaries for government institutions which are Uhuru and Mzalendo newspapers and has instructed the debt to have been presented by NSSF because they are presented to off their workers.
About the complaints against the board and the management of the company, employment for workers, the benefits to the retired, to be sold to the machine for printing newspapers and difficult conditions for work, Doctor Magufuli has promised to work on them.
In addition, Doctor Magufuli congratulated the workers of Uhuru Newspaper for the great and good work that they did despite facing a big challenge and has assured them that he knows their importance and that he will make sure he continues to improve the condition of that important thing.
At the same time, President Magufuli has removed the state of retired speaker of parliament, Samuel Sitta who is continuing to get treatment in Dar es Salaam city and his condition is going on well.
