
Kikwete will go to Rwanda that you to learn from the Kagame Cup, May 25, 2012 by eternal peace.

The debate about the most foreign tour of President Kikwete, especially from the United States and Europe, has refused to die for this discussion and it's just a long time, but it happens soon when he went to America (the sixth or seven times).
Citizens have been discussing those trips in homes, offices, and even at the bar and even in the internet, they are supporting them and they are telling them to be bad use of the taxpayer identification.
In one of his speech, President Kikwete got defending himself about the journey by giving an example of MEMKWA market in the world that was visited New York, America.
President said recently, "I visited the New York Times magazine, which his business is continuing to 223,98 trillion shillings in America, we were given the honor to launch a day of one day. It is because I had been given the honor to be given that respect.
(DSE), could meet with the relatives of those who live alone, "the statement by President or not for Tanzania stopped from him to visit the Nasima market in the parts of the world, do not see that he was given the honor to officially open the business of that day.
For sure, a person who is unable to prevent themselves as our president took the air from Atletico Madrid in America because of visiting the Nasima market in the world which he wanted to learn from markets that are continuing to learn from markets that are ongoing with capital city of the African countries.
He is a person who doesn't know the difference between our market where the young market of Dar es Salaam (DSE) and the Nasir of the New York city, is a difference between Mount and the anthill.
If the president and his delegation wanted to learn issues of stock markets so that maybe they can benefit us, then they did not have a reason to cross the Indian Ocean, South Africa which is better than 30 times more than us!
I request that tries to explain here (for example) is that sometimes our leaders don't have any reason to cut off the air from Atletico Madrid to learn in America, because of some issues, your training here in Africa will come again another time in the neighboring country.
That's why I don't support some of the tour that he does our president. I could have support these trips, they were the truth, "the solution to you and not to open the Nasim business in the areas or not to guide themselves on the poor.

If I could be supported if they were able to find a technology of making a phone and fishing tools, and not for representing us if I could be supported if they were able to be taught how to create a mosquito bite?
For other words, I would have been supporting if they would be able to pay for sustainable development, and not to ask to be dealt with in short periods of here and there.
On that logic, we were directed to support him as they were of going to countries like India, Brazil, Singapore, Malaysia and South Korea, and even a few countries in Africa, try to know what our colleagues succeeded to get development in a short time.
Years is not a lot of years ago, those countries were not yet to see us through our development, but there were a shop that got speed up quickly and let me leave behind.
Countries like Malaysia and South Korea were one of the development of the year 1961, but now it is rich to reach 20 times (SAA), in his book, Doctor Shaghala Baamar.
But in Africa, there are some of the countries that we can be able to learn anything.
One of those who are Rwanda, 13 years ago, Rwanda started afresh (in their homes) after being destroyed badly on the fight against the killing of Kimbari of the year 1994 that caused the deaths of traditional and Hutu deaths.
But today, Rwanda is so far in development (especially the villages) to grow.
He knew President Kagame to make Rwanda in the 13 years, is what we have, as a nation, we have been unable to do for 20 years ago and we have not heard of President Kagame to be going, just after time, America or Europe!
In the year 2004, I was one of the few journalists that we were invited by the government of Rwanda to go and see the development reached after 10 years of the killing of Kimbari of the year 1994.
While in there, we were given an opportunity to speak to the ordinary citizens in the city and on the village because we are talking to various leaders including ministers, managers, engineers, others, and not only talks, but we visited the towns and several villages to witness the whole issue.
I think that when I saw Rwanda (urban and villages), it was difficult for me to believe that 10 years ago the country has been caused by war and attractive blood!
How do we go to Rwanda in a period of 13 years ago, it has managed to investigate and be able to get that fast development because of their high-term development?
I think this is something that President Kikwete and his colleagues are supposed to go to Rwanda to learn, and not to go to the United States, although I was told that his officers did not get their journey like Rwanda, because they do not have great payments for those allowances in America.
In short, Rwanda is a big subject for us for a few years ago been damaged by war and the killing of Kimbari of the year 1994, but now it is responsible for development to prevent us which we have been in a peace island. "
I sat at that tour that there is a big difference between our leaders and the leaders of Rwanda.
Mind and our hearts are giving or to build their country in Rwanda.
In Rwanda, the level of corruption (corruption) is very little by the biggest leader that he was quoted if it is not the president of the public and therefore it is wrong for the public and therefore it is good for the current leader to get back to his constituency being received by demonstrations by motorcycle riders.
The council of Rwanda's ministers have been filled with many youths and they are working hard to know that those who love their country, Kagame did not support those youths in different parts of the world and to convince them to stop, or get their businesses or a big employment that they visited and return home to build their country.
A good work of the cabinet of Rwanda started with President Kagame's president.
This is a president who is winning up until night, I remember they were in Kigali, 2004, we managed to meet him in an interview at 6 o'clock at night, and still after we had a meeting with his colleagues.
That was surprised by the President Kagame at 6 o'clock at night, our locals were surprised by when he saw that Kagame to come up at 9 o'clock at night and go to the airport, the national soccer team that was coming back home with a great victory!
Here in our Tanzania, I have not seen the news of any minister, or any normal leader of working up to 6 o'clock at night.
The last leader who was chosen to hold that behavior, is Edward Sokoine.
That was a normal way to read each other on the night by voting for them (even at 8 o'clock at night) ministers, relatives and RC or even the DC.
Therefore, by checking the work of Kagame's work, you are not supposed to see that for a short time, it has been able to see in Kigali city as a big business hub in the country, do not continue to revive the speed of agriculture and breast cancer screening which was okay during the war and killing of Kimbari.
However, its strategy of dealing with poverty in the villages is to have more actions, more than the moment, a plan for giving four cows to each person has reduced many to Rwanda.
Rwanda, they have the right they are looking for you and it's not only in papers just like the year 2025.
What was coughing, during that tour, even so, it is that some of the companies that enabled Rwanda to get these economic development, including the University of Kigali, Science and Technology (MCST) which has contributed to make progress in Rwanda villages, the first strength was the beginning.
It's not only that the head of the founder, Professor Mshenga is a Tanzanian that was taken by the Kagame from the University of Dar es Salaam, but also several departments of Mwenge were led by Immaculata Nyoni when he was visiting the year 2004.
This is the catalyst to the development of Rwanda, especially in the villages and like going on in the villages and seen citizens use solar energy, it will find new bridges that have been built in the villages, it will find new bridges and small industries.
I hope we thank you, why should we protect those (MSG) when they were awarded the engineering profession of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), they did not make the Faculty of development of our villages like what they did in Rwanda?
His answer is easy to know and it is that the environment of Tanzania is not a environment of Rwanda and Rwanda is not only being used well, but their talents which were trusted and used well in addition, the leaders of Rwanda are near the villages, different from here at home.
When you talk about Professor Mshamba, even some of Rwanda ministers have got their primary and secondary education here in Tanzania, I'm talking to people like Donald Kaberuka, who was the executive director of the African Development Bank (ADB).
However, where he is the chief boss of ADB Shapriya, still love, mental and thoughts of Kaberuka in his country of Rwanda, a situation that explains it is why Rwanda is impressed by the donations of that bank.
I hope we thank God, most of many who have great positions outside (C) and Professor Tibaijuka) who have remember their country and helped to give big projects in a way that has Kaberuka and helped Rwanda?
I conclude my motion and insisted on that it is not all times the tour of our leaders in the United States and Europe have a new thing to learn which can be able to pay for sustainable development, so many of them will just look for a donation of money to solve our short-term problem here and there.
I have not said, instead of going to America and Europe, it is good for our leaders to go and learn from those countries which only a few years ago, we arrested the third world, and now they are inspiring.
But there are also neighboring countries like Rwanda which in a short time have given great development to prevent it because our President Kikwete does not want to know their secret?
Simao does not show a one-day visit to meeting in meeting or talking to Kagame Cup.
I wish you a close tour of the whole week to visit the villages and different cities of that country and to see himself the pace on development, and then go back to Kigali, went to Kigali, Kagame and his colleagues have been successful "to their own success.
I know there are those who said that the Kagame is a quack dictator. It is true, but it is a quack dictator, but even Nyerere asked me a lot of love between Nyerere and presidents that stopped him again?
It depends on.
