
Government to make laws for service provision.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

The government has emphasized his intention of making law on provision of legal assistance to help access to all rights especially poor people who live in villages in the country.

While speaking yesterday in Dar es Salaam city at the commemoration of five years since the establishment of the fund to help improve services of legal services in the country, the director of the Constitutional Review Commission and monitoring from the Ministry of Constitution and law, John Mngodo, has said the government of the fifth phase has planned to start the law so as to make the services to be affordable.
Apart from other things, that law will realize that legal action will enable the citizens with different legal problems to help them get their rights.
"We should also depend on the provision of normal education and legal training to the rule of law in the country so that they can be able to expand the quality of legal services by those with the needs of those services in the country.
He explained that through the fund, 18 billion has been issued as a grant from 53 institutions in the country that are involved in legal services, which have already given training for legal measures so that they can help Tanzanians with various legal problems in the country.
I also added that through that fund the total number of 4,628 they got training, every district's legal action have been taught by using major guidance and the Party of Tanganyika lawyers.
The chairman of the board of directors of that fund, Judge Jacqueline Wama, said that this fund is aiming to increase the opportunities of availability of legal assistance especially for women by enabling them through training about law and human rights.
He said that for five years ago the system was able to take legal services to people with those needs in the villages and improve the availability of those services to poor households in the country.
He explained that the fund on the other side has increased the understanding of the law, rights and good governance and good governance, non-governmental organizations and special groups.
He added that in ensuring that they reach out to citizens in urban and rural areas, the fund up to now has paid 20 billion shillings by giving grants to organizations that are involved in legal services in the country.
The chief executive officer of that fund, Dina Moris, explained that the legal action in the country is important to provide legal services to people with those needs in the villages where the availability of legal services is still a big problem.
