SA and in this period of love, my name is accusing.
In this short period, we had not succeeded.
We have given you a true book about the whole issue of building for building the economic ability, a woman is a must that you have the ability to look for income because you do not have sure to get money for subsistence while you have your family.
Private.
Even if there is no children who come like you but not like your needs if you do not have electricity if you are not sure and the activities that will be avoided.
Three motorbikes.
You will live a very difficult life for that reason then we have said inside your life, you can't know what I'm in, but I request you to see what I'm doing so that this day you can learn how you will take this step, to achieve your goals we wait and very close to them in the period.
First, I would like to inform you and you cannot inform us that, the journey of giving thanks will need for a long time.
I love this children.
I was a woman, I have a lot of dreams, I'm in a week, I am saying I want to request for a woman.
Yes, I don't know how many of the kind, but I was and goals.
Fraud charges.
I look at which way you get first employment.
There is still what happens when I joined the teaching college where I got I am there.
I have done a bit of hands and no payment is when I will get into the shivered and I request to be in one private company for five years for five.
I got I started.
You pay you for a day I remember that years we were paid?
We have already started there like the elephants, I believe it's still getting my goals.
I started.
It is how to get more about, I went to get married.
And at all, I saw it even if you like the treatment, as a time of time and things like that, I also seen it is not enough to increase the efforts.
It's like they are getting a chance if you are not like me when I get a chance, it does not use well and to be just a payment.
It was put another chance to get more position and come back again, but because despite an elevator.
Where I was looking for all these kinds which were given to the company.
And the customers.
To its customers, it is a work that it goes through I went up and saw it.
The case going on how I was able to teach him and others but before that, after working for a short time.
I did work for a long time.
For three, I saw it not to be enough for my goals, who wants to be a woman, who I want to do I do I go back.
Getting a degree of development in the community, I know now his talent can be in the community.
I wrote me for three years when I was at work.
But you will succeed and got a good vehicle.
He started to read and continue ahead of giving up and see that they are.
Because of having children in the country, I used it used the first year.
I have read when I was pregnant when you are doing a pregnant woman you said.
I saw it up to the end, I said it is to be pregnant for example I'll give birth to us, I see that I have had a first time to question my woman and I do I do other things to be, I am saying what is taking it again to get children.
I want it is a time earlier so that I want to I want to take five hours to go to the step, he wanted that I had done so that I had gone to, I finished, he completed it.
When finishing giving birth to my children, I have found themselves and went ahead with that center, at the middle time, you will not turn up and I will also be able to open the company even so that you can be able to open doors, we are supposed to be able to put aside position and position as you want to tell him a woman that is supposed to be successful.
To understand the wind of a woman is a must that you have a goal to know if you want to be who after resigning from the community is a must that every woman is in.
At work we are, we must inform the goals that there is no long time now how many players do not accept when we know if there is someone who is doing so that there is someone who is at work.
That is something that most of us have.
