EXIM Bank, Arusha for them.
October 17, 2013.

Customers who were given a lot of millions of money in their accounts of Barclays Bank, Arusha branch have pressurized the Central Bank of Tanzania to intervene in the "theft," after the leadership of the bank claimed to be relating to the problem if they are unable.
73 billion shillings were believed to be stolen from one branch of Arusha in accounts of various customers in the period of the year 2010 and 2013, while some of the bank employees were alleged to be involved.
Those funds are believed to be identified by a network of some employees of that bank in the customers' accounts by using various ways including communication technology.
Already some of the customers who are claiming that millions of shillings have opened a high court in the business unit in the Arusha region after the efforts to end that issue outside the court were unable.
Apart from opening that case, some have presented their complaints from BoT and among them is the businessman of Tanzanite, Para Mollel, who claims being given more than 700 million shillings in that scandal.
Our citizen has seen various documents of that scandal that there should be noted that, Mollel is the owner of the 5711,070,634 dollars and among those, one was the foreign funds (American dollars) and other Tanzanian funds.
Through his lawyer, Omar Iddi, the director of Bridge Engineering Company of Arusha, Mollel has advised the Central Bank of Tanzania, the department of management of the bank, to request that agency for management of financial institutions to help how to get his money.
In that letter on July 26th, this year, his lawyer has noted that its customer in a period of four months ago it found a loss of its money in its three months which were 57890,67,888 trillion and 57,934 shillings.
According to the lawyer, funds which were stolen or its disappearance is an amount of 340,529,500 shillings which is more than 578 million shillings in the market for now and it has also lost 40 million shillings of Tanzania in one of the account.

In signing up the claims, Mollel has also issued a letter to the chairman of the board of directors of Barclays Bank, Yellow Fm, a result of looking at the issue of its funds to get lost.
In that letter on September 10 this year, Mollel explains that the management of that bank promised that his issue will be given solutions while running the internal investigations to know how the money passed lost or stolen.
In his talks with this newspaper, Mollel confirmed to present his complaints from BoT and he said that it's true then through my lawyer, I have taken that action even though the bank's management will take appropriate measures though until now, two months have not yet given a unsatisfactory performance. "
While explaining how the money has been stolen, Mollel said that it has been taken to its accounts through different ways like with relocating the dummy check together with giving money to the ATM's machines.
While giving an example, Mollel says that, "the report of my account number 5711334 shillings which are American dollars show on October 20, last year I donated 22,67,888 trillion shillings in that account, something that is not true.
"The situation has also taken place in other two financial accounts of Tanzania and 225000 American dollars has been lost," he claimed.
He added that he was surprised by the bank's reports to show that he has been doing or making payments through a check or ATM machines since that bank never got a dummy check or the ATM's card and he has been giving his money by using a special form of giving money.
On the side of lawyer Omar Iddi confirmed that it is true on behalf of his client, he has written a letter of complaints from BOT with the aim of getting justice.
"This is true that we have taken that decision because the Barclays Bank has been unable to show about the interests of my customer who had their customer, we have decided to write a letter to five, but they did not support him to answer to one letter from their lawyer," he said.
Lawyer Omar said believe that it is enough to use the way to get that money by using BoT.
Speaking about the claims by the business person, the director of the department of management of the bank of the Central Bank of Tanzania, Professor Anna Nyoni, he confessed to have received the complaints of Mollel.
