Last year he was surprised by the board.
He did to come.
An agreement took place.
Children.
.
Mshenga, this week speaking about teachers questions from the board of teachers who are coming out in parliament and we cannot continue talking to the committee of the league.
Every time the government will make efforts to provide better education available to its citizens but still there has been understanding for those efforts and some of the residents in some of the provinces in the country.
Finally, the number is being paid in Tabora province by looking at the whole issue and out of form four students in secondary schools.
I explained to know what then continue to view the magazine Mary Magdalene, right now is called Grace.
It is same.
Only secondary schools yesterday are in Tabora Municipality.
It was started in two thousand shillings which are among the government schools that were built during the beginning of the first phase of the fourth government of President Jakaya Kikwete and the former prime minister while not his brother Edward Lowassa.
Four students who will be living in the picture are this year among them the girl is one.
But those students started form one in two thousand and ten thousand, how many gods are there and how many do you have.
It is for grade four this year, a day that will come up with four people in the day.
Four people because they arrived at form one of the students that they held the exams they toured the form four exams.
These students saw the sun for who succeeded.
Among those who did the new video.
Therefore, it's the time they came in one five while carrying pregnancy as one of the three that were left with students who are not registered to do his examinations because it becomes a must.
This shivered and a big challenge at the time to teach these students, I do not use what is not a challenge because you're not a challenge because you feel it's good for the teachers to attend to school, when you know it is not a challenge because we get a challenge to the teachers to attend to school, so when you know it is not a challenge to school.
A woman in education in this ward.
It is small.
Brother because that first, parents do not participate fully in the name of the children's education.
There is looking for children to be calm.
Children are not seen in that school, parents have been called on bail.
It becomes many times when we are doing sessions with few parents we want the strategies that for the end of the day you find its implementation it's not there because the parents who will happen if the sitting were very few.
And then, it is a goal that we have given you the decision that we did not have all the implementation, the implementation we are doing and we become a commission we've never been in this results because it will enable us to pay various donations of school.
That is an extent that Sure is unable to know what?
And its results, you know the bad events because if a student doesn't give them a student to do well their parents and being called quickly so we can look at home and be called a small problem, the students of this school have a very bad results because of them.
Four students only out of five and one who graduated from form one and ten thousand in one year and one are a very big number among these students even though they are also a few.
And it is mentioned that you and even if you want to do well in their final form four exams for a year.
We live.
