
He was surprised by Nyerere.

It has been written by John Nditi,.

It has been reported, 24 October, 2016.

Four residents of Emalahleni village, County of Ulanga Morogoro Region, among the former President of the government of the first phase, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and was left free, found himself in trouble after being arrested by police on a public meeting that was called by the head of the province.

The outgoing member of parliament and his colleagues, Darius Mhawi (48) of the Yakemikali village (53), a resident of Eastleigh neighborhood, were arrested the day before yesterday by police on the order of the District Commissioner of Ulanga, Jacob Kassim Majaliwa.
It is alleged to start violence that had the aim of wanting to break the meeting, before the Provincial Commissioner Doctor Stephen Kebwe has completed his intention of addressing the citizens of that village.
Before the head of province, I was welcomed to citizens who had gathered at the grounds of Eastleigh primary school, he stopped the woman, Erena and saw the hand to indicate that the report and given the head of the province to start giving his speech at the meeting until the first time.
Doctor Kebwe advised that citizen, who was able to leave him as he gets to work hard and later he will be given time to ask questions, or saying what happens when the woman continued to sit down in order to sit down in order to sit down in order to sit down.
He joined the group of few people including an elder of member of parliament, (standing) and asked the head of the province to listen to it and if he does not want them to leave all, they are doing their brothers themselves.
That act made the head of that district to request police to arrest the woman and an elder of parliament and others that increase the violence in that meeting.
However, a group of few people who are not in the neighborhoods if he was touched by the mining of mining minerals, is that of continuing the violence every time when a meeting was prepared and for that day they did not meet again with the district commissioner.
"Police follow as a mother and a mother (standing) and other people who want to bring the violence, who wants to leave when he went to leave, when I was given time to ask questions and that does not want to listen to him," said Kassim Majaliwa.
However, after being arrested by those leaders, citizens who were present at that meeting they met with power while he congratulated the district commissioner for encouraging them.
He claimed that those people are believers and who are being used by people of Mahenge town and Dar es Salaam, to stop the work of investment of that big project.
"These people have been fulfilling the expectations of the beneficiaries of this project, again some of them are not in the project, but they are being used by people outside the project but they are being used by people outside the project," said one of those residents.
"These people have dared to fall into the bridge and breaking the project's office here in the village where it will be safe," added that resident, who did not want her name to be in the newspaper while in that meeting.
Doctor Kebwe said the government of the province and the district is supposed to recognize inciters of people who will end the lives of good citizens, and for the whole period they were left by recognizing that they will remove their behavior.
"A member of parliament made a lot of parliament that he had already sent him by the father of the nation Mwalimu Nyerere due to incitement actions, but he has not warned them and we will put it inside and his colleagues in incitement," said the Provincial Commissioner.
"This is the third time to bring conflicts before the start of a meeting that was used to be used, but today we cannot be left to now, he has to understand that the government is implementing its responsibilities," said Doctor said people should not be left to them, he has to recognize that the government is implementing its responsibilities, "said Mister said people should not be left," he said.
In that meeting, he gave a big opportunity to the citizens of that village to ask questions, to give opinions and recommendations that were taken by the executives of the district and province and the Tanzania Civil Aviation Company Limited for the purpose of implementation and getting a foundation stone.
In another step, the young people have passed the cost of 32 youth from Ulanga, including Eastleigh village not in the technical studies including the mining sector.
The manager of relations and community development of the company, Bernard Mihayo said those youths are receiving training at the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) with the aim of using the near future days during the activities of the small-scale extraction of minerals, "Grind.
