
The government does a cry for the stakeholders of sugar.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

In recent days, sugar companies and local farmers have been complaining about the issue of importation of sugar in the country is affecting their sectors.

The sugar of smuggling has been so far that the sugar companies have already been unable to sell its sugar in the internal market and also it has not been unable to buy, from farmers which is the main natural resources for sugar.

For now, due to the success of geothermal energy, that was started to be available on the recent years, the number of farmers who sell their homes in the companies and now more than 30,000 people.

By any way, the government cannot stop within the sugar companies that will rise, farmers to stop themselves because of the sugar imports from outside the country.

If the countries that are developed like Brazil have decided to rise, in large numbers for the internal and foreign market, it is true that our nation has no longer a great intention to say "ghost students will be able to meet the level to meet on the local market."

If there are only four companies that are available here in the country, there are self-scale farmers who benefit from it, it is that 20 companies in the way can attract more than 140 farmers which are a good number.

This number of farmers is different from the number of employees who will get one employment opportunities to the industries here in the country.

If our nation has been able to look for a solution to the employment problem to the youth, this sugar sector is one of the ones that like investment and their talents will be enough, you can help a lot.

It is important for the government to prevent the loopholes of the importation of clove smuggling so that it is important to increase the control of those that were known as a non-communicable diseases which are told to be the main way for transporting these sugar.

We have been currently, we will inform the farmers and a difficult life that will deal after lack of modern customers, the way you will bring in investors who have agreed to open industries for production in the country and we will bring in employment of thousands of youths.
