
The blood stream of the produce after three months.

The animal farmer is easy, with benefits and for three months only is ready to go to the market to sell its customers.
To me, I think I could be able to sell the blood and a human being, "says Mister Michael Muchi, the expert expert of potatoes from the Kibangu area, he sees a small scale farmer.
Put aside, he was a professional expert in Tarime computers (33), before being elected to be the councilor of Lands in the area and later on an indication that it is a must.
"I was the councilor of this ten years, but the host, the arrest, he cleaned it and gave him another chance," says the farmer.
He explains that even if you are disrupting agriculture from his parents, he is proud to have taken action against using modern farming means although they have a cost.
"Landscrona" was a farmer but I decided to inherit and sell for modern practices in order to increase the more income, "says Mister Karamaeli Mnjokava.
He feels like vegetables, tomatoes, the flowers to sell the European countries but is usually very much in eternal farming because he can deal with its challenges easily.
"For five years ago I have been able to know and fight with the challenges of this farming, therefore it is easy to me more than any other farming," he explains Mister Hjelmaker.
Before listening to this farming, it is a must that the farmer care for the type of diseases that can do well from the reserve area.
"The secret of blood is wrong, if you get the seeds that does not affect the crops, will be poor," says Mister Msepwa.
In order to know if the cold drinks, you want to climb it, it is a must that you get advice from agricultural officers or to look for forgiveness from the farmers who have enough skills and have contributed to a long-term plans.
"We look for knowledge from the experts or farmers who have skills which will be used to farmers who want to start this farming," the farmer Michael urged farmers who have an intention to intervene in agriculture.
Sangeu, Tigo, Kenya, a new, Kenya, welcome him are different types of iron sheets, but because this farmer deals with two types of color (red) and Tigo Company which is white.
The advice is known as a farmer wants to intervene in agriculture and the ones that can be generated from one acre level.
The price of color you want to rise in which modern is 3,000 shillings for the end of 100 kilograms and also the current price in the market.
K u P-RT 'a lot of herbal medicines and do not be dealt with by Clay soil) will be very fast for agriculture and potatoes.
First of your farm well and stop being stabbed with the sun for a period of two or three weeks, so as to resolve it, it will be at the second time (in the picture) if you are needed to travel immediately.
This will ensure that it has come at the second part which is difficult because the shivered so as to enable water to get down.
"Charo Wiwa of 75 percent of 75 million at one hour and sometimes it will put more than 3-to one hour, that will enable enough weather to lead them and spread inside this plants," he said.
He explains the farmer Michael.
Make sure that you put the potatoes during his eyes and look at because it's you to know.
Use the type of natural or livestock if you do not use the shop's estate.
Before testing diabetes is very important to sprinkling of drugs to prevent this disease, then eat the potatoes during pregnancy as they put up to the era of apartheid.
Let me go up to eight hours this week, it will be a period of one month and a half, now you can be very difficult because I don't know how to be heard, "says the barley farmer.
His flowers will commence after two months.
This means that we have already begun to grow, the farmer should have a lot of crimes according to misuse of diseases which can affect the poor.
To reach, the farmer followed the instructions that was given by the experts, or farmers who benefited from this farming, can get more than 90 acres of 90 kilograms, and I will not expect to sell 80% for farmers, 80 days and later the potatoes species will be ready.
"I am looking for yourself and get close to the potatoes affected by many branches (they think it) because they will give a good seeds if this will make the work to choose the seeds after harvesting," says Mister Kajubi Mukajanga.
For 90 minutes to go and go to the conditions of nutrients will be ready.
