Safe for one day it gives.
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

One of the important records in the last general election in America, is the second presidential candidate on the Republican Party ticket, being a rich candidate on the history of that country's elections even so, together with his wealth, Kidney.

Despite his personal wealth, Kidney and also got enough support from different rich people in his party, most of them put into power that they had been ready to use any amount of money to ensure that they get into power, the rich and their money were not able to destroy Obama.

If there is a very big lesson.
From that election of the United States for our politics in home, especially during this period that some politicians have been forced to place money for building a victory environment in the next general elections in 2015, then it is true that money is not everything in search for a political victory.

Many of the American politics analysis of America have agreed that one of the two major reasons that caused Sepp Blatter's rule as a rich one with many Americans facing a difficult state of economy due to the reduction of different groups in the community of Americans.

When they were forced to there and there, Obama and Meek Mill were seen as politicians who come from the two different times, while it was easy for Obama's history because she was born and left to a rich family.

A fact that the history of the judgment as a rich one doesn't know that many of the voters are not enough to be an obstacle to many people from the country to the nation that is proud that it is going to respect the freedom of the country, the opposition party in order to make sure that the party should place it far from the ordinary citizens in that country.

Likewise, the emerge with the group of people who have separated with a great stand that is was known as "TEA party," has continued to make corrections, they gave them to 12 million residents in that country which essentially has no rights of homes until now.

While Obama has been with the process of building a world of an agreement, for example, by preparing to build better relations between the United States.
The countries of Islam, non-malarial in the efforts like the weaknesses of that president.

Likewise, the policy of foreign affairs, Mzindu promised to put rumors and the war instead of giving the opportunity of Diplomacy, has continued to make sure that many voters of the United States do not recognize the costs of running one war after another, without forgetting the cost of life due to the deaths of the police in that country.

At home, our election politics have continued to be ruled by great use of money, especially in the process of getting the position of vying through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and finally in fighting with opposition parties in the general elections.

I believe every reader was understand about great use of money in the CCM party elections, where basically the funds are aiming at building a good environment for victory in the next general elections in the year 2015.

Different from America where the great use of money will cost more to see the candidate through advertisements, there.
In a large extent, money are used to buy votes from one language to one, the money makes the ability of a candidate to give bribes to buy votes.
