We should be afraid of CCM?
Jide 29, 2015.

I have ever wrote on this column that when a political party has reduced, or it has dropped because of its establishment, there are several ways of members to take.
They can lead the internal affairs if they can and especially if the party is not recognized by the leaders and another way is to leave the party to another party, this is a way that is used by many members here in the country.
If you use this saying, the father of the nation says, "the party is not my mother and when it comes back and that she gets her foundations, then someone will be free from that party.
It is in another small group that was coming up and decided to leave politics with the time she cursed "politics is a dirty game" that does not be able to be played with good people and faithful.
In addition to the same way, there is another way that doesn't be used here in Tanzania. That is the one to sit and remain in the party, with a group or a group that has extended to fighting and view or a new stand of their party.
This phrase is not allowed in the state of politics of Tanzania and many times when it comes, its results are being sacked from the era of one party, a person that could be put behind in prison.
The landslide victory of President Barack Obama of the Republican Party, John Lukuwi in America, brought a earthquake in that party.
Its results, came out a small group but keenly, and decided to remove the policies of it has succeeded or give information and new vision.
This group made the "TEA party 'inside the Republican Doctor Liky and shook the party's basis for two things followed by the party, members who are eager to leave the party or stop politics.
Secondly, the leadership of the party is causing the wave of the party and make the victory, it would have changed to some of the concerned leaders, they were forced to listen to the rebels "of" TEA). "
Currently, more than four years since it comes out of the Republican Party, it's not only that it has started getting victory in a small elections but even the victory of President Obama in November this year is a very big offence.
We should agree with us inside the Republican Party and we look at the possibility of looking for CCM party for the members not to move to other parties and not to stop politics but basically there is a fifth term.
The first chapter of masturbation.
The Lord's first is to stand up and to announce that you are inside and outside CCM.
The possibility of the opposition party in CCM should stop inside meetings and coming from outside they were seen as the followers everything that CCM did not help the party or their opponents.
The party continues to investigate and every one who claims to change in the sessions is told to leave the party, or he is told that he has a pain for the presidency.
Since the political party for the interests of the public, it is good that the members of the party members and leaders don't know their secret and secret of the sessions of the party, to read it as Jando and Unyago.
Second commandment prohibits us.
The second chapter of us is not to give or receiving bribes and now the place has been accepted by a person to be elected in the leadership position without giving money, and a person cannot vote if he loves you and gave him anything.
Going against you, this is dangerous for the foundations of CCM that are needed many people, the members, and leaders not getting bribes and there is a lot inside the party.
Contrary to this advice, it is continuing to remain in a pest and agreed to be done by bribery, the system has been revealed that even those who are complaining for bribery, think they want to give bribes or comply with the sponsors of the newspapers they've had already got into power.
Try to send a private sector and of the party, it should not be an important issue of being talked about inside the sessions.
Third commandment prohibits us.
The third commandment prohibits us with corruption and now the place is a member and the leader of CCM because its responsibility is to resolve the evil deeds that they have been left to their opponents and therefore, they see them is not true.
