
Engineer Mtigumwe has mentioned his priorities in Singida.
The new provincial commissioner of Singida, Engineer Mathew Mtigumwe, today has been officially handed over the office and announced its priorities in Monday, March 21, this year.
He has mentioned those priorities as citizens' development in various sectors including education and health and he will also make its energy to recognize various problems facing the citizens and look for permanent solutions for them.
Engineer Mtigumwe said that today when he was introduced in front of the defense and security committee of the province shortly after being handed over the office by his predecessor, Doctor Parseko Vicent Kone.
About the development of citizens, he said that he will partner together with leaders of different levels together with the citizens, with the aim of giving them more in development.
When he came into the headlines for going on in the office and waiting to be informed, sincerely congratulate you and sincerely congratulate the effects of the reports which he has been buried and so much, will not be satisfied with the problems of citizens, "he said and added.
The gift of the release of those reports is that when he was the leader of the national level, the head of province claimed that they had given a national leader with posters that destroy their problems, while the Provincial Commissioner did not participate in the country.
While clarifying, he said that he will make sure he knows the problems of the citizens from the lower levels and look for them as soon as possible.
On his part, the retired prime minister, Dakar Khamis Kone, said that she has been able to work for public service for a period of 46 years without being given any warning after he has been given to the award for being the best employee.
When he came out tomorrow morning and leave in Singida province after serving the citizens for a period of nine years without paying, I have a great joy and friends to get back in my home and also to sell my farms, "he said while he is wrong.
And I got to me Lungles, Singida.
