

By Modewjiblog.
Many youths have been running in agriculture in the villages that it does not have any benefits.
We don't know that all the first days is difficult because even those who have been affected were poor and they did not like to think if they will come to be big rich in the world.
Agriculture and business are among the things that contributed the wealth of many people inside and outside the country and even one day you cannot own billions of money by depending on the employment.
In this article I met with the first business person of Tanzania.
Doing business for transporting farmers to Vietnam, Abbas Maziku who explained how he started, the problems he will meet, success and his business expectations.
Maziku is Tanzanian youth who was born in the year 1990, Mwanza Province.
Professional expert is a expert in the issues of banks and money, where he got the first degree in the University of Zanzibar.
After completing his studies, they were employed in the Barclays Bank, as a business officer.
He passed with that job for a short time and decided to return to the produce.
After he started.
Speaking with the writer of this article, Maziku said that when he saw the employment work does not have interests, he decided to start business for transporting the produce, that was the year 2013.
He says he went on that business after being impressed by his girlfriend, who was holding the farms with various crops.
Among the crops that Maziku also started and they are continuing with up to now, animals, color, food, sunflower and cold drinks, sunflower and illegal immigrants.
Speaking about the occurrence of those crops, he says that I will collect taxes from small and small businesses that collect taxes to farmers and in the fees done by the district parties in Lindi, Mtwara, Dodoma, Singida, Shinyanga and Tanga which are happening immediately in every week. "
He is saying that after that they sell the crops from the provinces and go to park in a bus they used to save their crops.
"At the time of preventing yourself when you got to you, I am sending to its spherical guidelines and at the packaging, there is a logo that explains the name of my company.
After that, the samples are taken to the laboratory to test the quality of the international produce called Tamiflu, "he says and added.
"These crops are usually requested to transport to Vietnam using a ship of various organizations including IPTL, ESK and others."
He reveals that he does not use methods of transporting it and it takes a step that is needed including getting a permit for the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), the Ministry of Agriculture and Holiness Church, the lawyers and the national security officers that make sure all legal action have been followed.
He says the business of the produce to take place outside the country has a big competition thus it needs a great keenness so as to be able to protect themselves, otherwise you can end up on the way by getting losses.
He says he knew that he started with a capital of two million shillings and now he is talking a capital of 200 million shillings.
"It is not easy to reach when I was born, because this business has a big competition.
I is competing with the big rich people with the ability to give them the prices of those crops even though I have made a step but I have plans to expand my business and more, "he says.
He explains that in the year 2013, he got a loss of millions of money after the quality of crops being done and seen in the 48 level instead of the required them, therefore he found himself in a difficult time.
He identified himself as a sign of his capital city.
