
Minister, shot down the board of cashews?

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

The Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba has made changes to the management and delegates of the Muzdalifa Board by appointing seven other delegates, including two who will get the position of the executive director and the director of marketing of that board.

Doctor Tizeba has made those changes a day after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has ordered the great changes to the board and its management after failing to manage their activities as required.
In addition to that, the Prime Minister has returned to work to the executive director of the Pamba board in Tanzania, Marco Mtunga after the lack of evidence of being involved in misuse of 221 billion shillings that were required to be paid for farmers due to the whole issue of the year 2008.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Doctor Tizeba said the aim of making changes is to ensure the board of cashews does work with productivity.
He mentioned the new members to be Hassan Jomo, who will go to the position of managing director of the board and Ray Mtika who will be in the position of marketing director general, the position of marketing director was held by Juma Yusuf, who will be given other jobs.
In addition, he said that in the area of the board of directors, the new members who were selected are Faith Asenga and Mshamu Lungangira who will represent the farmers, Edgar Mahalangu (43) who are representing the farmers and Professor Peter Massawe who represents farmers.
On the side of delegates who attended the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Tizeba has appointed Borini Kessy to take the position and part of the representatives who are used in climate change, he appointed Professor Ignas Rubaratuka.
In addition, the minister clarified that together with the changes, according to the law of the year 2009, the chairman of that board will continue to be Anna Abdallah until when President Magufuli has appointed another chairperson to hold that position.
Speaking to go to work, Mtunga said he is supposed to go back to work immediately, while other procedures are being taken in accordance with the service laws.
In his directive, Minister Majaliwa said the government will make the review of all the board of business crops and it has begun to produce air crafts and cotton industries, maize flour, cooking oil and tea processing, the board that will be found to be unable to implement its responsibilities.
