
You love you.
First of the long CAF match against the hosts of Angola.
Oliver Wema, The Citizen Walid Jichunge.'
Dar es Salaam City, Yanga has a lot of work, that is the first game of the Confederation Cup (CAF) against Athletico Bilbao that went to play in the group stages of the defending champions league whose coach Hans Van Gaal claimed that they don't know what they want to be careful.
Coach Pluijm said that Mrs Asha wrote a win without being with Donald Trump and Thabani Kamusoko, "a few statistics found out of different sources of games show that the squad is very fast easily, but it is to allow you to allow their talents to get married, Deddy.
Therefore, Yanga does not have fear that it's fear, to ensure it gets self-0 goals, it is at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam so as to make his easy work in the sexual game.
The two games winner will take place between today and May 16 - 17 in Angola that will qualify to play in the group stages of the second largest in Africa.
Yanga comes back to the field today without Ngoma or Kamusoko who had two yellow cards that were found in the African Champions League matches, therefore, they will be forced to discuss the system and its strategies of planning the squad their performance so as to make sure his team gets victory.
Alternative plan, Pengo of Ngoma is the one that made them more in the past, because that player of Zimbabwe has carried out a big extent in that team in many league games and give birth to many defenders of the opposition team.
In the exercise of Yanga that have been taking place at the National Stadium, Pluijm urged Malimi Busungu and Paul Nonga, Anthony Mavunde, so as to marry off the gap today.
On the side of the mid-fielder, where Kamusoko has been on Yanga's engines, Pluijm has no pressure because he had other organs used, Salum Telela, Said Juma "a source of" Haruna Niyonzima and even in Mbuyu Twite.
In the last three games against Mgambo JKT, Toto Africans and Stand United, Pluijm decided to sign the Telela Mboto and set up the bench Kamusoko who has been getting into the pitch in the second half together with Twite as the preparations to look for alternative medicine with the ability to fill the position of the mid-fielder the Zimbabwean in today's game against Benfica.
Pluijm said that he is not worried about the lack of two players in the game because he had good players who will face their positions for the two stars and give their team victory.
He said Yanga has an first squad of 25 players who have great quality and enough quality, therefore he believes they will get a great victory so that it can be a easy job to them in the same game.
"I got a long time that we will allow Ngoma and Kamusoko, but it did not make us be worried because I have a good team that has good players who can give the team results.
"We have launched well and our goals are to get a lot of goals in home so that it can be easy in the repeat game, players and all of them know the importance of this match and therefore I believe they will succeed so as to get victory," said Pluijm.
Yanga emerged to the CAF competition after being released at the African Champions League with Al Ahly in Egypt in the 16 best stage after losing 3-2, a draw of 1-1 in Dar es Salaam and scored 2-1 away.
That team started the African Champions League after beating Cedars-0 away by 2-0 away by 2-0 away by 2-0 away by 2-1 away by 1-1 away.
Their opponents failed to start a CAF cup round match against Ajax of Cape Town, South Africa by 3-0 goals against 1-0 away by winning 2-1 away by 2-0 goals against 2-0 away.
