That is where Tanzanians?
Food and security too had been unable to go.
Those have been good?
How are it?
Therefore, the policies are different from Mister I could not be paid for, because the first half of people should know who came here in this message followed by the Assistant Secretary General of the Ministry of agriculture last week, a letter that has proposed that they have prepared to relocate the ministry of water so as to go back home.
When we look for this decisions, you will know that he is a member of parliament of Kilolo, chairman of the committee for agriculture and livestock is an advisor of the honorable president, agriculture and livestock.
John's match ended this week.
It is not a source of money.
For now, we have witnessed the time a man with great events is to remind the goals that Kam let's go.
We should advise that if we can be able to protect themselves in the agricultural security area now, if you go through, if you get in the agricultural sector has every ministry again, therefore, that report will be in my ministry because it's not a lesson.
That's the father of the way themselves and his work is to get great results.
We're also happy with Honorable patience, the late Margaret Testify which is the head of the district, but also bullied.
Through the special seats of Ambassador Seif is a member of the agricultural committee.
The others are Job Ndugai, this is the secretary of the minister for food and security.
In short or when it was lost, the late does not have a great increase in many crops, but we are looking at great studies especially Flaviana Matata we want to increase various production at an amount of one hundred thousand tons.
You can we be sold if you can be able to come forward if that way we want to increase production.
The late God created an amount of fifty hundred tons because they are still behind in production of sugar.
Our needs is that five are five.
If the country's countries themselves, we started to start the sugar industry of Mtibwa Sugar, the new one is making an amount to be worth three minutes it has said.
But in addition to that, or don't leave inside here because only one of the sugar is very short, this tomorrow we are used in the industries to make sure not lie on, Herve Renay, then every year we must have.
So we could also be able to go back to our work, but we have set-up the goals that we need to do not lie to be one hundred and a half hundred tons to control it.
But we have also want at the end but we expect now, we will increase the procedure of eating exercises for looking at, when we know where we are tired of praying during the Easter holidays or if you know where he is seen and they do not see you.
We are producing a sum of one million tons to one hundred thousand shillings.
Now, for now who depend on our game is many to go to Kenya they want our country's game to be small and you know the philosophy of each other is available all over the school to produce a big school like our I would not want to be self-employed and also.
I did not want.
