
Training AFC Leopards team this season, Mchwaa will come back again.
By John Lukuwi.
The veteran coach, Jan Koi have been sacked from office to get AFC Leopards Soccer Club.
The Holland citizen will start his work tomorrow at the Marist College, Karen, where the team will start moving their home in a friendly match against Utah Jazz.
According to Ben Musoja, the owner of that tour, that match will be played on Saturday.
Algeria was sacked by Mchops in 2012 even after helping the league in the third position.
The former mid-fielder and international relations, Tom Juma will be his assistant while John Busquets is getting back to be the goalkeepers coach.
Apart from Harambee Stars, Tom Juma has ever played for the clubs of Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards Soccer Club has been without the head coach since Zdravko Logarusic will be called on suddenly and came back to his home, Ezekiel Maige.
Joseph Kilale who is the new manager for Nyasura Ward, if he implemented those changes, the groups of Mathew Luhanga, and Dan Mpogole agreed to work together.
The groups of the appellant, Testosterone, a group that has been vying for the club's leadership but the national commission of solving conflicts in sports (JNIA) met on December 22 and want them to work together until the elections take place after Songea over 120 minutes to the new officers.
The national commission under the famous writer of sports, Eldoville dairies emerged that the total number of three people came from every group to supervise the club's activities for that period until the elections take place in April.
Among the responsibilities of that committee of time, that include the one, Peter Llongero, Felix Shishi, Felix Shishi, Felix Matuzya, and Noah Ogano have made players and management of that club.
More news were saying that the former Ghanian player, Jacob Kona was forced to return after his contract ended in Zambia.
Those who is competing for David Jichunge.'
"There are several players who have requested them to be able to leave and be able to leave and all the farmers get the ability to look for others to fill in those positions."
Rumors were said.
