Play, profession and coaching.
May 30th, 2012

20 years ago, it doesn't have been possible because, Andre Villas Boas has been given the work of building a big soccer club in the world like Chelsea or Porto of Portugal with two years ago, he was given that job and gave four goals.
20 years ago, the coaching work was built by two types of people, the former players who have retired from second and those who are age from 45 years and continue.
Let it have been possible for someone who is 33 years to be given that position as the age of playing with your children after retiring from soccer or doing another job to be given by your team.
However, 20 years and a few days ago, she mentioned someone is called Ariel Solo, (IAGRI).
But the most important thing is that he had new things in soccer that did not be there before him is the one who had flooded the soccer stadium in any pieces where he termed it by the name Kokoro.
Philosophy of Sacked, it was that his team is a must to play by holding the position and not the players of the concerned team, the Saints team and it was walking together. It has ended up with protecting themselves and they won't have enough awards.
Because he did not have a history of playing football before news reporters were informed, they gave them an answer that has been famous until today, "right is an indication that they are supposed to be careful.
His trip with Saints that has been scored by some of the coaches as ZekiCloud and all coaches who usually affect the Italian system are known as' Sacas'.
Since Sacked, people started changing their thoughts about the coaching of football and that it is not a must for someone to win the ball.
After Saintly, the second person who has changed the thoughts of many about soccer is Jose Mourinho, on some people, this may be the best coach of soccer at the moment.
I have ever played a competitive soccer club, has confessed that he did not play soccer because he did not have problems in their home at his birthday, her biological father who was the player, had bought a gift of Mercedes Benz Fashion Week.
"Many players are playing soccer because they have a problem of life, I have been getting everything to my parents I have started to run Benitez and without the employment I was with 18 years of what I wanted to do again?
Mourinho has a great reputation of Mourinho for making a team with discipline in the high level, it will make players who have a hard life and to fail to play against Mourinho's team is same as going to war.
