
The government to send a special squad to deal with illegal fishing.

It has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Deputy president, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said the government will send a special squad to deal with the illegal fishing that is going on in the sea in order to control the problem which has affected the fish and contribute to the reduction of fish.

Samia has given that statement today when shaking hands with residents of Nangumbu Village, Kilwa district in Lindi province who came out to greet him at the time he was heading to Mtwara province on his four day work tour in that province.
Deputy president has said that in ensuring that the work is done well, the government will also send environmental experts who will do an evaluation of environmental destruction in the sea so as to know the destruction that took place and take action against the situation.
He has explained that the government will take those measures so as to save the sea because it has been a good source of revenue for citizens as a result of fishing activities and other activities including tourism.
"Our website is our income, our website, and our lives, we have used the revenue decreased by life, therefore it is important to make sure to make sure that all the citizens in the country get better health services at all levels.
He has said the plan to improve health services to the citizens in the country will go together with the provision of better education for students across the country under the government's strategy to provide free education from class one to form four.
During his tour in Mtwara Province, the Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan tomorrow will launch the office of the office of the Public Leaders Ethics Secretariat and inspecting various development projects in the region.
The Vice President has arrived in Mtwara Province and was received by various leaders of that province led by the Provincial Commissioner of Mtwara, Halima Dendego together with the minister of state in the office of the president, public service and good administration, Angela Kairuki.
