
This mean that it gives them economically.
Memba, 14, 2013.

Among the things that contribute to the nation's economy and to reduce the speed of development of the country and one of the citizens, it is a must for the youth that have the symptoms of getting business.
As a result of that situation, many economic activities have been held by visitors while preventing the receiver on the same because they don't have a chance to own anything because they are getting rid of people from outside people who are very few people.
Speaking to Good Citizen this week, the Chairperson of the Mabibo Beer Wines and Spirits Company Limited Benedicta Jacobson, said this time the poverty of poverty will continue being mentioned for many years and a solution to many people.
"The big challenge we have in some of this sign is the fight against smuggling, someone has no right to do a lot of businesses, but if you know you a Tanzanian is to develop themselves so that you're getting into taxes or tax and different taxes to bring in that product in the country.
"The Mabibo Company is the only agent in Tanzania who has been confirmed to control and supply mobile phones, and that is why it is a must that you have a copy (number of identification) number + 66 as a result of its quality in Tanzania, but there is no doubt that we are doing to deal with those products contrary to us," he said.
He said that together with the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to try to address the problem of tax revenue that are using a loss of buying products, still all of them are required to join with them to ensure they are fighting the products that are imported into the whole country.
"The Mabibo Beer Wines and Spirits Company Limited we have paid a great cost of collecting its Windhoek Lager products in the country and we have already paid huge taxes but among them, they can decide to bring in that product contrary to the procedure," he said.
He mentioned another thing that they are making in the country for a special international contract and requested Tanzanians to use it that it is Clatchy Power Poll does not be educated but they are expecting to build a factory in the country to produce their products and ensure that they are expecting to build a factory in the country to produce their products.
On his part, the General Manager of that company, Neonatal Sepsis' said at the moment, they have decided to ask for distribution of the park in the country and requested them to provide information when they see the products that are not having a number of MB 66 in order to control violence.
