Not listening to unity is a big offence of the process of the constitution.
December 25, 2013.

The reception of the new constitution continues to go to the pace and there is no symptoms of stopping until the new constitution "will be found.
Further, up to now it has been about the coming of "new constitution" even if afresh, it will still have the old things and this process was to be given since there is every sign of making a new constitution exercise not to be successful and not to meet the needs of the current constitution.
The law that deals with this process and which put the possibility of the Constitutional Review Commission, is not supposed to talk about several issues that citizens (that is the country) should not speak about how to improve it, that is, citizens (with the country) wanted to remove some kind between these, the law prohibits.
Article 9 of the law of 2011, section 2 has put the list of issues that it is a must to be taught in the new constitution and first among them is the existence of the United Republic of Tanzania. "
This issue very fast can be good, but if we look at close, we will see that in the decision of people who are in power, one of the very political problems where the nation depends on it is this one - the presence of the United Republic of Tanzania.
It should be remembered that we are supporting and building the nation of Tanzania, we were two countries each one with a full list, there were United Republic of Zanzibar and there were two countries, even so, our union has become a shame to be the reason for questions.
Recently, these questions have begun to change and affect the misunderstanding between people from our two sides, there are a conflict that already made the national leaders, the citizens of Zanzibar had claimed that together with getting into the union, Zanzibar had continued to become the country and it has claimed that the country had lost after a union is the Tanganyika government but Zanzibar has continued.
Its results are that people of Zanzibar have continued to take place in Zanzibar but the time that claim Tanzania should be from the people of Zanzibar and they can be appointed to work in Zanzibar and they can own land in Zanzibar and they can own land in Zanzibar, and they can own land in Zanzibar.
Therefore, the desire to go to Bukoba, Iringa, Mwanza or Tanga and do his activities knowing he is inside his country, but together with that, he has still a unique right of Zanzibar.
The Tanzanian mainland (a Tanzanian from Tanzania) going to Zanzibar has no right to be one of the citizens, but as the president of Zanzibar cannot be a Tanzanian person in Zanzibar but also to Zanzibar, but in Zanzibar, it is Tanzania mainland for us.
The person of the mainland to Zanzibar was the guest of honor and we have witnessed some of the members of the council of representatives who have tried to make laws that deal with people in the mainland like visitors in Zanzibar within the union.
It seems that those who joined the mainland people but the people of Zanzibar are not born and they want our responsibility to be in all, but for them to be in their home on the pretext that it cannot be a must, "Zanzibar is small."
Therefore, as a result of the smallness, there should be an opportunity to protect people of Zanzibar and therefore land is because of the people of Zanzibar and our jobs including the people of California.
