
Kilimanjaro Stars is vying for the championship Chalker when they represent on 28th May 2013.

The game for the English Premier League takes place in East and Central Africa is opened today at Nairobi city, Kenya.
The national soccer team of Tanzania Mainland 'Kilimanjaro Stars, "with his head coach Kim Poulsen has arrived in Narok Kenya recently ready for the Somalia team has set record for being the first team in Nairobi in the competition of this year.
The Kilimanjaro Stars of Kilimanjaro Stars had 20 players and seven leaders.
Two international attackers, Mbwana Samatta and Thomas Ulimwengu suffering from playing football at TP Mazembe Club of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) were expected to join that team in Nairobi yesterday.
Those players were expelled from Burundi when they won their team in the African Confederation Cup competition against CS, she doesn't know of land in that country.
We shall have faith with Kilimanjaro Stars from that squad being the host, many youths with the ability of dancing to go to their ability, Kilimanjaro played a friendly match between Kenya, Ethiopia, Zanzibar and South Sudan.
The defending champions of that competition in Uganda popularly known as Ambassador Cromer, in the group C together with Rwanda's team joining South Sudan at their work place.
The opening ceremony that will be held today at Sokoine stadium in Nairobi has come with an official guest of the new sponsor of the tournament after the former sponsor of East Africa Breweries Limited through Tusker.
The Gomez and Life Company which is mentioned to be among new sponsors who are expected to be officially launched today.
According to the schedule of that tournament, the opening match will be between Zanzibar and South Sudan followed by the host, Kenya will face Ethiopia.
All the matches of the group stages will take place in Nairobi in the grounds of Chakwama, Race.
Tomorrow in the match of B Kilimanjaro Stars, it will participate at the field of Chakwama, Zimbabwe and Zambia for the game that will be preceded by the match between Burundi and Somalia, Kilimanjaro Stars will play again on December 1 against Somalia and end the group stages by playing with Burundi on December 4.
The last time in Tanzania Mainland has already won the Zaweda Cup Tournament at the year 2010, while Tanzania has succeeded to win that cup once the year 1995, in Uganda after beating the host by 1-0 against Kenya, two times while Rwanda and Zimbabwe have succeeded to be played for that cup immediately.
The defending champions of that competition for this year, Uganda, the ones leading in winning that cup the 13 times.
