Normal do you know that there is claims that you have found themselves.
They are suffering from other believers.
We want to be keen on which it has continued.
Some of the people that can't understand their needs.
Father has a great shape, there are people who can use the service of the service to create, but this there is wrong things.
Here I have seen that sign.
But the one who is very worried about those to return to the farm, will I request that the truth from what we help him, that for now she had not like.
To get one food to try to get but also a bad club.
Do work but for our committee or something that she can do bad.
Or one of the women basically if Messi is because of problems that can sign him, they do not have seven people.
Eight had been able to help up until the same time.
Your before you have not decided I have been identified by a person who or a shortage being given because they do not have the eyes, maybe he has no hands with that.
The reason for God has given you a hands with football but Chris Brown since receiving on the pretext that they were unable to ensure others are doing.
Another one wants.
He said one person to ask for what things about it is to make sure that you need to be allowed to do those with problems and the ones being taught and without depending on it is good.
, a habit of joy is very much even if our leaders at the time we have gone as well as you go through the headlines, there is a must for parliamentarians to get married but you must make sure that there is a must that we should be able to get that, but to build and begged the bricks for maybe.
There are those who can you, you can ask you to look at it so that I believe it is true he wants you and others can use creativity in mind.
To pay.
If those witnesses say I have been forced not to sleep at other times that of Jambo Tanzania?
Where and then?
The collaboration they met.
The child was found.
I will be.
There should I hope that we can be able to leave this time in January we should meet.
There and then after going to war.
For farmers while having the spread of the young man and even you know that I am living events, there is still a young man to know where I feel like each day, maybe it is the Easter time we had the visitors.
From right we will go back.
What should it be asked for?
I have been married because she had one person, maize flour in a car he has promised to ask you the very best to and Tony Solo, what I went to do I am back in this way you are found.
I love this time that same time to see what I have not given you.
.
Hayatou, and houses like the strike is expected to have been used and it has helped me the way it continues with the top scorer in Burundi or the people ask the intention to be an old man and be able to be an old man then tomorrow.
.
To be able to continue or you give the loopholes that you come back to my eyes, in addition, Mwenda was able to come up with great problems and I wish you a lesson so that I don't give you a lesson so that I don't know what you love and let me ask you.
If they don't get a sister, I give you a sister and I give him so much and I will help her sister again to be very bad.
You will think it would have been one person to help what we did not want to go through abusive language outside there.
Insults cannot get to avoid the donations I have given you, I call him to live with a business like that one above.
There is no reason as usual, it is supposed to build it everything in we who separated with me.
We have seen the device that depends on the teachers, Pope Francis to be hands every day for the needs of every day.
While showing the brutal killings, he termed it.
While putting to buy for other people to be bullied.
Should be emphasized in the world, I found pregnant people to reduce them?
From when you go to our Milk, I arrived at the end of the time, we request that women to capture the heads that we have been forced to marry each other.
That the rich people do not have?
But there was there.
There is a need to buy.
Yes, I wish you that I don't know what I hear even the others what we get in their house in general, is the one to make it like it is true, I request that your faith will be using the five or a lover.
The baby is looking at it on how he sees that, we have ever explained, and if you say it's not good and even if you go back here, there is no need to do well and even if you go back here if you will have money again, the youth did not have money again, the youth did not go with.
You are not seen as a neighbor but there is the most important thing that you come to the Ambassador of the picture even a person like a Christian or MMuslim, they have done anything before you may drinking alcohol or life through the same as if you get them if you can help those who need those.
To you, I am saying that they agree that we need the support and God will make sure you need for people with those who are Ugali, we know what we need to help people who are talking here, there is a person who wanted us to know what one is one to us.
He made them to be one way that he had been married and we should stop hypocrisy when he also put it to be careful.
Several months ago when he was asked.
I'm in United we have been touched.
The claim is more continued to give birth to them.
And for those who want to know the effects of tomorrow's home.
Most importantly let you go back to me, "we are still underway in the province of Kilimajaro Jitume, newspapers and the society is supposed to give the parents to the young children and the community should do when I'm in the community together with my parent and I think that there is a must for the community to meet the protection of the child.
After three hours given us again, we tell you on social media about what they are supposed to write this period in your opinion if you want to view our period in your opinion if you're the father without any problems and said I agree.
