The perpetrators of the social security agencies in the country to start implementing the new law, members take their benefits a situation when he attains the age of fifty and five years and has agreed to discuss the issue and the parliamentary committee that had to meet immediately after the morning in the morning.
In parliament in Dodoma town before being presented to the budget for industries and business, the member of parliament of that constituency in Kisarawe District, although he requested for the guidelines of chairperson Jenista Mhagama about the new law on fifty years of five and.
There has been a problem of misleading reports.
In our country of the United Republic of Tanzania?
Workers are doing work in different parts of time.
Just after the law passed, they had been buried on the law of community development.
Which has been given a joke.
It is not saying.
What is a person that he does work.
When he is living before ten years five, that football will not affect its benefits until a few years.
Now, this issue has been critical in our nation.
Because this issue has been found?
I have seen that it is good to see Tanzanians who have joined the United Republic of Tanzania?
Anything related to them?
I will drinking and to remove it, one day up to three, I request to give any argument that he has shaken the parliament like an emergency thing.
The chairperson of parliament made sure that he sees them very well here has been supported.
And the members of parliament.
And I want to say that, this issue is something that is its importance.
Most of the leadership let me ask Honorable speaker and see the possibility of meeting at seven o'clock in the committee of leadership even so the guidelines which was given about it is the issue.
I request I request?
They should be remembered by the leadership committee now.
The late God is also a minister for the work he cannot be.
We cannot discuss on the leadership committee.
Everything is not there.
That is a legal issue that was being supported by the parliament.
And saying that those who protect themselves from the community of that community with bringing about anything because they are signs that the parliament was there keenly to make laws that concern them about the end of the week.
At the end of the chairperson, he decided that the issue will be discussed at the leadership committee soon after the completion of this morning's budget of industries and business presented by the concerned minister together with the concerned leaders and those of the opposition camp in order to buy products from outside the country to buy products.
Secondly, the major cause of the capital city require modern technology and therefore needed capital from our banks and financial institutions, our financial institutions are still ongoing at a big level to give birth loans.
My ministry has been cooperating with the government which will endeavor to help these players keenly, they have a solution to the industries so as to avoid the problems they face.
But he cannot give a lot of one hundred and five hundred thousand shillings equivalent to sixty eight percent of the meeting, try to get two thousand shillings for one year, there are two and quality products that are imported from outside the committee that is very high.
The husband right now.
How many hours you spread in this friendly word.
When the right time comes, is to get the needs that you want to do real products or fake products.
This situation is dangerous to life?
Because of we request the government you know that the government does not know the government, "Madee who has been unable to implement the contract of the contract because I have narrated it itself and not otherwise this will increase the national income and employment for Tanzanians in this continent, Mhando, the deceased.
