The cries in the process of tenders.
Sep 18, 2014.

The controversy has continued to destroy the process of getting off by collecting revenue from the City Council of Arusha after the committee of the councilors of finance and economy to fail to reach the right to approve the contract with the tenders.
As a result of and stuck for that process, it may now be noted that the issue will be supervised by the experts of the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (PPRA), especially the price of vehicles in the city of Arusha.
That process has also continued to enter the controversy after the delegates of the committee on finance and economy is expecting that the tender to collect tax in markets, posters together with the buildings that be given to electrical energy which is available at Dar es Salaam city which was not in the list of the companies that request that job.
There are claims that the step of that company was given the tenders for the collection of tax and tax for buildings is blood from top leaders of the government.
The accusations of the existence of bribery and corruption in the process were reported with this newspaper on August this year, from what is claimed to be involved in conflict between them is going into a contract.
That conflict of interests has also been explained by the councilors, some of the government leaders and the directors of the council who every part have tried to fight for the companies with their interests.
The councilors.
In the session of the finance and economy committee that took place on September five this year, at the city's office, delegates (councilors) failed to reach the right time and the session broke the day after being unable to agree especially about the company to be given the entry fee.
Those councilors had discussing the names of two companies that have been called on the process of the contract in all the first steps in the first stage having a total of 38,907 million shillings and other 465 million.
Division among the councilors from CCM parties and CHADEMA which is alleged to have a result of every side to fight, to ensure that a company with their interests is given the tender to collect tax in the villages.
"Councilors were divided into groups in one group that wants the tender to be given to the company (TEF) and another group that was fighting for the interests of another company," explained our source from inside that meeting.
That councilor added, "inside the meeting there were a huge discussions and it was clear that every side of private interests in the issue of tenders and this issue has been unable to respect the councilors of the financial and economy committee without caring for their ideology."
Those reports indicate that after the tension that lasted for more than two hours without an appropriate time, the chairman of that session who is also the mayor of the city, Hance Lyimo, entrusted the session.
Following that step, some of the councilors agreed that the issue was thrown out by PPRA where the law of procurement explains that if the process of verification is complete, the experts of that institution will do the last decisions.
The director of the city, Idd Juma, together with the secretary of the board of tenders, Musa Musa, at different times they asked the writer to attend the city's office on Monday (the day before yesterday) so as to give clarification about the controversy that happened.
When the author arrived at the council's offices, he was explained through the executive secretary that he was in the session and he would not be found.
That director and the Procurement Officer who is also the secretary of the board of tenders is alleged to be the source of conflict, wisely, that happened to disrupt the entire process of the tender.
A rumor of the tenders.
In addition, in that session of councilors, there are also an issue of another tender as the collection of tax for posters, markets and laboratory tax (Property International Agency) and wanted to be given to the Wi-Fi company.
However, according to the list of the companies that requested various councils of the council during the tenders for the contract which will not be used to that list.
The law of procurement means that all the tender will be announced by the funds including private people who were separated to request for tenders and will be given to the internet to compete.
One of the councilors who is a member of that committee has advised that committee that they have proposed that TFF members to make corrections and all the collection of the collection if you remove the conditions given to the company in Dar es Salaam.
"It is true that we have decided to be the collection of these opportunities that are being done and Max which are needed, and we have warned the experts of the city to investigate that issue," explained the councilor that asked his name to recognize them.
He added that the issue of that company was given an agreement which has come out while the whole process of the tender that was done by the ones that emerged with the names of companies that were built.
More information shows that earlier on June this year, some councilors of the City Council did a training tour in Kinondoni District Council in Dar es Salaam with the aim of educating the collection of buildings.
In addition to that tour, those councilors also visited the offices of Wi-Fi services.
While speaking about the problem, Lyimo explained to Good Citizen that they gave the issue of Max program which is ongoing and that the decision intended to improve the collection of the council of the city.
"Our aim is that the funds of the council should be used in a modern way by using the internet instead of those funds, to get into the hands of people, a situation that causes the loopholes of many money to get lost," he said.
That Mayor added that they are expecting to meet today on Thursday (tomorrow) to continue with the sessions about the tenders and they will take the right time and end the taproot.
Regarding the claims that the tender is caused by our bribery, Mayor Lyimo explained that there is no evidence about the existence of bribery in that process.
"If there are claims that if I am not able to understand or get explanations, but I think people have been impressed by our news meeting on Thursday is that we will be in a good position to give the right time," he said.
On his part, the Executive Director of Uhondo program, Juma Rajab while when he was asked by our citizens he was not ready to talk about the issue and given the ball to the leaders of the council of the city.
"I have no name to say, I urge you to talk with the people of Arusha town, they will be in a good position to give birth," said Rajab.
The council will be sold at the court.
More news that were tested in the day before yesterday claimed that it had already organized by accusing his City Council in court if the decision of giving another tender to Max which will be done.
One of those weaknesses, who asked his name to recognize so that they will not agree with that step because it will not attract companies that are requested and to be defeated in the whole process.
"We have come in a lot of costs in the whole process and also law of procurement shows that the tender will be given to those who had the reputation and fulfill the criteria that were separated even so that the company did not be there in the process of requesting for work to be called" he asked.
The tenders for the income of the city of Arusha were more on May 29 this year, where it was also the last day to submit the request for people and companies that gave those agreements.
Among the tender that were placed is together with the ones for the tax tax, tax of posters, tax for bus stations, tax for small buses (buses) and the modern stations.
Other collection is tax for markets as the central market of Arusha, the Kilombero market, the central market of Chisholm, the Catholic church of Chisholm, the Catholic church of Chech compared to taxes in the toilets that are owned by the city.
The process of getting against it is according to the procedure that was done since the month of June and it was planned to start collecting revenue from July first which is the day of starting the financial year of government.
