
28 December, 2012

A mental patient gives a stern warning to the year.

And Mashaka Mhando, Korogwe.

A resident of Korogwe, Tanga province, who is alleged to have been admitted at the mental health hospital of Lutara, in that district, recently gave a stern warning after a ward, getting into a car which his driver had already bought and left it.
That incident reveals the feelings of many people who live in the neighborhood with that hospital, where the driver of the vehicle was known by one name Mister Wama, who left the car has not been shown.

Speaking with this newspaper, the nominated member of parliament of Bexhill, Miss Elizabeth Michael, said that the mental patient whose name was not found immediately, made that vehicle and set up with it in the mountains.
With every corner, without any worries at all.

"We were unable to oppose the phone so as to ask for the public to prevent us from the vehicle so that the citizens decided to put logs on the road so as to prevent them," said Mrs Singano who is located in neighboring villages.

He added that Mister Winfrey has arrived at that station after taking a mental patient and when she got off from the car he did not get into the vehicle when the patient entered with me.

"People were shocked when they saw a mental patient with a car, they started making noise when leaving with it but himself did not show any problem," he said.

At night, Mister Werema, who is a resident of Donge County in the city through phone so as to talk about the tragedy, he confessed the incident and claimed that he would like to speak about it because that vehicle is not for his office.

"It is true that Mister a mental patient was running a car which I was going to here, but I wouldn't want it to speak about that incident, there are those who will receive it," said Mister Wama who required to mention the number of car and its kind where he got the phone and when he was called again did not receive.

However, the administration officer of that hospital known by one name and Mister-hop, when he was asked about that incident, he confessed the occurrence of that incident and claimed that the patient had moved out to Dar es Salaam.

He said the incident was not normal but it happened for a reason who came to have a car in that hospital, he didn't know it as usual for the drivers who will take them to patients so as to avoid events of that type.
