

Joseph Mungai.
Growth of economy should not participate in order to increase their wealth and therefore, causing a big increase in people with light weight in the world.
The direction is needed now to live in the world with many people with light weight in the world.
For an increase of income, nations are increasing the level of income expenditure with a lot of things, people are spoiling the city from the villages to follow what they get to a big opportunity available in the country.
While in urban people are meeting with the haphazard foods (HIV virus) together with resulting from industrial production at an affordable cost, which without asking them two times they get into the stomach until day.
The machine, especially the long time now are doing a lot of work, which previously was being done by human beings thus reducing the level of energy involved in the body.
That is one because it is making a group of people that are not involved, that you can say they are living in danger.
At the moment there are 114 countries in the world, which more than half of its people are spoiling the counting, including South American, Europe and East Africa according to the statistics of the World Health Organization (WHO).
In the small nations of the lake region and the Persian Gulf nations, more than two-thirds of its people are spoiling the occurrence of the weight to an amount or Wanene Nyambabe.
In those statistics, China and America, which are the ones that are leading in the world with the size of their economy, are also leading in large numbers of people with weight in Tanzania.
Sometimes, England is leading the European nations for the great weight among its people, while Japan is a rich one that is affected by few people with great weight.
It means that Uhuru is people who need to control their skills together with having a habit of leaving, despite the wealth and a large numbers that are paid for human beings.
According to the new research, more than 640 people have added weight to listen to the body, a big level than those with the small weight of Tanzania.
The research has shown that one out of 10 men has bally to an amount, one out of seven women being in that situation.
In a period of 40 years ago, the number of 300 people with weight in Tanzania has increased so much.
Those people with the standards of 30 tests and more than important items are used to be the length of a human weight that is by body Masoys (BMM), there is more than 105 people in the year 1975 to 641 people in the year 2014.
