My friend, I thank my brothers, but I also thank you the contributes from the others who have already contributed to seven allegations with a continuation of this topic I would like to contribute to two things or three.
There is one person, a situation he advised that every party has advised that every party.
Your friend who continues to participate in this game then to try to look for how to be able to prepare different competitions, but we've heard about another advice from this party to try to use the experts.
Areas that they come from to invest in order to prepare themselves.
And making these teams of this game I think through that, he can also help us to announce and continue with the game but maybe another one was women and announcing this game not the ambassadors of announcing this game is not the ambassadors of announcing this game.
In addition to doing work because the big percentage are teachers together with teaching our children in schools but also we can be able to get extra time to prepare to at least the teams in the villages and estates of the way we can destroy the game and at the end of the day I will follow up with this game and I will not understand by this game.
It is a day for the government because it shows your efforts in this training.
The government has a great contribution therefore, I request it ends here as he promised the director of sports that there are sustainable programs of continuing to market themselves and at the end of this game to be creative and see what we are supposed to market themselves and at the end of this day, it is supposed to market themselves and at the end of this day.
Most men have been killed by while in place or a continuation of what should be done by God saying this game of the knowledge of virgin "is found.
He knows you.
I also thank all the contributes to all.
The biggest thing, but the Sakali.
Fields in the fields are the ones of the elderly.
And five in a speed is determined.
I request for you to be afraid that you will also give him because of this.
Maybe what you are seen is to play this one who will sit for you to vie for the national competitions.
There are men.
You have started last year but it is good for Ukawa to cooperate and have faith in this year also.
Also we had decided to boycott the country because the ones that do not have your primary schools, we request that order to benefit them.
And also, the first government we have seen efforts but we request other stakeholders to come out in order to help other games.
Thank you so much.
