The police crime, prevent us to do so that they are inspiring.
January 17, 2013.

The wave of crime conducted by the police force continue to hold the speed of any person called the police is a big challenge in dollars and the whole army.
And on this, I will agree with many politicians who have heard that such actions have been done by few police officers in the country, the real situation in that country on the real situation in that country on the real situation in that country that is involved with statements by those politicians.

Basically, there is a fact of two types concerning crime conducted by the police force officers, the police officers are many than faithful contrary to the poem of the politicians that those criminals have been very few so that many people who are alleged to be faithful and prevent this wave of polluting the whole army.
Secondly, there is a stand and solidarity of God (in the picture) to ensure they are competing with their colleague when he was arrested or he was accused of crime.
It does not be forced to understand that is the one who has refused to do without having enough crimes and causing many noise from their citizens themselves inside the police force, they believe that she has left behind him, "he accused him.
The solidarity of this sector, there is no difference with the one of the ordinary people they had planned to do crime and to find another one that will be satisfied if there are any steps to take place so as to bring in the police force.

The police crime is a very dangerous issue to be careful, even one police doing high crime (high level), it is enough for the whole army to swear in front of the commander or to make great changes in the army to avoid huge effects on the country.
Those changes in the policy and economic growth has been made open so that citizens should not have faith in that army's contrary to the law, a step that has managed to capture the whole crime and now it needs a topic so that it is understood.

In this police crime, there are provinces that are in front, including Kagera Province, which has managed to promote our nation's crime.
A total of one month has been called since two police have ever been in Ngara district after one police had shot dead a motorcycle riders and killing him publicly that the citizens decided to take this law while making an example to the police and killed two police.
Two weeks ago, the citizens in Karagwe district have arrested two police officers from Ngara district who had promised to buy the ivory comes by a knee injury and wanted them to prevent him by making a phone in the neighboring village and citizens who are blocking him and killed those police.

That week, two police from Kagera province were arrested in Mara province with the ivory comes from television, the police commander of Mara province was seen ahead of television that the police will face the military action against being taken to court.
I thought the police have already been able to make crime and he is not a police again but to a bandit, what should be dealt with by what should be dealt with.
Uknga region is called on time, it is part of the problem in the police force because the habit of security agencies to be involved in violence, is the symptoms that they have gotten tired of protecting the resources of the country when politicians get married and benefit from them.
It's like the security people have decided to take advantage of their share of violence that was done by politicians, the police force, while robbery, accused of using the bridge on its activities, the police force and his commanders have that they think and do not want.

In line with criminal acts done by the police in Kagera province, there is a cancer of bribery in all the police stations in that province, I understand that this is the whole nation in that region and all of them are complaining on how development activities that do not have bribery in some of the police.
For instance, the theft of the high level that is going on in all the councils of that province is impossible to be dealt with because every suspect said they met the police force and "deal with them.
