
Kibamba said that their 150 houses were present.
Jackline Masimba, Mwananchi Communications, @ mkito.
The residents of Kibamba, Itofali Emmanuel, in Dar es Salaam, with his colleague to sign him at the hospital after he was trapped with the Catholic Church in which he sees his house is heating. Picture by Abdumalick Shaaban.
Dar es Salaam, cries and grief, yesterday at Ighombwe Village, Kimbira in Dar es Salaam city during the demolition of more than 400 houses that were started, where up to four in the morning, houses that have been killed is 150 percent.
However, the demolition work was unable to continue after the end of, he will have two out of three that were taken to work in the mud blocking the ones that came into the same way and failed to continue with work.
The demolition work was postponed yesterday and it will continue today, if he will make sure that he will be expelled from the mud and another one if it will be avoided.
The demolition is taking place in the High Court due to those citizens who set up being swept away from the grounds in Henry Tandau, a group of 11 people that are accused of collaborating with some of the leaders of the local government of Ighombwe Village.
The activity that had been done by the court's agent, Msolwa and Investment, was run under the military police force, while the owner of that area, Kashimba, followed by police officers.
A citizen reached that area at 3 o'clock in the morning and found a series of houses going on while citizens suffering from cries and others found themselves at their houses and others were following anything without doing anything.
"If you see the demolition exercise has started since 2 o'clock in the morning until now more than 150 houses have been sent away, and their aim is to demolish all houses that are in this area," said the councilor of that area.
The bombs are clear at the occurrence of violence that was caused by the councilor of that area, when he asked the owner of the area about the case that is in court that will be heard on 20th May this year.
"Mzee, we request you to give him major details, you recognize that you have a case in court which will be read on May 20 this year about the conflict of these houses," he asked the councilor while he had been surrounded by the citizens who were affected by the citizens and they were given the first service to return their condition.
The assistant of the secretary of the member of parliament of Kibamba region, Hovind, speaking on behalf of the member of parliament of that constituency, John Mnyika, said more than 200 households have no settlements and do not know what.
"We are waiting for this exercise to be complete so that we can look and we will see if we get to these citizens, because yesterday (the day before yesterday).
We should not hesitate to prevent the demolition, but our efforts did not succeed because we have already been successful, "said the two representatives who had been found at the work is going on the group of youths who started violence and fall down.
"We have arrested two youths who later admitted himself on and asked for forgiveness for forgiveness, but later emerged the youth who was arrested and later opened up with Bisau with the aim of making violence and they arrested him," said the supervisor of the demolition on the side of the police force.
The chief executive officer of the scene giving a gift to two people, Shaghala Bhagala and Dominic Glan (left) after seeing a permit to demolish houses which have been affected by the citizens.
"The executive officer who tried to sell his home where he is accused of selling their areas and themselves who have left them," said the councilor for my contribution, "said the councilor for my support, has emerged as I will be the guest of who I am," insisted Honorable Mathias.
Selega and Omary, one of the people who attacked him and upon its shop after a half hours he said that a house that he has dropped out by one of the people who attacked them in collaboration with the local leaders.
"I have written this, my wife decided to be rushed to hospital here when I was happy to make me feel extremely well, I have three children and I don't know my work is a driver of the bus."
Said Omary.
Some of the citizens were chosen to elder Kashimba and campaigning for him because they were sold to those areas without knowing.
We want to ask for an example, my parents were sold to him by a person and now my elders are the late I was left for him, "he said.
