
The investigation of kidney diseases.
Last week, we were able to see the signs and symptoms of the kidney disease which are also known as Chrizostom Thadeo.
Today I will give you explanations about the tests and investigation which a patient with this problem will not expect to be researched on with the aim of knowing the source, the action of the disease is to end the kidney performance.
This tests takes place for one day and the patient can go back home, the investigation will help the doctor to plan for treatment to the patient.
The investigation is taking place by taking the samples of blood, urine, taking photos of the issue of the body and man's issue to address the issue of kidney transplantation for investigation of the contractors.
Samples of blood are reduced and getting a whole picture of blood cells of all types that are available in the blood in order of this level is known as full story (FGM).
The second level is the investigation on blood to recognize the level of minerals in blood and the ratio of smoking cigarettes in blood.
A union of doctors of kidney diseases in the world is proposing to be known as urologists (GNP) if it is the right amount of knowing the performance of kidney.
A doctor usually comes up because of the answers of the waste water which the one who was injured in blood which is also known as credit are 155,667.
These noises are as a result of your muscles function and in the body, the blood is when it reached in the kidney, the one who was sent away with urine, continues to avoid these kinds of existence of the problem.
Similarly, the doctor gets that account according to the age, which is, they are coming from the gender of the patient.
This share will also help to know the disease in which step.
On the side of urine, it is also used to get a picture of kidney performance (GNP).
Including recognizing the level of being involved in urine.
Normally in urine, there is a normal amount of a car known as stew, if that amount will continue to be one of the existence of mistakes in kidney transplantation.
Likewise, in urine, using urine is capable of promoting the things that cause blood cells to see blood cells in the village to see drug abuse or popularly known as Casey,.
Also, urine can be paid for 24 hours in a long time and be done so as to know the presence of a high level, the damage caused by the kidney, the ones that was injured and credit are stable.
The two eggs in urine is able to know the ability of doing kidney work (GNP), an acceptable level and kidney experts in the world is equivalent to 1 billion shillings per minutes to women, equivalent to 85 percent in the minutes.
It should be remembered that as the effects spread, affecting the kidney, that is also an increase.
Picha na Mafoto Blog is used to show Almighty God because of the kidney system, to show the circulation of blood in the kidney, a condition of urine, if medical camp in the kidney.
Other tests that can be done include Mijac Music, an MRI tests and person who went to samples of samples of an issue in the kidney because of the investigation is being dealt with in charge.
