
13 December 2012

The improvement of the health sector will fall down.

And Hamisi Kiondo contributing to the countries that are involved in development activities and with caring for the citizens to ensure that they get better health services, they have given priority to the health sector by giving it enough budget in order to implement its duties well.
Despite other important things for the development of the nation, the issue of good health to its citizens is the foundation in order to get the development that will enable citizens to get better life.

If a nation has no good health with good health, it is open that it will be in a difficult state of economic and even losing a lot of challenges in the health sector including a little amount of budget that is being implemented by the sector, an issue that causes the health services offered to the health centers and the public hospitals to be poor.

Some of the challenges facing the sector is the shortage of various experts like nurses, doctors, drugs, experts of laboratory and engineers together with the technicians.
The facilitator of the medical equipment.

Despite that, the sector has also been facing a shortage of medical equipment, the situation contributes to the existence of drugs and alternative treatments which do not meet quality standards depending on the law of the country.

The existence of those challenges in the health sector continues to contribute to the provision of health services to the citizens and the community as a whole being poor and therefore causing complaints from time to time about services provided in the hospital, clinic and health centers in the country.

The government has been doing different efforts in order to ensure health services in the country is improving.
To make the citizens get better services but there are still efforts not to give them fruits.

The lack of nurses, doctors and experts of laboratory is contributing to a large extent to return the efforts of the government to ensure the provision of better health services in its hospitals in the country to be poor, a situation that is causing them to reach goals.

That lack has been affected by many citizens, especially the low-income people who have been normal.
In the government hospitals to fail to get appropriate services, due to those who are income what should go to private hospitals that give better services at a high cost.

The government is supposed to focus on the issue of lack of experts, doctors and laboratory experts in the sector.
Health so as to ensure that those areas include the challenge and eventually be able to provide better health services that is needed for the citizens.

A big challenge in the health sector is lack of engineers and skilled technicians of various medical equipment.
Including the laboratory machine, Ray, CT Scan images together with Khajida Kopa, those residential houses are taking a long time to take advantage of the services offered through the devices to stop for them.
A long time.

That step involves those equipment made at a high cost where the country would have been successful.
Its of the equipment, if the cost like that, it would like that, it is an issue that the government needs to stop the eyes so as to make sure the country becomes enough experts.
The of those equipment.

As a result of the government not having enough budget in the health sector, it has found itself very happy about the issue.
The purpose of making normal equipment for medical equipment's to look at the way to have a skilled technicians for the purpose of those equipment, that is one of the reasons not to last long for a long time and that citizens lack the service.

Despite the lack of experts of medical equipment in the country, the procedure for the government at the moment cannot be able to enter the service delivery by those equipment in all hospitals in the country because the concerned hospital has not been given.
The authority to produce those equipment's contributing to welcome him.

Because the government through the ministry of health and development of the community has signed a contract with Manufacturing Company for purposes.
Spreading various treatment equipment like 'Junction Band' in all hospitals in the country, thus the issue of maintenance of those equipment's the contributing factors to welcome him in that company.
A bond of making maintenance of those equipment.

Therefore, the issue of lack of doctors, together with experts of medical equipment to be in the hospital, clinic and the health center has caused some of the few doctors who have to leave and decide to go to other areas especially in the private sector where they see that they can work in good environment.

The deputy minister of health and development of the community, Doctor Seifu Ali Maswanya while answering a question to parliament about the government's strategies to pay his debt, that is claimed by the Pharmaceutical Depot (MSD) shillings.
A billion.

He said that for this financial year 2012 / 13, the government has set aside 2,089 billion shillings for the purpose of buying medical equipment, medicine and working tools to improve the performance of the health and health centers in the country.

He said that the amount is different from 1837,970,040 used for the financial year 2011 / 12, those efforts have been done by the government in ensuring that the challenges facing the health sector have reduced and every citizen gets better services whereby it has been increasing the availability of money for the purpose of treatment equipment and medicine as the value added.

The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare through the ministry of medical equipment in the ministry, its Director Magreth Mhando, has confirmed that the government to prepare well in the issue of checking the repairs for medical equipment such as steadily, Ray C and CT scan to the equipment she does not last long for a long time, a situation that causes to stop the provision of health services to the citizens fully.

He also said that the ministry recognizes that the lack of the skilled technicians of making treatment equipment is the problem that allows them to work in many public hospitals and caused the lack of the tests done by the government.

It is an appropriate time for the government to start taking strict actions that are supposed to have enough experts.
In the field of skilled technicians of medical equipment, so as to avoid the problem of lack of technicians of that kind in the health sector.

Earlier this year, speaking at the three East African meeting of the association of engineers and technicians.
The medical equipment (MKEWAT) has not been the secretary general of the party, he said the government is supposed to ensure that the health sector has a enough budget which will meet different needs and now where a big problem is a limited budget.

He said that it is good for the government through the district councils and the towns that would have built the budget for the purpose of making payments for medical equipment in the hospital as one step.
Improving health services in the hospital.

That move to set aside budget through the district councils and the towns in order to make corrections on treatment equipment, by using the technicians of the few equipment who could help to increase the efficiency of health services in the public hospitals in the country.

So as to be able to evade the challenges facing the health sector including the shortage of doctors, drugs, and various experts especially from a union of experts of medical equipment which are important if it would be supported by the government and would be able to improve health services.

The government is supposed to support the action of MMET in improving the sector and that currently there is need for the government to encourage the youth to study in that profession so as to get many experts who will be used to the levels.
Clinic, health centers, district hospitals, provinces and referral hospitals, finally the health services improve.

It is still an effort to help the government in ensuring the health sector in the country will avoid challenges that are inspected.
The provision of health services are needed and that primary education is needed to focus on the issue of setting up a budget that will meet needs, that is the solution to avoid challenges in the health sector.
