
Congratulations for Stars, now efforts to be touched by the youth.
The national team of soccer, Taifa Stars the day before yesterday identified himself with hope and those who had hope to have the victory of building a good environment to qualify for the African finals in the year 2017.
What happened is that team being beaten 2-0 goals and stopped the hopes of playing those finals because it has now closed down Nigeria in the last game to protect Egypt on the top of his group.
The defeat of Stars has continued with a bad history of 36 years since the team failed to play for those finals in the year 1980, Nigeria.
Every year, every time the team has been the victims of the results that they did not have the opportunity to reach those finals.
After being given and switching off the dreams of going back to the finals for the second time, we think there is need to assess several issues about the participation of Tanzania in the international tournament.
After getting players who play soccer outside the country, and especially in Europe at least this journey, there are signs of doing well for the national team if the efforts will be commended in the youth soccer.
Stars started by being defeated by 3-0 goals by Egypt in Cairo, later stopped a draw in a draw with Nigeria at the National Stadium before getting a victory of its type of 1-0 away against Cemetery and therefore they were able to win a good position of emerging the head of Group G.
However, after losing that match at home, Chudasama, announced that it will not be able to come to Tanzania to play in the second round and thus being released in that tournament and all the results were removed, a situation that has been put in the whole group and therefore making Tanzania's hope to be free.
In order to revive hope, Stars was sent away with a victory of 3-0 goals against Egypt and later defeated Nigeria in the last match, something that is impossible.
Therefore, we do not think about the success reached until now although the team has not been able to cross the group stages.
But those congratulations are forced to make sure that more efforts are being required to take place so as to build a better team that will deal with the competition to play and reach the goals of playing those big finals in the African continent.
And those efforts are the ones that put effort in the youth soccer which it has done Tanzania's striker, Mbwana Samatta as the biggest of the country at the moment, the efforts that told Samatta are the ones who succeeded in providing guidelines, to teach teachers, referees and start and run the youth competition that will bring more talents.
Its meaning, the competition like U-15, the youths who are under 17 years and among the age of 20 years have been completed or start so that many youths should not be employed for the purpose of good benefits to the country.
The government has also no need to be on the front line in making sure that the youth groups and other games are not satisfied so that the parties can be responsible for success.
If it has been said that all the days, we cannot continue in sports without putting strategies in children and youth.
