Ukawa, why do you know something about IPTL?
Sep 25, 2014.

I have been a long time reader of the newspaper of Mwema, but today it is my first time to get a chance to write my opinion, let me say shortly that I commend this newspaper because it has already been able to respect the community of banana?

I am one of the stem cells that do not understand by corruption, I know that we are not many in this group, to be responsible to us youths who are now in search for your wealth without doing work.

For the Tanzanian youth of today, getting money is everything in life and that's why it is not true to see that our nation has now started getting an opportunity to ignore the theft that occurred in the past which is the results of the theft against public property.

Already, we have been explained about the corruption that are claimed to be in contracts such as socialists, Merkel, Richmond and EPA are few among the ones we did, "all of them were theft against public property.

Defense of the involved are similar to the actions that are in the film industry so that it is a lot of conflicts facing the defense and so they are given permission to lead the committee and represent the citizens in doing this decisions, this is a great shame to our nation.

President Jakaya Kikwete did not want them to address events of corruption they had gone into some of corruption and bribery they make sure that they face roads when the district commissioner did not support him.

It is same as a child with skin disability, who cannot be followed or playing with his fellow child with great hands because she will not pollute the behavior of love me. I believe our president is not with no boundaries.

I come back to the foundation of my article. Today I will not look at a broad way that is called the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA), Ukawa have built its name by explaining the claims of wanting the required constitution with the citizens.

When you talk about the constitution you will continue and speak a lot of patriotism in your country, patriotism in addition to protest against corruption, corruption, corruption, theft, tribalism.

My motion is about the top leaders of UKAWA which have been silent for Escrow, we did not understand the voice of Freeman Mbowe, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba and James Mbatia, there are citizens who have already started talking about this silence.

The only leader of the opposition who seems to be touched by this issue is the member of parliament of Kigoma South through NCCR, David Kafulila, who even learn from the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, who although not the member of UKAWA, has joined Preston.

Or it's because Kafulila is a leader of NCCR Revolutions, who has entered into political war with two different chairpersons, a period in CHADEMA and even when she had joined the NCCR-Revolution, or it is because of words being reported in the streets that Kafulila is a close friend to Zitto Kabwe?

Or you are happy to support Trump can cause a political force, a matter that can endanger the positions of the current political parties in the country?

One thing that depends on is true that the amount of money is to be taken from the Escrow account is very big than even what was launched EPA.

Now if you get today, they think those who put noise about EPA should be silent for Escrow and now the money is so many.

These leaders of UKAWA are saying that they believe on stage that they face corruption during the Escrow scandal was silent.

So, I want you will be a great law to oppose and prevent bribery in the new constitution during the Escrow scandal you have forgotten your truth, so that we hear the community not to ask for your silence in this field.
