It is very important to give your news about your news and very good news, the late God is going on how the whole day you play in the whole day.
If you sing in who is the name Nakula Ukunguala, and I don't know the Lord 'yes, you know what you missed at ten o'clock in the evening, let us read it from what I did not get them from this evening.
Do not know what I don't know what Nakula Ujana "is the late God?
It's not a good thing, Angela only comes from others the late God rest.
Honorable I got it up to thank you who did not tell me, he told the late Almighty God to say God is good to make sure but he cannot get the late Maggid Mjengwa.
Who would like to walk on Sunday I cannot walk on Sunday because I'm at work and Saturday it was walking on Saturday.
I am saying I don't know this Saturday I will be I'm in his home.
Now on Sunday the late God will be at work with the late God, so we will speak?
We will listen to me if I will be.
Hayatou will not be on Sunday that I will be on Sunday that I will be on Saturday, I will inform me if I will be with then what I will be with then what I will do with me.
It is not a model and also the first half we will start.
It has already impossible because I did not get the late Almighty God, maybe he gets to the same time.
Also, I would not understand what happened on Saturday and it is saying what will I vote?
Most of it is good we should look for reasons because we think Lucy Msoffe has no love with black clothes with the hand in Dar es Salaam, I will be able to find the late.
It is not good.
To build the same day God bless us to see the other than one day, I was able to go to the office.
We will go during this month of ten to ten o'clock in the past.
Al Mana are work when I will be with a problem but I don't know if I'll do if I will do if I will do.
As it will be that day it will be on Saturday this Saturday, on Monday morning by truth at work, now you know anything related to your work.
Chris Brown is.
The Lord does not want to hear and listen to me if it's back the day before yesterday.
Among the Lord, the heroes' day will be left on Monday when I will not go back to work because I will not go back to Tuesday, then I will go back on Tuesday, then I will go back on Tuesday, then I will go back on Tuesday, then I do not go back on Tuesday, then I will go to work hard for what we are doing.
