Let us continue to be ruled by the thoughts that we believe?
May 14th, 2015.

I have ever been informed that when it started a huge subject to my eyes, it is an incident from one of the past two consecutive days, who was walking and maybe his thoughts that he found is contributed to another person who had not been added.
A fox which was one of you, a chicken did not see any difference, and taking them as a result of him and considering that some of the chickens in and after a long time will begin believing that it is chicken.
After living in a long time and a hen that you will start doing and do like other chicken diseases and even when you see you, they did not affect the chicken like her mother and even when you feel it can't be avoided if you get into the sky and it did not follow up without having two times a bit during you.
It's not only therefore, getting tired of what made the ground to look for food like the ones that performed well and for a long time, it started to be very close to the chicken, while considering the leaves and pest on the ground.
Time is not a long time every person started selling, including those of her brother, "you believe it until now, it was not happy to speak about you because it was not wrong, but you don't believe it until when you want it to do, but you don't know her, because you're living in water but you did not know it.
If you see you told me or it does not have problems and it does not have certificates, he took several hours and went into a hurry to fall down, but when a lot of noise, I saw a lot about you, but when he saw a lot about you, but when he saw it is a history.
We know where we live as a modem.
This is the one that is where the member of parliament of Iringa town, Pastor Peter Msigwa said in his popular speech by the parliament of "small businesses to rule the truth," what said Pastor Msigwa has a lot of strength but it is not correct for slavery.
This is true that in the era of discrimination, Africans continued to be discriminated against, they believed that discrimination is similar to others and therefore they were unable to know the thoughts of Black Americans.
When we listen to the general elections, we should need to make decisions if they want to deal with the thoughts, so they want to move here they are and demonstrators to look for better thoughts and those that can remove it here they are now.
It is our responsibility to decide whether our life showed up, now it is better and that we want people that they want to live in power or the way they want to look for us themselves and to achieve those decisions, it is a must to look at the society.
