The first thing is not Tanzanians who have the aim of what you like to do when you do not have the aim to do that you should not be afraid that there is no difficulty and experience of good sports, maybe a Mwanza province is what we need to do.
You have done other points that we believe in what I believe that will make us realize that we can be able to buy and believe that this is what we will help to buy our flag.
Let her dancers but there is no enough card.
When you are not why one even in Sinza since he is in the child until he is going to play for the national team?
There is another thing.
It is unable to arrive at the top 10 o'clock in the Euro semi-finals but I think there is no one person from African countries but these players failed to invest in the streets by doing a long time and there is a must that you get a lot and how it did not get a lot.
On the side of the side.
Ray C asking where he dies.
Thank you very much by the name is called to get married.
I would like to contribute to the claims of being late to invest in international soccer?
One have been unable to know if my colleague has said by goals.
It does not tire us with our home ground in the English Premier League.
They did not accept it.
These Azam don't have come up.
Investing in that league.
Youths of the youth.
Youths there are many youths who have a big talents to play for the national team, but.
When they take over the players Simba Yanga did not know that even if they go to Ndanda soccer there are some players even when they were at least one has the ability to go to play for the national team.
Our eyes too.
Thank you by names, I was told me.
I stopped even in front and going on.
I would be able to sign him on a topic when you are read with my colleagues in front of him is what you get.
You should not be avoided.
And when the same way you come up about anything that does not lie?
They will work to my short time for some time is still needed there, we have said the relatives have done, he would like to invest or build a sports center in Kigamboni as a car yesterday.
I will move forward, it means to build sports stations, it is a question that will be born in later and we agreed to plan it on something.
As it is in charge.
It needs a time to follow up on the reason of the generation place within ten minutes or within ten days if you need him.
For a long time, what was given you on the reason and said that there is investment that we will invest more but those who are called to do what's book or what is true they are doing so.
One and this.
If you want to continue?
He did not mention two things that are being known in the English Premier League Yanga soccer fans but I'm going on again and I am going to play with a player and when I am going to do something in some areas like Mbeya City, I would like to say anything in a certain area.
Continue to participate fully.
I thank you.
You know?
You know what does it hunt?
I and just care!
And I would like to contribute to the topic.
Go to request his ability to come out of faith in this country.
We will also be afraid, I don't start losing sports or by the speaker so that games have not been put it is not a day to go and any other teams even from countries outside the country like Barcelona being involved in order to market themselves as a team like Barcelona which has announced it is in their offices.
