Close to his lover on our discussions today, followed me in Dar es Salaam while speaking with the youth.
Where today we know we are young people but also among our brothers and reproductive health we want to talk about our topic, says parents should have favoring any child.
Rich Mavoko does not know a certain child than another, what effects are there for children.
Santa as I am called on your blog.
I think it is.
It can be noticed that I was sent away until we got a one child and asked me.
So it is just because he decided to do it.
It is possible.
Children are there.
Continue to grow.
Every one becomes a habit of her child sees one child to avoid the behavior he has against those who can find the child whom she is not ready to listen to him but I don't think that, there will be no reason why they will get one child and another person, but it is true that they will be a must.
There is doubt between her mother, he has love you.
And but he has not been given a must that there will be a shame, not to see it in their middle and you will find you that one father has committed themselves so that he has proposed that he has proposed.
Most of the most times not that for free you will find another person, he wants to be self-happy and I am not ready to learn if I am very happy, I would have ready to see why my colleague will be like, I would like to see why I am happy to see the child when he is doing, then I can be careful.
That is even if being unable to know that, any kind of life is to know, when we go to the field you will meet, you don't know that I don't know what I would like to do if you don't know what I don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you don't know if you love each other.
Another one that does not like to each child is born with his father or mother, I am very happy that I will be happy, I am very happy because I know if I am very happy because I know why my parents are from their village to that village, then will lead back to give birth to my parents.
Even when a lack of our life you will find you, we will also get a person even if the parents think they are not present in the world or they are found.
Then we have remained.
You will have no reason to say that now we cooperate to discuss what we do so that we can be able to move forward, it will also be careful, when you're doing well, he will have a lot to you, when you're doing well, he will have a lot of joy to ask you.
That will be a hatred but I don't think this body has not affected us because of the attempt to understand the answer or the answer that you want to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother has decided to know that the mother
Make sure that he is ready to get you, that is you have used your opportunity to advise that human beings who?
We have tried to marry off.
What does it mean?
Set free and sometimes to know that it is not a must for someone to do.
Giving the general meeting had a good life.
It is not only a must that amen.
I don't show a class to say that when you go to the loopholes used to hold the university there are many different studies.
You will find you that we have remained below and she does not want to get married.
I don't want jokes in class.
The habit of a person at Forward.
That is people who have never been commanded?
They can be Barcelona, one woman was called in his behavior.
And I don't think that there are effects to stop the behavior of someone except one who has decided to change that is why she gets a person who has remained in the past, that I don't know her biological mother that she does not love him and is not true that he does not like the mother to know her.
We think so much we think that biological father wants her.
It did not understand the soul of a child of her child but selling their body just like the child for these days the selling cannot be like they are advised together they are advised on the reason of her child to the child.
What is it a child.
You have our neighborhood where I did not like to put him.
He loves so much the male child because of the girl child.
The male child was going to school.
He told her mother and he is going to school what the car has been taken back home and she told the child and life of someone who was satisfied then her child is no reason to rest but the girl child is not even going to those schools.
Do you know all?
But he was given one person.
In urine is not able to help the girl child and I wish you a foolish thing that the girl child reading hard and until now he is.
The man while has been infected.
He has been found.
He has been saying that he is in several units that are not good and that they do when the mother is.
When he was taken to police to go for two minutes, the person has been removed.
Up to that, I explained that you don't have forgotten your mother, due to the behavior of the person, the police is divided into many families especially women that we destroy the children.
And especially you will find that women can't mention for this because I will come to bring other problems.
That there are other times he loves so much the male child than a female child.
The results were done.
There are today there are a lot of schools that you love, so that he can do much more than many that don't know the one that you want to give him a grant.
To come to help who is.
Which has made you love to be cleaned it from the parents who love you more than another so that you can be like a youth.
Dilesh Solank when she was coming out that I will pay him in being loved by parents.
We will have also care for my brothers, I am supposed to do what to be able to understand and be able to understand.
Because it is not different or not only to be loved and also I am supposed to do my brothers they are not found due to any reasons related to me only.
In our discussions today I don't have a solution.
.
Remember we were talking about the topic?
The parents should have any certain child more than another may have effects on children.
We got to reach the youths themselves but also other parents say.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we should be able to do so.
As a result of bias against those youths, they are saying that they can give birth to them and others even to do a lot of bad decisions about me, but also parents are saying that there is a child that can make her biological mother to put him more on her child.
It is good that more than this, then those who need love but a few who are also happy to know that it is possible for you to be allowed.
