
Education, water is proud of.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was published today 27th October, 2016.

In celebrating 20 years of Serengeti Premium Larger company (SCA), the company that produce the Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) company has said that it is proud of bringing a benefit to the community by helping them through the projects including education and water.

The company has banned big water boreholes in more than 10 provinces in the country and on the education side, they have given sponsorship to 35 students who are studying higher education in various universities in the country.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam City, Director General of SBL, Helene Nyambabe, said those celebrations have gone to hand in hand with the launch of the new logo of that beer which has started in the year 1996.
He said the launch of the new logo of Serengeti beer has also come from the new slogan of that show "our nation is proud of us to our beer."
He said apart from showing the success of Serengeti beer for a period of two months ago, the SBL company will use this period to thank its customers and educate Tanzania, if it will make it be among the beer that are leading here in the country, "he said.
"We thank our customers, business people, distributors, organizations, private sector, the government and all the stakeholders that basically have been helping as us in our journey of success" he said.
He said the Serengeti beer company is the first made by putting up to 100 percent in the country including the creativity of a Tanzanian cook, Wiwa of Kagoli, who stopped the production of beer in Germany and shivered here in the country and get that offer.
Mapande has said that Serengeti beer that is produced for the first time is expected to reach a special small area of the market, but the goal was to come and be generated in plenty, due to the great increase in SBL industries that are in Moshi and Mwanza.
In addition, he said in the whole period of two seasons, beer has been faced with the packaging, a different view that makes the changes in the center and the needs of its customers.
He also said they have succeeded to get more than 10 medals that are being implemented in that period of 20 years and promised that they will continue to produce that drink at the high level by considering the criteria of the quality given by the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) and the International Bureau of Standards (TBS) and Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS).
