Kikwete is a believer in new Swahili history?
MTVs, 2013.

Those are the lives of contraception?
There are all signs that President Jakaya Kikwete has been a believer in new Tanganyika history which has been being spread under him and which has got fans.

For a long time now in his various speech, President Kikwete has been trying or as compared to the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and asked him that he has done a lot more than Nyerere or in one way or another to start the procedures for himself the name of Nyerere.

He believes they are doing much more than.

One of the things that are received in any administration which has remained and only one term of leading is to try to build a memory.

Close to all the presidents of the democratic country when a few years before their term ended, you have tried to do things that the coming other countries will remember now, President Kikwete is in the same time when President Kikwete is in a long time.

He himself believes that he has done a lot of issues of development and he acted against those times as compared to the previous leaders.

In his speech during the time of the birthday of CCM that took place nationally in Kigoma province last month, President Kikwete announced that when he went to power, he will be remembered like "Mister development" because he believes that his administration has brought many development more than others who kidnapped them.

If you listen to someone who believe in this time you will see that all those who will show "large numbers of these houses, roads, colleges, schools, schools, schools, schools, and many other people believe," there are Kikwete's rule then Kikwete will do many more than Nyerere.

Now, there is a fact of its own kind and an assurance in this issue and even so, it is true that you can attract people who we think. Nyerere started leading Tanzania with 12 doctors and two young engineers.

While Nyerere starts that there is no human resources that Kikwete has today went to power, but its results are different from when Nyerere is moving to power, these children have been using more than 69 percent, therefore, our children are better than any time since we find freedom!

But the most important thing is that this new history of Tanganyika was in his last speech in the month of February which in the end of the month of February which in the end of the day I have been done by some people now, to write a lot for a lot of contribution for the own kind of the father of the nation.
