
The African Community, LHRC, LHRC.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The African Community, the embassy of China in the country together with the Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC), has given condolences to donations and donations from the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province and caused deaths and destruction of property.

The secretary general of the African Community, Pro Patria has appealed to our condolences to Tanzania's government from that earthquake.
Scotland said on behalf of that community, he gives the condolences to the family that has lost their brothers and relatives from the earthquake and said that they are together with all who were injured and the spoiling of the house and various equipment.
"The African Community is together with the government of Tanzania in an effort to help the victims, I have launched with seeing the country members of the neighboring countries that have started helping and are my expectations that other countries will join the victims," he said.
By the Tanzanian Embassy in the country and the Chinese community in Tanzania, have contributed various donations together with 100 million shillings from the communications unit of the Tanzanian Embassy in the country, that aid has been presented at the disaster department that is in the office of the Prime Minister.
It said the donations include the destruction of food and drugs that were being transported to be taken to the province and which were expected to arrive today morning and will be handed over to the office of the Provincial Commissioner of that province.
Also a team of six doctors from Chinese are already in Kagera to work with the provincial hospital to give treatment to the victims of the earthquake said that the team of doctors led by Professor Jiang together with Doctor Zekij and the doctor of reproductive health, Doctor Boni Yayi.
Those doctors met with the chief medical officer of the province with the aim of discussing about the state and plans of giving them treatment together with the Executive Director of LHRC, Doctor Helen Kijo Bisimba, said the station has received with great disappointment about the earthquake which caused the deaths of property and access to infrastructure.
The center gives the residents of that province to continue taking precaution as required by experts and to continue being patient during this difficult time and thanking them that they started giving donations including President Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya and others.
In addition, Kyerwa district said they are requesting the government through the disaster unit to direct the efforts in that province by being buried by the disaster so that they can be able to get quick support.
At the end of the week, a big earthquake which is paid "57th and 7 occurred in the Lake region provinces, but the Kagera region is the ones that were affected by a large extent and killing 17 people while fifty being injured and more than 800 people were injured.
