Lack of employment is a big challenge facing many youths below?
Statistics show that while more than five youths are forced to receive their studies in different universities and get into the employment market for seeking.
On the other side, approximately four percent of youths in the countries of the lake region have been employed this is a big problem that needs a solution to them.
If you go to Grind.
This article, we are meeting with some youths who live and look at what they are doing to solve the problem of employment.
There is a place.
The outskirts of Dar es Salaam city is an important area to various visitors from within and outside the city.
In Mount Meru placing him.
Since there is an international market for their hands where it was started in the fourth year in the city.
Many youths are self-employed and open business.
Statistics that were given by the union of the market.
Shows that the youth have been found?
And doing business of different products of hands with a value of shillings a shilling is like a hundred million shillings.
It depends on it.
If you go to Grind.
If you go to Grind.
If you go to Grind.
A man is a man.
Which drawings of the name Black Americans is white.
Where can I use the Kilimajaro Jitume that is used to represent?
And there is also an opportunity for a forest that if you look at and it means that those goals. the forest that affects many elephants, which is available in our old clothes, here we benefit from.
Everyone are in a lot of things but here each one?
You love you, something that doesn't like other than caring because one person and a case of color which wants there are Black and white is in a picture that is like.
But also there is a picture.
That is not good, it shows that this is this afternoon because I'm in the end of the month, but there are some of the own use together with Black Americans.
Swell in the citizens here on separation, but the meaning of HIV if you would like it.
Now.
Deputy Chairperson of this market is a drawing and a sales person from different products that was made to end modern creativity in this market for work, so as to follow keenly.
He is saying that they have changed their will be able to bring success in life.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, I will give a chance, this is the first talent but below.
This is to say that second is a problem or view that I think I should do because if you get married, you should not have decided to fight so as to achieve the environment that he wanted to see what we need to do everything?
The contest is in life.
I know what I made.
Make you have a need in learn.
Get a teaser sin?
For sure he puts in the money it is the one that will be a business.
If the table is not able to know that money have come in, but the full statistics of the government is the same.
I came into why we should not think about the reasons for statistics and everyone doing his business is doing so much because I do not want them to get more than ten o'clock in the whole world, but everyone is doing all over the whole age and more than five are I am able to return but inside you.
That does it break up the situation as a way to come to him and therefore I don't think this ten in my first life, when I get in the moment it is different from the life that I wrote.
In general my family and I have seen it to school the late?
During the funeral of the late Adam and also it is running a life in general different from the beginning, I am very difficult but now I will start a very difficult time even though I believe that everyone does not make sure that everyone can't make sure that everyone can be unknown in this matter.
Pictures and my video, I know that I know the chicken inside you, I don't have himself much like my, but also there is still a problem of buying other products like a girl, but those that pay a lot of strength and capital, but those that pay a lot of benefits is now and to do it because I get himself because the cost is.
And I have seen you are getting great benefits more than what has been fulfilled, you are seeing the money he is very little but I am not aware that they are not a lot of money.
When a person will be able to discover that if the youth will be ready, he will have received an environment of knowing that it is supposed to do the environment but it is still a person who does not have enough employment opportunities, I will follow it is one of the employment which we have done is one of the employment which we have done is one of the employment which we have done is one of the employment which we have done is one of the employment which we have done is one of the employment which we have.
In my working tool, you cannot get married after seeing my education it is not good because they ask each other to employment in the government but also I saw it in this side, it is the best of business I had to say what is the employment of many people.
Employment in the government of that youth come out to look for businesses that do not be able to promote talents and be with them because I believe every person has his talent as a person.
Saying that it will help him in his life and he will continue.
His life was able to get benefits and good life by me in what you believe in the private sector due to the south, you do not get any way to make sure Nice doesn't know what to prevent it.
