

Then Assays it is happy to see him.
By Elizabeth Michael.
Since the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (MCC) will announce its donation of more than 1 trillion shillings to the government of Tanzania and more than 10 countries that will be able to contribute to the budget of this year, the nation has remained in a trap.
There have been different opinions, about the decision, that is explained as a result of violating the foundation of democracy, especially in the general elections of Zanzibar, and the law on social media networks (non-communicable diseases).
At the time they were involved in the economic issues saying that decision can destroy the country, some of the politicians and citizens of different regions, they say it is happy to do with each other.
The debate is big and or for sure you can say that in front of the nation enjoy.
As a result of that, Mtanzania has done an interview with one day from Canada, a scholar, a politician who got to hold the position of the secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Doctor Willibrod Slaa. The following is a full interview.
A question: I think the action of the American government through its non-governmental organization (MCC) to attract Tanzania a donation of more than one trillion shillings will affect the nation?
Doctor Slaa is clear that the act of "it is clear the donations of MCC, will affect the nation for a long time, our plans have been depending on money and various donations of development.
In addition for a long time, our government's budget, and to a large extent also, the budget of our agents has been dependent on it.
Mwalimu Nyerere found himself and warned that in that issue, the members of parliament for different times, and especially from the 8 parliament, they have been making noise about our government (all 2).
When I as compared to when I was a member of parliament where KH was close to 80 percent according to lack of use (EFD) and to approximately 40 percent of now, "freedom is very important to have the ability and freedom to use money and your resources for how you want this freedom.
