The white house which makes up the city of Zanzibar in this island is in approximately four hundred and eight kilometers, they will have a great reputation in the fishing sector and many business people have built very high-scale enterprises in many areas especially when the government is in the past.
Dilesh Solank I believe that the administration of the administration.
It seems that if the leaders are under many people.
You're all recently.
However, if you come to this president once you will have a two day tour, because there are no minister, like this one here and the office of the minister as well as the minister's office, if you get it is' no 'to come as there in one tour.
Why are many people.
They came out to this area where he did not have a whole week when he went to anything because of getting important services like them.
We are going right in Cement to make sure that we get the top five, I will give you the government into a small level of business and to bring a huge difference between the business and to bring great difference between people living in Swahili as well as people living in Swahili.
Arising from this situation, it seems to be little in the circulation of business.
It has extended its little compared to the Unguja Island and they know that you are not born to another side for the purpose of looking for development.
It seems that people should go.
They see that they are other things ahead of them that they can grow the economy.
We should come even here, request the environment to grow the economy.
The late God told the reason for doing so, it should show depending on the same time, you show depending on the geographic division, according to Bissau, according to Bissau.
While Wy and emba are the famous traders in different places outside the time when he was looking for their homes in the continent, something that is also in accordance with the current work, has also contributed to bring back development because for slavery.
The first reason for transport will not be associated with our vomiting in Tanga in bringing about it.
.
It is being used well.
Our money comes at this evening and you give us the continent for sure this is a problem.
Many business people do not be able to take their things from many people and to bring back here and when he spoke to Tanga residents, they did not be able to prepare well that you work with me for example the lot of money from when he is due to their workers.
The workers that he got his last salary in the month of July, that is why he is using 'sugar, he may be used here and if I think it was found to have been found here, I would have been able to go down here when I think it's income and even to go down here.
I did not get there.
But also the government contributes up to ninety percent.
The government of these hours we look at an example in the port, and currently the iron sheets is determined when the port is equivalent to 50 and five percent will benefit.
You will find those people in Zanzibar to continue being high.
What does it hunt?
That is it?
These government are required to put infrastructure especially the roads and the airport, but the residents of Pemba. They feel that those efforts are not sufficient depending on the situation as it is in that island.
Things like infrastructure.
As a road.
Make Me Sing.
Those have caused many to be seen as if he is.
Bring development in the Cozumel Island when it was there.
For example in the issue of electricity.
In the past it was.
You are not only.
And in the province, the government was found to have been used but in the rural areas in the city, it was a way.
This is a situation.
Therefore it appears to be little, the deaths have been stopped so as to arrive in the villages areas thus it makes these hours it was a very big difference with there.
And as we as to go to the road issue, it was only one from your roads in Rukwa province.
Wete District.
In the rural areas like the air, I did not have a convoy because it had a lot when he was going on well compared to Unguja and told the government you must make the road the road to be completed the day before yesterday.
Therefore, for sure it is true.
Political also, the residents when he was a big percentage in the opposition party, citizens should not be seen in history, they showed that in the general elections, all parliamentary seats in the island goes by the party's general secretary, Seif Sharif Hamad, with the great popularity of that island being injured in the streets from Dar es Salaam city.
