The DC of Arusha will be accused.
May 22, 2014.

The District Commissioner of Arusha town, John Mongella, arrived in trouble after the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), have talked to the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART) because he is using his power badly on their involvement in markets of the City Council.
The opposition party has given him a letter to the police commander of Arusha province, he is accusing DC Muheza of that they are involving themselves with bribery in the city of the city.
That letter has a memory number plate T / 419 / 1000 in April 14th this year, has been signed by the chairman of Arusha Town Constituency through that party, Ephraimu Mwasanguti.
"We are forced to you the allegations of bribery against the head of Arusha Town District, (John Mongella) in their markets," says the first part of that letter.
In that letter aron Nanyaro, claims that the market for selling second-hand-hand clothes at the tax collected has not been taken to the council and instead of the market leaders take their money to the District Commissioner.
He explains that the step of those funds for tax not to be taken to the council is against the financial law of local governments of the year 2000 and that "the availability of the district is a break to the law.
Mke Mwema should leave the previous days when he got the reports of existence of corruption of the collection of tax collection in that market, Kekeletse Phoofolo on writing news in one of his past issues of March this year.
The corruption reports were claimed to have an amount of 42 million shillings that were collected every month from participating in more than 700 stalls in which there was a big business person known for a month.
However, those funds were not yet taken to the council of the City Council as part of the income and instead it is claimed that the market leaders have been "they should have the money and some of the government leaders at the district and regional level.
According to the chairman of CHADEMA, another market that its income is accused by the District Commissioner is the Kilombero market which is claimed that more than 60 million shillings were lost in 2013.
"Between the month of January and April this year, the District Commissioner gave the decision of taking the government tax in that market contrary to the law and therefore causing a loss of 60 million shillings," it continues to explain the letter.
There are several documents that show that head of the district requested youths who collect tax in the market to be paid 4 million shillings for that work while the former director of Mbeya City, Liana while refusing to claim that the youth did not have any contract with the council to do that job.
Aron Nanyaro, is also in his letter said that another market is the new market of NMC 'where the council collecting 100,000 shillings per day while the real collection is 650,000 shillings in a day.
"Because your institution is preventing and fighting corruption, and because bribery is easy for justice and it is the responsibility of every lady to prevent and fighting corruption, our offices will work on these allegations according to the law," says that letter.
Speaking about the step of CHADEMA to write that letter, the commander of Arusha Province Juventus drew in Nyamgenda, said he does not have a report to be written by that letter and it hasn't reached.
"I don't see that letter and I think it still not arrived at my table. I would have been in a good position to talk about the issue if I could make calls from the letter itself," said Commander KIDAVogue.
He said even so, his institution is ready to discuss all allegations that are presented without caring for the position and the position of the party in the community because there is no one who is in the country's laws.
On his part, Mongella told Besson that he has got information of that issue last month but still he was not known by the police officers.
"Yes, I've heard a report like one month about those allegations, but still I have not been called by any person, when he gets, I will give you enough cooperation," said Mongella.
That district commissioner added, "basically the things are a political party against me, I asked himself recently, he involved the issues of revenue for the council?"
However, aron Nanyaro, when he was asked by this newspaper reports that his letter has not arrived, he answered that his letter was taken to a long time ago with a letter of letter in CHADEMA offices, and have shown that the letter has been released on the same time.
