In Sokoine I will be a catalyst to the leaders of Tanzania.
May 5, 2016 by our correspondent.

On April 12 of every year, our nation usually remember the death of former prime minister of Tanzania, Edward Lowassa who was born in 1938, died on a car on the vehicle the year 1984.
In Sokoine, it was a man in his leadership because he would serve the citizens very much without discrimination and bias against what he believed in the rights, equity and accountability, while making it very close to the politics of socialism and self-reliance.
Make sure that they sell his hatred against corruption, money cannot fight against smuggling so that they were in with them, in Sokoine we did not want to speak and he believed in the good development led by people to work hard and to be unable.
In Sokoine, he was a great impetus in caring and raising the culture of pregnancy as he believed and claimed to be clear that agriculture is the back of our nation and this is not a result of not wanting the plane to avoid the efforts of citizens in agriculture.
In the interview I think from his brother in Sokoine, it is the one that he was addressing a NEC meeting in Dodoma and told his leaders that use their public positions and the government, to steal bribes, because their safe is enough for the Almighty God to get to know. "
This article has not aimed to investigate one of their brothers in Sokoine, but it is to try to blame to our leaders today, how will you vote?
So, our leaders are attracted by the professionalism of performance in the field or most of the leaders don't know if he had not been the leader of this way to this nation?
Our leaders of today believe that they don't know in Sokoine, by doing her work directly or by directed and then probably, also the other leaders of today have heard and asked him to just like this vibrant leader who was in our nation.
The scholars of many gods are due to that logic, which is a good leader, there are those who are saying that there is a good leader for those who were born with talents of leadership (, 's leadership) and others understand the leaders is based on the rules of leadership.
I am a lecturer of a good leader and the one who has been built from his environment so that he can lead to solve his challenges.
When I explained more, human behavior do not have a great extent, apart from other reasons, the environment around them, therefore the competence of leader results from its ability to deal with his environment for the benefit of its community and not her private.
When you go back to the Sokoine stadium, his leadership was very good in order to solve the challenges of the environment of that time because they believe in the policies of socialism and self-reliance, encouraging and rights.
Brother Sokoine, ensure that the citizens who receive priority in development and not the leaders to benefit themselves as an environment of 1980, it was difficult economically and there was a lot of poverty that has reduced, therefore, if a leader was supposed to be a mirror of the community and work with productivity for the whole nation.
At the time we have now, if you are now, the system that depends on our environment, this is a system that is able to boost more than equality and justice.
Our leaders that have conflicts in this environment and have been private leaders who put their interests in front of the interests of the whole community.
In our environment today, most of us have been forced to be leaders so that we can be able to get easily easily and do not lie!
The leadership in these days have changed to be capital and make people to love you and to be careful, that the servants of these days, the leadership is not a lot and entertainment.
I have been talking to some people in different times and told them that the bad leadership is not an accident and that we do not have bad leaders and not to implement their responsibilities but the bad leadership is an act of being unable to be taken against them.
Why do I say that the bad leadership is an illusion?
Our leaders that are led by self-communicable diseases have no need to serve the citizens but their main aim is to benefit them because if that is their intention, it's impossible for them to be better leaders so that they can be able to meet their needs.
To prevent this article I would like to inform you, let me ask you just because these ghost workers today are at every corner of Tanzania, they will be known today and not another time in the past?
