Kikwete and advice to "the person of God?
Memba, 26, 2014.

Jean Mwenda, I don't know the little time when she sang, "if you know the whole journey," the journey we have made, the requirements of the new constitution that will not be placed on the requirements of the current constitution, again, it is very delicious.
That journey is being done to be tough and long distances to the ones who believe that they are just some people in Tanzania who believe that they are not the legal activists of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and they are using the party to protect their interests.
There are some of doubt, other environmental activists of the party are supposed to see the importance of setting up the nation before yesterday after their party, the current chairperson of CCM, but not among them.
It was asked to listen to the chairman, President Jakaya Kikwete, last Friday when he was addressing the special Parliament of the constitution during his launch.
The speech he made in the parliament used to make sure that Kikwete is a normal politician and he does not have the qualifications to make him make sure that I could be able to use it as a section of the English word "Beauts', but it would be able to use it as a section of the English word" Shake and man "but he would like it.
Although it's a politician and a politician, but there is a big possibility between the normal politician and the girl, James Mbuligwe, a American writer in the 19th century, "what he did, last Friday and fined the future generations to make the interests of the party instead of the nation instead of the nation.
The normal politician, you have tried to do things that you will benefit us, and it has been a lesson to cook, or by doing an error in the interests of his party instead of the interests of the nation in general.
On another side, who's a man even when he was a leader of the political party, you will put aside the interests of his party and instead of fighting for the interests of the country and the one with making them to consider the interests of the country, and his party is the one that could destroy the nation.
If we get another one between the normal politician and the one who is self-hop, we can see it's impossible for someone who does not love politics and a normal politician, to get a child to get a private sector and maybe him and his party.
If a man does not have a lot of us about his nation and he knows why he wants the leadership and when the leadership becomes better if he can make sure that the nation can be better and therefore the nation will be able to be stable, more rights or more rights.
Such a leader becomes difficult and we are ready to take action that will benefit many in his country even if those steps will go against the policies of his party or even if it will be done by some of the leaders of his party.
Therefore, that kind usually sees far, it does not recognize that he will be able to face problems that you must get a solution so that he can fulfill its goals.
Many politicians are usually people who do not have integrity, or don't have a desire to say anything so that they can get a chance or give a promise from the whole country to get elected but when they get married, they shouldn't recognize the promise that they gave by Haazu.
On the other side, those who have the reputation of "patience," you forever look at the nation you will go and what they do not love, Kombo said that different leaders do not depend on politics and do not have faith in leadership.
The launch of the Special Constitutional Assembly gave Kikwete an important opportunity to show his political professionalism and wisdom in running the world that he does not have a man with bad luck, Kikwete did not depend on that opportunity.
