This is the funeral of the nation, the president does not want.
APR, 03 / 2013.

President Jakaya Kikwete has given the last speech of last month as well as Easter greetings to Christians and citizens, he has talked about other issues including an accident involving themselves in the reserve area in Dar es Salaam city.
For a long time, I will not speak the condition of the deterioration of the religious leaders here in the country, that is in Christianity, and Islam.
I am saying that President has given a national speech because I don't have another good way to explain what happened, but basically the president he complains about him without stopping the government and put up on different religious leaders in the country.

Our president has advanced the culture of complaining as Christians are complaining, Muslims have complained and even his aides were complained so that this is the United Republic of complaining.
Because she feels it is my primary right, and after falling, "a speech" that I can't know two important things that concern our religious leaders, it is possible that our president has no important information about the advice they got from his advisers and they have decided to leave it well and they are not in the religion of religion.
All two indicate that the biggest funeral of the nation, that the president cannot get another person to attend to each other, but I don't know some of my opinion above.
The speech by the president had a statistical issue and in reality, the president claimed that since he was burnt down in Mbagala, there is no reason that was reported in the media that, after Mbagala, corruption were burnt in Zanzibar, Kigoma and Mbezi Beach in Dar es Salaam.
Furthermore, it was reported that the church of KKKT in Kilindi, Tanga, was shot dead in all events in those events, no one who was arrested, these are events that are reported in the media but there was a possibility that your more incident after Mbagala, is still a big incident after the country is not good.
The speech by the president did not succeed to show that President he had been caught up with two religious leaders in doing so he was unable to show that what he struggled to do is equal to Muslims and Christians but they are determined to do justice.
He gave the examples of him and the other security people to have reduced up in three parts of Dar es Salaam. the first one, this is not a new song even if the retired president made a lot of money even when the retired president made a lot of complaints to the president, it can't affect the security of the president.
However, President Kikwete did not explain the nation reasons for him to have reduced up in three parts of Dar es Salaam, but the incident doesn't have a suicide bomber in any religion and the victims usually have religious leaders themselves inside.
When it comes up, the company was forced outside and interfering with freedom of other religious leaders and then the government is unable to address that problem, and that is when the probability starts being or the government has interests with the problem or it has not been able to reduce its weaknesses.
In the scandal that is ongoing here in the country, our government and our president, have found themselves being faced with all two interests, that the government has explained so much because it has shaken the government and it is not true because the defense and the president is proud because they are not satisfied with his leadership.
The speech by President Kikwete and his explanations about the step of the government to deal with other religious leaders, have been successful in addition to the explanation of his minister, Steven Wassira said that the government has been forced to deal with this problem.
At the same platform, Christians have been reported that the death of churches in the whole country, two sides to be killed, let us lose hope after being shot dead and many property of the church were destroyed by being stolen, it is difficult to agree with the president that he and his government have done enough work to address this issue.
