
Immigrants can lead them in Kigoma.
Kigoma has said the number of illegal immigrants in Kigoma province has been explained to increase the fear of that province who change in part of the neighboring countries of Burundi.
It got a donation of illegal immigrants which is claimed to be coordinated by some of the locals who pay the immigrants in wealth creation.
Kigoma Regional Commissioner, Major General, Emanuel Maganga said that the situation is bad and it is a must for the government to take action against the problem.
He said that it has shown the existence of illegal immigrants in Kigoma from the year 1972 and to work and live against the immigration law.
"The illegal immigrants have been employed and the citizens in the agricultural sector, fishing and livestock to produce small income, finally they are not involved in life and living as legal citizens, this is a great danger to the security of our country," said the Provincial Commissioner.
General Maganga, who is also the chairperson of the defense and security committee in that province said the presence of illegal immigrants has increased the wave of crime.
He said 40 percent of criminal activities in this province have been done by illegal immigrants.
In those events, citizens have been killed while the others were left out by permanent disability and without stopping their resources.
"Some of the illegal immigrants have a lot of money, therefore, they will be able to use them by the locals of this province, eventually, the economic, political and social media," said General Maganga.
The immigration officer of Kigoma, Martina, Kitila said some of the immigrants who were caught and found guilty of living in the country contrary to the law, they have been admitted to return to their country because of living in the country for a long time.
"Those who came out in front of the court that it is not a citizen of Tanzania we want them to return to them, but when he arrived in their countries they want to enter and try to go back to Tanzania, an issue that we cannot agree with it," said Kitavi.
