What's the silence of our area, elsewhere are different?
May 08, 2014.

The day before yesterday, I was coming out to buy anything in our area, I was surprised to have written the silence that had been closed by people seated on the shops and there are very few shops but there are very few shops but even when I have ever heard, there have been a funeral in our area.
When I asked where is, I was told there is a dirty wind, "it was time.

One man who is the price of his shop is high more than other shops living with maggots, I don't know that I don't know, but these people are doing business without paying taxes?
Those who evade taxes are small business people and those with great business people have not paid taxes, but when I was trying, I saw a young man asking for forgiveness from Tigo Pesa, "the wind is happening until the following month."

I wanted to know where they are getting the report that "the dirty bus will not want it to be a big shop of cosmetics who did not want her name to get money" here in the evening if all shops were opened by business continued as usual.

When I went to ask for many questions, a youth who sell meat in the morning, did not give me an answer, "I am happy, I cannot pay tax here in Tanzania." We cannot pay taxes if we do business people. "

Tomorrow, I wrote all shops to make sure that these people are running a business without a license, I was surprised to see that all shops used to stop the business license, but it continues to evade taxes for every month and even heading to a dirty wind. "
Surprising thing is that owners of these shops that cause taxes are not all those who do their work in our country.

It is to know that this person who is young and even heading to the wind 'dirty' was understand by doing so that it does not make its income in the community through our shops and instead of giving taxes in government, they are complaining that our road is bad.

Our area has a leaders and the chairperson of the estate, Executive Director of the area, is clear that the councilor and member of parliament like I am an ordinary citizen to recognize the importance of giving tax, education and education to recognize the importance of giving tax to the citizens, it is important for the leaders to teach citizens more than the primary issues of developing our nation of Tanzania.

The day before yesterday we have witnessed the election of member of parliament for Chalinze, who won or was unable to use my motion, I wants to use the statistics of people who registered themselves to vote and those who came out to vote for more than 23,000 people and the truth is, we heard his pride in winning.
This needs an independent article as an aim here is to resolve and get the answer.
