
Most of livestock have killed 4 police officers.
By Sammy Lil.
Examples of livestock closed down four police officers (AP) and two farmers in Benitu.
According to the head of police of Gothernburg, South Region, Mister Paul Mikongoti, the six bodies were found in Kakingo area on Wednesday.
Another breeder was found with injuries.
Mister thanks, he said that more than 200 attackers were arrested, goats in the location of the Dongfangzhixing area.
The officers of the people who were among the six that were waiting for the sponsors are among them being faced with the existence of Kakingo area where the handover took that was held at three o'clock until when it occurred.
Two officers who missed him were seen and they were these reports on Wednesday morning about their disappearance to their colleagues.
When they went to investigate when they got the bodies, while the breeder was injured to the hospital of lodge / Hotel.
Two vehicles of police which were used to transporting the police who were following the ones they were shot and were badly destroyed.
Senior officials of police in Hong Kong have said that they have planned itself involved with their fellow colleagues from Pambani County in strengthening the security on the boundary of that he said that.
This step, Mister Rished said that it will make sure that the ones who are coming from Pickup, will have a difficult time of attacking and stealing their colleagues of Turnbull.
"You can be able to have freedom to get easily after invading one side," said OPD 'while he announced the fight against the murder of livestock.
Killing two injured in the past, the residents of the village of Mkomagu led the police camp in that area after the medical officer whom the officer shot dead and killed one person who was found guilty of livestock heading there.
However, the police who were brought in that area were able to kill those attackers.
Some of the police officers that were attacked have already benefited from the border of the mud that he has dropped from.
