Chenge, preparing himself.
Mose 21, 2013.

The speaker of parliament, Ann Makinda, can meet with the motion of votes for not having faith in parliament and eventually getting married as part of the members of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) that will connect the strength and parliamentarians of the opposition, especially from the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), South Korea has been told.
Already the way to run the program has been made between members of parliament and issues which are able to be used, according to news sources of this newspaper, together with Speaker Makinda was alleged to use the changes of the parliamentary laws against the parliament.
"Speaker has constituted this parliamentary committee and this decision made him to parliament, but there are other factors that have not been approved by parliament, this is a mistake," he explains one of the members of parliament who are ready to vote for him.
That member of parliament (name withheld), explains that the changes of the speaker was to be given a decision to select the committee members instead of the official system of the chairpersons of the committee, it is a great decision that are required to involve full changes of regulations that are supposed to participate in the parliament before being used.
It is alleged that the speaker followed and respect the previous procedures of enabling the changes to the regulations, for example, to make sure that changes are headed to the parliamentary committee but the argument being led to ensure those changes are approved by parliament and not the committee for regulations only.
But when those processes are going on, already our citizens have gone out by the director of the department of information, public education and international relations of the parliament, where the speaker did not play against any time and that it cannot be a reason to prevent it.
"What has the speaker is in accordance with the regulations of 152 of the parliamentary regulations, that allows the authority to make changes and the regulations of the parliament, he will have the authority to make corrections or changes in accordance with our reporter.
But when a clarification on the side of parliament, therefore, another member of parliament is in the process of ensuring that Speaker Makinda is supposed to use the parliamentary committee but the implementation of the parliamentary committee will not be used until when those chairpersons are supposed to be used until when those chairpersons are supposed to consider all procedures. "
But he said that he is talking about that, "what is in it is that the speaker has made changes in the increase of changes in the parliamentary committees and that is part of its responsibilities, that is part of its responsibilities, that is the committee of regulations doing that job on behalf of the parliament."
Other news sources have explained that, the danger of the speaker headed to him is not only due to a bomb that is claimed to do in getting the authority to elect the chairperson of the budget committee, but also it's a result of some members who believe in parliament.
Already there have been conflict between the leadership of parliament and opposition camp in parliament about the trend of parliament under the speaker, who also was also mentioned to be the example of the leaders of the parliamentarians, while the member of parliament of Singida East, Tundu Lissu is mentioned to be the example of the leaders of "violence" in parliament.
The reduction of faith against Speaker Makinda among the members of parliament is one of the members of parliament there is a reason to be the chairperson of the budget of the budget and then it is directly to President Andrew Chenge.
