To oppose the three governments is by the natural union.
Jide 11, 2013.

In part of the first part of this article, together with other things, we saw how Tanganyika and Zanzibar union was ready to emergency for the opening of Mwalimu Nyerere's effort to implement the establishment of the Confederation of East African Community - Tanganyika, Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar at the end of the stadium together with leaders of the countries of East Africa, Tanganyika, Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar at the end of the stadium together with leaders of the East African Community, Tanganyika, Kenya, Uganda and Zanzibar.

Recently, the vibrant singer of the country, Professor Issa Shivji, who is also the retired chairperson of the Mwalimu Nyerere profession at the University of Dar es Salaam, asked the conference of the Union of constitutional changes "and also the structure of our union, according to the agreement, it is the two governments.

Professor Shivji who is a pursuer in the country, is a scholar and the defending champions (as I am me), policies and thoughts of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who was a big defending champions of two governments because that we shall see later.

Our union's structure is clear in accordance with the agreement, and Mwalimu Nyerere, as a politician, can be forgiven by failing to resolve the legal documents that was organized by his attorney general, Roland Brown by "the structure of relationship between the England government and the local government of Ireland," that is the structure of United Republic of Tanzania.

But it is not Professor Shivji said a scholar and the attorney general of the constitution, and who has been forced to be forgiven by giving a lot of different meanings in that conference, if you will identify this article.

And this is a great danger to the country, to scholars what are needed by the community have attached it with feelings of the political parties inside the request for the leadership and lack of direction, can't be cut off by the scholars.

I wish you a statement earlier here that, together with integrity, counseling and good leadership of Mwalimu Nyerere during his administration, but this one was left to play for all the field without advice or considering the requirements of the union.

One of the founders of the United Republic of Tanzania, Abeid Amani Karume, believed that he entered the agreement of creating a union of the country and three governments, and when he wanted to see the union being sent away from what he called "the union is like a coat that is operated by a long constitution for 13 years up to the year 1977 while he had gone against him.

The same way, the President of the second phase of Zanzibar, Sheikh Aboud Jumbe Mwinyi, in the year 1984, said the logic of the concept of two governments against the United Republic and the Constitution of Zanzibar, for the constitution of the union wanting to take more issues of unity from Zanzibar.

Jumbe was not safe, he urged all levels of leaders of the United Republic and in the islands and we will see later, why CCM still gives a two government structure, despite being supported by all the parts of the union.

Now we continue with part of the third part of this article, which by good luck, it will also identify Professor Shivji and the biggest part in using some of his own eyes, to confirm that the natural structure of the union is required to be of the federation.

All of us agree with Professor Shivji said the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar was followed by the implementation of the international agreement (International Treponema Py) and heads of those countries in the country as part of the laws of those countries by the name "film laws" (Actors Association of Union).

Professor Shivji said the founder of the Union of Chama Cha Mapinduzi "(the majority of the coalition) of the fifth term, that: The coalition law is the main foundation of the union which is the main foundation of the union and all the other laws concerning the union.

He continues to say (U14) because they've also recognized that, "the coalition law (number 22) of there were only a constitutional constitution (number 22), but it was coming from the conflict between the constitution of the union or the constitution of Zanzibar and the union of United Republic of Tanzania.
