
Most of the referees is dangerous to.
QS Mhonda J.
The soccer season that ended in last month for Yanga to win the championship, three teams in Tanga have gone into the bridge and three others planting, including Mbao FC that won't get Mamuya because they are involved in leaders of the club and executives of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
The league had a lot of good and bad luck, where stakeholders is a must to discuss so that those involved will be able to address them, if not removing them.
I have decided to listen to the interview that is taking place before the match or after the match, apart from what he interviewed me, Jaffar Idd or my brothers, Thobias Andengeye.
The coach when he was interviewed after the game had complaints against the decision in a certain event, it is a must to explain his views about the incident that the referee did a mistake.
But the coach when he went to talk about technical issues and focus on the referee that he desires, is supposed to prove his words that a certain decision that I think is not correct, was done with an intention of carrying a team.
The meaning of that statement is that the coach has evidence that the referee met or had a plot in any way and the leaders of the team is unacceptable, and agreed to do a decision to reduce that team.
The coach is supposed to confirm that it is a must they must be demolished because he will be talking about issues that are suppressing the fans to cause violence and also to remove good flavor.
Think about the coach like Yanga or Simba, for him to talk about that referee he has carrying a certain team and then in a match they do a decision that we don't know if everyone knows how it will be.
It is a must that the huge violence can be done to disrupt the peace of peace.
Those events of Tanga in the premier league and the Federation Cup, at a large extent been contributed by the statements by coaches that the referees should follow despite the repeat of the television and showing that the referees were not correct.
Fans decided to believe more than coaches than what they did not see the field and in a repeat of the television pictures.
Events of violence erupted in the match of the first half and the second phase comes from non-infectious diseases instead of explaining the technical reasons for the team to win or fail.
In this speed, next season you can be able to be ruled by the biggest violence because coaches who gave a stern warning to the peace and disrupt the game, have been left.
TFF does not find themselves keenly every statement provided by coaches before the match and take appropriate measures against those experts when they stop focusing on their profession and give statements that can enable fans to make violence.
We know that during the training, coaches should be explained to what to talk after the match, because of the analysis of the game, but if actions of attacking referees with words continue to take action against the referees that can endanger the fate of the referees that can endanger the fate of the field.
The disciplinary committee of TFF explain the intention of giving incitement statements and among those statements are like that one, accusing the referee, he desires, instead of explaining his offense.
