
Majaliwa wants the head of prisons.

It has been written by special writer, Dodoma.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

The Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed Dodoma Regional Commissioner Jordan Rugimbana, to investigate about what the head of prisons in Dodoma province, Antinino Kilumbi has been forced to make desks to private people instead of the prisons workshop as intended by the government.

The prisons in Dodoma province was given 24 million shillings and the government in order to make 480 desks and each one was paid 50,000 shillings.
The leadership of Keko has made those desks to private individuals, where one drugs has costed 70,000 shillings.
The Prime Minister gave that statement yesterday when he visited Isanzu primary school in Dodoma province while on a tour to inspect the areas that give community services in the city.
He has said that if preparations have not been able to make those desks because the work would have taken to other public institutions, therefore he wanted the provincial commissioner to follow up more than 20,000 shillings in the manufacturing of every desks coming from.
"I have heard that you are raising the police to increase in the manufacturing of those desks, it is banned the police to provide money in their pockets of government activities," he insisted.
"The government has organized a procedure to enable its institutions including the army by giving work of making products and various infrastructure including desks so as to increase productivity" he added.
The Head of Prisons in Dodoma Province, Kilumbi said that they decided to take that job to private people because they don't have equipment.
The Prime Minister wanted the prisons head to strengthen the technical unit to ensure he is using well the work he has in producing different products.
About the challenges of housing to the police, the prime minister said that the government recognizes and has set the construction plan of construction and on the side of prisons, they started in Dodoma province.
