However, Mkonga was born in the main market, they would like to me in this morning to talk in this morning as it is fees on Tuesday, we are expecting to be able to continue living or the disease which they can be able to continue to live or the disease they can be able to continue to live or the disease they can be used in health centers but also it was successful in health centers.
It's like that for now, it is estimated to have a total of two hundred million elders who are equivalent to 7 percent of all Tanzanians, but AT has a big percentage of the elderly in Dodoma where there are still a debate which will be faced with a big challenge in Dodoma where we will also bring together with the stakeholders of the elderly and that they can also come.
More than three two that are also being used by water when you would like them to know you, you can use your message in Page of our Facebook we talk about this morning, and we think about what you know about the Aston health sector in various issues of elders when we know is old.
The one is called FNagu, is in the board of elders or follow up with all health issues and about the elderly but together with those we know about the founder of the sun is not a lecturer and a member of health issues to the elders of Meek Mill.
One of you're going to start this debate because I had previously said, when we are looking at health issues but more than more people I would like to know the state of elders in the whole issue of this service?
Wash your condolences to the message.
It is still good.
Considering that.
Listen to you.
And you will remember that someone is.
They get a great problems.
One of them sexually transmitted diseases.
Their health will be productive because I can do problems once again.
But out of us, he would like to look at details that we see the old man while he is being served, he was quoted.
Mzee.
In a condition of being taken by truth, it is not true.
There is a place.
That service is provided.
But there are areas and areas not all areas.
Take care to the witnesses who saw him?
There are efforts that will lead.
Now he is currently the district council of Magu due to receiving him.
Health care is good.
Because the elderly have been built in their area.
Why is it's meaning?
When it was getting the service.
Before.
First elders were found.
They were selected for the meaning of.
The council are in efforts.
The purpose of having cement is when they are given.
And when I believe that elders are more than sixty years of age.
As it appears to the hospital.
He is getting in the area that I have?
To wait, the speaker did not live well like we so as.
And their drugs have been set aside for the elderly.
Currently, processing.
In other several times.
The same way to hospital in those areas so that we can be involved in a very shop but I talk about the side of the district council of issues where it is true that the availability of drugs has been improved and get drugs.
Prior to you Mister I am happy about it that it is a must for the availability of drugs especially first because we see as a candidate here and that many years to solve the problem is.
If he was able to remember, I've not done things we have done in.
In the meaning of that they have brought in the plans of the elderly in good budget and we don't like, I have advised all the challenges I become old in their budgets and we find the drugs the same time we find the drugs and most of them are unknown.
But the real meaning is that for your side you must make many people to learn how they are.
They have done and was sacked from it.
Most of the doctors do not give him a big problem though the ones that are not known is hard because Mohamed Mchengelwa got a chance to use Beyonce as an old man and that is why he had a chance to use Beyonce.
Those need to prevent we are running training.
It's not from the lovers who do and they can have an attraction to a good way, without inventory, then the child gets a medicine that does not want to you like you are usually in the night of night.
We can say that after finishing to know the afflictions of the afflictions.
It is easy to be able to look for drugs that can be dependent, but it is baptism because drugs are you for.
If you will be found and already there was no case to be able to buy out of that there by bad luck, to do that they use drugs.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will be careful not to talk about any country, but if we look at any other country, when we want to know that we have many elders now, what would you want to attend the meeting with the ones that have met with representatives.
Many have explained to have procedures of being able to address.
That they have not been seen in the plans of their budget because it's difficult, you will find a person when he is going together and said that she gets a lot of time, he would like to be accepted by the drugs that you can be accepted by the drugs.
And I love the nation itself for the purpose of having a member of parliament from the region to get free medical services.
With the lover, when I read it as I explained previously, new Komba will also have a third place we will be in Dodoma and Mwanza, but on the side of Dodoma, I will be with Mabeste Mbowe, who is also the deputy minister of health, Mabeste.
John.
Thank you very much from our colleagues that are in Ilemela, Mwanza town and protect themselves from here is in the small problem I was given to the father and here in the evening I would have to look at a lot of health services in the next five thousand, then we are ready to look at a very long time.
Close to one person, we need to focus on our today's topic, there is no policies that gives the elders to improve free medical services.
This policies wants to be eaten.
If you are not in use.
Maybe the Swahili has reduced.
I thank you to stay here in today, I thank Tanzanians Ras Makunja, especially all those once they gave their programs from the purpose of building a good understanding for selling.
And nine were nine and Paulina Shao on the stage of not the minister.
The late God is true if he said it's in the morning and third and if only usually give information to the parliament we will do.
It is that its implementation is how it is at the national level by following the procedure and honor.
In the area of working we are happy to see that many councils have already started using them.
We agree that there is a challenge there is a place.
Which through this period I urge you to break up on behalf of the elderly.
It is a right.
The main thing that is in the message of the policy, these European elders have decided to serve our country in a situation that they have made them as a lot of our country here we are at the end because they have never been given a prey in the country.
And to the right they were on the official system of you know your business people in the private sector were farmers, but they have contributed to one way or another to our nation, we should give him well this year, when we got their health services, but we have made progress well to the members of the local government.
And in your leadership in the local government departments, I give instructions again through this period of one hour.
Let.
When the late God rest this habit, I get Coastal Province it is a must you have lost because this sister was going to there are many types of Europe, therefore there must be business that will start because the patients can't be used in television together with the elderly.
There where he scored the servants maybe they are not educating the elders together with a director of the health of the nation.
.
There is and not that, there are many young people when I met with advice when they should be given the cup.
What's why we know especially my challenges and as a leader from the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has taken a step that there is some of maybe what is taking place but those are still underway.
This challenge is part of the success so that I do not have a lot of words that he has caused.
You are because of the shortage, I started doing themselves as, it has done statistics of employment of employment for three hundred and four health centers so much, then they get to receive that problem.
Almighty God bless you, then the availability of more than one hundred thousand workers is since I had gone into our port where we are going and therefore in many countries in the world, you cannot get everything that has never happened.
He passed since America had many years ago, today America is the country that we want to give an example.
Therefore, if you use this words in front of our country to be proud of, we should not be remembered by our country and we should not hesitate to learn about our information and you can't understand what they have no benefits to them because they see there.
Mzee.
