
The chief medical officer has ordered him to be taught.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

The chief medical officer of Dodoma Province, Doctor James Charles, has ordered to be distributed to new male balls, types of equipment so as to control the HIV infection and sex diseases at the headquarters of the country.

Also, 21 million shillings will be distributed to all stations for providing health services in the country, while speaking at the launch of the types of equipment in this town, Doctor James said the launch has come at the right time when Dodoma has already been the headquarters of the country and there will be many visitors.
"There are visitors, institutions and citizens who will go to Dodoma for the purpose of various activities, there is a must that there is a huge number of sexually transmitted diseases," he said and added that the government has a great loss to ensure that the issues of equipment are available at all.
He instructed the coordinators of the AIDS agency in the district and councils they have the responsibility to make sure that they get enough funds have been directed to be distributed in all areas, business officers to ensure that they are involved in visitors houses, a hotel and other areas of business and there being a procedure to receive from the concerned areas.
He said at the end of this month, they will inspect them in different areas like certificates that have been done in those areas. He said previously there was a problem that had no name being distributed to all the areas of free.
"There is a new issue of equipment that easy logo and someone told me that this is itself, it has a great quality," he said and added that the research conducted in the year 2011 with HIV infection, "he said and added that the research that took place in the year 2011 with HIV infection," he said and added that the research that was done in the year 2011 with HIV infection, "he said and added that the research that took place in the year 2011 with AIDS indicators.
The information and communication officer of the National Health Insurance Fund from the Ministry of Health, Social Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Shanghai, said that the 21 million dollars will be distributed to all stations that bring health services.
The coordinator of the Tanzania National Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS), Dodoma Province, Erena has said that in Dodoma province every 100 people have HIV virus.
