
Modern players are not high and the way we are used to be?
Without the scientists themselves as a result of dancing, there is no any step of developing it can be heard.
Soccer in the Coast Province can improve more if the players will come and make sure they are able to promote their talents.
The former defender of the famous soccer club of Mwenge soccer club, Seif Said Ngila says they are players who are causing the situation of that game to shine in Pwani province.
He doesn't change the modern players for lack of knowing that the player is supposed to do.
DPO is saying he does not see any reason to lend coaches or club officers from the team doing badly among the players themselves that they were in the field and those who do not run their teams.
"Something to remind me is to listen to the leaders of the club that concern coaches because of the team not doing well, a situation is for players who did not follow the training they are given.
It is the players to be blamed and to play that they are taught, "says the old player.
The Jaguar type that was born in the year 1988 was to play for club's Club Warriors and Bribian says that their coaches were connected as players and the club officers, but now there are students with skills.
I am surprised to see a modern person who did the players in the heart and the heart to register their teams since they get every needs including gear, payment of skills and elsewhere in the salaries, "he says.
He says that the youths who play soccer at this time are supposed to play very fast so as to get a victory to their team and he requested the club leaders to stop the habit of moving up to the trainers since they are not causing the team to fail.
"Soccer leaders are supposed to accompany the players that they have for them to play for forgiveness from playing.
I think about how he used to play for his residence in the streets, Bank Warriors and Bribley when they got the way the players showed that they were given to the heart and the ability to look for victory because the modern players have not registered themselves in the match.
He says that while their time they were doing their personal exercise before joining the team, where the team will lead you with a coach that is preparing for a normal exercise.
I am surprised by what our team are not doing well during this time when we have coaches who qualify to cater for a situation, "the player who is a big fan of Barcelona, but he is happy about how England's soccer club, he says there were only players themselves as well as their mistakes they were arrested.
"The biggest thing now the students are giving knowledge on how Tanzania will play and when players will follow it, they will be playing their matches.
Sunnis with upcoming stars in the Coastal Region to have an intention of bringing up to playing soccer in the Coastal Union with the names of former Coast clubs that were popular to be shaken, because he believes that it will face many fans at the field.
"I are not very happy to hear the youth of POAC and youth want to change while Liverpool (Mwenge) and other teams like Feisal, Lake Warriors, Western Stars and UCL.
