
Kenyatta to call him from Kenya Sei 29, 2016 by our correspondent.

President Uhuru Kenyatta, has appointed President John Magufuli to visit the country, while he was announcing the existence of any political conflict between them and the two countries.

The newspaper of the Bongo Star, Kenya has quoted the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kenya, Amina Mohammed, saying that his government has sent an invitation to Tanzania and it has already begun and what is being waited for is the response from their neighbor.

"I am looking to the country is that President Kenyatta has sent an invitation to President John Magufuli to visit Kenya. There is no problem between Kenya and Tanzania and now, we are waiting for the answers of knowing how they come," said Mohammed.

The Director of Communication of the State House, Gerson Msigwa said it is possible that the invitation has come through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation as the way it is a procedure and that the state can give an official report immediately after having the answers already.

"For now, I cannot inform us that when Magufuli will go to Kenya following an invitation because even the letter itself has not been done here as usual they are required by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and there is a procedure to inform the State House.

"All procedures have been completed and if the president will see there is a reason to give any information, we will tell them that, I will be able to say that President Magufuli is a friend of all the African countries and we have no problem," he said.

Magufuli and Kenya.

The government of Kenya decided to give that report about the arrest of Magufuli at the time there were allegations in various media stations in Kenya that situation is not well between the two countries.

The media stations in that nation, which is seen as the liberation of the East African region, were reported that the bad relationship is the reason of Magufuli not visiting that country since he came to power last year.

Three things are mentioned to cause that concept.

Secondly, it is the step of Magufuli to do a tour in Rwanda and Uganda, which Kenya is seen as small businesses economically and to stop their country, which is the one that led in investment here in the country among all the neighbors.

The third issue is the action of Magufuli heading to Kenya during the international meeting of the relationship between Japan and African countries (Tiananmen D) which took place in Nairobi between August 27 and 28 this year, where Tanzania was represented by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa.

The media stations in Kenya came out the step by Magufuli to come from that meeting as a sign of his bad relationship with the government.

The media houses in Kenya have also shown the concept of having the rival sides of Kenyatta, Raila Odinga, who is a private friend to Magufuli the relationship between those two countries will not affect because of a private relationship with the top leaders.

During that meeting of Tetemesha Entertainment, Minister Amina was asked by journalists from Kenya about the lack of Magufuli and he said, "first Magufuli is not the only president of Africa who did not attend this meeting.
However, he is being represented by this meeting and I request that I would have warned that the relationship between Tanzania and Kenya is stable, "he said.

Since he came to power in November last year, President Magufuli made a tour in two countries like Rwanda and Uganda and in that time he did not attend to three major meetings that took place outside Tanzania.

This process of Magufuli is against his predecessor, Jakaya Kikwete, who was being known by making a tour in foreign countries and in various international meetings which Tanzania was being invited or required to be used.

However, since the time of the presidential campaigns last year, and in his speech to open the parliament, Magufuli promised that he will use a long time to address citizens problems than to do a foreign tour in the country.

I will end.
