A council of eternal peace makes a journey to go to the State House.
May 15, 2014.

Last week, we explained about the session of organizing a bomb attack on January 19th this year, that the session took place in the river that had not been water, that was involved in the neighboring area of Aga Khan hospital, called Mwengi.
After the Garagara stadium the completion of the completion of setting a rebellion and strong winds, the police came back to the camp because of implementing their plan.
When they arrived at the camp they went to the camp's story and inspected the weapons and the state of availability of weapons to the police was not difficult because that situation was not difficult because of January 12th this year, there were a lorry that had gone into the camp.
After winning the weapons, their second work was to arrest the army officers and assign them he has said that the operation went hand in hand with the availability of electricity (lights) up to the neighboring areas of the army that is set aside.
Low-speed buses are similar to other military officers who were in coughing in the camp, who passed away from their homes heading to the camp to witness the vehicle that was affected by there they were arrested very fast and they were arrested.
Is divided into town, State House.

Many officers were arrested a lot of being played at gun and then cut off while he has said after that work, the police on preparing for transport and heading to the city where one group comes to the State House.
The aim of the group was heading to State House was on behalf of their colleagues, to meet President Julius Nyerere. The group was appointed at State House but were unable to meet Mwalimu Nyerere and after their plan, they decided to go to home to the minister of foreign affairs and security, Oscar Assenga.
Minister Modi, while in his home, he was surprised to see that he is followed by the rebel police officers, who wanted them open their claims, which include the army officers from England but also their interests are made, they wanted them to be paid up to 250 million for the month of 10 shillings.
However, Minister Chikawe said the responsibility of those claims will be able to get the blessings of President Nyerere first, because those officers did not agree with those explanations, therefore the police had been forced to go to him at the State House, therefore the whole group was forced to go to him at the State House.
While at the State House, the police group caused him at the state house in the State House while Minister Modi, getting into the residence of the president for the purpose of talking to him after time, Kambona, came back and told them that their request will be discussed.
It was arrested.

After arriving at the State House, the convoy and you led to Colombo, Oyster Bay, at the convoy also involved Minister Modi, and just after arriving at the camp, those police also appointed their military officers.
Still, the situation was critical, when Minister Modi, trying to ask those officers to leave the British officers who put him very fast and eventually, those officers and their families face into the plane to leave Dar es Salaam to go to their country.
As a result of the weight in that incident, the state of calmness started serving in the estates of other police who came in the streets to participate in the streets to sit and some of the police have been involved in acts of goods into the shops.
In those parts of the streets, one of the incident is the killing of the Arab family, it does not return it is that when a police group heading to the air shop, Mwarabu has gave his weapons and killed in the air to identify the police and when he saw a bad condition and then killing one police.
