The sponsors of CUF to report the registrar.

October 4, 2016.

The board of sponsors of the Civic United Front (CUF) have met in Zanzibar yesterday to give six resolutions, including the intention of listening to the registrar of political parties in the country, Judge Francis Mutungi, to intervene in legal decisions of the party.
The delegates of the board added that decision told Judge Mutungi to say Professor Ibrahim Lipumba is the legal chairperson of CUF is same as to choose that party chairman contrary to the warning that was made by the High Court.
Speaking to journalists yesterday, the board chairman, Abdallah Said, said that board will take a decision to report Judge Mutungi in accordance with their constitution.
"The board has accepted the call of Professor Lipumba to be supported by the board board because he does not have the authority that is why he was not recognized as the chairperson since he was chased from membership by the Executive Council of CUF," he said.
He added that the board will continue to respect the decision of the Executive Council which is the high level of managing the leadership and operations of the party.
He will not recognize all the members of CUF, Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar that, that board is keen and will continue to protect their property and honor of their party.
"We are requesting the registrar to leave you to intervene in internal affairs about the leadership and operations of our party, we want Professor Lipumba at all the costs that come from losses.
"Professor Lipumba has caused a loss of 600 million shillings after defeating the special general meeting that took place on August 21, this year, Ubungo Plaza in Dar es Salaam," he said.
On the month of September, this year, Judge Mutungi gave direction and not to recognize Professor Lipumba be the legal chairperson of CUF.
In his report to the press, Judge Mutungi said that the members that were sacked from membership within the party are still legal members.
"Leaders who were affected with legal decisions of the executive council of the national leadership that happened on August 28th, this year is still a legal leaders of CUF," he clarified that statement.
Also, the report stated that the committee that was set to lead that party under the chairmanship, Julius Mtatiro, after being appointed by the session of the executive council of the national leadership not legal.
Judge Mutungi said article 88 (2) of the law of political parties a chapter of 258, a person who is not a leader of the party, is not allowed to do any party activities as leaders of the party.
The report advised the leaders who were previously saying that their appointment is dangerous to them and not to try and be able to do any activity like the leaders of the CUF party.
