
This problem is a foolish thing "will open your eyes on ethics.
The new generation music has shown to grow on a certain amount in a period of 15 years, compared to the situation it was previously.
We have witnessed the first musicians passing through the way and others are following in the footsteps of now if we can stop the chest before being proud because we have a certain kind of music that is outside the boundaries.
For instance, even in the international market, the procedures in Tanzania has started it to be known for having a vibrant singer of the new generation.
In large numbers of musicians has been the catalyst to competition in each one to do the work that will be understood and accepted to the fans.
To confirm that, every day will be able to release a new song on the radio or on television, it is an important sign that youths who love the headlines so as to give those jobs.
When I was a entertainment stakeholder, I don't have a problem and large numbers of those jobs but I have no fear when I see some of the musicians to explain how to do that.
I am saying that is what I don't know because I have heard, we feel like, I do not lie on him and asking this person she is thinking to write this words.
These days is normal to hear a song with severe words and with sharp teeth.
There is a time you can have a great language that is given out in some of those songs if they will be played with the people that concern them.
The head gets more and received numerous questions that how those songs are getting an opportunity to sell the radio, though they are supposed to use the language that ethics is not good.
When I ask you right now, there is an issue that is concerned with the responsibility of listening to the content of the song before going into the air, but if it is where those involved do their work as required.
After artists to see there, there is no one who is proud of, finally they have moved to the second side and to make sure the violation of ethics in the picture.
Themselves they can see the reputation, but those pictures are proud of lack of entertainment especially those with ethics.
Recently, the recent days came from many videos of controversy and attacks last month to women, a step that is doing that group lost value.
Today, I will continue to finish his a frog video which is being mentioned to be news in the city for now, the work of the lady didn't know.
In addition to that, it has been banned, who had an opportunity to see the video of this song will agree with me that she had lost direction.
When I failed to understand what happens, it has reached a step by the artist to use people that do not meet the brain among them to get the fans?
This video is signs that our ethics is not priority in the art work.
When a video is seen on television or social network and I don't know who it does not have a child or big message that remain there is the analysis of the concerned delegation.
It's true that children are not good to be heard in the song even actions that are seen in the concerned video without caring if it is good or not.
The parents are getting a difficult time when you listen to children singing songs that are inside him have a dirty language.
It seems openly that we should not forget yourself in the whole issue of ethics even to allow these actions of humiliation to continue getting in our community.
There is no thing that gets married and sit at the pockets of the children like music in this modern world, therefore we should be careful not to be the source of abandoning our ethics.
We are supposed to go back to the forefront in order to rectify this behavior which seems to be able to take advantage of the industry.
We have no reason for allowing us to rule the amount of educating us from our culture that has become all the days you lead in the air, because we want to be heard in the air and get many fans like what they are needed.
