
Tanzania has been advised to learn financial services.

It has been written by Beda.

It has been witnessed, 03 / 2016.

Tanzanians have been advised to learn from other nations who have made great steps in providing financial services to its citizens.

That statement has been made by the chairman of the National Housing Corporation (Tamfi), Joel Nanauka speaking during the second conference of the network of the East African Community that started in this city yesterday.
He added that Tanzania is a great nation compared to other nations, but it has been behind the financial services, therefore it is good to use this opportunity to increase the speed of service delivery.
He said that conference has been encouraged and also talk about the steps taken by every country in making policies and laws that concern financial institutions.
Mwakitalu said among the East African countries, Tanzania only was behind, but the action of the government to think this bill of financial institutions in parliament is showing the completion of the concept of taking money to many more people.
In his speech, the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Phillip Mpango said that if the nation is expecting to increase the plans of small institutions for having policies and now they are dealing with legal issue.
In addition, in the speech that was read on behalf of the deputy secretary general, Ministry of Finance and Planning, Amina Khamis Shaaban, said the government is proud of the presence of financial institutions in the system that is understood, that is why it involves laws and also congratulated the efforts that are being done by the East African Community to ensure that financial services are expected to reach every person.
The meeting that got the representatives from all the party members of the East African Community, though South Sudan will follow up the resolutions that were done last year at a meeting held in Nairobi, Kenya which aimed at making a journey to participate in the small financial sector in order to be officially released.
The step of having policies and laws will help the speed of services to the citizens where currently it has reached 14 million people while the strategy is to have 20 million people in a period of five years to come.
This year the hospital who is the chairperson of the coordination of that meeting said that the existence of the criteria is available in accordance with the law will enable Tanzania to use the opportunities available in East Africa to bring economically economically.
Furthermore, speaking about the financial issues he said that the action of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) to take the management of Twiga Bank is a lesson to ensure that the laws of financial institutions are prepared to protect stakeholders and do not like it.
He said that he was set aside for that bank is showing the existence of laws of protecting its customers and also shows that financial regulations are being used as required by BoT.
In that conference, several issues concerning the availability of financial services for many people and at speed will be discussed and given direction.
