If you go to Grind.
I come to singing so that farmers can use the rules to use.
I would like to pay a lot of aides to use them.
They use well the drugs for their produce.
Now for that purpose, there is need!
They did not believe.
Meaning do I have been affected by the farm.
This will be careful when I were forced to miss a woman.
Because he was on those who broke the record.
As a result of the farm.
If he was talking to the minister of agriculture.
Two thousand and five hundred thousand this year.
For sure.
Will take care of university education.
And others.
The first news of parliament.
At the university they are going to in Karume.
Participants up to the wards have more skills so that our farmers can get a high speed buses.
So that we can be able to increase in peace in their income.
These days report but another yesterday that he can do?
I was a guest of a day to make African soccer for you, you have forgotten the one of the fishermen and potatoes, in order to receive the seedlings brought by the experts due to its quality that is caused by research but even if possible, it is possible that a person is enough if you are seen in the area.
The car, the government can be easily read through the yellow card which is happening in Kibaha town, I have been able to learn more than ten thousand tons in Kibaha town, I have been able to learn more than ten thousand tons in Kibaha areas where I have been able to learn more than ten thousand tons in Kibaha areas where we want to learn more than ten thousand tons in Kibaha areas where we want to learn more than ten thousand tons in Kibaha areas where we want to learn from each other areas so as to avoid sexual abuse.
A cookie is famous for agriculture and potatoes.
In addition to that, otherwise it is a must that maize is equal to business.
It is unacceptable, by luck.
Our experts for the agricultural and livestock program have been given a good program.
That there is a better seeds of blood which can it be avoided.
In large numbers to an extent that you can do even if they can be citizens from the areas they are to go to a little of life.
Now, we have been used to and not by severe farmers.
It is true that you are coming up until now, his thoughts are not so much in large numbers, we can say that it is a small child in which we are happy to say that the fire is safe.
That is it possible to give a lot of crops in large numbers to an extent that he uses the villagers to have a good life.
Therefore, I think here we have been directed to the farm of that plane.
By the citizens here, they think that my sister are here which they feel it has come up so as to get training on agricultural tools together with challenges they have moved to the areas so as to consider procedures and regulations as well as well as to meet the competitive standards in the market.
A class is the only place to learn a lot of things about the use of modern seeds so as to get better produce by using a small state of land experts so as to consider the agricultural research because of agricultural experts to be able to do this work in very close partnership with farmers.
When you go in Dar es Salaam, we shall see what we will do.
It is talking.
There is another meaning.
Until now I will not be living in that country after the second kind, number one is baptism?
It is no meaning.
He went to arrive.
There are other seeds so that he can have all the five types that we have?
And a tree.
I was talking here about voting.
Try to refuse this mosquito to get twenty thousand to only five years but even twenty thousand when we go to time if things are not.
So that will it be?
No that he can make sure he has discovered that is in charge?
I want to know what is this?
I want to end, elimination, you want to know what I have.
But from one wife to the other again, the mayor and the mayor.
It is one thing that every one of the poor children is going on in school so that it makes the sun and has risen up but the same time when I think you get enough seedlings to enable you get enough diseases to enable you get enough medicine.
If you're very disturbing you are getting jobs related to the farm which I have a small brothers, we have seen you so much, they've touched me, so you can get better and you can get well that, therefore, I wish them their punishment for you.
It is a yellow fever like each other.
The killing of her origin are my colleagues like carrots.
And they do not believe.
Therefore, just a few days, do not get health, let your children who are not able to eat each other and you do not give them a day or you do not have problems in order to increase little water is claimed to have reduced.
Believe in the Almighty God?
Do not complete some of the areas that do not depend on your farm, is to grow quickly.
Make sure it only.
We have agreed that he said that it is clean and it's also the time he gets to the farm on you, there is a time you can be able to find a farm in the farm you know and they have reduced up.
That is the Lord in getting.
The black drug abuse is one of the topics that were given to farmers so that they can be able to know how to save the police and they were given stakeholders in agriculture from different provinces to attend this area for the purpose of getting married.
Class five are among the two sides, farmers and farmers are using the opportunity to ask for many questions about production of their farms where the expertise to give answers is available.
The farmers of Tumbatu got the crops to meet their food needs for a year, extra time they sell for other needs in the family should be remembered that the quality of quality, agriculture is not yet to be involved in farmers together with the experts especially in the four quality issues that are required.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we will go to Dar es Salaam.
I have not decided to receive an elderly.
Because I have seen their stand up that we were living.
It was only one.
And I have seen that for this reason, it is called by the experts who oppose anything that it has been translated in the problems.
What is it mean to have income.
You may love you will be a lot and then inside it is food.
Look for us to know the past you can be able to grow.
You can do you.
When you get Jimmy others in the two world, we will be no income, the late does not have status of not knowing.
Agriculture does not have been involved in the farmers together with the experts especially in the fourth issues that are required.
But after evil deeds, when I feel it has been able to give and educate my colleagues, you can't get the seeds if it is all farmers for example.
