
Zombe and left, Bagdad.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

The Court of Appeal has broken the judgment by death by the former head of investigation in Kinondoni District (OC), assistant superintendent of police (SP), Christopher Lissa, after beating him as an offense of the killing of three people.

Moreover, it has released the former Head of Investigations Dar es Salaam Province (RCO) the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Abdallah Zombe and other police officers, Ahmed Makele and Rajabu Bakari, after seeing them not guilty.
After the release of that punishment, sadness, spirits, and cries in the court grounds in Bagashe, he was removed from the court grounds at nine o'clock in the afternoon, under the defense force of the prison forces by using a vehicle with registration number T Touch.
That judgment was read yesterday by the registrar of that court, John Kayui, on behalf of the three judges who were listening to the appeal which is Bernard Luanda, who is the leader of the panel, and others are Sauda Mtibua and Semwenda.
While reading the judgment, Kahwili, said that after the court following up the evidence that was given by the Democratic Republic, they discovered that, when those killing is emanating from Kuala Lumpur to be the leader of a panel of police involved in those killings.
He said that exercise has revealed that Bagdad had the ability to encourage those killing to be made by the police who were under him, instead he was unable to do so.
Kahwili, said that after going through that appeal, they agree with the appeal of the appeal that was taken by the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) and arrest him in Bagashe, four of the elderly.
While reading the punishment, Kahwili, said, Bagdad was sentenced to the death of death by death by death after being found guilty of the killings on four charges against the appeal that was opposed the judgment of the high court in the region of Dar es Salaam, which made the visitors to participate in the case of killings of three businessmen.
Cries in court after the judgment was given, brothers who arrived in the court among them the wife of Bagashe, Zombe, appeared to be happy, while some of the brothers were close to him and encouraged them.
That punishment is the first to be released against the police force here in the country. On the side of brothers of the people that were killed, the councilor of Naima ward, Ulanga East Africa, said they are satisfied with the judgment given because the rights has been given, but they wanted to seek votes even for a few years imprisonment.
He said his brother (who was killed) has found a small children who he did not see the act and others have arrived at the University of University for explanations of the appeal at that appeal, DPP claimed that Judge Salum Massao did not accept to be considered as an offense.
Other than Zombe, other lawyers were ASP Christopher Bagashe (ASP), ASP Masoko, Carlos Puyol with the dais, Emanuel Mabula, a poster that was eliminated Michael Shonza, to inherit Michael Jackson and Deogratius Festus Mengele.
In the primary case it is claimed that on January 14, 2006, in a forest that is located in Mbezi Luis, Dar es Salaam Zombe and others killed by three Israeli business people from Morogoro, Mathias Chikawe, MONDE, together with his mother is not Juma Brother.
After listening to that case, August 17, 2009, Judge Massao told the citizens that the side of the Republic failed to confirm the charges against them without stopping the doubt and the court that they are not guilty of the mistakes that are facing them.
On October 6th, 2009, DPP made an appeal at the Court of Appeal, opposing that judgment on claims that Judge Massao did not affect those accused, there was also clear evidence and the first debate that is enough to give an indication that those accused.
