Magufuli swears in the president of Zanzibar.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Chake-Chake.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

President of the United Republic of Tanzania, John Magufuli has urged the citizens of Pemba Island to be supported by the politicians who were tested and insisted that the general elections is over and insisted that the general elections is over and insisted that the general elections is over and insisted that the general elections is over and will not happen another until the year 2020 and Ali Mohamed Shein is the legal President of Zanzibar.

He has encouraged the politicians who go every corner and they walk in Europe, saying their journey will end in Europe because the president is currently in power, is Doctor Shein.
"I want to tell you the ones who are going outside and to market itself, that the president is currently in power, that the president is currently in power and will be held another by the year 2020," said President Magufuli by using them by the power and a huge crowd of citizens.
President Magufuli said that while addressing a crowd of citizens from two provinces of Pemba Island, North Pemba and South Pemba at a rally at the Old Trafford stadium in the city, which had an aim of giving thanks to the citizens of Pemba for voting for him in the general elections of October last year.
He said that as a result of events of hatred and hostility, including people getting rid of their property, cloves, grace, and citizens have been given by God.
He said those events can be done with the aim of building hatred and hostility while some people were affected after their produce were affected.
He added that while taking the oath of obedience, and honesty, he promised to protect the union together with peace and stability of the United Republic of Tanzania, therefore he warned the leaders that want to give birth to each other since there is no investment in countries that were filled with violence.
He urged the security agencies to ensure that they find all people that are doing that to endanger the peace and stability.
I am very happy about the people of Pemba, I don't want to do again for the same way with the president, a very few who comes from Pemba, I don't know what I want to know, "said President Magufuli.
He urged the citizens of Pemba to give their condolences to President Shein and to stop listening to the politicians who were waiting for their work to bring in the citizens while others want from Europe and they are in Dar es Salaam, they are disappointed.
I am happy to see President Shein, when I was working with me since I was the assistant minister of fishing, he said that his ability is big and it does not know her, "he said.
He urged the citizens of Zanzibar to provide good cooperation for the purpose of bringing development including the construction of various industries which will be able to produce employment.
For example, he said the Pemba Island has a great wealth of the fishing sector that is used well in improving employment to the youth.
He said that he is expecting to cooperate with President Shein in implementing the CCM election manifesto in various sectors including the construction of industries and tourism.
"I urge the citizens of Pemba to do work together with the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein in bringing development to the country and there is no election that will be avoided," said Doctor Magufuli who is his first time to address here, since his victory in the last year.
In addition, President Magufuli congratulated the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) for overseeing the elections well that the first time of October 25th, last year, on the end of March this year, while giving him on the reputation of ZEC, Jecha Salim Jecha.
"If there is a person she was shocked and given the award is the chairperson of the Zanzibar Electoral Commission, Jecha Salim Jecha when he released the award for the repeat of the general election in March this year, leaders of the opposition parties especially the Civic United Front (CUF) who reported in that election that Doctor Shein won by a landslide win by 1200 percent," Doctor Shein won by a landslide win by 14 percent.
The secretary general of CUF, Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad is who traveled from the country explaining to "accusing his government of Doctor Shein as a result of their complaints about that election.
