
Why is God rest in Tanzania?
December 17, 2014.

Our country is no wonder, there have been surprise, and those with the eyes continue to see, the process of the new constitution has reached a lot of things even so, it has left now that the honor we were told to be like a nation, so we do not have completely.

Similarly, our heads, people who have positions have positions and different qualifications, Zito, bishops, ministers, members of parliament and the Hehe, most of them have touched us because the reputation we give it deserves.

Others have heard a lot of questions, people have asked, they come up to where they are like the mind that is like that of them?

Recently I read with one of the news agency, the head of one of the countries in the news and religious leaders praying for our country, "said our country was heading to disaster, but I was surprised, why do you work hard to learn from disaster?

I believe every person sees that what is happening in Dodoma in what is called the Parliament of the constitution, it gives them to the disaster.

What happens, I would like to destroy the nation, it is common that protects the mental health of the traditional ethics, have been thrown out, everyone intends to sign his personal interests and his family to be able to reach this way.

When the commission of constitutional changes was going on with its activities, special people in the community were given a special chance by the commission and they were received and was accompanied by delegates of the commission, I was surprised, why are there?

The ones that were seen in the Loliondo town region, special people have been given a special opportunity to get a cup, which is seen again in the commission and fear being given priority, so if it was not given priority.

The commission of Judge Warioba described the opinion of all the citizens, to get into the draft constitution.

Haazu taking us that these days to be infected with the shoes, the village farmer, fish or a pipeline are getting bad thoughts that can have been able to look for someone that can be used to the minister, member of parliament, Professor or the doctor of people!

After the commission of Warioba giving a draft, he had every Tanzanian found the work of collecting opinions since the constitutional parliament was supposed to improve the views of the citizens themselves through their opinion polls but there are people who believe that they are better than all the citizens in general, that situation is to get away.

I was back behind, because the government conducted by the commission did not be satisfied with the draft, he has thrown out and later started a new process.

The fact that when he saw the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of the United Republic, very much, it will not allow the constitutional parliament to be released up until the end and then continue with the opinion polls, Tanzania will not be one of the big possibility of the new constitution to produce huge violence in our country.

I advise the process of a new constitution to be availed to us to return to their normal activities and even if we have run to the nation at a high cost of allowances for 70 days just like Diamond Jubilee or Nyerere grounds, are very important to run the constitutional parliament for 70 days and to do his work instead of distributing all the money?

Citizens want peace and development to the money that would have continued to grow and even in the constitutional parliament to be allowed to improve the voters' book and form a new election commission which will take place in the next general elections to take place in peace and faith.
