
The old market in Moro United was found.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

I was published (03 / 2016.

Morogoro Municipal Council has signed a contract with the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) for the purpose of getting money that will enable the construction project of the new and modern market for the purpose of use of various types of business people.

The director of that municipality, John Mgalula, said that while speaking to journalists yesterday when business people were getting into their intention at the shops and relocate their products from the central market of Morogoro that was in the process of having his hand over.
Mgalula, said that the decision of having his hand in the main market that was built since 1995, is due to the ongoing loan from the TIB bank after getting a previous contract in September this year for the purpose of building a new and modern market of the world.
"The council has already signed a contract with market construction where the map was presented for TIB and they have given the conditions of seeing there is no case in court, environmental evaluation and having his hand in the former market so as to get the loan," he said.
Therefore, he said as a result of that market not having a case in court, the map of the map, that followed it is to get an advisor of the environmental evaluation and presented the bank for the purpose of signing a contract to be given money for the purpose of starting the construction of a new and modern market.
He said that after completing those issues, the construction of the new market is expected to take a period of one year and is expected to take a period of one year and it is completed, it will be given priority to business people who benefited from their new contracts and others because the market will have many challenges of shops and areas of providing various community services.
"These who were removed from now, are the ones that will be given priority in business areas, when the construction will be completed, the council's leadership has a list of all the business people who leave the market," he said.
However, he said before all the traders they were given a period of two years and seven months to continue looking for areas and for the whole period, they had not pay taxes to the market until they are required to leave for their will on September 30th, this year.
Together with that, he said that those business people have been given areas at the Nanenane exhibition, Kihonda, Mazimbu, in Saba Saba, by the Mazimbu Hospital and the shops that will benefit themselves according to the agreements that will benefit them according to the agreements available.
