The University of St Augustine, in Mwanza town has given a donation of various equipment's of more than other million shillings to ghost groups in those areas so as to control the increase of criminal acts in those areas for the intended purposes so as to control the increase of events of the church, our writer of political gatherings from Mwanza province have a report.
Various security equipment.
Including carrots until they are very delicious with a knee injury to protect themselves with coldness, worth more than four million shillings being sponsored by the University of St Augustine Mahiga that was in Mwanza town to groups that are involved with related security in that university and areas.
This equipment has been entrusted on by the deputy executive officer of the college, administration and finance of Mkonde Village together with the police officer, most of the words that have made a lot of groups to use them for the intended purposes.
When the late God will be able to make sure our streets will have peace, I will have a peace of peace even if you are.
In inside, you are not a must for the purpose and put it ahead and a voice like the university.
We will continue to cooperate with you, you can work with integrity.
I have never been found.
Is good, we need.
What is a decision and a woman is baptism?
If you think this person you ask you to see him, you cannot see you well by the police you want to see the instructions of a lot of controversy.
And some of a hundred hundred thousand people that consider the side of leaders of different security groups that were given to be given the equipment they have explained how will be able to ease the performance of the residents so that you can be modern in helping.
Coldness.
By Sakali.
Look under mosquito bite of the lot of money that was used.
And we should prevent us to save and protect yourself.
And I cannot get in the area of promoting us.
It becomes a security among the areas that the citizens have benefited from the donation of those equipment's together with an interpreter.
To convince him to be dealt with.
She is wrong for creating a child.
