Everything is happy in the elections.

It has been written by.

It has been published yesterday, 26th of November.

The general elections of the Athletics Tanzania (RT) is expected to take place tomorrow at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city.

Leaders in power are questioning the leadership of four years of administration in that federation for the game that is getting great reputation in Tanzania in the previous years, leaders of the provinces, the chairperson, secretary general and the representative of the province, which is taking place every after four years.
Voters who are the representatives of the regional parties are required to represent their people by choosing stakeholders with the ability to lead, instead of electing him by following names or passport.
Voters should not vie for people by admitting because for four years the game will continue to rise and make Tanzania back to the country where there is no success in the international game.
The leaders that complete their time RT 'is not all that they are not supposed to do the voters, you know that those who did well and those who had cargo, who contributed to the previous development of the game instead of improving.
They believe that they are known as parties or the associations of sports because all the days we're with them, therefore the voters must use your rights of constitutional to elect leaders who go through sports.
We are proud of Tanzania to be an actor in sports especially in the international competitions, therefore, tomorrow is tomorrow to play in the game or passport.
There are some leaders or stakeholders of that game being good and talked and promised good things to be elected and when they are chosen, that is when you know their violence.
Voters should be careful with the leaders such as we know and if we want the soccer game to download it, then we should not hesitate to forgive him all of them and instead we can't fulfill the people with ability.
Many times I believe it's grandson and if the stakeholders of the athletics game are saying that they should stop, then to choose leaders that do not have the ability and how to remain in four years.
We thank you with each other happy that the election of RT and the great desire to be careful so as to make sure you are able to go to power those who are capable of ability and not intelligent.
