
Joy of the love is not a wedding act.
15 have a lot of things to do so that someone can enjoy the love with his fiancée.
According to Regina Kasibu, an advisor of the couple of Essar said in Nairobi, the foundation of a strong marriage is put before deciding that marriage.
"There are important things that people are supposed to be able to know and disrupt the love later, the truth is that some of the problems that are facing the marriage is before the marriage," said Mrs Kasibu.
However, he says there are secret that can avoid sexual marriages.
"If you're doubt about your lover you do not get married or get married, it is easy to give a relationship before marriage more than breaking the marriage that makes them joy," he said.
Give them according to this expert, the first step of someone to make sure he is proud of the life of marriage is not a habit of getting married or get married.
"Relations with joy and strength is based on the true love, it's not good to ensure that he wants to make sure that he wants to use your mental checkup.
He says that lack of calmness will contribute a lot of relationship against them.
People who do not know the correct use of human beings get a difference between them without conflicts.
Transparency, but many people do not give them a lot of things about their lives before marriage and therefore put the foundation of destroying their marriage.
"I tell your lover you are, without being able to believe that you love her, but you will follow me and take them later, it will be difficult because they will be faithful," he said.
He added that before marriage, many people have not seen a lot of good people with their lovers so as to make it be said something that is dangerous.
"Someone who comes with any reason is poison because those who know is dangerous and so they have an assurance that you can be true, love is not wealth, it's not your wealth," he explained.
This expert says her fiancée named her, that his colleague had gone up, that his name is reduced and lack of faith in him and the marriage is written in.
"I tell you for your fiancée with transparency and truth from inside your heart and you will respect and you will have a good start of heading to a marriage without conflicts," he explained.
Uhuru is saying that most of the people do not lie without denying them their freedom and making them be sent.
"A sweater with her fiancée of freedom, do not think about that you know you, when you give you the opportunity to improve it and build them," said Mrs Makandege.
Entertainment at the first stages of relationship, have explained Kasese district, most of them don't know or impatient, and by doing so they are doing a big offence.
He says that most of the people do not lie to think that those who like entertainment can be good and get married or get married to them.
"This is another source of violence in marriage," he said.
According to the marriage experts, many people are wrong in getting into marriage with great expectations that missed the day.
"What does not understand is that marriage is not true but it has a lot of bed sheets and those who know this is ready to deal with them and emerge with a win which is marriage with joy," he said.
The friendship according to Simon Rubea Tamim's friendship in Nairobi city, the secret of marriage with joy and joy is to build a friendship with your fiancée.
"You put your fiancée that a friend is a great weapon and with strength in strengthening the relationship and a husband or a friend who usually have a good opportunity to communicate well and therefore solve conflicts in conflicts," he said.
People and friends have explained Mister Ruidiaz, can baptize, everyone will be close to another and the love will have more strength and he warned the couple that are in a relationship not to pay their lovers.
"The Jenga does not discuss more than using your statements and you will enjoy the lives of love in marriage," he said.
Those words have said that good words are the pillar for love and those who want them to enjoy the love.
"You're communicating with your friend and her lover, you make you know your value," said Mister Rubea Tamim's behavior, "said Mister Rubea Tamim's responsibility as the responsibility of self-employed while it is the responsibility of every player in a relationship or marriage.
"Everyone has the responsibility of implementing it to make your partner everything then it started complaining that they are not pleased.
Involved fully and you will get a love of the love, "he said and added that love for love is not to participate in the wedding act alone.
The big offence what they are doing in these days is not having a long time to be close to their lovers, even so, experts say that some of the people suffered from her lover.
However, he added that there is a need for everyone to be close to his lover for a long time.
That together they give them a lot of time to plan their things and to avoid allegations that it is wrong for love.
"By doing so, the marriage cannot get good flavor and you can be happy with joy and let me look for me," said Mrs Kasibu.
