We need to purchase.
Mr, 27, 2013.

For us, the liberation of us is the only solution, and primary education, so that eventually, we have shaken the community, especially in culture, politics, research, research and technology development.
In addition, we have good faith that the heavy thoughts are not seekers, and care of those thoughts are still not supposed to live in their thoughts and they do not have.
I told the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere when he said, "we have gone through the colonial era, and it was released into the colonial era, we have the colonial era, we have ignorance about the colonial era."
On that meaning, our country, from Tanganyika under the African Union up to Tanzania, we continued to live as a result of the colonialist.
There are others who attended the fate of their English Premier League, and requested them to release it as' England, even the Swahili dialect of English and African nations will improve the afflictions of the colonialist.
We wish all inheritors and we are expecting to inherit the systems and many laws of the streets that he posted in the colonialist as we sell our culture in all government institutions and even religious institutions.
The brain of the colonization until today are following up with that basis and that the behavior of citizens to fear the whites people continued to fear if you are many gods, it has been like criminal offenses, it has been like a great sin (treason.
The national security has changed the security of the authorities and the National Security officers to stop and make sure that the nation is safe for protecting the resources and the interests of the nation, they protect and check the security of the authorities.
After our Uhuru, the great job was to strengthen the national unity, it is forced to strengthen political parties because the colonialist had made work to make sure you identify their families, their bodies and even our languages.
This responsibility of building a national union and to strengthen the patriotism was one of every Tanzanian shillings with your ability to see the Mwalimu Nyerere, by using a political party that is participating in building the union and forced him to build a union.
Tanaka and later CCM, at that time, had a different photos that had joined the party and they were not supposed to rule.
Politics of socialism and self-reliance, that was started by Mwalimu Nyerere, under the stadium of Arusha, its main aim was to build a national union and patriotism "teacher wanted to score against them in order to serve the schools and religious organizations, so as to make sure they get the right time.
During the colonialist, the criterion of testing the patriotism of a person was the membership of the political party, and especially the party that was required to bring liberation, as Tanu, a party that had later announced today's time, has continued today with CCM and they have the thoughts that the one who is outside CCM, are not a shame.
This problem has come out because the wave of the establishment of many parties was to come before its time.
Many political parties will help to remove flaws in the party that depends on you, but on the other side it is difficult, because it comes to start many parties without a stable party, its results is to continue one party, as it is now.
