Energy and electrical energy is mentioned to grow the economy of the country because of your income of revenue and production using electrical energy in industries and even in homes, that is being mentioned to grow the level of economy in a high level.
There are drugs for the office about electrical energy in the best production of electricity in Morogoro province, a total of eight hundred thousand megawatts which are there, a total of five hundred thousand megawatts which are there, a total of five hundred thousand megawatts which is causing a lot of water services in a period of time.
Just look for you a child known professionally.
That is the ones that contribute to water in the machine had a problem.
We are looking at a higher level here and I went to fifty.
A tennis player is one hundred thousand shillings, the late does with her with six million dollars, this issue.
And if it has been affected.
You can't use it for seven days in Mkapa to end if there is no thing the day after tomorrow.
Mercy if we use when we leave at the moment the white goal is mentioned to have enough water to withstand the production of electricity as it is noted that the problem of electricity has been set aside from electricity due to transporting electricity through the moment you have said during this period so many times we get problems.
During the rainy season, they live.
Mkuranga member of parliament.
When I get information that we have a report that you will make sure that before the rainy season, the young man to avoid bad rains are the ones that can bring in eternal peace, deserves, including Johnson as water.
Here I have given you the issues of Tarime.
Now retired Sinza in line with another different thing and the ones that came out due to their camera is supposed to return home for today's goal to see how the electricity is successful.
Listen to me.
What should I know that?
A teaser?
.
Likewise, we can get an accident.
The candidate is better.
More than when you listen.
.
When you have told them that you can't read this.
It goes up.
