
State House race are on fire in 22, 2012.

While the ministers entering into the political game by going round in the provinces and leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in order to deal with the pace of member of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), President Jakaya Kikwete is expected to announce the changes of permanent secretaries in some of the ministries, citizens, Mwema, has been told.

Those are received as CHADEMA, through Zitto Kabwe, the deputy secretary general of that party said that CCM is still following their footsteps in running politics in the country and that is great success.

Otherwise, the report that President Kikwete has stated that the decision by President Kikwete to make changes of permanent secretaries in the ministry is expected to take place where six months now have passed since the announcement of the council of ministers and aims at increasing the strength of the CCM's strategy to register them before the eyes of the public.

According to news sources in the government, among the reasons for the changes, it was known for a huge difference of performance between ministers and some of the senior secretaries in the ministry that are leading in order to ensure that some of the senior secretaries in the media networks are in some of the organizations that are under their ministry.

Most of the media owners have said that the process of permanent secretaries has been prepared and that President Kikwete can announce those changes for permanent secretaries in the ministry between the next week and beginning in the year 2013.

The very few news reports are saying that the ministries that are facing him are in collaboration with the Ministry of Transport, led by the Secretary General Omari Chambo.

There are issues going on in that ministry including the step of the minister, Doctor.
Harrison Mwakyembe running the investigation in the port of Dar es Salaam by using a special team after failing to suspend the former director of the authority, Ephraim Mgawe.

Apart from that investigation that took place by Doctor Mwakyembe was handed the report while promising to take action against the involved, that minister has also appointed new members of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), removing the new delegates of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), removing the new delegates of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), joining the new delegates of the board of that board to President Jakaya Kikwete who is the authority of the board.

But maybe it happened recently in that ministry and the government in general it is emerging with the China company of China, Merlin Repyson, which was brought to invest in the port of Dar es Salaam and the former minister Omari Nundu had been involved in construction of the port through the minister of state, office of the prime minister (investment and empowerment).

Another ministry which is expected to get the new secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare led by the Minister Doctor Hussein Mwinyi, the ministry that has ever been involved in collaboration with doctors who have ever contested with other things, wanting the former secretary general of that ministry, Blacks, "Nyoni.

"In some of the ministries, chief secretaries will be left, but they can also be used to change in the heads of authorities or institutions concerned with the small sector.
For example, the Ministry of Energy will remain, but it is a must that there will be great changes in the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).

"In the ministry of higher education there will be changes in the loans board.
Already this has already been seen in the Ministry of Transport, although there will also be changes of the general secretary, "says our news source.

More information states that President Kikwete has organized himself to announce those changes for permanent secretaries in the ministry earlier so as to give them new leaders to participate fully in the implementation of the current budget but also to give them an opportunity to participate in the preparation of the next government budget.

It will be remembered that in the changes of the cabinet, the month of May this year, the president made those ministers being ready for a large part of their ministries to have played 74 matches, he had been prepared by the colleagues who had kidnapped them.

Zitto Kabwe's statement, Zitto Kabwe, on their side, CHADEMA, through the deputy secretary general, Zitto Kabwe getting about the steps of CCM and the government?

"We see the efforts of CCM wanting them to live well and even so it is clear that they are following our footsteps. CHADEMA is leading and they have heard the secretary general, he is talking about industries in Arusha and other things, but CCM is the one that has landed in Arusha town by killing industries.

"The parliamentary committee on public organizations has issued a lot of recommendations about the example, the General Projest Race, but the government has been silent because if they have been unable to implement the resolutions of parliament, the efforts of Kinana are not spoilt.

"Groups inside CCM will not allow a new constitution to work together if CHADEMA want politics of issues concerning the country, Kinana can make sure that but the only way of CCM to go back to the line is losing the administration.

"I'm glad to see debates between Kinana and Slaa (Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, the secretary general of CHADEMA) about our nation. I will be happy that the problems of citizens and especially the lack of work, poverty, education and health be discussed.

"I would like to see issues of how to pass through the wealth of our resources and be given priority. I would like to see new politics of political parties to build hope that we can be a stable nation and in Africa," said Zitto Kabwe, who is also a member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency.

Ministers in politics despite the ministers are required to supervise the policy activities in their ministries, now that CCM is being involved in another responsibility of planting in political matters, to explain how it will implement the party's manifesto.

The reports indicate that the Minister of Construction, Doctor John Magufuli, has been arrested in Rukwa province where there will be a meeting of CCM and he will talk about the construction of the roads that were in the province, while the Minister of Industry and Trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda while in Arusha province where in the CCM stage they will be required to explain the fate of privatization policies in the province, while in the country, especially the distribution of the General Projest Rwangisa.

Doctor Kigoda is the lead in privatization policies in the Ministry of Internal Affairs who is in a big part has been dominated by complaints.

Geita province, Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Steven Masele, will arrive at the CCM stage in a public rally to answer the problems of small-scale miners in that province, while the Minister for Transport Doctor Mwakyembe will arrive in Mtwara together with the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Christopher Chipa.

Those ministers will give them in terms of CCM meetings, being the second phase of that political party in the country for the first phase which was held in the provinces of Dar es Salaam and Kigoma, several ministers went up the stage to explain themselves.

The secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye has played 74 matches with the journalists about the ministers' tour in the CCM meetings and explained that the position of ministers is to remove the political contribution "on the side of CCM.

And the day before yesterday, Monday night, speaking in an interview with one of the period of general of namo Jumatatu wakuu wa Marekana, which is led by General Ulimwengu in the Channel Ten television station, Kinana said that they are organized to restore the death of their party and the provinces in the provinces they had planned to bring a new life in the party.

"We want to go up to level branches, I'll go to Mtwara and Rukwa and then Arusha, the work that we shall do is to go to our branches, there is our members and the public," said Kinana.

Speaking at a meeting of that party to be held at the end of the week, the Vice President, Philip Mangula said their party has given six months from now a clean up of its kind especially those who participated in various matters of leadership of that party on bribery.
Some of the people who spoke to our citizens have said that although this dubiety that brought Kinana to power, it shows his new hope, still there is a big job to do.

"The biggest challenge of CCM is seen that lack of bribery and those who want to elect them, they want them to choose and they want to elect them," says one of the veteran politicians and the former African Union Union (Tanu), that has given birth to CCM.
