
3 veteran players butchered.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published on 28th September 2016.

President John Magufuli has appointed the administrative secretary of Kagera province and the director of the Municipal Council of Bukoba.

They have been taken that step after the leaders, was revealed to open another account that resembles the office of the prime minister of Kagera Sugar for the purpose of getting money.
He has ordered that state agencies to be insane are supposed to take action against every person involved in hand with that, the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has suspended the accountant of Kagera Region, Simbawaki together because of being involved in that plot.
The leaders who benefited from President Magufuli is the administrative secretary, Amantius Msole says that the Director Steven Makonda who are alleged to open an account with a name that comes with an official account of contributing to the disaster called "the provincial commissioner of Kagera" with the aim of getting money.
The report was given by the director of communications for the president, State House, Gerson Msigwa to the press yesterday explained that.
Msigwa has also said that according to the report given by the prime minister's office, Kassim Majaliwa among them to break the appointment, President Magufuli has instructed the media to be insane.
That report of the office of the Prime Minister explained that Majaliwa has suspended the accountant of Kagera Region, Swai to be involved in that plot.
However, Majaliwa has called for the citizens and different institutions to continue contributing for donations for those who were affected by using the official account of "the Kagera Sugar Committee which has been announced by the government.
During that time, Doctor Magufuli has received a donation of 545 million shillings from the prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, for the purpose of helping the citizens of Kagera province that had been affected by the earthquake which occurred in September 10, this year.
A check of those funds has been handed over yesterday at State House in Dar es Salaam city by the Ambassador of India in the country Judge Sandry at his letter to the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. In his letter to President Magufuli was read by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. In his letter to President Magufuli was read by the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa.
"We are directed to pray for peace and that you used to be patient and we would like to confirm to them that we are together with our friends the government of Tanzania in this difficult time," he said.
On his part, Doctor Magufuli thanked the minister and his government for giving that contribution and to send my condolences, and added that the government of Tanzania has been touched with the heart of love that are shown by the citizens of India.
"I request you will end my condolences to the Prime Minister Modi, when I thank me on behalf of my government we thank you so much for giving this important support for our fellow Tanzanians who have been touched in a unique way and the problem that got in our country," insisted President Magufuli.
From Kigoma, Fadhili Abdallah said that during the assessment of the effects of the earthquake which occurred in Kagera province, it's expected to take place in January next year, three other provinces has been added on that evaluation.
Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo speaking at the end of his five days tour in Kigoma province, he mentioned the provinces to be Kigoma, Tabora and Dodoma.
He said that the previous assessment, shows that the provinces has been affected by the earthquake and that assessment has a must be made by the experts to know the size of the park in order to take action to deal with that situation.
Muhongo said that the experts of rocks (geology), are continuing with the work of doing an evaluation of knowing the real situation of the country in Kagera province, where to a large extent where the province was affected by the earthquake.
However, the evaluation was faced with the availability of equipment, which can be able to show the same level up to 15 kilometers under the land and that the equipment have already been directed.
While explaining the precaution to the attackers, he said that until now, there is no expertise that would be able to identify the symptoms of the two sides and that will take many years to put expertise to set equipment under land, to recognize that issue and that the research on the issue are still continuing.
Together with that, he said that the government is continuing to announce receiving donations from various donations under the coordination of Kagera province and that the victims will be touched according to the procedures that the disaster committee is improving.
