Miss Tanzania held in Mwanza.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

Competition to find the beauty of Tanzania "Miss Tanzania 2016" is expected to be held in Mwanza October 28.

This is the first time for the competition to take place outside Dar es Salaam since its establishment.
30 beauties will give up the stage to look for the representative who will represent the country in the competition to find the beauty of the world that is expected to take place in America on December this year.
Those beauties who have set camp at the pairs hotel in Msasani, Dar es Salaam, left yesterday to Dodoma for the purpose of competing for talents before starting the tour of Arusha, Singida, Geita and finally Mwanza for the finals of the competition.
Speaking at a camp to those beauties yesterday, the director of Lino International Agency who is the organizers of that competition, Hashim Lundenga said that the beauties are the organizers of that competition, Hashim Lundenga said that the beauties are the organizers of that competition, Hashim Lundenga said that the beauties are the organizers of that competition, Hashim Lundenga said that the beauties are.
The desire to discover ourselves, to respect and not being unable to prevent the invention and finding themselves at a scandal that will bring him a whole chapter of that competition.
However, Lundenga speaking to the sponsors who are the biggest challenge where they meet with this year's competition, he said they have got a few sponsors in the provinces.
He said the slogan of the competition of this year is "the beauty and Environmental Sanitation in Dar es Salaam and that it will involve beauties from nine regions of Tanzania mainland and 30 beauties who will contest.
K. Nyerere (CCM), Grace Malassy, Sisiwaya (Ilala), Diana Edward, Regina Ndimbo, Gaudensia Ndegea (Kinondoni), Upendo Kilahiro, AID.
MO Blog, Irene Ndimbe (East Africa), Anna Nuzulack Dausen, Irene Uwoya, (Central Region), Kekeletse Phoofolo (central region of higher education).
Others are the Deodatha Makani, Maria Peter, Lucie Michael (Lake Region), Mauritania together, Irene Uwoya, Ephraim Sekereti (central region of Temeke) and Mwantumu Ally, Anitha Mwakitwange, (Northern Region).
That competition was organizing a total of one and a half years after being closed by the government through the National Arts Council, BASATA for different reasons for the violation of the procedures that they had set for themselves including cheating of the age of participants.
