
He is a modem that runs 15 people, 2012.

While getting to Philip Mangula as the vice chairperson of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), help Jakaya Kikwete who was expected to be released yesterday on Tuesday to continue with the chairperson's position, and some of the new leaders that are associated with the use of bribery, citizens, Mwema, has been told.

Mangula is going to hold that position as a lot of politics on the use of money and especially in elections, he has a lot of pain in the year 2007 when he was vying for the position of CCM chairperson of Iringa province.

He and his new leaders, mentioned to start planning to use new resolutions of the general meeting to address those bribes.

However, there are opinion that though Mangula has confirmed that he is supposed to be careful with a good scorer, he is not a champion of political parties, therefore he can be unable to sustain his opponents and challenges of getting CCM.

Investigators are saying that the position that he will make that Mangula prepared himself, for giving a question to the Civic United Front (CUF) party, because it is apparent the chairperson (Jakaya Kikwete) is not on the same way and also that he was cleared by many work (presidency).

They are saying that it is supposed to be the vice chairperson to be in the fight against elsewhere, and especially dealing with things like the peace of Zanzibar and the opponents from mainland who are in recent days to be able to attract the feelings of many against CCM.

There are others who are saying that when a very long time is so much inside CCM and in the future of the public, that party is seen not to be easy to give people with integrity and therefore the appointment of Mangula should be avoided.

"Mangula has not been completed this Friday, maybe if he has a secret that has never been put in public.
It should be careful, but it is not correct that the problem is coming here, if it is not him, and when it comes to you in this state of the party being filled with bribery and not to be responsible for the presidency?

"Who will fly the women (Benno) Malisa and the ask for women (Hussein Dewji), I met Lowassa (Nape) that you have given enough advice to me when she will give them people that you're with him," a big veteran in that party told BBC Sport.

The sure reports starting yesterday, Tuesday explained that apart from breaking the victory of some leaders, the new leadership of CCM at any time they can be able to eliminate the new leadership of the Union of Youth of the party (UVCCM).

The decision to break the results was about the new resolutions of the general meeting, especially the declaration of wanting to prevent the party from bribery, the commission of security and ethics of CCM now has been given the constitutional authority to protect the party's status without caring for the positions they did.

It is said that the possibility of removing UVCCM leadership is big especially after some of the youths in that party to present their complaints on the presence of election regulations and even the complaints that have been planted on the right of more than 300 youths from UVCCM.

The new leaders of UVCCM, who is the chairperson, Mboni Masinga, are alleged to be assisted in a campaign against the regulations and the former vice chairman of that union, Benno Ndulu and his secretary general, Martine Shigela with his secretary, Martine Shigela with his secretary, Martine Shigela and his secretary, Martine Shigela and his secretary, Martine Shigela and his secretary general, Martine Shigela and the secretary general, Martine Shigela and the secretary general, Martine Shigela and the deputy chairperson of that union, Martine Shigella.

Those reports are a threat to removing that leadership going on well with the victory of some of the leaders from different levels of CCM in the provinces and different districts in the country.

The speech of Kikwete has banned all the reports that are there from some members of the major political groups in that party explains that, the heavy steps of preventing leaders in that party were following the resolutions of the general meeting which is the main aim of the decision on the future of that party.

The internal reports indicate that some of the leaders that were facing ethics now will agree with the implementation of the special general meeting about protecting the status of that party, being mentioned there to be a threat to them or to ensure they are warned.

Leaders and members who are in that threat is that the ones that were mentioned to be violating the ethics, regulations and procedures of the party, including bribery and political politics, it's like the decision of "to take off the petition.

Kikwete's speech is expected to negotiate among the members and especially the ones who participated in elections while being accompanied by allegations of corruption.

In his speech, Kikwete says that our party should be competed for sex with the hearts of the society and that is the work we expected to make our leader to work in the community but so that our leader can make sure there is a good thing in front of the citizens.
If the community is seeing that it is not funny you will be very delicious with him to make the responsibility of the foundation of our party.

He continued to say that, the party has a cry for the party members and the citizens of wanting to withdraw the bad news against the party in the community as a political party to join bribery, that is a cry for people with good intentions and CCM. "

The group of members that are fighting for ethics in the party now has faith to Mangula, that it is a leader who will be able to move the ethics of that party on behalf of President Kikwete.

It was the group of the death incident at that meeting which was the answers of a question who will be chosen by the CCM executive committee to be the delegates of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM, while records for some of the lawyers had been defeated in those regions levels were affected by their votes.

In several elections, the previous results were affected by the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye who fell in the Prime Minister Doctor Mary Nagu in the semi-finals of contesting the NEC position in the Hanang District "elections who also stopped the complaints on violating the regulations and bribery.

In the election that was done at the general meeting of CCM to prevent it and they had gone into politics with any cost whatsoever.

There is a result of information that, together with dealing with the speed of distributing bribery in that election, have been taken to him two days contrary to the previous schedule, to aim to deal with that high level to prevent it.

Reports indicate that the situation may have been bad if the election will be bad in those days after the existence of reports of some people to prepare to perform a dirty campaign of corruption and some they were seen to take them just after that changes.

In that election that took place on Sunday last Sunday, who came in one of the four ministers, assistant minister together with the head of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe, is the former minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe, who was the former minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe, who was the former minister of foreign affairs and international cooperation Bernard Membe.

Membe is reported to be at the campaign meeting of that election, having two photos in front of voters which basically they were divided into two groups.
In one picture, Membe appeared to inform the ones that fight for that party's ethics to be returned, behind him are believed to have the names of Samuel Sitta, Harrison Mwakyembe, Professor Mark Mwandosya, John Magufuli and others that are not involved in one of the allegations of corruption.

But on the other side, Membe led the rival sides being introduced to be the member of parliament of Monduli, and the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa, a group that claims his hostility through one of the people, those mentioned to coordinate Lowassa's politics inside CCM, Hussein Bashe.
When Membe was called all two campaigns, a big campaign has been defeated and on the other side of winning.

Salma, Ridhiwani arrived at the pitch at the time they are supposed to have a campaign to bring him down when Salma Kikwete and her child Ridhiwani mentioned, in the previous minutes, he will help him yesterday.

Mrs Salma, the wife of President Kikwete, who passed himself by the delegates of several provinces asking for himself by the delegates of several provinces while asking him to think some of him were heard saying "it is a famous thing of police when they talk about different criminal incidences.

The victory of Membe was not a good report for the famous group of Lowassa who did not meet in special positions for leaders who had been selected to have heads and sitting in Arusha's delegates who enches to be taken back in the previous day in accordance to the capital city of Arusha.

In the race that emerged the winner is the minister of state, office of the president (relations and coordination), Steven Wassira, the Minister of Information, Culture and Sports Doctor Fenella Mukangara, the Minister of Information, Science and Technology, Doctor Mathayo Suleiman and Deputy Minister of Communication, Science and Technology, January Makamba.

Others are the former secretary of economy and finance Mwigulu Nchemba, the secretary of UVCCM, Martine Shigella, who was the secretary general of CCM, Wilson Massawe.

At the time going on, the information explained that, Lowassa has talked to the delegates of Arusha Province and urged them to vote for President Kikwete, he explained that it is a step to distinguish itself with his campaigns and requested him to defend his chairperson in the meeting by giving him a intention of sabotaging the party leaders in that party.

"Mzee Mzee (Lowassa) got food and shows that he is in the fear of an extent of saying that he will request our province of Arusha to have a special box so as to avoid being told that we want to give him 'no chairperson.

"It is possible that there is fear after one person being held up by security officers concerning the allegations of organizing itself, the chairperson decided to ask even to get open votes," says one member of Arusha.

The elections for various positions inside CCM was expected to be completed yesterday on Tuesday and put a new trend of important sessions of the executive committee and the executive council in a period of five years from now.
