20 years of followed by Mrema and Mbatia.
Sep 25, 2014.

The year 1995, a youth politician from the NCCR-Revolutions Party, James Mbatia, was elected as the member of parliament of Vunjo Constituency in the first general elections of many parties in the country.

Lowassa's victory was not normal because he got more than 53,000 votes which were many more than any member of parliament.

To know the size of that victory, the number of votes was approximately 80 percent of all the remaining votes. Up to today, approximately 20 years after the start of many parties, there is no opposition member who was in the province by getting that votes.

Very soon, (Ahmed Rajab Mwiliko (MoCU) or in a language of English Cousin, Vunjo constituency was also the main stronghold of NCCR Revolution because the former presidential candidate through that party and the former opposition party at that time, Augustine Mrema, is a born in that area.

Kimaiyo, they are saying that the members of NCCR Revolution that at that time you cannot get that victory to James Mbatia and his colleague who were in Mrema in voters of Vunjo Province.

Mrema is the former member of parliament for that constituency being known as Moshi Rural at the time of the period between the year 1985 to 2010 when he started the Revolutionary Party (CCM).

In these events, Mchaga answered that Mrema and announced they are politicians who are friends of political tensions since basically, she was among the NCCR members who participated in joining Mrema in his party from CCM.

The truth is that politicians have a political impasse that was made during the process that had given him a member of parliament and put up a history as the opposition member of parliament who came in parliament for a landslide win.

How did it vote?

Mrema did not want to James Mbatia.

In his talks with this newspaper recently, Mbatia said that contrary to the thoughts of many people, Mrema did not help him to get parliamentary seat in 1995, and basically he was not his name.

"Mrema has been a lot of her friend, Fred Halla who was the former chairman of Moshi Rural council is to be the member of parliament of Vunjo constituency after Mrema from CCM to the NCCR, and Lemomo when he met his wife.

"I remember at the last meeting of passing the names of candidates, Mrema refused that I was approved by the party to vie for the parliamentary seat of Vunjo Province, delegates of the executive council of the party who were present at that meeting that took place at the Dar es Salaam Police Force they were announced as a result of Mrema.

"When he saw how he failed to convince the members to inspect him quickly instead, he decided to use my votes and then said if I saw him, then I saw him, then I saw him, then I'll leave at meeting.

"If Mrema has been vying for presidency, it would have been a blow to the party and changes in the same time, I decided to receive him and I come back to Bahati in Arusha province to support the campaign of former parliamentary candidate in the country, Ali Kiba," says James Mbatia in his talks with Raia Mwema.

These instructions are supported by the famous businessman of Moshi, Aloyce Kimaro, popularly known as Nicrox, who has also been a political leader in Mrema and Mbatia and also a member of parliament of Vunjo Constituency in the period of the year 2005 to 2010.

"Kimaro, who at the time was the member of NCCR Revolutions, says that finally, the party met with the requirements of Mrema and to put him keenly to be his candidate.

"James Mbatia in Bahati and has been unable to forget about the issues of vying for the parliamentary seat, when they got the report that Lemomo had a legal problem if he would have been removed.

"But Mrema opened up and insisted that his candidate will be discussed while he went to ask up to the National Electoral Commission (NEC) and there is when he told him that he didn't give him openly that he didn't leave each other.

"But at the same time, already the days had already been forced to vie for a presidential candidate if he would have ever happened to Bahati and go to Vunjo constituency so that he would have already announced his oath.

Vunjo is a region with an entertaining party system in the country since 1995, that province has been led by members of parliament of four different countries and there is no one who was leading for more than one period.

Mbatia was unable to participate in the general elections of the year 2000 and the former candidate of Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), Major Jesse Erasmo and at that time, Mrema had left the NCCR party and joined CCM.

Groups was unable to play yesterday at the general elections of the year 2005 when Kimaro was moved to CCM after he is tired of the past conflicts in the opposition parties.
