Our responsibility was capable of controlling the real value.
And you will not be selected, to show a lot and disadvantages?
It is not poor vision and in everything, it is usually a mirror does not give you a solution to the community.
To show the society is a good thing and there is wrong things and how to free you can grow and see yourself.
And this will be my guidance in doing the best changes of the constitution of Zanzibar, other issues of Zanzibar on behalf of the two-governmental organizations who were kidnapped, I believe it is seen that we are looking at ten changes in the constitution of Zanzibar.
To come to the city about the structure of the union because it is not a good job because I had given a public the draft of the first draft.
And the second draft has not been found so much by the wife and my opinion has not been found.
Those who want you can get to me because of the networks and read to me.
Today you are doing so because I have also come from.
Which was attended by talking with one followers of leaflets with the government.
Therefore, I have seen its better to do on that issue of ten changes during some time.
Leaders and issues are also known as Santo Hance, a message on the ten best change, the week of Zanzibar and therefore there is two countries for a long time when you get into the last report of the commission that was released in the newspaper on six to ten thousand, I think I have to look at the end of the last report.
Therefore,
Therefore, I will use it.
To come to this report to do my analysis.
One is?
So that has been issued by those reports.
I don't know but he has announced to be.
In the ten changes, a man and now has already changed the meaning that I will give you the way it has touched me that it is part of the United Republic before the end of this end.
You missed the news and the farm is male and the constitution of the union.
First of the sales of the parliamentary authority of the United Republic.
The constitution of Zanzibar has set aside the borders of the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic of Tanzania before starting to be used by the United Republic of Tanzania before starting the use of Zanzibar to be against the constitution of the union and to follow the importance of the commission and to follow the importance of the authority yesterday.
The constitution of the union gives the president of the united nations in areas.
Administrative which are in the provinces and the ten in the moment have put the authority of dividing the Zanzibar area of the provinces and district in the hands of the president of Zanzibar, therefore its amendments has broken the constitution.
The argument of the reduction of the authority of the referral hospital in the box of one hundred and seven hundred thousand, has given the authority to listen to appeal in the whole country, but if it has barred the court to listen to appeal from the libraries.
Listen to the constitution of Zanzibar, we ask about the issues of human rights at the end of this article also is a break to the constitution of the union.
