States to be taught.
May 13, 2015.

The constituencies of Ubungo, Kigamboni, Ukonga and Temeke have a big possibility of the day before yesterday by the National Electoral Commission (NEC) in the general elections this year.
Those regions have a number of 3Tsh 25,000 only has been announced by NEC that it is the only increase in the area to be announced as the election region (together with other reasons) in urban areas.
Reading reading about different reports that was done by Good Citizen just after the NEC report from, showed that the province which is a must for the contest is that, Ubungo region which for now his member of parliament are John Mnyika.
According to the estimates of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) that was released recently, Ubungo region is estimated to reach 5366 votes in October this year and therefore making a big number of voters more than another one in the country.
That number of voters is approximately ten times the voters who are in districts like Pangani, Tanga Province and Mchaga in Lindi province, and therefore the region is forced to be stopped.
NEC can decide to fill it into having one region in Manzese area, Sinza and Ubungo while another province has two areas like Kimara, Mbezi and Goba.
Another region in the province of Dar es Salaam which has a big number of people is the Kigamboni bridge which is currently being held by Doctor Faustine Ndungulile who came out from the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
According to the commission of NBS, that province will have voters for approximately 30 votes and thus being the second region for having a large number of voters in the country.
At the moment, that constituency is made up with Kigamboni areas, Mbagala, and Mtoni center, and it is clear that if NEC will do a decision to fill it a place, Kigamboni can remain itself while in Mbagala, and the streets that were affected by one member of parliament.
Another region that led to having a large number of voters more than the last number that is followed by NEC is Temeke and the NBS, shows that it will have 417 votes compared to October this year, at the moment it is under the member of parliament Abbas Mtemvu from CCM.
A large number of Temeke residents is available in Keko area, Mtoni, Kurasini, Tandika, Chang'ombe and Temeke and according to the relevant area where one side being in Chang'ombe, Kurasini and Keko, while the other side led by Temeke, Tandika and Mtoni.
The city of Dar es Salaam has also been a region of Segerea where for now that is being led by Doctor Hamis Mahanga who was coming from CCM according to NBS, that province will have 41,420 votes and therefore needs to be played.
This province can be taken to be a result of one member of parliament for the areas of Buguruni and Tabata where the Vingunguti wards and the Vingunguti wards having another member of parliament.
In the provinces of provinces, Kitoro Busanda County in Geita province is the one that appeared to have a large number of voters until October this year, whereby the collection of NBS, shows that it will have 226,785 votes.
NEC has announced the last number in the villages of rural areas that it is 225,000 employment and therefore they are not seen if they can be taken to the moment they can be taken to the moment they can be taken to the moment they can be played.
The Musoma Villages region in Mara province which has been the ones that were mentioned to be taken to the end of that election, has been estimated to have NBS, having 2,394 votes in October.
At the moment the region is being held by Nimrod Mkono of CCM although it was said that the former Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, can decide to contest for the parliamentary seat in the province.
However, according to NEC, a big number of people is not the only criterion to cause the province the day before yesterday, because there is another reason that can decide the issue.
Some of those reasons are the availability of communication services from one area to another inside the province, into consideration the economic condition, the size of the region and two councils, the aim of parliament to implement the number of members of parliament and the number of members of parliament.
