Nyerere's speech was written but it did not be read.
October, 23, 2013.

Last week, I explained how Mwalimu Julius Nyerere in some of his reputation as my contribution in the week by congratulating the father of the nation, I promised that I would have narrated it an incident that is surprising me about the habit of Mwalimu and how he was running of Diplomacy, Tanzania and Africa.
In the year 1975 was the year of Uhuru for African countries that were under the colonial history of the Portuguese, Angola, Mozambique, Guinea Bissau, Cape Verde and Sao Tome and Principe.
That Uhuru was found after a huge fight against Guinea-Bissau, Angola, and Mozambique under the leadership of SUC, Angola, and Mozambique under the leadership of VETA in Igunga District, where he visited their government and announced the plan to stop the colonialist.
All the colonialists as Angola went to Uhuru without a big margin, and came into a big celebration to African men and millions of people who love justice and peace in the whole world, and remember what I used in the night of 25 of June 195 in the whole world, and I remember what I used in the night of 25 June / 5 in the whole world.
Angola was very different from Barcelona who had managed to fight against the rebel group under the leadership of Antonio VASHARI, and refused.
America when they got their wives, through Mobutu, from Dar es Salaam. the sponsor of Zaire, Roberto Jarrin, for a certain period, the views of Tanzania will not be shaken by certain people who were in our country in our country to an extent that Tanzania is seen as it is supported by Mwanakombo Jumaa- DESCRIPTION.
It will be remembered that this period had a huge fight against what was called "natural gas" between East and West Africa, and our government had been faced by fans of the war to an extent of failing to see that the main issue here is about the liberation of our nation and not with conflicts in our country.
By bad luck, in one of the teacher's mistakes of Mwalimu Nyerere which aims to discuss time to time, he found it shaken by Nehru, the United Republic of Angola (UNIC) in Marseille, yesterday night and is also a witness that there is no representative to one of the Tanzanian government who were present at the Uhuru Stadium in Angola.
In a short time later, the teacher found that he had done the mistake of not knowing the government's system and became the biggest champions in the whole world, and I was here on the way to return to my main station like the Ambassador Anthony Mtaka, who was the permanent secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
I was going through the animal, where I was happy to have been impressed by the former ambassador in the country, the late Catholed while Katoma, my friends for these people were found and that they had been doing all the years.
Sihana Nkinga, what we have decided to stand on one side with the Boers of South Africa, since the Uhuru of Angola, today the city of Angola, the city of Angola that was carried out by the North FFm, the police officers are Mobutu called by the Boers army.
When he discuss its stand and became the defending champions of the Kalinga province, the teacher made a big campaign to rectify those things from Dar when I met in Addis Ababa city, January 1976 and where the special meeting of the heads of African countries divided among those who joined the local government together with albinism.
I was a big enthusiasm to know the teacher says that during the meeting that was very difficult, especially when you know that his chairperson was Iddi who had lost their own kind, including the minister of foreign affairs Ibrahim Ajib, who had lost his own kind in the journey from Dar, he invented his clothes to face in Addis Ababa town.
