13 December 2012

I will stay Africa to be added with technical training.

By Jamaulanga.

Ilala District Commissioner, Dar es Salaam, Mister Raymond Mushi, has been impressed by the step of the leadership of the company to travel.
Construction equipment of Noma Africa Limited, providing technical training to its workers.
Mister Mushi said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he launched the new branch of that company located in Kariakoo.

He said the company has ordered the real equipment for construction from countries of Italy, Dubai, South Africa, Argentina, Milulu (UAE), New Zealand and Malaysia.

He added that, the step of putting that training to provide training to the use of the equipment that had been ordered from outside is an issue to be followed by other companies that are in the country.

This "this will increase the number of experts by using these equipment, maybe be forced to send people outside the country to learn the use and renovations of the relevant equipment," he said.

On his side, the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of that company, Mister Hamlyn Erasto has congratulated the government.
Its efforts to fight against fake products in the country.

He urged the customers especially the construction of construction products to be careful when they buy equipment from outside which many are fake.

"We are the only agent of the products that are being built by the Minutes Network from New Zealand, if they are going on if the shops will see these products have already been affected," he said.

The Marketing Manager of the company, Mister Joseph Massao has said the problem of importation of fake products in the country is done by small traders and the challenges that are there in the price of the concerned products.

He said at the moment the company has a strategy of opening many branches in the country so as to meet the needs of the customers easily.

That company has branches in Mbezi Beach, Masaki, Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam city, other branches are in the towns of Mwanza, Arusha, Moshi, Tanga and Mtwara.
