There is a huge deficit of President Kikwete.
October 11, 2014.

At the time the administration of President Jakaya Kikwete has been charged with approximately one year old before the completion of the end, they did not conclude that one of the important records which he will leave is in large numbers of its journey outside the country, especially in America.
A easy example is the recent example that President Kikwete made the country in August where among other things, attended the United States and African meeting, then later to go again in the country for two weeks ago while in that tour (last month), the president got an opportunity to visit here in England to attend the public public meeting that took place before going back to America.
Although it is clear that some of the tour did not go down, but the truth that our president is very difficult to go back to the country, and despite the fact that President Kikwete is difficult even to identify the cost of those trips because we are not aware of the cost of the journey since we are not otherwise.
His last month tour in America has brought a lot of two major things to the first, and I have never thought that we have several ambassadors of honor, but we be respected as many ambassadors of the country, but we be respected as many ambassadors of China or here in England?
But in that, if we have several representatives in America, why we have a lot of journey to the president going to that country but if we go back to our country, "these ambassadors of honor are doing well and maybe they have a lot of patriotism more than them," visitors "we ask for us to inform us.
Secondly, one of those ambassadors of honor, has been named as the owner of the company that is expected to bring modern machines for transport between the Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport and "in Dar es Salaam city.
There are a lot of questions about that ambassador of honor and the project in general, the reports about the company that will give those train has caused huge controversy, while some of the media have reported that the company has two names?
But an issue that is worried about it is true that when there is a company that is involved in air transport issues, there is no any website of the railway projects which have been signed next month, something that can be able to carry questions if that company is big "to afford the project is worth billions of shillings.
Another problem is how the project is using it if they use it, in his details, the Minister of Transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has urged the concerned parties to stop the procedures of the project so that it can start early as possible as the owner of the company claimed that "he is ready to start the project even today."
