
Government can baptize and was known.

Some of the religious leaders and citizens have said the accusations of the former secretary general of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Willibrod Slaa as some of them who attended by the presidential candidate of Ukawa through CHADEMA, Edward Lowassa, is not lie.

They have asked the evidence of those allegations by mentioning the names of the leaders and the extent that they are disappointed, insisting that those are political politics and that he knows CCM to get a way to go back to the party.

President of TEC.
Speaking about those accusations, the Vice President of the Catholic Church Council of Tanzania (TEC), Bishop Malasusa thanked Doctor Slaa to give the evidence of his claims that the bishops of the church have been represented by Edward Lowassa.

"Those are the news that I heard in you, but if it is true he has said that because I did not put evidence from the names of those bishops who were given money, an amount that was received, but on my personal side, I have not received any amount from any person."

Bishop I urge Doctor Slaa to give a confirmation of bishops of the church to receive money from Lowassa to be able to give a decision.

"Lowassa have ever met with him, I saw him in my heart school in Biharamulo, the school is called Katoma, I've put it openly the reasons for praising him and I did not receive any amount of money from him," said the bishop and added.

"Is supposed to prove that by showing that amount of money and the names of bishops, I have not got any way maybe if I have been placed on my account without I know but I insisted to give another evidence."

At the same time, the chairperson of the ethics committee, peace and human rights for the religious leaders in the country, the bishop of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of August, William Mwamende said the statement of Doctor Slaa is the signs of bringing about some time.

"He would like to come early before these procedures will not understand but for now, he is in the first time when the first time he has been seen by what he made by the way it did not affect change," he said and added.

"His speech has no merit and a nation did not need private people," said Pastor Mwamende.

Bishop Gwajima speaks.
And the bishop of Resurrection and Life Church, Josephat Gwajima has denied to be the chief matchmaker of Edward Lowassa to join the Democracy and Development Party (CCM).

He has also denied being involved to lure them to the 30 bishops of the Catholic church who are alleged to support Lowassa in his presidential race after bribing the money.
Bishop Gwajima has said that Doctor Slaa is the last shot that has emerged victorious in the voters of CCM so as to eliminate them.

He said that all that was said by Doctor Slaa is some of the false accusations thus the citizens are inspiring.

"It is a very important thing that is white, has openly stated that this person could not get to be the president. It is clear that he has seen his fellow politicians who will answer to their political tensions but now he has emphasized to bishops among them they don't have conflicts.

"Therefore, I am the adviser of the issues of involving bishops and elections to leave each other in that way, I think you to talk about her fellow politicians to talk about political issues but among those who are not wise," he said.

Speaking on the issue of having Lowassa's chief justice, Bishop Gwajima said he thinks Doctor Slaa has been sent and kidnapped them, therefore he wants them to work.

"As usual it is surprising that if two people are forced to know, there is supposed to have a person to communicate, but when she says if 34 bishops did not give him, but I believe there are people who kidnapped them.

"The biggest thing is that after being found to be elected to vie for the presidential candidate for parliament, he thought Lowassa will not continue to have popularity, now he sees Lowassa who is going to visit Lowassa, that is why he spoke to Lowassa.

"For example, he said Lowassa would have come up with members of parliament of CCM, because he would not accept when Lowassa went to them, now he would have come to them and it would have been a good question but he can't answer.

I think Doctor Slaa is the only goal in the remaining time inside CCM's gun and I call on my believers to know that these allegations are false and I urge the doctor to stop bishops and false accusations to remain with him, "said Bishop Gwajima.
