Sumaye thanking CCM.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

Retired prime minister, Frederick Sumaye (63), has said that the step by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) to prevent its members who want to vie for the presidency as well as it has more effects than benefits.
Speaking at a period of the 45 minutes that was aired by ITV the day before yesterday, Sumaye said the candidates were known earlier it was benefits to citizens because they will get a chance of hating them, so when the right time comes, they do a correct election for what they know.
Recently, there are some media has quoted the chairperson of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete, congratulating the delegates of the National Executive Council of CCM (NEC), that it is permission to those who want the presidency to start getting him through the members.
Even so, tomorrow, the CCM's Publicity Secretary, Nape Nnauye spoke with the journalists and said that a member who will start getting him or doing a campaign before they will be expelled from peace.
"By bad luck I was not there in the NEC meeting and therefore I don't know who is true between Nape and the newspapers that wrote.
"Even so, my view, I am good that the party allow people come out and if they want presidency, I will be told that the citizens come out and then be silent and not to stop the party.
"This will give an opportunity to the citizens to start searching for analysts about those people. During the right time, people do not know each candidate in details and therefore even the elections is taking place in a environment where people know what they are doing," said Sumaye.
He said the current procedure makes a problem because it needs people to do their issues in secret and many issues that are taking place in secret and problems, he also said that system brings opportunities to citizens to visit their candidates.
"CCM for example is making its candidate in the month of May recently.
Name of Sumaye has been one of the ones who are expected to vie for presidency in the general elections of the year 2015, although in that interview he did not accept or leave about that when he was asked by the trainer, Ibrahim Ajib.
About the draft of the new constitution of Tanzania that was given this month, Sumaye had a few days to explain about the issues of the private candidate and three governments.
Speaking about the private candidate, Sumaye said he is supporting that issue because it will give an opportunity to vie for the people that they do not get rights on their parties.
He said despite having a possibility of the private candidate to win the presidency in the country, but there is a big possibility for the parliamentary and councilors position.
"There are people who are vying for parliamentary and council members in their parties to be born but they went to other parties to win.
Regarding the third government, Sumaye told that there will be a big tension between the president of Tanzania and Tanganyika and the current one between the United Republic and Zanzibar.

He said that although the three-government issue had already been successful for now, it is important to some of the things to be done early so as to get conflicts and because of the third government system.
"Advance yourself, Zanzibar is apart from Tanganyika as the island of Tanganyika and his fellow president, they will be inside one area (as the headquarters of the United Republic will be in Dar es Salaam). (That is the same) having two presidents inside one country, this is not a small issue even a little," he said.
He also said that there is an issue of high costs of running three governments, where we will have to reach the cost of the three governments instead of the current two.
In that interview, Sumaye also spoke about recommendations of the draft that he wanted the vice president to take the presidential position from president who was appointed or lost the reputation of being the president.
This is when I see it is a little risk of time when the people are going to choose the president, they don't know the vice president.
"The procedure seems to be very dangerous as if the vice president will have an opportunity for the presidential candidate to do procedures of removing referee and to take a chance because they will be a president," they can do so, he said.
