
Security should be taught to prevent the demonstrations to oppose.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
There was a tough defense force in parliament yesterday while citizens were admitted to use the roads in those buildings.
Hundreds of officers in the fight against violence from the Gogo, Police Force (AP) and common police who attacked them in a gun, a club, will marry off, a fox which had flooded the road to deal with anyone who broke down.
Some of the officers who put a wall close to the office of the World Health Center which is in the office of the president and office of the deputy president where they ordered them who had planned to use alternative ways.
Approximately six activists who tried to demonstrations to oppose the conflict were arrested while a man that is believed to be the defender of members of parliament speaking at the parliamentary police station on claims of being heard, the man was arrested with the parliamentary goal before being held in that station.
The officer who spoke with the nation today and asked that officer is of the Guvnor's squad and will be taken against them because of violating the values of the work by relying on one side.
Due to the security of security, the activists of social media organizations who succeeded to demonstrate to them, they were forced to view far.
In the morning before heading to parliament, Senator of Siwema, James Orkesumet (Bwanu), Bonny Mwaitege (Radhiyallahu An'ha), arrived at the parliamentary police station to register a report about the message that he claimed was to end his life.
According to Mister Ortega, the message was sent from a person who introduced himself as Kiroreli village, viewing them and cease giving his statements that she will not accept it.
That message read, "do not tell me what could make sure that she will be used to make sure that she will be used to do a big delegation to oppose the safety of security that is being supported by the government.
"The message was used in the morning and we are not worried because even the old politicians like JM Tuva and Robert OAFLA," said Mister Orkesumet.
Mister Winfrey has talked about the police officers on claims of having lazy workers.
He said that since he went to register a report to the police six months after receiving a message of asking for a life from the member of parliament of entertainment, while commander Sirro has never been taken by the police.
