Look at each other.
When you pass you, you will have questions to ask ourselves about how the whole exercise of most of the animals that are participating in the possibility of stopping the wildlife who come from one area to another, Doctor, Edward Koi, is a chief technician from one area to another country, Edward Koi, and this exercise takes place.
But for us?
What is it that there is no doubt that we have here was still there again in the voice of heart.
In the end of this article, it is usually given the vehicle when they were cast.
But the biggest thing.
These animals that you like to be very big.
Where smoking the west of west and the member of parliament of Kenya, and that is why he did not make sure that we have done our money, he does not see our money that he has got in the maize system was the great aim and to be taken by the late Mzee I would have a great success.
Whoever does not be given that is one system or walking.
Therefore, what does it mean?
Yes, you are getting anything that this issue is thanking another one in the system and I have the desire to do, remember the late God rest the news that these animals have no weeds, so let us start or more.
Now, it is currently in the maize that we have been able to try and see a lot of joy among them.
For the time you're on the legal system and relatives and money through a way, we should talk about it more and not the one here is not in place.
We fear getting married but animals.
It has also been said.
On his part, the sponsors of the two minutes he says that the results continue to go together with Masai Laugwa Hall in Kenya, will help the authorities that have been given the responsibility of protecting and put effective strategies in ensuring that when they get the benefits of the benefit of this new and future generation.
The phone exercise is only part of the biggest exercise in Africa which will take place in more than ten countries including Namibia where Kenya is my friend.
He said that those who are in the African continent is to have a lot of cargo following different problems that are determined concerning the killing of elephants in Africa for that, we want to know.
The number of elephants in this area of Serengeti Boys in Kenya will not understand the reasons in Serengeti it has maintained the coach of Serengeti and early because.
This is one of the technology that is not a human being, we have the boundaries for non-governmental but the animals do not want to be like that, we have never happened in any part of knowing the number of elephants and neighborhoods in order to be able to plan good plans to maintain good people in the world.
The number of the animals that we got in the field of Dar es Salaam, do not be used in different ways.
One of them is to know the first health of our system, the use of the animals and we look for them if the animals is doing well and therefore they are some of your system.
Therefore, it is one of the biggest reasons for that people who are in charge of the chest, the Almighty God rest our expertise that he is proud to do so I don't see if the indicators of how to make the oath.
The late?
In order to achieve this exercise, the researchers from TANAPA institution has reached a whole reader and now they were running this work by using a plane, we will make sure that there will make sure that all the animals from these groups are still being counted at the level of training for three days.
And those on the light, it was able to pay for a baby which will be paid for three and eight hours.
MASA is also a high level more than many time.
They were shocked that.
On the side of today.
So as to reduce that this mother was going to.
Reduce the cause of themselves.
They know your eggs are there.
Citizens going to the city to go down.
Therefore, the opportunity to try to reduce the Lord 'how to get the number that has put it in the whole system is in Serengeti, we are giving you here how many times you have.
