
Saturday, January 17, 2015.

Ugandans children and people have to go down in the age of 0 - 36.

Since we've started this consecutive years, we have tried to show the behavior of the child they are faced with the upbringing of the genes; as in general we are doing what is doing the child is a result of children with similar behaviors, you can benefit from the discomfort and see how the environment is available in this situation.

Haazu taking us and he didn't know anything.

In general, these are children who did not give credit or reason to look closely with her mother and children who can say they are on the right of their parents to help them to achieve their expectations as part of the child to register security, contrary to her mother's cause of fear, lack of fear.

This is saying that when a child is going to a parent to the expectations being asked, he is supposed to make him "biological mother and increasing a distance of her biological mother which is supposed to bring him a lot and love he is doing so that everyone is doing so that everyone is doing to believe in themselves.

A child becomes a chameleon and broke up and broke her faith in him, he sees him because he sees himself as a person whom she does not want him, a person who doesn't know her, a person who doesn't know her, a person who doesn't know her to be close to him.

The effects of the child.

In a period of six months, the child of this group is not seen to have joy and be afraid that you can't know some of the people especially when he knows it, he can have a habit of signing up and insisted that some of the other people can't understand.

He is not left with her biological mother while other than tourists and she is not worried although there is a success of his efforts to challenge him, a child who does not like a message even though the child does not have information although sometimes he can show the efforts to recognize the death of her mother.

When he is approximately three years, the shape of conflict is usually set aside, he usually comes out and all the times he is supposed to enjoy the pain of her colleagues when it seems to be a man but for sure that pain do not have a fool like it is wrong in hiding anything that he is the problem.

Worried about the fear of her to learn well as other other children of other groups, instead of learn, use a lot of time to deal with her colleagues so as to register myself so that when he meets children "friend" could have a habit of hiding our opinions for permission to revenge and to try to show a good behavior in the near future.
However, it is a very easy way to test themselves in the environment of how to make him appear.

Problems are starting with a parent.

Research that showed that this situation usually happens more that when they go back to the parents that have ever been affected by heavy problems in their lives.
Although it is not all the parents with a heavy history usually have upbringing of this kind, even so living with revenge, the anger and a problem that does not be dealt with in accordance with the probability of the upbringing of this way.

A mother who was set up / years ago and was born with a important person in his life and still underway with this situation so that these makes the parents like this situation can be able to forgive him because this situation can be able to move to their children themselves.

The process of having sexual violence in the country usually have the habit of preventing children, a situation that affects many pregnant women and research shows that 80 percent of children of this group, are believed to have 80 percent of children of this group, which can be interpreted as well as informing them.

Likewise, the parents with the habit of alcohol addicted in CHADEMA, who use alcohol like the way of forgetting the problems facing the drinking of alcohol when they go to the brain, "a situation that can cause this parent to show the behavior which could cause the child.

In line with those, the habit of live and uses of strength to other people in the environment that child is witnessed, contributes to the problem of a child with a habit of fighting and insulting each other in the heart of a child even if there are efforts to marry off the child.

In general we can say that the behavior of eternal peace, fight, and you will be able to recognize the relationship of their lives and the lives of the child. Those results are unable to recognize the relationship of their mistakes and the lives of the child.

However, a parent of the bad luck in the heart can be loved to have love for her child. There are parents who have a lot of love to our parents, so they can use children like a difficult time in life, it is not a must to affect your upbringing.
You can be able to promote good children, if you know and doing what is difficult, will follow the growth and development of the child.

It is continuing.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
