
At another time I will play in office due to work.
In Dar es Salaam, when he will contest the councilor seat in Mbagala Ward, Mbagala region, many people failed to understand his intention of many believed to be the mockery, others went on well and said that maybe he knows his wealth.
After winning, Yusuf Manji has confirmed that it is not the issue of looking for stem cells that destroy the position but its intention is to be a bridge between them and administration so as to serve the citizens.
That intention seems to be open by, that person who for now has attained 41 years, but he has helped the team of Yanga for it to complete many years.
Manji who is currently the chairperson of that team says that he is using 25 billion shillings from his pocket.
MLuda, he started leading the Qadhi Court?
Manji who is the chairperson of Quality Group Company Limited (QGL) says his journey to lead that company started officially in 1995, at the age of 20 years after receiving donations from her father's son on Tuesday, who was leading a company of vehicles equipment.
However, Manji says that it is not rich and that it's just a sit down in that company after his father died after her father found himself the supervisor of his salary if they do other people.
Manji says that Lionel Messi has thrown out the 17 branches which they fills the fight with 102 businesses, non-communicable diseases, food and cold drinks in 28 countries, and instead it was the results of being unable to work without getting tired of his heart.
"Several times I have reached in the office for three days to four, due to having a lot of work, this is not many who can believe, but it is the truth about my life."
He says that in his long schedule, Manji says that as usual he usually comes up to 10 o'clock in the day so as to ensure they do not go back to work because he believes that very much is the signs of committing sin.
"I am very happy and to do exercises, then you can leave each other.
12 million euros this morning do not slap back to my work for the purpose of building a nation, "he explains him to vie for a member of parliament of 10 houses, Manji says that after his councilor's seat will not have a plan to vie for that position and instead they will focus on 10 house members.
I don't have a plan to contest again for the councilor or member of parliament, my aim is to go back down to the citizens, I am able to sit with them and do not meet with them, we will talk about it, "he says.
Manji says if they will not vie for a parliamentary seat that will not contest in Dar es Salaam city and instead he is going to inspect the region with a lot of poverty so that he can help its citizens to get into that situation.
He added that close to people especially those who sell their daughters, are among the things that he is happy about in his life and that even when he is at work is going to meet with their employees under him and therefore share with them at least once in the year.
Manji says that as a result of that situation he started a day of his company called on the QGlasgow, where he usually gets a chance to meet with all the workers who will participate in the various companies that are under the Qadhi Court to enjoy their success together and also to look at how they can make steps and go before you like the team.
His love for Yanga team, Yusuf Manji is among the big stakeholders of Yanga team in the country, despite not getting into the field several times when that team is playing, but he is not all times like to look for that team when he is playing.
"You can't know or I cannot get to listen or when looking at home or in television because I would like to don't know the ball and I don't like this, I would like I use a lot of money.
