
On his skill of CCM, think about him that the president depends on 1st, 2012.

In the death of human beings, Mfaume Said, a nation for sure that has lost its new leader, most of the people especially the normal citizens, a activist and any oppositions.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has already lost its own member faithful partner, depending on a well of its kind of wisdom and personality, Mzee Kawawa was not only a special leader and a specific leader but more than all of the African continent, can't be careful.
Tanzania Mainland has got independence the year 1961, citizens and many leaders of the Southern African countries came to our country and opened the office of their political parties, PAC was started in Dar es Salaam city and later on July 23, just after the African Union was started by Tanzania, was started by Tanzania's host.

The national father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, has already noted that our work has already died and passed it, to support the process of fighting for freedom and the liberation of South Africa. It is not easy, and not the right is the vice president and the minister of defense, he led this responsibility.

Mwalimu Nyerere called Kawawa grounds while teaching of St. Mary's house, Kawawa grounds and he was elected as a nominated member of parliament and later he was elected as the deputy member of parliament and later he was elected as the minister in the government of power and later he was the minister in the government of power when he was the prime minister in the government.

When they got independence, Mwalimu decided to resign as the Prime Minister and his authority, he was handed over Kawawa grounds as the first vice president of the president, Sheikh Abeid Karume was the first vice president of the president, Sheikh Abeid Karume was the first vice president of the president, Sheikh Abeid Karume was the first vice president of the president, Sheikh Abeid Karume was the first vice president of the president.

The life of Mzee Yusuf, is an illustration of one faithful partner and adorned with the current father, but by the Revolutionary Party, he was not good hard to work hard and especially during the implementation of the stadium in Arusha, he was a leader that is not unyielding.

He was going round in the whole country, with the pastor, wanting him to explain the new direction of socialism and self-reliance because there are the villages that did not meet with him, are very few!

However, his great reputation was to listen to him and to remove the problems of the citizens, he refused a solution when he was told the problem, but I believe it had a great ability to learn and in issues of things and more than all, Kawawa was in a way for teachers and the young people.
Explaining the issue you want to be understood and it should be understood that he didn't have a habit of fulfilling his ideas and small businesses to make sure you get an opportunity and life of her colleagues.
It was not that, it was really appropriate, with a noble person, and a red card is proud to be a chance by great authority, he did not change him from this position and go to any place as usual.
He had a habit of presuming they want to come up - with the aim of teaching others. He didn't have a person known as the party or the government when they agree on an issue then that he will lead the FA Cup.

And Mzee Kawawa said that his political success resulted from all political achievements resulted from political groups without fear, he believed that at the end, they believed that at the end, he believed that at the end, they still have faith in many people with the ability and his leadership to continue improving.
The year 1985, Chama Cha Mapinduzi plans to be employed for presidency in Tanzania.
He requested for your information that it has decided to think of madness that his candidate did not meet the positions.
Later he was appointed as the secretary general and finally the vice chairperson of CCM.
There was when he returned to his retirement, he asked for permission to his colleagues, and he had a knee injury.
He was not happy to understand the power of power and the day of his commemoration to fulfill these years, it was clear that there is a private aim and not many people we want to have the courage to ask for forgiveness from you.

With maybe his great reputation, all of them was not having up and are supposed to know well, Elder Kawawa said that he had living a normal life in Bahi, Songea, Magomeni and Southampton are normal in Bahi, Songea district and residents of Dodoma have remember that he used to produce rice bran.
He said, different from others who have never been accused in the scandal of disgents in wealth or corruption, I believe wealth and his honor was using knowledge, mental disabilities, and their ability to serve them and help people in his wealth, and not things.
People of this kind are not many in the world.
CCM and Tanzania have lost a huge value in the world but there is no reason for giving up and the challenges that are in front is to honor, actions, behavior and contributions for our elders who were unable to take place in order to implement the rights.
It is true the future of the world economically and politics has changed so much but in addition to those changes, it does not mean that the nation, CCM and other parties will be discussed with each other.
We need very much - and especially because of our weakness in the African continent - a vibrant leaders, who have a good performance, we need leaders to ask for our problems and not to think of our problems and not to see our problems and not to see our problems.

Otherwise, the game to play in the nation and the African continent will continue to continue in the coming century.

The late Mzee Kawawa gave his great contribution to defend that, to protect and promote our honor and Africa was the pillar for unity, rights and equality and it cares for people.
We want to follow then to follow his footsteps, and his colleagues Mister Moyoni.
