Tanganyika enter the court of unity.
APR of 03 / 2014.

At the time the constitutional parliament has started discussing a union of unity that led by complaints that, for a long time, Tanganyika has shown what is called the union of unity, signs of involvement in the union and eventually Tanganyika came to come out.
Those symptoms have started coming out as the first day since the start of discussion about the structure of the union in the 12th committee of the constitutional parliament, with many delegates of the committee together with the opinion polls indicate that they should be surrounded by the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, which will reach 50 years.
Those committees started the work of implementing the draft constitution yesterday, Tuesday, have been mentioned to be attacked by delegates, close to delegates, close to the delegates, the delegates being mentioned to compete with the implementation of the draft constitution, Samuel Sitta wanting them to be approved by the chairpersons of that committee, Samuel Sitta wanting them to take them from two days the dates stipulated.
"The problem we sign is that two days for the purpose of discussing the first half and six of the draft constitution is not enough, the first round is like we can discuss the first chapter," said the chairperson of the 11 committees, Ann Kilimba.
However, in the discussion about those chapters which together with other things, the structure of the union, three major issues are mentioned to come out which is first of the delegates claiming the certificate of the union was the second in the way of words, the country and the Federation.
About that, Kilango said in his committee they have been forced to urge the lawyer for giving explanations of those issues to some members who need, if the parliamentary regulations are required.
He said that in his committee they are using a procedure of discussing the first issues that are involved and then make a decision by voting and then their report will be presented to parliament for the debate as it is in other committees.
Regarding the discussion of the debate, Kilango said that all delegates have been prepared well so much for the purpose of contributing to issues, they have been forced to throw words at each other and me if the chairperson did not get a habit of asking for a report "against the availability of the debate."
On his part, the Chairperson of the fifth committee, Hamad Rashid Mohamed said the discussion in his committee has been good although he didn't expect that situation as a result of argument of issues that are discussed which are the structure of the union.
The discussions went on well, there was a lot of issues here and there about two or three governments, the issue of delegates wanting the discussion of this discussion, but by the good luck they had been unable to do and be given, "said Hamad Rashid and explaining the foundation of that problem is some of the delay of making those phones.
On his part, the chairperson of the special committee, Ummy Mwalimu said the time of discussing those two articles, that is the first and six, it is not enough and they will give an opinion to the chairperson, Sitta.
He said that the delegates of his committee did a debate keenly without integrity, although also the issue of wanting the real documents of the union among the delegates passed away, but it was given a solution to those delegates to be given those phones.
And the chairperson of the ninth committee, Kidawa Hamid Salehe, as his colleagues said the time to discuss the articles of the draft constitution is small and at least the day they would have been added from two to four.
He said the number of delegates who want to discuss the issue is big and it is not wise to prevent it because of a long time.
In some of the committee, the tension about the existence of the real documents of the union before solutions looked for, some of the delegates claimed that the real situation that was signed by the president of Zanzibar, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and the first President of Zanzibar, Abeid Amani Karume.
