Bakhresa building other industries for fruits.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

Bakhresa Foods Company has planned to increase other industries for fruit processing in the country so as to increase the value of farmers.

The Executive Director of that company, Said Salim Bakhresa has given that promise when he met the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa and had talks with him at his office in Magogoni in Dar es Salaam city.
According to the report of the office of Prime Minister, Bakhresa has said that they have a plan to build one factory in the provinces of the Lake Region and that they have reached that decision after realizing that people are getting rid of transporting fruits to Dar es Salaam where they sell them.
"From the 15th of October, we will begin receiving fruits from Kahama and neighboring areas, and for every day we get more than 30 minutes, the same time we start receiving others from the Coastal and South provinces.
"We build building a factory in Lake Region, we will reduce the problem of stakeholders to sell fruits from the areas here in the factory and instead of us we will continue to transport services and make it into the production of production," said Bakhresa.
He has said that they have a plan to promote the processing of small food production in the Southern Regions and that until now they have employed more than 350 employees including those of 180, which have been employed in its branches outside the country.
"These we are paying you as a situation," he insisted.
He said at the moment the company has opened other branches in Rwanda, Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi, Zimbabwe and South Africa through Bakhresa Foods Company which makes various foods including juice, soda, water, rice, rice, rice, rice, rice, and supply products.
On his part, the Prime Minister praised Bakhresa's intention of the fifth term government to cooperate with business people and the owners of industries because it intends to grow the economy of Tanzania through the production of industries.
"The government values the contribution of business people in our country, we thank the youth who are the elderly in this sector, and that's why we are urging them to start more industries so that our citizens can get a place to sell their crops or their products," he said.
He asked KFC to look for other areas more than investing such as industry and tourism sector in order to help with the government to grow the economy of Tanzania.
