Those clubs respect the freedom of coaches.
May 31, 2013.

Last Saturday the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) made a seminar for leaders of soccer clubs in the country about the best procedure of registering players from within and outside the country, through the internet (transmitter), Nyankoni area.
That seminar that was given out by the Vodacom Premier League officers for the 2013 / 2014 season, apart from other things, it aims to eliminate conflicts between the team and regrets for leaders and fans when a player was signed, did not bring any success in the team.
The premier league clubs that attended the seminar are Ashanti United, Azam, Coastal Union, JKT Ruvu, Kagera Sugar, Mbeya City, Mgambo Shooting, Mtibwa Sugar, Ruvu Shooting, Simba, Tanzania Prisons and Yanga.
I was given a lot, but the journalists were waiting for the appropriate part of who one with a bond of registration because up to now, there will be an appropriate person supposed to address registration, during short period and end of the season.
This season that has already started in the middle of this month, has intended to have bad procedure of registration how it cost a big and small club, these are many players from outside Tanzania, they have brought about misunderstanding and money to be the one who has the right to get the contract of the concerned player.
I'm saying that the chief coach is supposed to look for a player to fill in the position in the squad after that he is partnering with the technical director to cooperate with the other leadership together with the sponsors of the team so as to look for money and ways of getting a player who was recommended by the technical bench.
The procedure used now is different, the coach is the last person to be informed about the kind of a player who came to the squad for instance, the league has already been a good coach to know how the team has a unique player needed.
The former head coach of Simba, Mujahideen, seems not to be a good coach but the prosecutor of Msimbazi failed to be silent because he asked the small question that was seen to win or make a good squad. "
Because of his question is that leaders are the ones that had been giving the list of players of the first squad, that coach was opposing the procedure when he asked him a difficult question that many found himself in the net.
The main reason for leaders of the team to plan is because of the money they used by registering their players, here, I have used the word "players' players and they are doing so that it does not kill the players and they are doing so as to bring groups among the players.
We have witnessed the coach of Simba team, after the vice chairperson of the team, Godfrey Nyange "Kabigiri" and the chairperson of the registration committee who has emerged the group number of Coach of the team, Zacharia Hanspope, and removed from the leadership of the team when they met the player, then he is the player a player to sign up a player, then he is in his player.
I think due to that seminar, the procedure for signing you will go back to the hands of the head coach as he described the secretary general of TFF, Kidau Wilah, where the procedure will help in a large extent to remove words and conflicts in our soccer.
Although the big problem we were with it is not to send to their foreign coaches, because they will go to get good foreign players, but in the new procedure of depending on the White men's campaigns, the coach has been given a chance to choose players who will have a great benefits.
