By the students of Bahi District secondary school in Dodoma province, they're being forced to walk for more than eight kilometers and two hours to follow the laboratory services in the neighboring schools so as to get the opportunity to perform science subjects in order to deal with the examinations due to their school not having laboratory and science teachers.
He knew that he has changed at the tour of women and services when they visited and inspect the activities of work.
Students at the launch of the female students' book in secondary schools that were found on trials.
On the left will follow the pass and more information from a billion in the province.
Without a teaser remember.
The slogan from the secondary school in Bahi district is facing students of female students and women who will inspect them from Dodoma province to launch the constitution of a female students' club.
Students wanted the opportunity to meet with women's leaders to show the science subjects by using poor equipment, I know the ones that are in line with science and technology.
Gas is taking part of the water that is why the sections comes from the teachers, we have a shortage of equipment.
Including when I am Chibu, we are using cans which is if you missed him Chibu and he is using a lot of money through a way of doing such equipment, but we are using battery that seems like the ones that we are here in school?
The room for the examination we had a shortage.
What is a bad person?
Many equipment we have been given here is the mixed tape when I was in school.
And the teachers of this secondary continue to give up the situation.
Lack of misuse of laboratory equipment causes all children in general, the male youth cannot abandon science subjects because they are not able to learn through actions, but when you get the students to go to the neighboring school, and when they get the way to learn through such actions, it will be bad luck and like students.
The Provincial Commissioner of Dodoma data and supply Nchimbi after inspecting the hands of hands and launching a constitution of a female students' club which wants some people to go back to school after giving birth to school after giving birth.
Women even tell me the girls?
Others swell.
We are following more stories when you get married, then you are not going to go early in mind, who were defeated by the ignorance of.
Only.
Inheritance left.
If he was going to me for himself to see you.
And we have been able to come here and the mother of the province is not knowing that it is not a new chapter, it has come to say that we can be true that you can be a girl.
And the District Commissioner of Bahi, Betty Mkwasa has said that they have been forced to start a large number of female students in schools after the presence of a big increase in students getting early marriages and until now twenty clubs have been killed.
