For a year.
Singpress there was a few students but even the small children are still their sales.
This time is due to the reasons for the small community of the people that are there with many people to get education for that reason.
What usually do that things are a primary thing in your life, therefore, even the success of students has been not satisfactory because.
It is enough.
And the preparations have met with children.
Therefore, it cannot change their parents, they are told to go directly.
And on that reason, then it becomes a strong desire to address various problems of challenges that students can be able to invest here in school, to make sure if you want a session of parents guardians.
It has been a matter which in one way shows that parents don't know the awareness apart from the students themselves because they are a small project of need or benefit from education.
But the parents also don't have enough awareness, Jomba Koi also causes the end of not getting good attendance and the sweetness of her father does not see the importance of Mathias Chikawe and attend to school.
The teacher says the presence of those few students is the other challenge that is making doing well due to lack of professional skills in form four in secondary schools, we have the students that has been caused by a small awareness of these students starting from ten students and when he continued to climb that examination, they will take the examinations.
It has reduced.
Also competition should not be among them as a result of lack of competition and they will not understand.
She felt it is not a very important thing in their life and because of that, then parents should also look at how to work on how.
However, the few who are in cannot get good results are not seen that they are not seen.
To give any support in the way that they agree with the procedure given by the government leadership but also to the school leadership because these students do not forget that there is still a big challenge for example.
Those results are still ongoing in a level that we can't understand that the right level is not correct.
The students that protects you are required to put in one class to an average of every school in the country, but something in the scene, following the presence of those students.
In this school we have four students alone and.
The cost of class seven students.
Fifth time.
Now you know that because it is a little level it is true that teachers who we see you are in a good position to get good knowledge but they also do not have a good opportunity to get better, but when you follow it, everyone can have one student with an average of one hundred and one student who has been the first one in four students.
But if it would be infected with thirty-five students, then when I get an average of seventies, he still became a five-term person that has had a lot of challenges that I would make sure he has never been clear that, so when I would not accept to be clear that, so when I would not mention them.
Parents who do not have a lot of teachers in relation to poor eyesight.
We look at the education awareness according to the parents of this part, it seems to be careful.
.
Look for children through their parents, but when it comes to you are.
Children have told three people and that letter we been taken to the children, that children can't attend to school?
There are a session there in a meeting.
To discuss each other with the students on how to get married but his results came to go.
For the fourth parents only out of parents we thank the children if it appears from the education sector in that one, an example is not good for our parents to make their efforts because of these children.
This teacher is also talking about the challenges of buying those students of form four, a big percentage of the students in our school, being able to be self-employed for the students because as we look for students.
And those of the students were allocated, his results knows how to reach its students.
That there are others that have left there are others that when he came to form the second which is taken to which they went to five children.
Your name is coming at the form.
They went to the four children, one of them had gone due to the pregnancy that we are still looking for students themselves and they have not seen him in reading and that is why it is heading to students how many years is going to control it.
Imprisonment.
