
Mwigulu Nchemba with three hours with TAKUKURU in this event.

When he finished in the past games, Mwigulu saw you in the law and gave bribery in every corner of Iramba has passed away night after being arrested and questioned for a period of more than three hours.

His fellow candidates participated in the race since 25 on claims of being operated on and gave their complaints while waiting for the issue to be dealt with so as to return to the campaign.

= Tanzanian shillings only / = Tanzanian shillings only / = Tanzanian shillings.

The CCM office in Singida province has interviewed several hours the deputy minister of finance and the former member of parliament of Iramba West Honorable Mwigulu Nchemba on allegations of violating the law on parole.

Speaking to journalists, the district commissioner of Singida, Mister Joshua Msuya, said Honorable Mwigulu Nchemba has violated the law to prevent and fighting corruption number 11 / 2007 in a exercise that endangers the opinion polls of his political parties.

In another step, Mister Msuya has warned all the candidates on how to follow up and provide bribes from the money or things, sports equipment, desks will have violated the law to prevent and fighting corruption number 11 / 2007.

In the northern region of Tia, seven were forced to vie for a parliamentary seat on the CCM ticket, they have banned their fellow candidate who is to be left to their fellow candidate who is the member of parliament of that constituency which has become a nuisance to the youth of the school to show his disappointment during the campaign meeting.

ITV does not live here, there are a efforts to see the acting secretary of CCM, Singida province, who is the chief supervisor of the province Mister Alonso minute, he confessed the existence of those problems and taking responsibility to suspend the elections supervisor of that constituency and set it another.

Some of the regions of elections with members of parliament who have decided to sign up the intention to vie for again, they have been accused of breaking up on elections claiming that the government will have many complaints, up to the step of requesting the government to take a member of parliament to vie for the parliamentary meetings.

Source BBC.
