
Agriculture and the fate of Tanzania's economy has denied the 30th of 2012.

At the time in my article I promised that I would have heard the argument that can be made to oppose the success of the huge explosion and I urge them as a way to grow the economy and remove poverty in Tanzania.
In this part I'll make sure that those issues are not primary if we will also have the will and will be able to eliminate the threats from the threats of us to explain these issues I will use the argument and answers.
He spoke (1).
On that issue, on its meaning that large will fail to buy the market, to fill in the store, it did not affect the market because the aim of illegal immigrants in the East and South Africa regions.
However, as a result of that strategy, it shows that the European nations are supposed to depend on food and the order of our leaders to prevent food to cross the borders of the neighboring country is evidence of existence of great opportunity for the market in those countries.
I will give you a little picture about the opportunities that are available in selling each other in our area.
Last year, Kenya requested Tanzania to pay 68 tons of maize by Tanzania said that it is a very big amount, it can't have this true because the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) has the ability to save 150,000 tons only.
On the African culture that is discouraging him is a good thing that is needed in the community, the government forced to sell Kenya 18 tons only out of 1000 tons that they had requested.
According to the statistics that are provided by the agricultural sector of agricultural produce in this Africa region (ACTL), number 349 tons (Nairobi), 249 million dollars (Nairobi), 239 dollars in Kigali, and 291 dollars (Nairobi).
So they will be self-driven cars, at a price of 291 million dollars in tons, Tanzania would put up about 466 million dollars, equivalent to 615 billion shillings due to selling Kenya only.
It's not only that, this month of January 2009, it has announced that it needs a food donation of 10 million tons (one million tons) of maize.
Those are a lot of money that if it would be done well would have decided to come to Tanzania.
Also, according to the statistics of the Makele station of Africa (Africa Ranaldo and R4C), the needs of rice in the African continent are increasing at a very high level more than any part in the world. Even areas that rice has increased to 15 percent per year.
In the southern region of the Sahara Desert, eating rice bran by 53 percent per year, while production has increased by an average of two percent only in the year 2015 in order to deal with the increase in the cost of rice, the purchase of rice bran.
This level of buying of rice of rice is equivalent to 20 percent of all the purchase of 3 billion US dollars (1 trillion shillings) every year by buying 5 billion US dollars (1 billion shillings) every year which is equivalent to 322 billion shillings (322 billion shillings).
Currently, if we decide whether to be a country, we are unable to make a plan that will enable Tanzania to get a half of billions of billions, which are currently underway in the south east of Vietnam, Thailand, Pakistan or India?
Tanzania has a size of 970,089 kilometers to enable them to reach 46 percent, but it is 23 percent of the area that is needed for agriculture it can produce 300 tons annually and every year in Tanzania has a shortage of 75 tons annually.
On that logic, if Tanzania would prepared well it increased in the production area of rice by 50 percent and production by at least 3 tons, the country can get 1,350,000 tons in a year.
Because the internal needs are 600,000 tons, then we will be able to sell 750,000 tons, which we can sell outside and get close to 700 million American dollars per year, equivalent to 297 billion shillings.
The situation is that in wheat flour, there is one company of wheat flour in Dar es Salaam which its needs are 600,000 tons annually and even if the company would have been the only buyer of wheat flour in the country and it could not be forced to cater for up to 300 tons every year.
Also, if we will be self-scale enterprises in our warehouses is the possibility of emerging with small-scale entrepreneurs because we want to show here is that the issue of lack of the crops that will be destroyed in our warehouses is the strategy of large numbers will not be in a large extent of large numbers.
Even if the foreign markets will be a little problem, still we can urge the internal market for having a program of grains, for example, the government can start a program for all children in primary and secondary schools, to get food during the day in school.
You can do your muscles, it is how many tons in a year will be called to our children, therefore, providing a reliable market in large numbers.
He spoke (2). The government will give out money for the construction of data, to buy and find out of all danger?
When I ask you a question to tell me the government now is using how many billion will be able to give them any billion and the projects that it cannot give them any billion, the cost of these projects are known but I don't have sure that the public are required to know, so I didn't know.
It is only saying that for those who are waiting to listen to the speech of these days, they will have already explained the promise of billions that will be used between now and the year tomorrow in which they want to promote agriculture.
There is a time the minister for agriculture for the first phase of the current government, turned up that the government had a plan to use 32 trillion shillings in the agricultural sector for a period of seven years from 2006.
Listen to me, in the program I will expand its cost, it will not be sold for domestic traders and outside the country and the money that will be sold for business people and outside the country.
Argument (3). The government usually have a lot of bureaucracy and therefore its success is small.
That is why I don't have been advised to kill in one of the activities directly in the economy, if this program will be started under the management of the government to fail.
It is true that the success of all the government in the world is small due to private sectors as well as France, it has ever been a special university to teach government workers.
In order to avoid the problem, the program I urge them that are run by one government directly, it will be an agent of the government with freedom to make decisions in ensuring that this plan is successful.
Listen to you, the board will work together with the private sector in a partnership (non-communicable diseases - MNCH). Stakeholders will identify areas with loopholes of the board to lack success and those that will be dealt with by private sector for example, activities of caring for the warehouses, small transportation from farms, insurance, and managed by the private sector on behalf of the board.
The issue (4) of this program will have been attacked by big business people who will be grain from farmers at a low price and they sell it in government at a good price, so that poverty will reduce.
This will not be possible because this is a special strategy to increase income to the poor farmers, non-scale farmers (Civil Society organizations) with the experience of improving the farmers in large groups that will help us benefit from other stakeholders here in the way it will help us to work together with other stakeholders in a way that will help us benefit every stakeholder.
The board will not affect each other from a private person, I will buy from groups that are not registered and it is not yet known, therefore the loopholes of big business people should not tolerate.
The argument (5) of borrowing Tanzania has contributed a lot of one type (grains) is to endanger the security of the country because if the produce is unable to expand the development because of the climate, the country will be in a difficult time.
Remember, I explained that the warehouses that will be used to be able to maintain large numbers for three years or more than this, it is possible that the country becomes difficult for many years since the country will make sure that the country becomes difficult for many years if the country will be aired well, irrigation farming has become a very important section.
The issue (6). If the government's money will be directed to a few crops, it will not be rights for those who are self-communicable diseases, and to feel that the country needs all types of crops only.
I said in the sixth place that the produce of the group (IV) of the produce that I urge the government to increase strength to public institutions that are concerned with the Faculty of Development, so as to improve its services in many areas of the country.
Also, because those who will be self-scale farmers have no time to produce other crops, then it will be a good market for those who use other products in different parts of the country and non-infectious diseases, there are only many services that they will have from others.
Therefore, I will see that if the money that will be paid for small-scale farmers, will be going on with different groups of people in the country including small-scale farmers, long distances and restaurants together with the government itself through taxes.
In that state, even the concept of contributing in various social services will be a meaning, it is not a period that people need to look for food shortages, but they are told that citizens have volunteered to buy products of their children, but they are told that citizens have agreed to contribute towards different skills of visiting various parts of the villages, is in opposition to those reports.
