
The members of parliament to return their homes, the executives are required to implement the budget of 18th of 18.

The Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania is expected to complete his budget for the budget for this year 2012 / 2013, at the end of this week, the meeting that had lasted approximately three months in Dodoma town.
It was a difficult job not only to members of parliament but also to ministers and other leaders of the ministry to ensure that the budget for their ministry's budget is not only well, but also for the interests of the nation.
We recognize that, in the debate of the budget, the situation was not wrong for ministers, permanent secretaries in various ministries and other directors, but also in this budget of the budget of the budget we have witnessed the parliament heading to completing his meeting with the bad behavior of bribery.
The budget of the budget to be finalized in a time when members of parliament themselves through their leadership under the speaker, Anne Makinda, as he was questioned by taking each other about bribery, especially during the debate of the budget of Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
With us as part of the good citizens, we are waiting for the results of those interview and actions that will be taken is not only by parliament, but also other public institutions related to conservation and security of public leaders, which have been taught.
But apart from all that, we would like to remind the ministers, permanent secretaries, directors and other directors of the ministry that, a time to discuss the budget has gone, now we need implementation of that budget.
On the other side, we also call on members of parliament to go to their constituencies to explain the citizens that they are supposed to be due to the budget that they will not participating in the implementation.
We will not expect to see the convoy of parliamentarians heading to Dar es Salaam city from Dodoma.
We are requesting the members of parliament to leave Dodoma heading to their regions, to tell them the citizens what is in the budget about different sectors.
The veteran culture of parliament to live in Dar es Salaam just after passing the budget is not to be supported by members of parliament and the representatives of the citizens who came out and that they don't have an opportunity to return to him about the budget facing them for approximately 12 months.
