
It is wrong to discuss the motion on, Dec, 13, 2012.

It is believed that one of the resolutions passed from the CCM general meeting that ended recently in Dodoma is to give Doctor Slaa's secretary general, as a way of mocking him and his party towards the election of the year 2015.
This is not worried because since the system of many parties started here in the country, it has been the policies of CCM to deal with the opposition leaders who were seen to be supported by the opposition leader who was accompanied by CCM party especially their opponent, and the one that was accompanied by CCM is the same thing.

At the moment the relationship that is between Doctor Slaa and CCM is like a good relationship between the devil of a red card, the devil of people who would have been forced to return to the group.

However, the leaders of CCM will not succeed in these efforts because they use so cunning, so as to bring back the opinions of the journalism profession and the efforts of our leaders to try to remove the citizens in primary issues, after knowing that they don't have answers of those issues.
They don't want the citizens not to fall down in our education system and to continue improving the price of food in the country which is one of the countries with great land and few people, including the leaders that concern them within a short time.
They did not discuss because we are told the economy is when the lives of citizens are going to be difficult, they don't continue to discuss and finally they went to leaders who registered themselves and stop the value of the tax tax in Switzerland Bank.

One of the opinion polls of closing the year is one that were unblocked by the secretary of ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye, that Doctor Slaa and some of the other leaders of CHADEMA who own CCM cards, especially the party the party has left is not their property to give the status of "is owned."
Secondly, the ownership of any identity cards that made any time has no reason and it does not depend on any time because people have ever been able to continue being students from different education institutions and they had already started having their identity cards, but this is the meaning of the identity cards and not the ownership of the identity cards.

For a political party, there are three criteria for switching off the membership of the concerned party on first of first, is when a person gets a membership card and according to the procedures of the concerned party, it is still a member when he wants to pay his card.
In all these, the party is not allowed to return his card to his former party because of having a membership card and the former councilors of CHADEMA in Arusha town have been continuing to be party members until today, and therefore they don't continue to be members of the opposition parties because they have never been able to return to their old parties.

That is why I say when talking about these issues, it is self-reliance and discuss on how it is wrong, therefore I believe it is hard to continue doing this issue immediately and therefore I request it ends here to continue to discuss this matter.
