
Where he is not there, where we are.
Sei, 10, 2015.

They have the right to ask for Lowassa as the president of Tanzania, and we have the right to thank Lowassa as the president of Tanzania. They have the right to convince him to lead them in order to bring any changes they are expecting to enable them to bring change.
They can be able to say Lowassa we are happy and why all their families and their families will be happy to say that we are our family and we should not say anything related to me, we have the right to say and to indicate that everything that was stated by Lowassa and the kind of leadership and those who don't know.
So if you will see this is not an issue to be sold at one side or another is an issue to recognize and to show our differences so that people do not tell you, because they can ask you, why they can ask you, why they can ask you?
Or take a very bad example, if you involve people living with us, we do not see you, but we do not tell you, "we do not tell you," we do not tell you, "we do not tell you" you do not see you! "
Or you have gone, then it has found a lot of passengers that when it is seen, it is very disturbing and when we see you are not aware where we are going to move forward, you can't know where we are annoyed if we are annoyed if we are annoyed if we are annoyed if they are seen where they are seen.
Last week, a group of refugees from Syria found himself forced to buy the train that he was told to Australia so that they were able to join Australia so that they were shocked and even to sleep she didn't want to go to go!
So, this is an issue of great and primary schools when I respect every person that she gets to Lowassa, you're not happy to do very difficult decisions, because if you don't know the effects to other people they can cause their effects themselves.
In a condition of getting tired, that is why you are saying, "I am not a stone," I was surprised, "I don't know what our brothers do not want to know what our brothers do not want again.
Others are still not aware because we are not satisfied and we are not supposed to understand the cause of our problems including Lowassa who we tried and asked me to ask ourselves or to see this is the kind of person's leadership like Lowassa who we had refused to try and see all his promises and those who are able to force him in the thoughts of contraception?
