The registration of Azam FC and the fate of our soccer.
Dec 16, 2015.

Azam have signed, Ivo Mapunda during a short signing window period as he also mentioned the most names of players to join with their presence at the Chamazi stadium in his age of 31, it is a good thing for his fellow artists Aishi Manula and Mwadini Ally Mwadini.
Ndela said that they have a lot to learn through Mapunda, he has helped for many things in football and he has changed the experience of the international matches and the audience of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League.
Mapunda, has started playing in the Tanzania Mainland Premier League before Azam itself has not been started, we are forced to see the name of Azam in the issues of business, food and drinks, but not in soccer.
But his registration inside Azam has shown a lot as a fan of the ball and a journalist, an act of signing up together with his fellow experience to be in one squad because it is need to go for the first squad.
I don't want jokes to be part of the technical bench of Azam in choosing the players to play or sit on the bench but to sign him and she does not have a lot of playing in front of Manula and Mwadini Kutenga, there is no reason for registration.
Mapunda, she has everything that can make the coach of Azam, Stewart Hall, to give him the first squad, while Mwadini Aurier has dropped the bench to watch it.
In making him on the bench, it needs a squad to be done by the goalkeeper of the consummation of it as Juma Kaseja and he can go to the bench and to find it something.
To cut himself, explaining the front of Mapunda with the eyes of the listeners as Mapunda, he will end to be someone from the bench and I think those goalkeepers will learn anything for someone who doesn't know what to do exercises?
Exercises only will not be enough to build yourself and Mwadini Kutenga, it needs an opportunity to go with Azam's goal in order for the goalkeepers to learn from him, but every time we look at the goalkeepers I don't see how he wants to go to the bench.
Ndela said it is one of the athletes that are doing well with Azam together with all the national teams this time, but for Azam to bring a person who cannot take them on the bench and to save our eyes.
Some of the old people who had already left their team after seeing they were put on the bench by the upcoming stars Mister Peter Cech is among them being left in Chelsea and to put a Tuface Idibia.
Cech is saying that for his 33 years he used more to play and not outside, he started putting up the age of 23 years to learn more in more than 30 years and learn.
It is a surprise of the goalkeeper who is 33 years, being under the goalkeeper who is 23 years old, that is why Cech decided to leave his home and go to Arsenal where he has been the first commandment in the squad.
Non-infectious diseases are not allowed to make him be the first person in front of them, Ludewa, in the life of Mapunda being the third commandment than being the first commandment than being the first commandment.
Despite therefore I don't see the presence of Azam for many years until when he scored 35 years and I see it will be known as' Mpita, and after the time he will leave her and leaving Azam, while he has not been used as it needed.
There are many matches that Azam are playing this season and they will play the FA Cup competition, they will play in the FA Cup, they are playing in the premier league, but there is a big percentage of DDCA to stand up several games.
Azam, they did not want to come up with the look of signing a upcoming goalkeeper who does not understand and learn from women, he wants to sign him and there is no great meaning because he will not have a lot of time instead he will be a person to the bench.
After a long time, the upcoming lady did not start harvesting its fruits by being involved with the best goalkeepers whom they could have been stable.
In making sure that upcoming goalkeeper is supporting him for the future plans.
