
He didn't see Doctor Uluguru on 5 o'clock.

Approximately one week after falling, as a result of being affected by the chairman of the Community of doctors in the country, Doctor Steven Michael (36), who witnessed the incident of an artist, Doctor Deogratius Michael (36), who witnessed the incident of an issue that has spoken to Good Citizen saying that he was not true.
I have heard that one radio have said that I am not seen and that I was not seen.
Truth is that I am not found and I have been communicating with different people because the evidence of that is like this for now, I will talk to you, "said Doctor Deo Filikunjombe yesterday on Wednesday in talks with Raia Mwema.

"Apart from arriving at the Bunju" Police Station, I went to the police station when he arrived at the Police Station in Dar es Salaam (Central Region) where I received information.

"It was not only that after that incident, I was taking this report to the police, but also I was who we were with the car vehicle of the AAR company which has brought together Doctor Ulbrahim and for all four days since I was at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere International Airport," he said.

He added, Doctor Deo Filikunjombe "I am the one that I was getting information of being affected by Doctor.
There was a gift that I was given to the police station, Bunju "this morning to recognize after he was sent by police.

"And it is not true said that commander Ahmed Msangi was among the ones who were in that event Doctor Ulbrahim and I saw him because they were with him so that we had to be with each time, not that he was in that event."

In another step, the development reports of Doctor Binilith Mahenge was found yesterday night that he was going on well and that he will need to be safe for a short period of three weeks ago.

But at the time going on, this newspaper said that this newspaper explained that the strike of doctors in the country together with the incident of Doctor Steven Mwageni has said that in the first time after the network of the network, claimed to be responsible to fund some of the doctors to stimulate the strike.

Together with some of the politicians inside CCM being involved, but also the politicians from one opposition party is mentioned to be behind pressure to continue the strike of doctors.

According to several news sources, the aim of the sponsorship, who however has been aired by the secretary of the Community of doctors in the country, Doctor Edwin Chitumba, is what they could be aired by the secretary of the Community of doctors in the country, Doctor Edwin Chitumba, who is believed to be a step of paying attention to the management of political parties in CCM and "signifies.

The reports came out of having doctors to ensure the improvement of their interests, in line with the provision of good health services, internal politics and outside CCM, have continued to cut off the strike and started making some doctors to review their participation in the strike while preparing to come out a call on wanting to return to the high table.

Looking at some of the doctors against the current strike is not yet confirmed, the official report that was given by the senior relations officer of Muhimbili National Hospital, Aminiel Aligaesha.

In his report, Aligaesha said that the director of medical services in the hospital, services have continued to be released on the level of patients, few who come to be treated.

"On the side of the department of treatment, all specialist doctors and AIDS (register) have arrived at work and they are doing their work, Internationale.

Regarding the children's department, he says that all specialist doctors are there and they are doing work in the wards to see the patients and challenges is that they are also doing the clinics for outside patients and they need to do so.

"The department of diseases in the country, will be used by a specialist doctor in the country and they are doing work.

The "department of mental health, the specialist doctors have arrived at work.
The fees for all patients to be taken to the ward, those involved with doctors from patients in this unit are many compared to the number of specialist doctors, but the clinic has continued to take place on the middle level.
"The department of emergency diseases, all of them have signed but it did not work only two of the doctor and he is doing work with the department of exercises for human rights, all the workers are doing work," explained the Muhimbili officer.

About directors of surgery, he says that surgery services are taking place but it is not same as things are taking place before strike because the patients are few in some of the clinic and some of the patients are many.

"Patients' patients who are in the ward are very few compared to the situation, where some of the patients who come to the clinic or admitted for the surgery is a few.

Speaking about the medical services related services, he explains that the laboratory equipment and such as investigation are still ongoing as usual although the number of the tests have reduced compared to the number of patients who have been forced to be used compared to the number of patients who have been forced to be provided to a normal amount.
On the other side, the information from Bugando Referral Hospital say that the state of medical services in the hospital is still critical.

Those reports indicate that the situation has been caused by an incident that was caused by an incident from 47 doctors who were in charge of training for actions.
Dinamo Zagreb, those who were removed in that hospital and returned to their brother who is the best of health.
According to the director of that hospital, Doctor Charles Majano has said the area which will be affected by a large extent after the arrest of those doctors is the reception where doctors who were received were received to patients before passing by specialist doctors.

Speaking to journalists at the end of last week, the director said that the hospital's condition will not be affected because doctors in the country can be able to deal with the shortage especially because the speed of patients went to get treatment in that hospital has reduced to a large extent.
