
You want to know about this technology.
Inside the past 10 years, we have heard several development in the world especially in the fields of communication and for example, today someone can make calls from the machine and also the machine can make calls and give information, asking questions and others.
When a person knows in the website, some of the companies can ask or talk to the service provider and think he is speaking with the real person yet it is a machine that was built on a computer system.
Some of the restaurants in the developed countries like Japan has a machine that can welcome people and to give a food list and then the person gets to them and have them given.
This technology is known professionally by the name Nimelewa.
He said it is the ability to work with responsibilities as part of human beings they feel it is easy, because a machine can be easy, because the machine can be very easy because of knowing something in the picture, running a car, holding and otherwise.
However, the machine that can sign a human being in things like playing the computer games, but you cannot learn how to play or put others.
The ability of a human rights program has started to affect the many employment sector and normal work which were affecting the income to people.
Think about drivers of the vehicles they were given many in the world and if every person employed drivers will decide to use vehicles that do not have non-drivers what will happen in millions of these people?
However, it is a must that I have its challenges because the machines do you need more human beings.
As a result of several examples I have given there above, now there is importance of the country like Tanzania to prepare well in order to deal with the speed of technology for a long time future, and we have been working so we can even sell outside and give our youths opportunities for employment and revenue.
First, we can choose the people from different parts about the issues of blood in other areas in the world.
These youths will make corrections on how to be used in education institutions from nursery up to the universities and other areas where machines are used or will be used in enabling human rights.
That we can now start a short course or long distances for people that will work in farming, transport services, communication, infrastructure, business and many others.
For example in all the field of AI, there is an issue of writing programs to use and machines so that they can be able to understand and do not required.
Here in Tanzania, we are using Swahili, therefore, a machine must be able to talk about Swahili as a result of Swahili ethics for the purpose of being used by the community. This is a small and important thing in the world.
It is a must to invest now for taking the youth to study, when they return them and bring ideas with new thoughts for the future generations to enable them to benefit from the growth of science and technology.
