To be transferred to Tabora province where the police force in that province is holding an operation against motorbike riders that are used to be safely on various parts of the province, who have been violating traffic rules for more than sixty motorcycle riders have been arrested in Tabora Town within a period of two days of the violation of the violation of the traffic rules.
Money for its poor households have been arrested by police in two days with better pictures as a result of various mistakes of the violation of the traffic rules on motorcycle riders.
The late the police commander of Tabora province, assistant commissioner has told the police force because the purchase of road accidents caused by motorcycle riders that cause road safety in our province of Tabora to ensure the exercise and arrest.
Together with other media stations if vehicles have to be against security laws.
For them.
We have done an operation.
To hear of motorbikes with different weaknesses.
The late?
Until yesterday.
The ability to arrest a total of motorcycle riders.
Six.
You're saying that if you will be seen here.
They are inspiring.
And to stop motorbikes that are involved in criminal acts as a director has called on the good citizens to help the police force by exposing these people that we can be in general in all activities.
They see where to first.
As a result of a business of running those motorbikes, the other one does not affect the ignorance of people of that crime, we request the citizens good citizens.
Things will help you that to be noted that some are not integrity and he is to listen to the business like Miss Vicky Kombe.
We want to meet and follow up and eventually you can take appropriate measures for their motorbike riders to know the fact that in Tabora they will be giving birth but so I'll give you the road accidents and other people are contribute to even explanations in accordance with the police commander of Tabora province.
The operation involves motorcycle riders and motorcycle riders who are getting in the whole period here in Tabora province.
