
These politicians are saying that they do not have any defects or not!
May 23, 2012

Normally, there is a disease of children and its symptoms are a child for planting and fever and the body shivered.
So there are some of the most importantly, especially in political issues and during the election campaigns like this year, I got to write this day every morning is entertainment to read some of the news headlines or to listen to radio stations.
Every time there is a new incident in Africa that it has been said.
Yes, in these campaigns of campaigns, there are those who declared openly, to write the newspaper, to speak on social networks that the whole person starts, believe that a person has been buried and probably, he has been buried and sees no longer.
There are examples of the presidential candidate of one political party and his picture is adorned with the opinion polls of our newspapers.
The presidential candidate who dressed in the military cap (KMU). He got his policies in front of the journalists that when he gets into power, then he will start praising all the visitors including investors! Dealay, not all the children just like that presidential candidate had all signs of sexually transmitted diseases.
In the beginning of this year it was sent a political party by the name of Professor J.
And in the end, he has been seen in the picture together with Mzee Makamba of CCM.
That chairman has surrendered to the hands of CCM's hands for your life is one of the symptoms of stem cells that do not have any more story!
Another he went to front of the press together with his wife.
He says he needs to be given a quarter o'clock at the State House and do his things!
Another one was opposed to the general meeting of CCM announced that every time he tried to vie for the presidency all the third time, made him to vie for the presidential candidate, Jakaya Kikwete, he has decided to go to him to vie for a parliamentary seat in the country and that CCM should narrate to him.
This doesn't have any defects or scarf, because it is a long time for CCM led by their presidential candidate who had gone to the constituency for that candidate and made a great campaign against him!
This sequence is a series of statements that indicate that those who depend on the symptoms of stem cells, what do we do?
I am happy that when I go back quickly, we will identify our elections procedures so that we should not continue to make our democracy we are in building as a joke to other people of this world.
This is the time to build a foundation of our democracy and it will be due to our creativity, it is not must to go after everything in democracy of our colleagues in Europe and America.
Because democracy we offer in everything that can be allowed in the environment of our colleagues, and not here for us, and not like the Human Rights Commission which will be known that the Coca-Cola tournament which will be used in every country of this world.
I write this because we cannot have democracy of many parties because it is enough to register a political party with 200 members from every province in the ten provinces of Tanzania Mainland and the two countries in Zanzibar Islands, it is a conducive environment that already changed some of the political parties seen as a non-governmental organization (NGO).
Because it is something that concerns the Tanzanian today being unable to get those members?
How many gods are today who will try to receive two thousand shillings only and register it as a new party member that is looking for registration?
Therefore, the political party does not be completely noted that the Percent "that is owned by a person or a small group of people who don't know if we are funds for sponsors for these parties, by being signed in their party's accounts.
Because it was not otherwise, the presidential candidate who has three main policies to start a weapon factory, to dismiss the visitors and remove the investors who could also win the councilor's position in any ward in Dar es Salaam city.
I urge us to have a constitution with putting three levels of elections and we should have elections of local governments, this elections should be of getting the chairpersons of local governments and councilors to take place two years before the general elections.
Any political party that got registration and which does not have parliament in parliament to start first participate in the local government elections before being allowed to participate in elections for parliamentarians which will be the second level.
This means that the political party with a certain number that will be used by the chairpersons of local government and the councilors is what will qualify to stop parliamentary candidates in the elections of parliament that will be held one year before the presidential elections.
The third level of elections is the one of the presidential elections which will be held next year after the election of members of parliament and party that will be allowed to stop the presidential candidate is what has a certain number that will be given by members of parliament.
In this procedure, even if the concerned party has been involved in the first and second phase, and in elections that will be unable to get a good number of representatives to remain in the concerned level, then the concerned party will be aired on level as it is in the soccer game.
This procedure can help us to strengthen political parties in the lower levels and also to evade a lot of candidates for the presidential seat as it is now.
And the great revolution we should be able to do is to look at the possibility of having a procedure where our votes do not choose the party instead of candidates.
This will reduce the problem of bribery in this elections and will enable us to get keen candidates whose some of them are believed to get into politics for the fear being pumped by the procedure of providing bribes so as to return to the elections or even the appointment.
Their daughters are starting to join politics and this is not a good thing to the country.
The procedure to choose the party instead of candidates can also be able to attain the place where the chairperson of the party who is expected to be the president in two terms as the chairman of the concerned party, we will agree with elections of the president and its cost.
This procedure will also benefit from the division of parliamentary seats that will involve from the large numbers of the votes which the party has given itself.
Kitanzini ward is the list of party members of the concerned party who can get in parliament if the concerned party will get special seats in parliament.
This procedure can be able to raise us to having two political parties or three political parties.
However, Mwalimu Nyerere was quoted saying that Tanzania needs two political parties and not the influx of many parties.
The danger of continuing with our current procedure without making sure that it is making politics to continue being seen as the dirty game. "
We must inform us to prepare an emergency environment to hear a statement to the "patients of dairy products," instead of a vibrant politicians.
