
Adnani has been forced to cross the neighbor and Jichunge.'

It has been written by John Gwao.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

A resident of Chalinze Town, Judith Paul is accused of giving birth to a female child and he invented the neighborhood and Jalala.

Speaking to the writer of this news through phone, the chairman of Pera ward, Chalinze Town, Hussein Mramba, said that the event happened yesterday at 12 o'clock in the morning at the Mwamko Somanga area, and is estimated to be between 18 and 22 years.
Mramba said that the child has a weight of 332, was found abandoned after children who were attractive, different things, and Junction.
"Those children are the ones that came out, and that's when they gave information to many people and go to take place where they found the child with good health while he has not been removed from any clothes in her body and something to thank God, that the child did not get any effects," said Mramba.
He said that after that, I had good Samaritans to vote for him, to look for the way to help the child who for now is for a woman who is believed to sit with him while the other procedures are being held in order to be in an appropriate place.
"By the explanation that we got after going to Chalinze Health Center in order to know if he gave birth, it was noted that the girl (Judith) gave birth to the station the day before yesterday at 4 o'clock in the morning when they were born with anyone, he said.
Mramba, who is also the chairman of the Council of Chalinze Town, said that after giving birth, he went for a two hours and asked him to leave after getting safe and he wanted the nurse to leave since he had not received a surprise of the house he is living thus he has fear of stealing his things.
"As a result of his defense, I had a number of parents to help him because of paying, it is not just after preventing us, where he arrived at the station by using a motorcycle," he said.
Furthermore, he said that the girl was seen to have a worried when he arrived at that station, however, some of the parents that were there were unable to set free the same way, something that is normal.
He said the reports have been made in various parts, including the police for the purpose of helping that girl with 100 meters like 100 meters, but it did not have tried to ask for him, but it appears not to stay in those areas since that name is no one who did not know.
