24 October 2013.

The report of criminal reports about him.
By Grace.
Ndeki.
The state of defense and security in the country has dropped from.
The increase of criminal incidences that are ongoing done by some people.
Senior officer of the Publisher Company in the country (REPOA), Doctor Mengi in Kinyagigi.
He said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday when presenting the report of the research.
That was done by that institution in collaboration with lazy workers, about events.
Crime in the country.

He said.
That research has been held for nine years 2003-2012, where events of crime.
He has been increasing every day from the year 2008-2012 together with lack of infection.
Police stations in some areas have added that, that research has shown.
He said many citizens will not report the events of the police due to bureaucracy.
A big thing that is there, therefore citizens should not be worked in together with police claiming that bribery.

"Research conducted this research.
It was looking for the increase of criminal acts in the country since the year.
2008-2012, the past years, events of crime were very few, "
Said Doctor Kinyagutwa, said that the research in Tanzania took place on May and June.
2012 and it donated 2,400 people every province.

.
The executive director of REPOA, Professor Samwel Wangwe, said the research will be done.
It has been done by 34 countries where in Tanzania.
He is leading to have the fear of 40 percent. "The following day for having.
Fear of criminal acts are South Africa (38 percent), Cameroon, (37).
(35), and Swaziland.
34 percent, "he said.
He added that research conducted in the year.
The year 2011-2012 is 42 percent of those who want to report the crime of the crime.
In Tanzania where it is.
That is small compared to Nigeria and a half of the citizens.
They are report to different reports to get to the Professor Mbarawa said the police force.
In the country it's supposed to cooperate with the citizens so as to protect those involved.
So in order to be arrested.
He wanted the government to cooperate with the sector.
Private so as to build police stations and buy cholera.

Chief executive officer.
The police force, Beatles, Silo, agreed with the research on the shortage of shortage.
The police stations and insisted that there is an issue of defense and security.
All of them are not the only police since the army.
It does not have enough police.

"From the picture.
The shortage of police stations, we should be forced to put the inspector of police every month.
And have been given motorcycle riders to work so as to reduce criminal acts. "
He said.
The lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Department of Science and Administration.
Professor Amon Mkeya said citizens are supposed to partner with the media.
Security to strengthen good governance.

He said that research will be done.
Also shows women fear more than men from that army to use weapons.
In different meetings so as to make them be afraid.
