
They do not have the criteria not to get grants.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been reported, 31st August, 2016.

The government has said that it will bring out the plan for a grant run by TASAF health fund to the poor family, all those who did not meet the criteria for getting those funds.

In addition, it has said that officers will be participating in enabling those people to get those funds, a legal action will be taken against them and return that money.
That statement has been made by the minister of state in the office of the president, public service management and good governance Angella Kairuki as he was speaking at the parliamentary committee of administration and local government.
In TASAF, the third phase, the government is giving a grant of 32000 shillings for a month so as to enable poor families to produce poverty that has taken place since the year 2014, it was noted that in several councils, the grant has been taken to different councils that do not meet the criteria of getting that grant.
Minister Kairuki said that until now 4303 families have been discovered that they do not meet the criteria and they have been removed from the list of those who are given priority.
In addition to mentioning the number of families that were removed by Minister Kairuki said that the amount of money that has been paid to those families before the arrest of them until the inspection will take place.
The Executive Director of TASAF, Ladislaus Mwamanga said that the coordinators of the project in that council have been directed to submit the accounts of their areas so as to identify the real amount that was paid in those families.
Minister Kairuki said that they will continue with the inspection of the households to identify people who do not have given that grant and take stern action against the officers who enabled that to be done.
He added saying that in some areas where it was noted that the funds were used to take advantage of its officers to take action as well as being evicted.
Until August last year, 34605 billion donated to poor families, but he said from March this year, the number of families were reduced due to the verification that was done by the government to stop and stop the criteria in that program.
Speaking about the success of the third phase of TASAF, Mwanga said that they have helped reduce poverty of poverty among the family that were living in poverty that has reduced, therefore, he said they will continue to make sure that, an amount of poverty has been reduced when they do research about the budget of poor households in the year.
Together with the delegates of that committee congratulated TASAF, for the step that they can deal with poverty that has taken place in the country, they had several issues that they wanted to be handled.
Those issues include TASAF and TASAF, to check the way to help children living in difficult environments with the member of parliament of Kilolo, Venance Mwamende to involve the children in the estates and those who live in difficult environments.
