
Let us talk to us, to talk about them for the best constitution (22).

The commission of constitutional changes has announced the start of the second phase of the process of collecting opinion polls to save, about to be written on the new constitution of the country.
The decision by the commission to announce that second phase is due to the completion of the first phase of the first phase, the commission have been forced to eight provinces in Tanzania Mainland together with Zanzibar, where he has met the citizens and listen to him.
Evaluation, shows that there is a small errors that arose in the first phase, although there is also success in a great extent.
Among those statements are together with which got spoken by the chairman of that commission, Judge (retired), Joseph Warioba, especially claims of the existence of some politicians, or through their parties, those who want their thoughts that involve their political agenda so that citizens can be able to be given the validity of those thoughts in front of the constitution commission.
This is a problem that we should expect to come out in the second phase of the opinion polls, we will not expect it because we believe that, politicians are among the groups that have a chance to give their views in front of the commission as it is for other community groups in the country.
It is an issue that allows you to see some of the politicians or political parties stop using their opportunity to give one opinion directly and instead of doing so through their own life, we are supposed to have different opinions which are important in moving to the new constitution.
Politicians and political parties is good to understand that, the work of the commission is to collect a lot of ideas from people from all sectors like the way you got explained to Judge Warioba, only one group in the community of politicians, has no not only rights but even the responsibility of owning the thoughts of others outside the group.
It is a must that we've heard that, a new constitution made with the thoughts of politicians, it cannot be a good constitution in the country, but that we cannot be free of giving opinions, but this opportunity can be able to give opinions on other conditions.
Among the requirements that will use that opportunity to give opinions about the constitution is not to buy new opinions and better services from other citizens.
It is our expectations that, the second phase of collecting opinions will not be faced by politicians, who it is clear that their ability has been dominated by great question that, it is in which way they can remain in power or get into power for the first time.
Our call is that the opinion polls are wanted so as to get a new constitution that does not help a certain party to get or be removed from power.
The aim of the opinion that will be collected is to put a good constitutional system for the purpose of building a good nation, that will enable you to benefit each other citizen to pay on the second phase of revenue collection.
