God commanded us to reach you when we get time we decided to believe.
Who is now?
This is not the heart.
But there are some who want to go back to be the website which we gave them to live it, said those who want to go to them don't want to see what you want to see if you want to see what you will have when I want to say again after that conflict you will have when the conflict will come from.
When you get a period in the country they get a constitution called Twitter and nine of the general secretary said they would inform the is the solution to the problems of people and then the constitution does not pollute the water problem, speaking to the sun's price when you will give you a safe price when you will be careful.
You have committed themselves to take.
Two three days I want to have been sent away, two hours you want to help this is.
All of us have said that it's not the same they started continuing to grow, they also urged me to leave home, when you get the constitutional process, all the days is not to stop what they will get inside you that you are with us to do that you are with us.
The late?
The process of a great constitution is the government of?
Now we have not want the government to cater for the process then the late I saw.
The child broke down part of the sun people but a page.
Peter's not yet said, then they saw an old man on how you had did?
But their parents who don't want to know your first challenges is to move forward if you are the opinions of CHADEMA's opinion, it is very first time when I do not want to talk and therefore I have not want them to make sure that I have not want to make you today.
The increase of income, Martha said that the collaboration of delegates should not be taxed and one person ask why so much, I told him what we are not very happy.
Best, we start the Tanzanians of God to prevent it here in order for us to be so much, so Tanzanians are given?
All of students who want to inform you today different accusations which are continuing to marry abusive language to our leaders, Kibo Palace is a plan for sending and being worried about them and not the father to the father of the nation.
Take that.
Saba comes from.
Any time there, not the researchers will be paid children, even at the thoughts is called on July 8th, the child of the net appears to do what to stop asking for a swim.
They went to him.
We went to me since he will be a hole.
People were seen, he told him and then leave each other in the constitutional parliament without a shame, without vigilance, I'm the father of the nation here, but it is not the same time when he will be the norm for the deceased who cannot wake up.
A curse.
But Tanzania?
Tanzanians and conmen.
It is very big following the answer to smoke, I would like to believe in me when I got into me when he found himself and what I want to tell me what I want to come from the road.
