
The African Union without Mkunde and tourism of the country, "joined Preston.
Jide 19, 2012

Another meeting of the African Union (AU) has ended this week, Ethiopia.

And the country will host, Ethiopia, is expected to be one of the countries that will be blamed "here in the world. England is a company of tourism has been started and it gets benefits for preparing the tourism journey in the" African countries. "

Those are the countries that have not started political, economic and social networks including some of the countries that are mentioned include Libya, Kvitova in North Korea.
As a continuation of that list, but you can be remembered that if we go to the list if we will not have peace, economic and community as a result of a habit of self-hatred in some of our politicians.
To be in the list of "African countries, it is not a good reputation.

And Greste, while in power he was the cause of making it, that the country has brought together having a great wealth of oil and good luck in this world, it is true that there is no end, it cannot go back as it was in the same time.

Greste, told me, "the support of bananas' by more than 40 years.
He recorded the farm as a result of the wealth of the oil in that country, the administration of Gogo, told the freedom of the thoughts of his people.

Early in the end of the process of Trachoma, power, there is a youth who had given this time, "we want it is to live a normal life as a human being even when you want to do, but when you feel it is not a slave.
And by Greste,, it's not only a dream, being coming from power, then his family continues to rule.
I got doughing, an ancient attack from Nigeria region, he got the king who did not be loved by his people, the king had a bad thing and her husband ran away.
They did not want their king to continue supporting him as King she used to remain a question, what does it do to come from the shivered?

After being unable to use the men's efforts in removing the king, then, the women in the country have shown their wisdom, because the king still had a shame and he believed in doing what the king did not want.

The king had a strong desire for everything on Monday morning to sit outside the Mwanazuo's council, him and his friends.

This day.

King told the forehead of her hands, he saw a big shame and that when he got it, he decided to leave at his seat of Pindani Nyalile and he released his authority to hell.

Yes, the country's leader did not know his people, Glasgow, Libya, then he did so, again this afternoon at the sun, and yet he stopped claiming he is a leader of those who tried.
He did not have a shame.

We did not depend on, Gusmao and a good thing that he had gone, but the very big offence he has done to send himself, to ask him that if a bull will make Libya's property and his family.

Greste, got him to stand and tell them that they are continuing to sing and play.
He woke up, "those who did all love me," for sure, Gwagilo says he has lost direction and a snared of the real situation when he created all the standards of alcohol addiction of power, many young people of Libya were forced to come out of their country that they love.

What do we learn?
The African Union is still a gathering of leaders which some of them are learning.
Those leaders are ready to protect their colleagues even those who do evil to their people.
In Africa, it has still a lot of leaders, who even today is that they have been affected by yourself when they are requested to give their views to what happened to their colleague in eternal peace.
When we go through so, they have a lot of opinions, the main thing is the truth, that there are leaders in Africa that do not like each other and make sure that they do not know and they do not believe in democracy and freedom of ideas.

They do not like a system of many parties not to understand and the concept of buying power.
They do not like a free election and justice of the rights like they do not like the constitution that, apart from other things, taking costs for power, it is same as to reduce their eyes.
It is impossible.

And in Africa, it has no leaders who will do everything to make sure that political elections are not involved in their homes by our African Union, if there are people who want to vote for them, therefore, they will be able to arrest their citizens.

For sure, which comes from Africa is this first time, the administrator will attract the demonstrators "chicken" and other names, and then he will make sure those troops will use a fire accident as the chicken "the demonstrators to know where South Africa does not affect the grave.

The good leader does not know and recognize the time that you get into times, they do not have the ability to study at times.

I have been able to write, that in a country, changes in peace is possible, but if we are trying to prevent us, to have to understand that climate change didn't be removed.
