
Tourism broke down.
By Carolyne Ekyarisiima.
The tourism sector has already lost millions of money following a mistake of transport that was released by England on Wednesday.
It comes from 100 workers already have lost employment while owners of the tourism sector as they get into their businesses after customers leave or put off their journey.
Approximately 800 tourists from England were expected to leave the country by yesterday evening.
"We are happy about the guidance of the office of foreign affairs and African Community (FCO) of England," said the report of Tanzania Tourism Federation (KMU) that was read by the deputy chairperson, Adam Junction.
Therefore, it is a sign that its effects on tourism and investment is not supposed to be considered if not (England) as a citizen of Kenya, "Mister Jairo has warned that that precaution will not affect the sector of tourism and others involved but also the tourists that have been accepted.
"Announce Kenya for these tourists and new others will be very difficult than it is," he said.
Warned its citizens on Wednesday, England gave reports of its citizens against all the journey, but the important important is that in various parts of the country including Coast, it said that it is due to the existence of a threat of attacks in the country.
In addition to more than 330 tourists given out yesterday, more others from America, Australia and France are expected to return to their homes after those nations are expected to return to their homes after those nations will be able to return to Kenya and the whole African region.
In a meeting with journalists yesterday in the morning, those stakeholders feel that the government moves to the importance of the tourism sector and warned that foreign revenue and tax will be avoided.
Those warned that the effects of those statements will last more than 2015 if legal action will be taken.
"We are happy to be very happy and action goes directly and sometimes the silence of government officials who are going to address this issue.
His silence about the state of tourism is very worried about those actions, they will be removed, they added, efforts being done by the government together with personal and private sector to sell Kenya in tourism industry.
