
The company was postponed for 20 billion to be connected to the national network.

It has been written by Flora Mvungi.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

Rex Energy Tanzania Limited has asked the High Court in Dar es Salaam, and ordering the two companies from China to pay a compensation of more than 20 billion shillings for violating the agreement of the construction of the national network.

Danford am presented the request against China International Company and construction Limited (TTCC) that is owned by the government of China, together with (TCC Tanzania Limited.
During their arguments presented at the end of the week, front of Judge Zainab Mrara, through lawyer Semka na mawakala wao. Company claimed that the concerned federation has been involved in a huge level to achieve the implementation of the construction work of the national network in the country.
Lawyer Antu claimed that, in their agreement about that construction, they were required to pay the Muumin Mwinyjuma company, after succeeding to unite with the government of Tanzania but when they received the construction work at the cost of 1200 million American dollars.
Lawyer Antu claimed that the complaints from their defense who were presented in the court before starting to be heard in the case, confessed the presence of those agreements and when the case is going to be heard by the top level officer of (TCC), he confessed the existence of a contract between Sikinde and (TCC).
He continued to claim that the responsibilities of Parkal Randall Company according to the contract it revealed the opportunities of the project in Tanzania because of (TCC) to provide technical information and other business issues.
Lawyer Antu claimed that after implementing his responsibilities, on April 31.
In the year 2007, (TCC) succeeded to get a contract that is known as Felex Ngamlagosi (Tanzania) for 1200 million American dollars, and one of the directors of Multichoice Company had a great contribution to make that issue but they did not be paid.
However, at the time we should be heard, the international relations manager of those involved, Anael Zigamba has claimed that the applications have no primary and the company does not know since the implementation of the project started until the year 2012, the case was opened in court.
