
Buses to use the electronic tickets.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna.

I was published today, 13th October, 2016.

The Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) has announced the introduction of a new system of distributing the buses and buses at the electronic system.

That step has an aim to ease the availability of legal revenue by the government as well as making drivers and conductors of the being employed by the owners of those transport agencies.
Also, the authority has launched a cleaning campaign for employees of the bus that wants to change the draw of drivers and Makaka where they were affected by their rich people.
Now, those workers will be able to see their draw against them so that they can have the validity of getting married and taking them to time to time.
The director of the roads of SUMATRA, Juan Manuel Pellegrini has said yesterday that the system of tickets for buses through the electronic system will start being used in January the year tomorrow.
But he added that starting December this year, they will do that plan for trials for the main buses in the provinces.
"For now we have started that plan for trials for the Christian company, December we will go to the buses that are in the provinces and January in the year tomorrow, the system will start for buses and all buses," said Cardinal Pengo.
He announced that system yesterday during the launch of the cleaning campaign on drivers, which involves cleaning the body, fashion designers and buses that took place at the Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam city, in that campaign, drivers and posters will take them on their draw and not the owners of the vehicles.
Hammidu Mbwezeleni has said that under the electronic fiscal system, they will enable the owner to know its real income in a day and therefore it will pay its own revenue and the government will get correct amount of tax and that of buses, it is done in tickets that were published.
He said due to that new system, a driver is not allowed to pay the owner of every day as they do now.
Instead, the owner will be required to pay the driver and the ones that got their own vehicle each at the end of the month, he said that for that payments so that the payments can be employed and they be employed under the employment system.
"Therefore, the driver and the owner will get a different employment contract and now there is no any contract between the rich and its workers, instead they agree to say that the day accounts is a certain amount of money and the driver we are struggling to find and look for them," said Cardinal Pengo.
About the goals of drivers, he said that within two weeks, the drivers of Kinondoni District, all of them are required to have changed their draw and the minutes they have agreed with the Education and Vocational Training Authority (VETA).
The head of the road safety squad in the special region of Dar es Salaam, Awadhi Haji, said that as the supervisors of the law, they will ensure that within two weeks the drivers of Kinondoni District Hospitals are surprised at the draw, which has managed by SUMATRA.
He said that as a result of that order, he does not depend on yourself with conductors of the motorbike riders because they will have a private draw, which will take care for more than it was previously.
"Those who will have arrested and take them to court," the chairperson of bus stations of 2000, Tegeta and Bunju, Stanley Nkenye, said he is happy about the system of drivers and conductors of the vehicle being owned by the owner of the vehicle caused the workers of that sector to be patient.
He gave an example that a person had leaving a work and entered the driver, another draw, a draw that made it to be used without considering the size of the amount.
About the start of being used in the system of paying taxes by using the electronic system, he said the system will bring productivity to the driver and the number of people of buses because they will be put in the official employment system.
He said the system that was there is the driver that it was not fair because it is a technical system that has the aim of benefiting more owners more than the workers, but the system that will be used in which the system will be started by SUMATRA it is clear that there will be an accident which will be understood.
"Therefore, those drivers will have been put in the pension funds," the leader of the Union of drivers, Shaban Mdemu said procedure to attract drivers like the party have been grateful and he asked the government to come up with that new procedure.
