Third in that studio need to be close to the sun.
How do you know if you succeed or I'm in clean and do you get to our prayers after being told.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, we have a lot of applications to viewers and many other questions from phones.
You came out one thing on one.
Ras Kiduku was happy and he is happy to have something that we got.
We had a snared of people and that is our aim especially on all days.
Truly I'm in here to answer some of their questions that I have been called to orphans in the way, I was not supposed to reach it is one.
Because there is ready to answer questions.
I will answer you, keenly they would say I have touched me.
And you're talking to many people the big business people for the purpose of soon, you will give you a solution to the availability of other times.
Very much, you don't know how many things that have been sold to have youths like you who does not have a lot of money, I said it is a billionaire in front.
.
And sometimes, their youth there is no young man to be in my office to know what he is.
How can you be Ukawa and why you can still continue when most of us know that she will be people who are in eternal peace, say he knows.
Also, Mister a funeral like the origin of the answer.
I want to say you too.
One of the things that gets infected with the upbringing that we got about to not get to their own places.
I have seen that many viewers do not have?
Things that they are seen as it is an obstacle or if it is a shortage to succeed in life.
There was a lot of things that are outside the business unit.
I was saying and we have found someone that I don't have capital, most of them if they said it is good, it has decided to work.
I don't have education, I don't know God, he says what my salary is little.
When a person says, I don't have God Father, when they face the late God, I am saying they do not like to make the environment.
For there, there have been a lot of questions that we have not started but it cannot get all the benefits Mister.
It is the questions of internal affairs, most of us think about what I'm in.
To answer that much if you have no such issues if you have no capital.
Or little, maybe education there is dealing with your parents, maybe he cannot be much God, if the government is not a environment, he has prepared himself to give you a way and I'm in here to give them way.
For using what they have to reach me, let me go to me that it is enough to ask me.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, we're close to me.
In the process that success and means that we are using it is not something that we have said as usual.
The end of the day is.
You're with who in the process.
And many times the people who use these normal opportunities which we are using and causing a very great success, if you do not know if you are not a person to get very great success, but I believe I don't know what's at the end of the day when we see the Almighty God, "I believe I do not see the Almighty God.
They did not succeed in the end of the day that you can be able to do if you shouldn't know how it is okay, maybe if you are said.
At the end of a day you're more that, that is the process that has managed to protect yourself how the debt becomes a very important thing.
God, will bless you that you are doing a good work to educate the community and especially considering that education is a lot, some of us will be able to pay a lot of books because they are very expensive but for Tanga alone, if you shouldn't know there and then covered the studio for the purpose of support.
We will also go directly in the things that basically there was a result of repayments at the period we did not see and not even so they would like to inform them and not to explain the capital to start his business with advice to invest in his phone company, "he said.
