
European Union will give opinions about the general elections of Tanzania.

The European Union have said the elections of Tanzania in a large extent have been done well but several factors have caused some politicians to instill doubt in the freedom of the NEC commission and ZEC.

In their previous statement in front of the journalists, the security have said that the first time had a high competition while they witness the big number of people come out to vote in a state of calmness and peace.

The security have said that together with that the commission prepared himself well to make that election, the absence of the concept of transparency and lack of good explanations about the permanent fate of voters, has resulted in a bad issue to political parties about the commission.

Those security have said that those things have caused by political parties to lose faith in the process of the election.

While reading the statement, the general elections of the European Union, Judith Chikomo, said that he saw the big competition that has emerged in the elections of this journey, but he insisted that the statement was previously because of the election activities are ongoing.

"I would like to emphasized this that this report has been released when the work of the commission was going on, therefore it should be noted that this report is not a last statement concerning the evaluation of the European Union," said Happines and added.

"We will speak our local and we are continuing to follow up on the exercise of praying for the results."

European Union is part of the international traders who are in the country for the purpose of following up this election which has also witnessed some of the political leaders when they fell in their regions.

Others are together with the African Union and those from the South African Community in SADC.

Moreover, the European Union have said they will continue to remain in the country until November 15, during that period will be involved in several responsibilities including meeting with political parties, government officials and public institutions.

The union has sent a total of 141 universities that were distributed in all 625 centers of voting.
