
Then treat 13 people.

It has been written by Benedict Liwenga.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

Stem cell life have continued to rise in road accidents after another accident which involved the passengers' bus of the Super Eagles and a group photo with 13 people who were injured and more than 10 others being injured.

The accident happened yesterday at 12 o'clock in the morning at Mwamala village, at the junction of Mwanza central road and from Misukosuko.
The bus that was owned by Mbeya to Mwanza, was on a result of getting married by President John Magufuli has sent condolences to the head of Mwanza Province, John Mongella following deaths of 13 people and injured in that accident.
Earlier this week, another New Force bus that did the journey between Dar es Salaam and Songea in Ruvuma province, was left out and overturned in the village levels of Njombe ward, Njombe Province and killing 12 people while 30 others were injured.
Mwanza Regional Police Commander, Ahmed Msangi, confirmed the occurrence of that accident and said that it has been caused by a high speed that is not clear.
He said that apart from the 13 deaths, three people out of 10 injured have been admitted to Bugando Referral Hospital and their condition is bad and Mongela who is the chairman of the defense and security committee of the province, said that accident is between 12, 15 in the morning and the driver of the vehicle at a fast rate, was unable to sustain his car.
Msangi mentioned the vehicles that were involved in that accident as a company of Supa Shela Mboto with a registration number T 874, which was ongoing with Anthony Shirima and the driver whose name has not been known and his name has not been known.
He said the bodies of the nine deceased, has been identified by their brothers, where the three bodies of mother and child, has not been identified and it has been reserved for Misungwi District Hospital, and one body has been built in Misungwi District Hospital.
He mentioned that who died in that accident, who had been identified by their brothers and their homes in brackets as the Monica Mbelle, Christian Bella Thriller '(Gullet) and Mabula Magu (Rukwa).
Others are Isaya Deogratias (Mande), Moses Kvitova in Dodoma, Kwimba and the mother and the child who at the moment are not recognized by commander Msangi said the accident occurred during the commemoration of road safety week, thus they will use the opportunity to provide education to drivers to know and consider the traffic rules.
He mentioned the three injured, out of the ten, those who were identified to be Faustine Emmanuel who is a frog video, Shija for rocket and a small child known by the name Martin.
On his part, the head of Mwanza Province, Mongela who was accompanied by the defense and security committee of the district and province, instructed Msangi to arrest lazy drivers who did not respect the traffic rules.
The greetings of the report that was given to the media and director of communication of the president, State House, Dar es Salaam yesterday, explained that President John Magufuli has received the report of the accident in Mwanza City because it is one day that has passed since the end of the New Force bus that happened in Njombe town.
"I have written much and other deaths of our colleagues, those who lost their lives in the accident in Mwanza City, and requested the head of Mwanza Province, John Mongella said it ends the condolences to all the families that are losing brothers, relatives, and friends in this accident.
I ask for all those who passed away from the right time when you go back in eternal peace and all those who tried to be patient, used to be patient and their patience seems to be patient with their relatives, "said Magufuli.
President Magufuli also asked for all the injured in that accident, they should be careful so that they can fully support their families and continue with the construction activities of the nation.
