The Ambassador of Same.
We have no talk.
I urge the government to improve technical education from primary schools, because a person is in a youth or the first child and I have been unable to be availed to the moment when they graduate from seven policies.
Most of the youths we become a great ability to the technical but due to decoration in schools, we don't know what your results do, but we become a professional talent to see if we become a technical talent to see that you have heard, we have heard the money.
The foundation has already reduced, there are different meanings like here when we pass through an example, we build an institution but we are supposed to be very big because we have not asked the government that the whole country at least other technical colleges.
Together with such a dog, they don't know here, the government that in this year you will give technical education in schools I will be able to go back with someone when he will go to technical colleges because he didn't know if they have got into the technical colleges because it could be able to go down in the technical colleges because it doesn't have an opportunity for employment that does not have.
One and I don't have a talk time, I would like to thank the chairman together with the secretary of my delegates, but I request the government to place the technical school in one of the secondary schools.
Thank you very much brothers, the chairperson for giving me this opportunity to the name of the bible on the chest and asked me.
We the youth have given technical education to be able to save their lives and we will be able to be self-employed.
For example the technical thing, you know if you get a technical director that you can be self-employed.
In our ward, small colleges in the technical colleges are very few so that I advise you to increase in the network.
Thank you?
Thank you very happy about her sister who are not in contributing to the debate who has apologized.
I would like to inform another others so that he can deal with that judges they should come soon.
Thank you very much, the chairperson for giving me this opportunity I am able to contribute to.
Separate himself from the name is called Masumbuko Lamwai and I don't know several actions, so he went against them.
In the technical section, I would like to talk about one section which he said no.
We are not a youth with this technical profession you can be self-employed.
Without being employed in addition, you are involved with various operations and technical activities in the tailor, when he went to Terry just after my fellow youths and advisers.
With various technical training.
He is a call.
To be self-employed.
Until now I commend the box for the delegates.
Thank you so much, Doctor Masumbuko Lamar, contributing to our debate and wants to get in a very high level, we would like to talk about technical education as well as technical education, to know the wealth of business offices in the school now, and with technical education.
Lovers like you like to employ.
Even the technical without fear who used to register a technical education now, I urge the government that to beef up technical colleges so that the youths can be able to join the technical colleges so that youths can be able to join the technical colleges so as to be able to sit down in local universities.
They don't like a lot by Jangala for us divergence during this technical period in order to commend the debt.
I also would like to take this opportunity to thank our fellow members and that is why they can reach this meeting and be able to discuss several several topics.
Birthday, I have lost a time I would like the name at this time to welcome the brother to the secretary so that he can study Msasani, short hours.
Thank you for free.
