
ODM Party has announced difficult conditions for the sick.
ACT- Wazalendo party yesterday announced difficult conditions for contesting for the parliamentary seat in Oyster Bay area, while the Executive Council and the Elections Council of the party met today to select the flag in the small elections on February 12 this year.
The party has also making a secret research in he said that he would like to identify the popularity of every player from seven people who came out to look for tickets to participate in the election.
The National Executive Council (NEC) and the Electoral Commission (NCCR-B) of the party are expected to meet today at the Orange party's headquarters in Nairobi being appointed one by a shot.
Mabisa, Philip - a group, Carl OAFLA, Fred Halla, Fred Halla, Fred Swagg, Mr George Mboya and Moses Kajege who is vying for the ticket.
ACT's chairperson, John Mbiku and member of the election board Peter Ochoa and told the nation today that NEC and Big B will be careful, to register themselves and contribution of every piece of contribution to the party and ethics being baro'clock in the meeting.
"The election board has met and they have signed all the importation and they have signed the guidelines which we shall follow up, therefore, it will be responsible to the supervision of each party to the party, to be responsible for ethics because it is a party that has given priority.
The board also does research all over the whole country, he from Henet Ward, to test the feelings of people about every corner, that is also a look like, "said Mister Mbijima, confirmed that they will observe several criteria before deciding to fly the party flag.
Moreover, they will observe the contract that was not official before the general elections of the year 2013 that was built in Saiwa.
"We will reduce the meeting of the delegates that was emerged on Monday night with the responsibility which everyone can be presented in those violence and also we shall talk about one thing that will be presented to NEC so as to reduce the famous opposition party.
