The importance of drinking alcohol?
Every month of June, Tanzania participates with other countries in the world to celebrate the peak of the World Habitat Day. The intention of those celebrations are together with encouraged the people to build a habit of drinking alcohol every day at a high level so as to strengthen their health.
The high level proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the agricultural and agriculture organization (child) is taking 200 million shillings to someone for the year 2015 in East and Central Africa, that level is used by the citizens of Kenya who use 140 billion shillings per year, for everyone.
Most of the citizens do not have a habit of drinking alcohol every day, statistics of drinking alcohol like died on the website of the Great Lakes board (TLB) show that a Tanzanian is usually of an average of 47 million dollars for a year.
While our drinking of milk is a knee problem, affecting many children still is big.
Statistics show that approximately 35 percent of children below the age of five are still doing here in Tanzania more than that, Iringa, Njombe, Kagera, Dodoma, Ruvuma, Rukwa, Rukwa, Katavi and Geita regions has more than 40 percent of the children that were affected.
A big reason is affecting many children here in the country is lack of enough food and non-infectious diseases in the construction of better health.
Milk doesn't affect all important part in the construction of human health as well as the area of the first bridge, oil, minerals, which believes, the sugar of a type of herbal medicines and water.
The children having been infected with a mother for six months ago and after that age, they were continuing to be shown and given milk for animals and another food they will fall down.
Contains amino acid minerals within a good ratio and therefore be filled with bones presuming, their muscles function and blood pressure diseases and doing other jobs.
Milk it has also been a little amount of the minerals of Songea as well as required to make sure that they have a great importance in helping someone to have a level of blood pressure diseases.
Milk they have strengthened themselves with teeth where 99 percent of the mining of minerals are available where different researches show that the mining of diseases have and helped to improve the weight to bones presuming.
Brotherhood with a good weight is reducing the possibility of a person to get a division with bones presuming to get married, diseases which are currently a threat in the country and in the world as a whole.
When a person is in 30 years old, if you get enough minerals, the body can take a mixture of evil deeds that are already using bones presumed to be used for other human rights.
However, drinking alcohol for oil or others get married, can increase weight to an extent and increase the speed of generating us.
Milk which have a large number of oil in the type of oil, "He hurts me" which will increase the speed of the bad type of us that is merciful and therefore increasing the speed of the bad type of milk, people especially more than 35 years of oil.
