President Jakaya Mrisho Gambo.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

President John Magufuli has assured the provincial commissioner of Arusha, Mrisho Gambo to be the chief information about social media that he has done the funeral of Arusha Province, not the truth, because it is a rumor that is supposed to understand.

That was said by Gambo, when he was giving the last explanation at the session of big business people in Arusha province, he met with them to listen to the challenges they are facing and to work on them so that they can work without fear.
Gambo explained to those businessmen to be the president of that phone and told him that he is the head of Arusha Province, and there is no changes for now, maybe he is accused of breaking up his position and not to unseat in that position.
That Head said after speaking to the phone with the president, the president asked to talk to the leader of the business party of Arusha province and handed him a phone to the party chairman of Arusha Province, Doctor Maasais.
Mahege admitted speaking to President Magufuli and said that President has told him that Arusha, it is required to have peace and calmness and he urged them to do business without fear and paying tax worth.
He also said that business people should not be afraid especially if the directors of his government will be working on threats that they are supposed to give information immediately to the top leaders of the province, because they are supposed to pay tax worth according to the law.
Gambo urged the business people in Arusha, to cooperate and work with the objectives of growing the economy of Arusha Province and not otherwise and had promised to cooperate with the state of property, "said every resident of Arusha Province, is supposed to do its activities in accordance with the law and there is no one in the law.
He urged the citizens of Arusha to follow the work and stop politics in the primary issues to improve the economy of Arusha province.
"I am the head of Arusha Province and I have done work according to the law and the ones that do political work, we do politics and not to intervene in daily performance of the government officials," he said.
So as to use a letter in the State House, talking about conflict, wisely, in Arusha town the day before yesterday, because some showed that they were impressed, but others want his disappointment with the law.
