Breeders in the provinces where the exercise for products and work which continues, have cautioned to be keen with fraudsters who are facing them in their areas to lure them that they provide the traditional medication to Omari Mkali.
Doctor George Mshenga, who is one of the experts who have been giving training on that treatment in Mbeya City, Morogoro province, has said all experts who provide training to Morogoro province and cut off the buses that were given training after the two weeks will be charged according to the law.
Perhaps, he dies or has said the vaccination is not easy to be careful and not every doctor or the livestock that can grow and use it because of its effects from what they mingled by using an issue that can cause the deaths of animals and also the animals can cause the body itself.
The Almighty God bless you.
Only, we have decided to see him there are Butiama.
How five different teams Jaffer Machano is different.
That is very dangerous but does it work well.
This is something that let me ask you.
On his part, the assistant officer of the first division of the council of Chunya District, Professor Ignas Rubaratuka has said just after being given the vaccine for Chunya District, I will make sure that controlling the importation has been built in that district while the vice chairperson of the union.
The District Commissioner of Chunya District did a meeting to be a good meeting with the neighboring provinces as it was killed.
To fail to be defeated in the country without following the procedures.
So now the procedure is there?
In order for you to get in the district of Chunya District, the first to get a permit to the village concerned that it has failed to last within the number of livestock which is in the area.
.
Hayatou, I think that I have been much desired the minister so.
After getting information that there are drugs that have been found?
William a young man is a great meaning that I will be careful because the youth is something that is very big for a long time.
From the village of Somanga Fungu, Chunya District, Mbeya Campus, Jamila Kakoma.
