
All laws be in Swahili.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, 18th September 2016.

The secretary general of the ministry of constitution and law, Professor Sifuna Mchome, has said that from now all laws that will be supported in the country will be in Swahili language so as to enable many citizens who are the beneficiaries of those laws, to understand.

The decision goes hand in hand with previously the laws that are used in the country which are in the English language, so as to fulfill the aim of making many citizens fail to understand.
"For now the government has decided that all the laws in the country will be in Swahili language and those which are in the Swahili language will be interpreted as so as to enable the beneficiaries of those laws to understand," he said.
He also said that the government will look at all the laws that have been affected by various stakeholders that they do not meet their needs or need, they do not meet their intention of serving its citizens easily.
Professor Muhongo said that in Dar es Salaam city yesterday after receiving recommendations that had been presented by the Women and Development Corporation (WiFi) which are accused of the traditional laws concerning the issues of inheritance of the ones that were involved with those affected by women in the country.
Professor Mshana has thanked Wienerschnitzel that they did and promised that its experts in the ministry will work to ensure the law in the country is moving forward and help many citizens.
Speaking at that hand over the Director of Wienerschnitzel that has been removed by the traditional laws that have the highest level has caused women, denying them rights to own wealth and to be able to produce their husbands.
He said in those recommendations, Wienerschnitzel that requested the government to support one law which together with religious leaders will meet the issues of inheritance and put inspiration of privacy on behalf of the woman and a man, being together with female children and female children have died.
