
06 / 2013.

LHRC, and wanted to return when he arrived.
By Mariam.
Mziwanda on the picture.
The Law and Human Rights Center (LHRC).
She has forced the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, when he arrived.
As a result of the directive that they were given to those involved in protecting the resources of the country.
He had shot and killed all people that will be found or involved in their businesses.
The ones that were kidnapped by the government.
The lawyer of LHRC, Mister Harold Sakali.
He said that in Dar es Salaam.
Yesterday while speaking to the press on behalf of the director.
The center, Doctor Helen Kijo Bisimba raises questions.
He said it is normal for many leaders in the country.
The not supposed to be responsible so that it is important to know that there is no one who is high.
The law where the center will fight to protect the requirements of the country's laws.
Otherwise.
All of them were involved.
Break the rights of citizens in the "operation of being affected.
They will not be left together with this operation, it was a huge loss to different people.
Badly, lost life, the people were burnt down and killed.
Livestock.
The station has received deaths from deaths.
Different places in the country, basically we will not fear the legal action.
Any leader who will use the opportunity to break the constitution of the country and.
Citizens, "said Mister.
He added that apart from the killing of people.
Different of that operation also have 190 youths were shot dead in the village.
Inflation, Tarime District, Mara Province.
Mister Sakali in that operation.
It was done in the system of making special seats of destroying the suspects.
Mistakes of crimes are due to that situation, that center has been forced to take place.
A bond of 13 suspects.
"These people were presented to the court.
The Bunda District who were arrested in being found in a special camp sponsored by being stoned.
The officers of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF), who was signed.
The certificate of the oath of taking the suspects in court, "said Mister.
He added that those suspects have explained.
That he was arrested due to the list that was presented to the head of the operation.
Whether they have land in the affliction that were accompanied by a sharp object.
And taking off the gun to cause mistakes.
He said the station affects some.
Doctors who in a large extent have been seen to be true the truth about the reasons.
Deaths of people who benefited from the claims of being involved in the crime has been made.
It was taken against them.
Clarified that there is a need for Ambassador Kamala.
The resignation of the government to protect that operation and people who were affected.
Compensation.
"We call.
The leaders leading by considering the basis of the constitution, law administration, rights.
The human being and avoid removing words that concern the rights of human rights. "
He said.
