
The commission that contributed to ghost workers.

It has been written by Benedict Liwenga.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Mwanza Provincial Commissioner, John Mongella, has constituted a seven-day commission for inspection and identifying some of the workers of the Mwanza City Council that contributed to the presence of teachers and more than 350 students that are being built in Mwanza city.

Mongella said this yesterday in the city when he was explaining the steps taken by the province to control ghost workers and added that the procedure will be sustainable in his region.
He said the commission which involves representatives from the police force, the National Security Council, Mwanza City and the representative from his office is expecting to work for a period of two weeks starting the day before yesterday.
"The area where the commission started work is in Mwanza town, which have discovered more than 1600 ghost students and the head of the department or any worker of the council is found to cause the existence of teachers and ghost students should never tell them," he explained.
He said the government in his province cannot accept to see good plans that are being done by President John Magufuli of giving education without payments and to provide services to the teachers to make sure that they get money to make the names of students and ghost workers.
"Until now, we should make sure that you cannot go like that, we cannot go to if the hen on earth, Honorable President we are looking at night and in the afternoon to look for education money, then other people want to enter through those funds," he said.
The Director of Mwanza City, Kiroboto has said that some of the teachers who were found to be ghost workers are those who had retired, will be retired from others who left work due to various problems.
Kibamba said that he and his fellow workers used a long time to do the analysis (center) to some of the schools in his council to identify ghost teachers and more than 350 students and added that he will supervise the truth about the exercise until its end while insisting that it's a exercise that will involve the research on the end.
