
CHADEMA are vying for the protests.

It has been written by me.

I was published in 1st October, 2016.

The Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has agreed that after stopping for the second time, the wall of the wall which was expected to take place today in the whole country for what they claim is every time they had planned to disrupt the day.

However, the party said that the operation has been forced to move forward to a special time which will be planned and that it has changed the infrastructure, whereby the strategy will not have a wall through the public meetings but also through the party meetings in the regions, district and provinces.
Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam City, the national chairperson of parliament, Freeman Mbowe said the not of the party has shown plans that are being organized by security institutions of cooperatives so that they can be able to talk about that a wall has caused the deaths.
Mbowe said they are taught the means to check the environment, safety of citizens, leaders of the party and their party members and insisted that a wall that will be only one day, instead the official schedule will be announced.
"
He clarified that they were announcing the protests of the wall, which will take place on September first this year, religious leaders urged them to continue with that plan and requested them to continue with that plan and requested them to come up on two weeks time because of lack of political rallies until the year 2010.
According to Mbowe, by congratulating the authority of religious leaders in defending and protecting the peace of the country, they announced that the operation will not be there and instead they started moving forward to October first (today).
He also said that until the day before yesterday, the special committee of the executive committee of that party met to know if the religious leaders were given any information to the what they had promised, but they did not receive any information like those leaders who had promised and President John Magufuli or any government leader or if they have any advice to give them.
He added that as a political party, are required to respect religious authorities and they will continue to respect those leaders, but they will continue to fight for their rights like the law of political parties.
He explained that the political fight is not a one day event, but it is sustainable and that after assessment has found that there is importance of not continuing with that meeting to be done.
He said that they have noted that army have been ongoing in planting trees with the aim of dealing with the followers and their citizens instead of protecting themselves as saying that the army were found to go to Kagera to help the citizens who are faced with an earthquake.
Mbowe said the reasons for the leaders to deal with opposition parties in the country will be made by agents who come to various samples including the former chairman of the Citizens Party (CUF), Professor Ibrahim Lipumba.
