
The presidential candidate of Ulbrahim and the deputy speaker of Shangani.

The state of democracy in the country is similar to the picture together with the talk of President Jomo Kikwete, his party and his government to be an example to be followed in the running mate and the government is not ready to look at the operation of parliament and the government.
There are some who know fake hope that the process of writing a new constitution can change this situation and bring a new constitution that will be enough for this situation.
To me, I have a lot of hope more than the hopes that even the process itself has already been done by the support of dollars and the party to make sure that the speaker is continued.
Now the leaders of CCM and the district heads that come to the whole country to plan people and give them opinions of giving the front of the commission to coordinate the new constitution. The views that tries to promote the western part that deals with the concept of illegal immigrants.

The opposition camp in parliament in a meeting of the last year's budget was removed in public as the presidential candidate of our nation is as summoning demons.
The motion was built and revealed that as the situation is, the president is everything in our nation and that is why he went up, he didn't know how he refuses the law and he knows it, he does not recognize him, he gives him citizenship, he does not recognize him, he gives him citizenship, but he refused.
This President is part of the parliament but basically he is saying that the parliament is the place or for a very long-inch width, the president is the parliamentary candidate and his chairperson is the president, Speaker Makinda to be appointed by his former president and his lover.
After seeing that speaker, it is dangerous to the speaker who do or decide contrary to the requirements of the president and even if the president does not have a habit of removing its statements to the parliament through the speaker, is still a terrorist who will hold it to the president asking him to do what.
Efforts of making a parliament be careful, mother's mother, Puntland, Samuel Sitta and up to here we agree to be the presidential candidate but it is the constitution that causes the freedom of parliament to do the parliament because it has signed that parliament with his requirements.

Here, the president is in the process of the chief justice, judges, to register all the court and heads of the pillar that put aside the possibility of private discipline of the president not to intrude in the pillar in its performance, the possibility of the judges.
"I tell you the authority that he appointed in making their decisions that involve the broader interests of the rich and his government is same as making the judges to be angels.
Even when it comes up, one judge or a group should have a permanent stand about some issues, there is still a big possibility of distorting the program through internal changes that are being done by the chief justice.
I don't want to say more than here but you do not have been saying that there is a shadow of the president, what is important again to see the court in their areas as part of the government where they are leading in a way of instructions and giving them.
When the judge told those instructions, the secret step is taken to request the authority about the judges, so that they can be able to be stopped from those areas.
In addition to the ministry of law and office of the chief justice, they can fulfill this fact, I commend the judge and judges who were affected by the port without the ones that represent the president.
At the end of the day it is easy to the judge or the judge who made the decision of the judge or the judge in his performance, but never he cannot be safe if she desires to benefit from the instructions of the president.

The pillar of the parliament is expected more because it has shivered because it is a speaker and the president.
When you follow the parliament it depends on, you will see you are the danger of claiming that there are democracy in our parliament and seems to say anything related to anyone who is a speaker who does not hesitate to say anything related to the parliament and they should be given out of parliament to be given out of parliament and not to get out of parliamentary sessions.
He is a speaker, without communicating with anyone or advice, he can appeal to postpone the activity until when he is proud of being an emergency decision and not an emergency decision, therefore the regulations can say otherwise, because of what is called "wisdom in the seat and the culture, a culture and culture."
The things have no doubt anywhere and that is the speaker who has the ability to decide which is the traditional and a good example depending on the past, and he has lost two sides.
It's a speaker who doesn't have been condemned, without hiding anything without any effects and forcing him to be emphasized by the members of parliament of his party.

The effects of shivered by the speaker of democracy in the country is very big and many people with the chairmanship position in media are determined, we believe the system (style) of leading the parliamentary sessions that is being shown by the speaker and chairpersons of parliament.
Because the parliament is a high level and respect to honor, we have decided to follow the system that is being shown by the speaker and procedures, but the nation is making the thoughts of people with different opinions and wherever you were not the chairperson, you have the ability to not like the mistakes of thinking and to decide the behavior which is a scandal to our democracy.

From the audience of the speaker, parliament, other dangers that have come out.
The list of those effects are long but I will stop some of our parliament has changed to be at bribery, where the seat is used to do when we want to meet this behavior.
The office can talk like the president and as the court on allegations of bribery they were able to make corrections on the excuse of security or intervene in the court.
The decision by the speaker is like a fox that doesn't have an appeal, and the appeal to be paid is still a decision.
This habit of conflict the parliament and the citizens and it is raising a rebellion to citizens against their government, lazy ministers have been forced to sharp object on the audience of the speaker, and the weaknesses of the government cannot get drugs because you have got the chest with the speaker.
Some of the few ministers do the work they are complaining that this behavior of speaker did not help work with lazy ministers.
Because many media stations have been touching on this issue of running the parliament, the speaker, and the chairpersons are not supposed to see many people that you remember the speaker who passed through try to restore honor of this instrument.
The decision of Jambo was caused by the weaknesses of the presidential institution.
Those decisions are made in parliament, they so much together with the government.
