
There is a doctor of contraception?
President John Magufuli inspecting a parade before handing over an award to the 586 officers of the Tanzania People's Defense Force, the 58 / 15 at the military college of Monduli TMA, Arusha province yesterday.
Dar es Salaam city is very close to the year 1980, an indication that he could cause a lot of pain in his body, while part of his generation as well as a doctor of Tumaini Hospital in Dar es Salaam city for a mistake.
Since last year 1999 has been suffering in different hospitals to look for a service of improving its generation, but up to now, he is not getting treatment and instead it is used to listen.
An indication that he underwent the operation to sign up by Doctor Benson Baller, April 16, last year and later he started suffering from pain and sent a bad luck while the efforts to resolve the problem was done because the doctor who done a surgery doesn't have information about what happened.
"I say I have gotten tired," said an indication that when he spoke with the Citizen.
"I have written the drugs since January up to today, I have not got an affordable cost and I have asked that report without success."
The surgical operation which he started to hear the problems, he went to hospital and was told by the doctor that he was supposed to have a surgery on the generation because it was called "Masau boasted.
One day after that operation, created a big blood transfusion service, with the size of the child.
"Even Amana bank was surprised to me he was surprised since the blood stream of the blood was divided, something that was not normal for someone who was operated on especially that of the cervix," claimed an entrance.
He said Doctor Cheni claimed that he was attending to the clinic for a period of two weeks, but in that period, he started not disappointed with severe pain and skills of the generation and to be able to cater for his secret areas to an extent of someone being able to be supported.
"I am pleased with a big issue I am happy to see the generation that allows you to check, most importantly, go back and we had to come back to the hospital to meet the doctor," he said.
He said that when he arrived for the phone from Mulago, who at the time he was going on, therefore he ordered him to partner with another doctor in that hospital.
"The doctor who had been directed to let me look for he told me that he has discovered that she has written on the cervix and brings you an opportunity," said Kamuhabwa.
According to an average, the doctor told us to vote again so as to resolve the situation, but he refused because he was warned by Doctor Cheni claimed to go to Hyatt Regency Hospital so as to get advice and there that doctors told the instructions that were in his certificate.
The criminal tests are claimed that he has injured in the wall of the generation that is the ones that brings you similar to the smell to do.
In a short time, the Hyatt Regency has told me that I will be given a new generation, but even them can't give me any treatment because that one has started, he has not given a surgery reports who sees it, "said an entrance.
As a result of his condition as bad, an indication that he decided to go to the CCBRT hospital where he was told, he has not seen any place within and outside of the generation and also the deaths used to see a place where they were used in illegal immigrants and not within the body.
"The CCBRT doctor (name withheld) has told me that I have been operated on, therefore, I sent it to the report that I had been done by the doctor so that they can be able to pay for him, or else they will be able to pay for me," said Kadilana.
Accused he released the issue to the director of that hospital, Doctor Aifena Mramba and Ngosha Magonya, who attacked them and later he wanted to give him the report of the doctor who cared for the beginning, Doctor Mwaka.
According to that director, the report of Doctor Rutambi has not explained what that took place at the previous operation of improving the cervix.
Announcing his efforts to get the report of Doctor Cheni claimed that what he has done during the operation is impossible because he has been aired every day.
After retiring from that report, Doctor Cheni claimed that if he will give him him, it will take six years his case to end and if he will win an average they will be required to pay the cost.
Arising from that, an indication that he decided to go to the Ministry of Health where he brought to Tumaini hospital to request for its treatment report.
However, Tumaini gave a report to the ministry and accused when he wanted to make his use, he was told Doctor Benson Bena when he was asked about those allegations, Doctor Mahanga was the author to go to the director so as to get all information instead of asking him.
"I request to go to the director, there you know that it is divided into a Christian and he was given out other things," said the doctor.
When he was asked more about the surgery that she had done, he said he cannot give information of a patient with another person and asked the leadership of Tumaini hospital you are seen.
The Assistant Director of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Aifena Mramba, said his unit was working on an issue of making an average in his level and he instructed them to break up his high level.
"I have told us that he will go to another desk that he arrived here and we helped him and we will be able to do, other instructions he will know," he knows, "
He said.
Speaking on that issue, Tumaini's director Gavin Van Der Pluijm said it is not correct for discussing the issue of a patient with people who are not involved.
Regarding breast cancer screening and the doctor of that hospital, Doctor Ngemera said that he does not have answers of those accusations because they are supposed to be discussed by experts.
Meanwhile, Doctor Ngemera said that he was given the first report which he refused and for now it has been organized for another report but his sentence has not been released.
"He was wanting the report of the news, we are preparing preparing for him, he has not mentioned to take a problem," said Doctor Ngosha Magonya.
