
Ukawa visits the Tanganyika Foreign Affairs.

The leaders of the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa), have continued to continue claiming that the union's system of three governments out of the constitutional parliament with all power, including doing demonstrations in the whole country.

That stand was explained by those leaders at different times in a public meeting that had flooded the fans at the Kibiga Stadium, Unguja yesterday.

The chairman of Ukawa, Freeman Mbowe said that they have decided to stop the constitutional parliament due to the effects of bribery, threats and abusive language while some of the members of parliament have been promised to go to citizens to explain the draft of the commission on constitutional changes that was presented by Judge Joseph Warioba.

"It is a dangerous issue in the process of the constitution that they will not be cowards or fear, it should be ready to show the leaders that we have a strong union, we are fighting for the army to take power," said Mbowe.

Lipumba is always.

The co-chairman of Ukawa, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, said the delegates of Ukawa have decided to retire from parliament due to the statement of President Jakaya Kikwete that he claimed to be satisfied and controlling the commission of Warioba.

He said they will not go back to parliament and that you can't discuss a constitution that is not the views of the citizens.

He claimed that closely President Kikwete decided to defend his party's policies and fighting the views that were given by the citizens through the commission of constitutional changes.

"President Kikwete has thrown out the intention of being involved in a new constitution, he has been trying every step and how the views of the citizens want to have three governments in the first phase with a second phase and he feels it's true he has changed and refused the views of many," said Professor Lipumba.

My eyes just after falling down.

The chairperson of DP Bank, Pastor Christopher Mtelela, said that once he was defeated in prison for three times, he was sent away from 43 times on claims that he will be able to get the Tanganyika stadium while officials agreed to increase the requirements of many because they are proud of.

Pastor Mtibua but he added saying that they intend to make CCM and his government is to continue controlling the citizens of Tanganyika and Zanzibar that nobody would recognize them and to be proud of doing their countries.
