The commission has answers that he should not vie for the constitutional parliament.
October 11, 2013.

At the end of last week, October 4th, President Jakaya Kikwete made a special speech.

The speech was long awaited by what happened at the parliament during the debate and finally be presented to the bill of law of the law of constitutional changes.

In that meeting, some of the opposition parties including the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CUF), NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Revolution, led to some of the sections that were seen in that bill when the objection was made to the law before the objection was released within the parliament.

After that violence, a cry for those parties and various stakeholders was directed to President Kikwete not to sign that bill which was prepared by many members of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and some of the opponents, including a veteran politician and member of parliament (TLP), Augustine Mrema.

Therefore, since the cry for the opponents and other stakeholders to be given, President Kikwete has never said the word until Friday, October 4, in my opinion, a call that caused many citizens to follow the speech.
President and points.
Among the things that were happy, in the speech by President Kikwete is the way they have shown the state of state and his position as a nation of the country, the constitution of people of all parties that do not have parties that are many more than all. "

Citizens Kikwete, who is also the chairperson of CCM, said this words when the chairperson of the Constitutional Review Commission and the member of CCM party and member of the association of parents of CCM and member of the party's executive committee Abdallah Bulembo, who claimed to implement his responsibilities.

President is supposed to be a sign in America in this historic process, should be a leader and not the end of the day before yesterday and in general how he used this process since the beginning, I can stand up and he has been a sign of our nation and the leader of the country.

In my opinion, even some of us, we have different opinions about the authority of the president in the appointment of some of the authority, including the member of parliament of the Constitutional Assembly, although this is why the president is supposed to do the second draft of the constitution.
The concept of fighting in America, its meaning is to hand our authority to his office.

The importance of leaving.
Although he spoke about a lot of things, including our relationship, Rwanda, operations and other things, but I believe that approximately half of the speech it made during the process of getting a new constitution.

And in talking about this issue, in my evaluation, President Kikwete, different from the thoughts of people including a few politicians from CCM and even their opponents failed to follow the importance of citizens and politicians to find him so that we find good constitution.

For example, he said that the opposition claims will be discussed and urged them to lead the leaders of CHADEMA, CUF and NCCR-Revolutions and we remember that last year, political parties as compared to them were unable to move forward as a nation.

Who does a question about the constitution of the constitution?
In his speech, President Kikwete also spoke about the issue of life of the commission of Judge Warioba on this issue is one of the cries of opponents, activists, and even the commission of Warioba itself as its chairman Judge Joseph Warioba he touched on his meeting with journalists at the end of last month.
