Welcome to greet you.
Brightiles 12, 2015.

It has come to your star?
This is a question that is being asked by some of the hosts of Mbozi district.
In Mbeya Province, when you talk about your intention of visiting him as socialists.
The tourism that is in Kinama estate, Mlangali Village.
In the district.
That question is coming from the faith of the locals of the area being addressed.
Which is the origin of the lineage of Amaso, who was the past.
The area of that area.
According to one of the aides of the deputy secretary, Musa Msepwa.
The locals are saying that everything is being addressed.
It usually die for instance, he says in accordance with the heavy rains.
Drought, did a hole and even their traditional meetings.
There is no place.
In addition to those applications, the locals are told to use it.
That to remove bad luck in their lives, and that is when he was not born.
You need to use the star to clean the star.
"The witch doctors destroy their patients to come here and clean it.
Here, "says Dojo Janja in his interview with Raia Mwema, that station.
Recently.
However, he allowed me to identify the problem that he gets a piece of part.
While welcoming him, something that did not allowed the procedure of those witch doctors.
A difference of used by the locals in the past, they put water.
The reception area was welcoming him by making a area in order to climb it.
They then read this water.
An expert in tourism issues, Fanuel says that he is faith.
That is needed to be used in positive views and attract tourists.
Instead of looking at bad opinion, like to give you a problem.
A group of religious faith.
"Many countries have used those faith to attract tourists, for example there is a country.
People visit and go with water, it is very normal but.
We are not ready for this purpose, "says seventies.
Due to those faith, you don't understand you today having a football team.
The legs from Mbozi district is being greeted by the experts of the station.
See it clear that, the name cannot be used by bad luck but it's a must.
In our faith, that is involved with the foundation stone and strong winds.
Therefore, build faith in their team to have bad luck and the same time.
Well.
Faith about it was not present among those locals in Mbozi district.
Different places in the world where there are its host it involved.
And the Kimwana have been able to do in the areas where it fell.
Accumulating wealth of their faith.
History of parasites.
If we thank you, miss / / 2016 have been organized and I will give me / = shillings, it will be careful.
Responding to the big religious faith in the world.
They are facing various communities, parasites, thus reserved for faith.
To be given your opinion, something that has never made those communities to bring.
Great revenue through tourism.
It is said that since the past old buildings which were believed to be.
Unholiness and the various society at that time in the world.
The fall down here in the world is accompanied with the light of voice down.
Similarly, the stars do not lie into him and it has been a day.
It caused fear to those who saw.
Those things or those affected are being reserved by the community led to the coming of them.
Holy things, and the locals are doing those areas to maintain ranches.
I wish you and used them in their different activities of their faith.
What should happen continues to be Mbozi district.
He reveals four primary things that are supposed to be done.
They are welcoming the Mbozi region to be an attraction for the tourists.
More than among those things are together with putting a environment.
According to the public and private sector (PPP).
Another thing is the establishment of the research squad.
The issues of Actor (Fy) so that the area should be the Faculty of education.
Illegal immigrants and an airplane in the African continent.
To relocate the management or ownership of the visitor from the department of issues.
Past years and going to the tourism department or going to ministry related.
Issues of weather conditions as it is ongoing in many nations.
Illegal immigrants and an fourth issue is blocking him.
The head of that station, Mujahideen who is the one that has mentioned other needs.
They are required to make sure that station include infrastructure.
The roads, a fence caused the area thus caused the people.
And the desire to enter and see for these things, different from now.
The area is open.
The one who did other things include buildings, various services.
To find and announce the station for spreading its information on the internet.
And not organized a special program (he was a terrorist).
The condition of the welcoming mayor for now is not worried about people to visit in numbers.
There are no other important things that someone will get when he is visiting the area.
That is more than welcoming him in his history.
The area was being greeted by the deputy head that is used as office.
One house of living with an increase, where in the whole issue of tourism.
They would send themselves to get various services, such as drinks.
Food, traditional things of the locals of that area, higher education education.
There is nothing to see and even sleep.
