Still you asking yourself why our referees are not played or not outside?
October 6, 2016.

The life of the father of a family with low-income family is very difficult for a long time, this father uses his term and he is to see how to save his family at home.

I am a parent of us about the school a day when he comes out of how he lives with his family, still get out from where he is and where he is and worry about the ignorance of referee Martin Saanya or no, we will not see the meaning of this father has more important things to say.

Saanya is the news reporter in the city when the goal was scored by Shiza Kichuya at the same goal by Shiza Kichuya and events of Martin Saanya being a bomb goal, Amissi Tambwe and the problem has been operated on by him.

Who is talking about Kichuya and Tambwe is no one who is able to hold a big game like Simba and Yanga is not the referee for the lower level, we are expecting to go to the ball to break the ball into a low level this way?

If this referee who was given the bond of managing the 17 laws of the great game and were unable to see the referees that they have been given to managing the laws in Mbao FC and Kagera Sugar?

What he did, at the end of last week is our real picture of football as you come, but how come every time we want to inform soccer leaders, players and then when we get married, we have a long journey to reach our colleagues.

I did not believe by Saanya being given money so as to pick on this one's team and his ability to remain in the law ended in what he had promised to make him know.

The referee who was given the money was sent in one place, but Saanya was not recently dressed in a penalty that he gets in the estates of the estates, "Ndonga" which are some of the laws are not present.

Up to the defender of Simba, Novastus Lufunga is called on the bench by Juwes Wang who was not expected to be on the field and he was supposed to be a red card by Novastus Lufunga was safe and other life continues to the field.

He met with Amissi Tambwe who scored the hand goal and Martin Saanya being the second goal and Jonas Mkude, going to interview him and ended up with a red card.

Mkunde, is the captain of Simba, what he has done by Martin is its responsibilities basically he has not gone to him who will go?

I don't know her discipline and let me tell you what you do not know if I want you to know her, more than many people here in the country, we have known him since our page. I am happy and we are talking about your friendly match.

With my close friend, what compelled him who told him, while others claimed that she was looking at the whole event of Martin Saanya to see how he led by Simba's players answered me, he saw him and insult her.

The referees of Martin Saanya are supposed to live in our football in the country after starting from the game of Martin, it is clear that now our referees are not given many opportunities to relocate from Tanzania and in big competitions.
