
It is operation about the operation of May 31, 2012.

Going on in the provinces of the Lake Region you want to be an operation on operation.
Now the special operation to fight with people involved in the killing of people with albinism (Tanzania Albino) together with the elderly, is the ones that came in high position.
Last week, the inspector general of police (IGP), Said Mwema, did a work tour in the provinces of the Lake Region thanking them especially to explain the strategies of the security agencies in fighting crime especially in the killings of the Tanzania Albino Society, and the elderly.
In his tour, IGP Mangu explained the establishment of the national special unit that includes all security and security agencies in the country together with the office of the government lawyer and the office of the chief chemist to deal with the killings of the disabled people (Tanzania Albino) and the elderly in the country.
While clarifying, he said the work of that squad will be going round in the whole country to cooperate with security forces in the provinces and district so as to strengthen the operation of fighting against the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society, the elderly and another crime.
In addition, IGP Mangu said the government has added 20 million shillings in the public security fund so as to give gifts to the citizens who will be giving information on crime, especially the killing of the Tanzania Albino Society and the elderly in the country.

The analysis of things even so, they are saying that those funds are little in the whole country while considering the big portion which were donated by people who are of the Tanzania Albino Society, which is between 1 million to 15.
While Mwema, other organs for defense and security came up to do this operation, the residents of the Lake Region are faced with another operation of illegal fishing which has been very delicious.
Although the Minister of Livestock and Fisheries Development, John Magufuli, has called the fishing operation, the fishermen themselves, "operation," operation, "due to the fact that it aims to save their disappearance of the fish disease.
The research that was done by the Fisheries Research Institute (MARI) shows that the number of the fish disease in Lake Victoria has reduced from 750,000 tons in the year 2006 to 227,356 tons in August last year.
In addition, the research shows that the 95 percent of compensation that are believed to be under the required levels being thrown which is between 50 to 85 percent.
The level that is swelis between 25 and 40 to 40 percent.
The coming up of the number Operation Sangara in Lake Victoria has caused 10 industries to produce poor infrastructure in Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda to be beaten and 25 points to produce a low level of 30 and 40 percent.
According to Minister Magufuli, the Lake Region has a total of 10 industries that sell fish under 400 tons per day while its ability are 800 tons per day.
The fishing sector in the country contributes to 16 percent of the national income and 90 percent of the contribution come from Lake Victoria which led by bringing a great income.
Statistics show that the year 2007 the country managed to produce 55,731 tons of fish, 581 tons worth 224 billion shillings which were sold outside the country and in the sales, Lake Victoria has contributed approximately 8 billion shillings.
It's not only that more than 35 million people live in depending on various activities in the Lake Victoria area, fishing is leading by giving one employment to one and without one hour.
Moreover, it has been known that the East African countries have a loss of 310 million American dollars per year due to illegal fishing.

It is as a result of the probability of the end of tribalism and importance of those fish by the government's income and the citizens of East African countries, stakeholders met in Kampala city at the end of last year to discuss how to deal with it.
Those countries together were agreed to run a special operation of removing all illegal fishing tools in that lake.
In Tanzania, Minister Magufuli gave a 21-day tour starting on December 11 last year, to all fishermen with illegal fishing tools they surrendered to tax before the operation started.

The existing information is that during that period more than 235 bed sheets that were given, if you do a lot of pit latrines (MARI), do not be careful with a lot of fishing which will not be used anywhere in the world especially in Lake Victoria.
However, not all fishermen were forced to make that call for Magufuli and illegal immigrants are still in a bad state in this second world in the world.
Some of the fishermen are saying that the operation to arrest the illegal immigrants and their products is not small because they will have the government to work hard to reach the fishermen who were misled in hundreds of the islands and beaches of the lake.
In addition, they are saying that instead of that operation to aim to target the fishermen in the country, it should be afraid that there are shops that sell those products and industries that will make it.
"These things we are building's estate and those of the shops have ordered industries but every day we are arrested are us and not the big ones who make and sell them.
Instead, ending up, the branches see that a tree does not accept when you reached, "says the aerial balls, outside the city of Mwanza which owns several hazards.
The athlete who did not want his name to be remembered because it is clear, he urged the fishing officers and the leaders of Viate and Human Resources and Human Resources and Human Resources and Human Resource Mobilization, Blind (BTC) that they have bought illegal immigrants.
Therefore, why should I be surprised when Ignance Mchwaa will be buried today afternoon by Kigola (close back to Mwanza town) while the fishing vehicles get into the afternoon without arrest the police.
He added, "you know that the government cannot succeed in this operation as they see Doctor Magufuli will be holding the noise in above, but there is no reason why this is not the first time they have announced that operation, but any complaint is not only.
"There are people (fishing officers), they live as a result of such kinds, we will tell ourselves that there is a operation," another person told our citizens fully and stop immediately to receive the young diseases that are taken to the fishermen.
"It will be free of free if it is blocking the fishermen from different levels, while the industries are continuing to receive them as a market, there is a must that people will continue to inspect them but if the market there is a must they will continue to inspect them.
The fisheries officer of one province who also did not want his name to be remembered, where the operation is difficult because it needs human resources and enough money due to the difficulty of water infrastructure.
He advised that for that operation to be taken to that operation, it is a must that leaders of the local government, villages and local governments, participants fully and not depending on the fishing officers.

"Due to the shortage of servants, money and even working tools, we cannot reach every area where the fishermen and the government must use the leaders of the villages and villages in the arrest of illegal immigrants and wards which have been used to help them.
But by bad, when I come to operation like this people believe that there are fishing people only who are involved, they believe that the government is one and Magufuli does not have his government.
"The effects of illegal fishing are given all the people including them, it is good for the government to allow you to participate fully, otherwise we should succeed.
"The executive director of the village or ward, he sees many people using illegal fishing and they did not take action even to inform the fishing people then there was a big problem," he says and added that December 11, last year, Minister Magufuli launched four iron sheets that were donated by the European Union, but he is still not enough.
Regarding the owners of industries not to receive young fish, fishing officer of Mwanza Region, where there is 90 percent of those industries, self-driven and even soon, he was quoted by the press saying that they have started to take those actions.
He said that there are many industries now, they have been giving information and preventing young fish when they were taken to the industry and fishermen.
According to the government we will not qualify for the first two weeks of January this year, more than 12 tons have been selected as a result of industries to provide information.
He said that it is a good start and if the industries that will take place, then the fishermen will not stop the young fish if they do not have a big market.
However, there is a challenge of smuggling of fish from one country to another among the countries contributing to the lake.
This business has been affecting the efforts of dealing with illegal fishing since one country is denied the fish of a certain level, industries in other countries have received that level again at a high price.
For example, you are not supposed to see a certain country despite having a small area of the lake region, it has many industries and it has the transportation to cause fish, more than the country with a big area.
Therefore, without all the countries to have great intentions and take action against hypocrisy, the operation against illegal fishing will be equivalent to the death of the children.
