
Thursday, July 14th, 2016.

What's the eyes of the family, you can claim that Democracy?

The claims that some of our religious leaders in Africa is what they are not ardently.

I request to build a motion that so that we can be able to build the legality of claiming that democracy is important for us to take the example of the country and that the leaders or the leaders of the country have a habit, and behavior of the communities are leading.

It's impossible to advise the leaders to be different from the citizens who will lead because the administration of the country are born with the citizens and that is why they ask for leaders who want to know their money easily and that the leaders can't recognize leaders who come up so that the leaders can't know different from the citizens.

When, if you look at countries that lead to democracy, we have noted that democracy in those countries are the culture of the citizens of CHADEMA, the culture is given an opportunity to participate in the decisions that he is making her husband because democracy in the society is the culture that starts in the family and not a political love.

When I look at all those claims by our leaders to have democracy, several questions are discussed and I ask for example, we can be true that we are a community that believes in democracy from the family level?

So, we men of East Africa should not depend on the growth of democracy in our family levels, we are urging our leaders to respect our views but we want our leaders to respect our views but when we want our leaders to discuss our views but as to discuss the family's budget?

Maybe it is true we are making democracy in political parties and the government, but so we can be able to inform our leaders or leaders that show their views, we do not have problems of our family as parents / men who are seen to have the legality of our family as parents / men.

Maybe if you ask, now if you should do we should stop claiming that democracy have no reason why we have planned to build our colleague in our family and listening to them that we build a true nation of people who believe democracy.

When we came to the first commandment, then, we do not accept to be careful with our commitment to us that we are a quack dictator.

Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
