
Mererani Town, May 31, 2012.

90 percent of the Tanzanite minerals that is owned by small miners of Mererani Town, Simanjiro Region, Manyara Region has stopped the mining of minerals due to several reasons including lack of capital, has been known.
The area of Tanzanite Complex, Simanjiro District has divided into four groups that are owned by the Kilimanjaro Region B that is owned by small miners, C that is owned by small-scale miners from South Africa.
The officer in charge of the northern region of the department of minerals, John Shija, confirmed the week of having a large number of mines has stopped themselves because of several reasons including lack of funds to run the job among the miners.
"It is true that there are many minerals that do not work for a long time and this is due to the drop in the Tanzanite price in the internal market by 60 percent, therefore miners are unable to withstand the cost of voting," he explained.
According to the data of the Department of Minerals in the ambalu High School, there is a total of 323 mines, but the total of 323 mines have only 20 mines while a total of 32 mines which are doing work is not more than 30 mines.
While speaking last week at different times with Raia Mwema, there are some owners of the mines claimed to be unable to run the mining activities that were caused by lack of funds and increase in the costs of the mining of minerals.
"Small miners have been affected by the results of the bad policies of the Ministry of Minerals and Energy on one side, but they have also been able to continue with this work," explained one of the mines, who asked his name to recognize them.
He explained more that on the side of miners getting away it followed by the increase in extraction, and also having poor working tools while many mines have a lot of meters from 500 to 800 shillings.
At the moment the highest cost that were separated by miners in serving the mine is from 250,000 shillings per day to 500,000 shillings, which are very many to the ordinary citizens.
The costs involve the purchase of rocks such as Kilakala Primary School (6000 / =), food for the miners that hit the religion to work and those who give birth certificates and those who offering the machine will be an average of employees from 50 and continuing with other cost of running the machine.
"You can save all the costs I will see that to serve the mine at an average, the owner must use more than 250,000 shillings, money that are so much in the current environment because for a month you should have an average of 4 million shillings to 10 million so as to work well," said the owner.
In addition, the musician explained that due to the small-speed up and giving up on their wealth, the miners failed to invest in their mines by putting infrastructure under land and buying modern machines at the time they were getting money from the sales of Tanzanite.
That situation is the ones that cost them because of the mining that doesn't maintain the regulations, many mines have been high-meter from 600 meters while the availability of minerals is the low level than it did in the history of the mining of minerals.
He said in the beginning of the first years when those minerals had a huge number of many owners for the poor and poor households, they failed to invest in infrastructure for their mines and buy a working machine, a situation that effects are seen today, "he explains.
He mentions the other reasons that include the mining law of the Ministry of Energy and Mdigo in the way that wants small miners to build small-scale miners with the amount of 50 meters in land because its results are small miners in the coming of land and also having conflicts that it cannot be between them.
The gospel singer says that due to the increase of bribery actions and corruption among the officers of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, have been placed on some of the laws of protecting the interests of investors who have been affected once in conflicts with the investor instead of using their time to make production activities.
"The investor has been given a area of 8 kilometers which is the big number of Tanzanite, the results were kidnapped by the small miners when the late was caught with them by conducting a lot of deception.
On his part, his fellow musician, Awadh Omar, who is also the councilor of Mererani Town (CCM), says that affected with the mining activities and small miners benefited from the cost of extraction, while the price of those minerals takes place in the world market.
"At the moment the Tanzanite price in a market has reduced by 40 percent due to the construction of the world's economy, but they use their extra money and because they do not have extra money again then the price of most of the Tanzanite has dropped," explained the councilor.
He added that many people in the United States where there is 80 percent of Tanzanite located in Mererani Town, have lost their work, therefore they don't have the ability to buy products and its results even the price in the local market is available in. "
Awadh has added that another problem is improvement and resulted from the Ministry of Minerals and Energy to cater for foreign investors who use modern tools in extraction, a situation that has caused the investors to buy a lot of Tanzanite more than the needs of the market.
That councilor says that for now it is difficult for small miners to improve it as the government will not depend on well by encouraging the problems that are there but also miners themselves don't have the biggest company so as to compete with investors instead of continuing to employ one person.
"The government will now be able to help small miners so that they sit together with experts and female lawyers, which will increase. Even this is a group of many people who have decided to sit together and put a system of operation and to see the things are going on well," he advised that councilor.
The councilor explains that the results of the drop in the mining and sales of Tanzanite has caused people to leave the Marimo area where other businesses have dropped by the theft of theft, which is spreading due to many youths lack the work of doing.
"Many youths are self-employed in criminal acts due to facing hunger and such events have been common in this area," says the councilor.
The Tanzanite minerals that is determined in Mererani Town, South Africa and India which are the ones that has denied to be the biggest signs of those minerals in the world market.
That situation is said as a result of the government of Tanzania together with other stakeholders to fail to put policies and reliable plans to build and sell those minerals at the world market.
