Tanzanite exciting more to the economy of Arusha.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2013.

According to the statistics of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals in the country, up to now the minerals that were sunk on the ground have not yet confirmed to the ten percent of all the minerals that are required to evade.
Those statistics show that, Tanzania has different types of minerals including minerals of iron, (222 million tons), gold (222 million shillings) and I succeeded (209 million).
On the side of minerals, statistics show that there is still a big wealth in many areas in the country, which has not been harvested.
Among those minerals within according to those statistics is diamond (3,909 million), Tanzanite (12,060 million), coal is 911 million shillings and minerals of industries known as 313 million shillings.
Those statistics have been confirmed by the deputy minister of that ministry, George Simbachawene while answering questions to parliament about the wealth of minerals, on 29th May this year, in Dodoma town.
Among the minerals of mineral which have got great popularity as the Tanzanite Band was mentioned in Mererani Town, Simanjiro District, Manyara Region.
Although improving the minerals that have been found to be used in Manyara Region but the activities and its business are happening in Arusha town, the city that is located in Arusha town, the city that is in neighboring villages and are at the headquarters of various foreign companies and outside.
The Tanzanite minerals has got a unique popularity as a result of having that have been found to have been found in Tanzania alone at Ankara area.
Together with the reputation of the unique minerals up to now, they have no great benefit to the government's income because of the absence of policies and reliable management in the previous years.
The government continues to wake up.

In a period of the past five years, the government has started to take various actions of controlling the haphazard business of those minerals including putting laws that will destroy the transporting of crude oil which have not been commended.
That law is the one of the year 2010 that is blocking the transportation of crude oil for all types of goods and also prohibits people or companies from outside to buy mineral gemstone.
In addition to that, the government has now aims to prevent the city of Arusha to be the international center of mineral gemstone.
The reports of making Arusha being the center of mineral gemstone from Africa, donated by the deputy minister of minerals and energy, Steven Masinga, at the end of last week, when he launched the office and the Tanzanite International Organization located in partnership with Diamond International Company in the United States.
"The government has aimed at making Arusha town to be an international center for minerals of mineral gemstone from that step is together with the opening of more than 600,000 small industries before taking them to international markets," said Maseru.
He added that the decision by the Diamond International Company in the United States to open the office and the range of misuse of those minerals is an important sign in reaching that dream.
Previously when he was welcoming the deputy minister, Morris Glawogger who is the president of Diamond International Company which is the main buyer of the Tanzanite in the world by 70 percent despite buying the Tanzanite, that office will also be used as the training center for minerals the Tanzanian youths.
He said Diamond International and Tanzanite International is prepared to improve the mining sector in the country by teaching Tanzanian youths, especially women with modern technology and increase the value of mineral gemstone so as to increase the value of those minerals before being transported to the international market.
"Education on the sale and minerals of minerals will also give employment opportunities to many youths in the country together with increasing the contribution of the minerals sector in the national income," said Grisham.
And one of the Directors of Tanzanite International, Benjamin Hovind, said that the company has invested more than 300,000 American dollars, they have already brought to the country an expert to control importation of mineral gemstone, to teach Tanzanian youths.
On his part, the Director of the GGuvnor's Limited Company in Arusha town, Dakshit Pandit, whose company has participated in business partnership with the two American companies, explained that the project will bring benefits to women who have been given priority in employment.
"Our aim is to build more capacity of the women who will be employed here and we will also give education to misuse of minerals with the aim of increasing the value before being transported to international markets," he said.
