Experts for peace, "there is a story" to control the water weeds.
Dec 13, 2012

While citizens celebrating the Lake Tanganyika stadium, Bariadi District, Simiyu Province recently, the state of that lake is not good because of the environmental destruction that is being done at the lake region and in areas inside the lake regions.

Among the big effects that are facing the lake region as well as the communities that are being touched by us in all the countries, the members of the East African Community is together with continuing with the availability of water sources and reduction of water connection to the fish.

Experience that will be done in the implementation of the Lake Tanganyika Valley project (LMEMP), it shows that it is not easy for removing water from water and due to that situation that is happening now they are giving them on how to prevent it.

The environment experts from LMEMP II as well as groups that depend on resources that are available in the Lake Region (NAPA-Pesa) become a strategy to destroy the water being faced with a problem due to the behavior of that offense of being married and going back to his previous condition.

Charles Mkambale, the founder of Nyansalwa Primary School in Musoma District, Mara province has denied the habit of looking for him just after being accused of being an obstacle to the efforts of its control.

Kaumba, who is the chairperson of the group says that you give birth quickly, you will expand and release a lot of seeds, while having the ability to withstand any environment.

"The shivered in a very fast, its seeds is needed to be a permit, they use 300 bed sheets," says Kaale in his interview with Raia Mwema, then he added that, "removing it, it is not easy, people have risen up to homes, Eboue managed to enter the lake.

However, the Coordinator of LSolo P II, Pius Mabruk has said that he has faith to succeed to control the water problem in the lake regions because of various strategies sponsored by the project by partnering with the citizens in the regions of that lake.

"I do not know it is not good but it's not because of the wind during this season, you will also care about you, the aim is to prevent it, but the aim is to prevent you, but not that they have already gotten themselves," says Madega talking about the fear that is facing them, but not that they have already been successful.

According to Mabebani, it's not that the water problem is dangerous because that comes from the soybean seeds that is continuing to enter the lake by being transported with the wind.

Together with the wind, more reasons are mentioned to contribute to the water catchment areas of the lake region including the agricultural activities that are run along the Lake Region and the rivers that drain water into that region.

To Person, Samson Jumbe from the Misungwi Ferry, mentioned other factors to be together with the industries that are facing them.
Chemicals in the country have dirty water from homes, he says that all contributes to the cries of water.

"The government will help BMM s to control agricultural activities along the lake regions, contributes to a lot of environmental destruction at the lake region," says Mgongolwa Valley.

The strategy of controlling the water problem has been passed through all East African countries by using abusive language, by putting a special machine, removing the machine, removing the machine and putting up with the former lover.

The procedure that are believed to make sure the control of water effects is that of putting off fire after being released at the lake.
