"One party, many parties, the party of one person."
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2015.

I'm talking about this article as a result of great sadness (all the days in life, we want to be in a very difficult time when a person you don't believe in a very long time with a great effort to build the honesty, though the offense or only one incident can eliminate the faith.
And that is what they did for Democracy and Development Party (CHADEMA) after accepting to receive the former prime minister, Edward we are urging them not only to be their member but also their candidate in the presidential position.
If there is a rumor that Lowassa would take a form to vie for the presidency on CCM ticket, about the right time, that is the issue of Lowassa to join the parliament of UKAWA which was planned to be.
Just after that politician have been charged in the CCM process to get his presidential candidate, there are heard a lot that there is a possibility that he had joined one of the parties that make up UKAWA which finally be the presidential candidate.
However, our Tanzania does not have a shortage of rumors, some of us believe that there is difficult for Lowassa to join UKAWA which will enable you to fight the great popularity of his stand, we have been responsible to fight against corruption and corruption.
And it's not the only stand against corruption and corruption, will enable them to have paid the highest cost in its activities where some of its members lost their lives and others being injured while others put behind bars or other injured following the protests of defending the national interests and the ones who are not involved.
However, when I saw the pictures that were reported as Lowassa being present in one of the sessions of UKAWA I stopped the heart that maybe the pictures have been operated on, "it's a picture," where a group photo is grafted in another picture.
The solution to the students after the parliamentary accounts on the Twitter network, Jamhuri Media has denied the presence of Lowassa in that session. However, close people and Lowassa stopped more pictures in that network to prove that the truth when Lowassa visited that session.
And one day later, "a bomb that led to" through one of the television that I did, we were able to see the internet, the senior leaders of UKAWA they were seen by Lowassa, and later the politician announcing the appeal that he has joined that union through CCM.
I am going to say in a short time is that what we will prepare is to be accused of being involved in the high level, and there is no explanation of any kind that can resolve the act.
The open answer is that I have noted there about their strong stand to delay corruption and fighting with them with all the strength and also to build an assurance that the party is because of the interests of millions of corruption.
Therefore, by receiving Lowassa, a politician who was forced to resign from the allegations of corruption of Richmond Development, will have the important pillar that had introduced the party.
Same, maybe Lowassa can win the presidency (this will need debate of its email information) but it did not need to have the skills of our politics analysis and that those politician did not join their policies but he does not use their policies but he has used as a level of vying for the presidency after being done by CCM.
That only was supposed to achieve his eyes, Honorable Lowassa is accusing his name that she will be proud of "with his own work" and his long-term service in CCM, today he abandoned CCM despite claiming that she didn't want him from that party to leave but he is not to leave.
It is clear that Lowassa is a politician with the desire of power it is same, our constitution has been unable to vie for the leadership through any party, but one of the good reputation for a politician is not a stand and not to get into power.
Today I cannot get CCM by wanting the presidency, how will you prepare you to pray for others?
But it's also a plain truth that when Lowassa's popularity comes from, "two main ability, do not have enough information" with enough information, especially in the normal environment, and especially in these cases of corruption, it is difficult to see a politician in the type.
Already there is an issue that "the money raised their hands" up to women, Freeman Mbowe decided to receive that politician who had been causing them or every day by seeing the corrupt people.
