How would you play as Miss Universe?
The late Adam as the one that you are meeting is not with a person, whom you remember well in the past, which everyone has come from.
In different politics, different upbringing for a place where you are going to meet different people I will learn anything.
I would say it is a union that we had.
I remember after the winner will be found every person participated in the there's no one who was found.
And wherever we are in the competition was very big if you look at any top level, you will realize that if I think it's not a bit when I think I think it was not a lot and wisdom, there was a lot of money.
Five were eight as a same.
What I want to see all the late God has brought me but a long time.
Those who live as I will fight.
Not in center, I can come to you shortly among them.
Yet he is in a situation where we have been in, so we are in a lot of unity that we had witnessed, what would you have from different parts, it would have been very difficult and in the competition you want each one.
But we were one and one.
Where Miss Universe there people you meet.
Money on the month of July.
When we live in Dar es Salaam city, there is a certain one who have learned how to live with people with skin disability, to Kidoti, has produced in Bongo Fleva in music and I think you will make it a good thing on time.
When he arrived in Dar es Salaam, I would like to say everything you want to that, and he give her an opportunity to see if he is in a long time, I'll leave everything on her way, is to be a billion, but he desires to make her thing on how I use it.
What does it mean?
Let's go to the church?
I, I would like to listen to many residents here, we know what is good so that is not wrong, let you find you.
Let us know what he is due to who?
In the same way, we will go to Dar es Salaam to follow up on the right time we get good deeds.
How do not lie?
I told me if he is.
To read it is no loss like a person they have not seen.
You know a person that friends is very close to you or not to grind or her?
I've heard the late.
You know what?
So I request me to ask you?
Here, I will be asked, we want to like the late God bless you, as the name of do.
But you will inform us that we help our names, but I was there are wells where I think it is important than any time and when I had already been given, I would have been given a lot and for example a day his meeting will meet us, I am happy to speak with a dummy check.
Sex from it will be said that I request by Wikipedia, they are saying I was using and you know each other.
It was done right now in the internet.
Your way does it happen if I don't know your work, the late does not lie!
He said you can do it is to participate in the beauty competition.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I've heard, I've heard a surprise, and when he finished form four, I was happy to return to him.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, there will be a result of our old players of the school that I made I come back to read, I told I would play.
They were not known that AT did not know our person and that is the Ambassador Seif Sharif Hamad and wants them to leave a life.
But for us to talk about what we did and are used and we told them what they do with that, you know many parents and who has announced something that they don't know and even they love you.
Credit are annoyed so much from a child and you want me to see what he is doing.
Only when these hours you are involved with what after Miss Ikponwosa Ero and after being silent.
Sister to be at the same way I will lead this entrepreneur and worked with women's women.
Ras Makunja has called these women who read our visitors every time when we came for the way the torch will enable you to sell drugs.
Here I will give my joy it was because they sell those drugs in the world and we have used to be used to that the Maasais'.
So, I does it mean to know what's the meaning?
It's aiming at making a surprising thing at the time now, while all of us want to come from you, but the holy I will do it.
It will not receive it was that they don't have the capital that he cannot get that money only.
Therefore, everyone has claimed that the chicken to get married and I wanted to know how long will use when a person can go, there is two weeks to get a customer because our reasons we believe in drug abuse.
I ended with a group photo.
This and me is a person who I would like to see him and it has been a conflict that we have learned.
And I became I want to be one day to be for my people who are in peace and you cannot live with them and they should stay with them.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, I took the first time to take place today September six then I began by giving them an opportunity in the reason for what to do and then I started working on.
Their work has identified himself after good time we learnt a lot of time we want to be my brother like we get support this place, therefore, he gives a check for what is a sister.
I cannot be able to thank I said, so when I will begin, I will begin there are six stem cells that will produce below I told me, she is a person who doesn't want it to live with my points to do anything which you know if they feel it will be found.
To give them the ones I said about what he feels that I will do work.
I will go back home but at work, if you see that maybe electricity will be able to identify themselves because such a day you want to sell it, therefore, I don't look for things that we do so that I don't know what we are doing so, the activities they are making it.
Therefore, we should not get the other that you are doing from?
For now.
It is something that I have learned a lot if I'm in the training one and it has not yet talked about business because you want this to be close to me, maybe if we see I will be with.
Nude pictures like that if I get vomiting, it was where you can come out and things like this, we can get to know until the day for now, you can get to know until that day for now, we do not want to know her brother who does not know what we want.
The late?
To pay a debt because you want to know where my colleague has worked with those women and I wanted them to understand what we are doing and therefore we are doing so that she will have a lot to anyone who is not for me who is not for my love for them.
Therefore, the business that is doing now gives you an income to meet to an extent that to think for now, maybe there is another thing until now.
I would I said?
And it is also that the government does not know another thing on what we will be when we saw it, but when I think I think I went to Mwanza province, but when I was told I wanted to go back home.
To be close to questions that there is what I was born and therefore, I would like to see him so that I do so, to discuss what I do at the moment, we should make sure you feel very much.
Maybe a ton.
God rest that I have said yes because it is one thing, I have gotten her not there and I am not happy about paying that debt, you will not know what I'm doing, then I don't use it, Professor Facebook Page which are many times Professor Facebook Page.
Instagram Page which I would like our thing that explains the advertisements and where we are found in the same time when I'm in the same time when I am happy, I don't understand the environment and be able to get the environment and to get what I'm in, but I don't know what I'm in the same time when I am pleased with my sponsor of P-Square Group.
