
The doctor and nurses from OAFLA.
In the nineties, I was unable to attend the seminar of improving education (Ency Mwaluka) that was done at the hall of the council of Kurasini, under one trainer from Greek, a fact that he was surprised by the way he used the trainer in helping one of the participants in that seminar.
He sodomized a warning and ordering for each one to write his full name, together with the date of the month and on the birth of the month and on the birth of time, he called names so that everyone to take his trip which is participating in the field.
I was surprised to see my motion which has been written under the name Nimlaumu Nani.
At that time I was coming from the seminar if they are driving from the house of arts.
Therefore, I visited the answer of "Mchage / writer," Mchage or writer "and not" Mchage and our correspondent. "
The participants going into three groups of four months of the year.
I was surprised again, I was surprised by saying that the blood were in one group and nurses and nurses and I wanted to clarification because I have understood the ones that I believe in the same time and that during the fact, the destruction of buildings and kidney transplantation.
The coach asked me for praising God, "the car has gotten a child forward and has done what the first one to you thank you to vie for a child to write a car and said my son!"
I want you to answer, but he advised me to ask for a finger to the mouth, "you want to say you would have heard the child.
Although I was not seen that but I was surprised more that I was surprised more that I saw how I've heard the ones I have ever heard and they believe that maybe the coach was correct.
So the nurses and nurses are very attractive people and that is why they are doing the work of a call because it is not easy to check the amount of payments for someone trying to fight against other people.
These people have no reason to talk about the eye of its own kind by the elders that came to me "silent," a person who is self-known as a modem.
I am saying that, I was followed up on the events that are ongoing with nurses and there are one of the Chato District Hospital in Geita province, he refused to cause seven children who are admitted in that hospital because that incident would be able to cause the deaths of children because of that incident.
Another one in Chamwino, Dodoma province is alleged to arrest his pregnant mother when he was in giving birth to himself, he claimed that the party was the new system of increasing the pain, but his results was unable to pose and cause death of the child was expected to have a national work.
Recently, two doctors and four nurses of Nyamagana District Hospital entered into trouble after being unable to serve the pregnant mother who was brought in that hospital and caused the deaths of two children who were expected to start eating the world a few minutes before the incident.
The reports are saying that doctors and nurses were happy to see if they look at the match of mother clubs who complained in a pain without any service, something that does not give them dirty.
There are many including the nurses to prevent it depends on their young children just after being born, others were unable to destroy their wives to serve their wives in the difficult time.
Giving them in this profession that are being satisfied by the theft of bribery, there is a nurse a nurse at Igunga District Hospital, who requested for a short message to serve the patient with the patient while carrying this patient while in the media.
Again, I have not identified himself, this one who was arrested by citizens after getting married, one of Paracetamol when they get two bottles for diabetes.
It is not something to see this teeth.
If your mother would have met with a nurse of your type when you are born, he would have died the death of affliction of high level if you can't know, or you were found to die with his mother or her mother or her mother.
When we were forced to see your death because you can't expect your death because you can't hesitate in another job and maybe we would like to help Tanzania by being sentenced to death.
?
