
When a child was married that is carried in that country!
Jide 16, 2012

The family of hunger did not see the noise, in our nation, it has been caused by noise every side of our president is like not in the way or if he is not like anything that noise continue to leave and heading to a tour outside the country.
When I speak about this article, President Kikwete is in his tour in England to attend a meeting of health issues, he is the minister of health, minister of foreign affairs, minister of finance, and so on.
Our president likes to visit other countries and he has done even to visit the presidents who had invited the law, it's not love to visit friends.
During the international tour of President Kikwete, the noise on danger are continuing to be played by people from different sectors here at home, patients have no services because doctors have refused and go back to work is very few.
The government is announcing that services are there in the hospital while even doctors came back to work and call for religious leaders to bring together doctors and government who have been asked to sit for the country for a period where its presence here in the country is still needed.
Security of doctors involved in doubt, the opponents claim that it is wrong in doubt that doctors who need our safety be the source of life being in doubt if the government says they are going to report to the police!
What seems to realize that the concept being built by our leaders as the Department of National Security (NIDA) is about the law and now the department is about the law, it is possible for those who are used by this department to go to the police?
The truth is that this department is about the law and therefore is about the ability of the police and even the leaders of the country asked the department to be careful and it does not make mistakes of "foolish thing" as it appears from the claims of their opponents.

Our leaders are supposed to do a big issue and that this department has ever been keen if our leaders want to be careful when the officials failed to be careful when the management of this department has dropped, his intention was able to be careful in the sector of the leadership of our nation.
On other words, the department should be able to build a lot of leadership, and good leadership will help in controlling the department keenly because the knowledge of this department is worried about many people, it is clear that even the keenness of our leaders is clear.
It has reached an action against the directors of this department to work as the police responded, and security guards will enable politicians.

Now and go back to the topics of our security agencies and the leaders are like the children who showed up with their parents who are disrupting our nation, they do not have time to bring down a restaurant so as to bring down a fools should leave inside you.
We could have decided to kill in that country. This is because the security of the citizens have no alternative, ideologies or a political party.
We have heard that the National Security Department runs a exercise to sucks to all those who are trying to make noise about disasters, when a department would be careful, they should follow up to know what citizens are seeing these noise every day.
It's not possible that these opponents who are called "know" "the elders of those allegations," we cannot change "and that is why you need to be defended by threats from the minister of internal affairs and the citizens that complained.

Doctor Stephen has been abducted, he was abducted, "Percent" and then he wrote me, "says he had a government person talking with him, and that's when the police presented him for the medical camp.
He started where the minister of internal affairs and the commander Kova said that police are reduce by the officer who was with him Doctor Chris Brown was born where he is.
If he is doctors who are alleged to have identified himself "and he doesn't know, why are not arrested?
He refused the creation of a free commission to investigate without stopping the suspects does not help anyone for now.

Now, when you come up the claims by the complaints by their opponents that there is a squad that is looking for you, who will let us know if those who were kidnapped and if they should not be dealt with because they could not be dealt with because they could not accept it.
If in this nation thugs and responsibilities, they have the right to live and be careful, it is possible that doctor depends on strike led by this, the government and its media will be abducted by "inside the box for votes.
At the end of the day, life and security of citizens are not faithful and the criminals are in the hands of dollars, not in the hands of doctors.

There is a dirty game that is played here and every side goes down in the trap while the government has touched them in the trap of fights over ransom payments so that the government is growing very fast, can be understood and save the patients that are not guilty.

Those doctors have condemned the issue of Doctor Ulbrahim and forgetting that there is a problem of their interests and good policies of the health sector.
This ministry for more than ten years has been in the process of improvements and changes (Health Insurance). The process has increased in the political parties more than increasing success.
This process is not able to help a patient but also doctors, politicians and the government that it cannot be responsible, where doctors have discovered that even them are getting confused by these improvements, but before it has not been implemented, the government intends to destroy their rights.
Those doctors, through his skill of defending the interests of the patients at the end of the day, it is not doctors or government who want the interests of the patients, all of them are committed, but the one on bond is the government.

The Department of National Security is being used badly in this scandal, this is because even doctors from this department do work in their hospitals in Kijitonyama, they are also said that the hospital does not have different meanings in the country due to the poverty of infrastructure.
Instead of our security members to address problems that it doesn't know, they find out and cut off the open sores.
This department in developed countries do his work even out of the authority that builds up a lot of patriotism he is not recognized as a result of her fellow leaders who resigned.
Our here, leaders of this department have been technicians of fighting with politicians who have news, this is not good sign, there is a day we will look for forgiveness for those who are hands.

The opponents also entered into the dirty trap of the government in a state of opposition leaders and the members of parliament eat with them while there is a risk of losing time with the government that is used in conflict.
Their opponents are enough for the citizens that got up and let it reach a place to their opponents before giving them a solution to the government, the ones that are facing, are facing the government with evidence of lack of us, and when they recover, "the bombs are available every field.
My advice should be taken to a large extent because it does not have a hundred percent one as the members of parliament of CCM nor support a bad budget.
