
A helicopter crash.
December 23, 2014.

The Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has announced the start of a special political campaign which will be known by the name 'lice', "which will cost more than one billion shillings for 14 days, while three major accidents are expected to use more than 400 million shillings.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam city, Tuesday this week, the chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe said the campaign will involve three planes and enough vehicles to move close to all provinces of Tanzania mainland.
Mbowe said that the campaign started officially on Tuesday (yesterday) and went to provinces with all the provinces of Tanzania Mainland, apart from Lindi and Mtwara provinces, where that party is still in talks with the leadership of the police force.
Lindi and Mtwara alone, that is where we are not given an opportunity, there is a nuisance on this provinces because of what happened in the past, the communication and police force are going on and we were given an opportunity to we will arrive.
"In this unique operation, we have the army in the sky, we have the army in the ground, we have banned the scandal of the evil deeds that we will educate ourselves about their rights," added Mbowe.
Although he didn't put open the costs that will be used by his party in this campaign, it is clear that this can be a short campaign and with the highest cost in the history of that party, although it's also going on well to have a political benefit.
Our citizen has been told to have its reliable sources from CHADEMA that the price of the market is for now, the price of 2800 million shillings (4 million shillings) and the third because one can cost 500 million dollars (72 million).
As a result of experience in the previous days, this newspaper is worried about the campaigns of using the PTA Hall, which is claimed to be paid for a long time when the plane is in the air.
I think we will be in the air to give an average of four to five hours in a day, so as to read it, we will be 6000 shillings per day and therefore the cost can be 5000 dollars (8 million shillings), "the source that was not allowed to be known by details that it is not the party's spokesperson.
In those accusations, it's meaning that CHADEMA will use a sum of 4032 million shillings for 14 days which will be running that campaign, together.
Mwema should also be told that during the political meeting that was done by the secretary general of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilfredy Slaa, in the provinces of Tabora and Kigoma at the end of last year it cost an amount of 50 million shillings for two weeks.
That campaign of Slaa did not use the PTA Hall and therefore its cost are those of vehicles, oil and those who were present at the convoy.
According to the journey of Slaa's journey, it can be estimated that CHADEMA will use an amount of 50 million shillings for every two provinces which will visit (apart from Lindi and Mtwara), its meaning that 11 provinces will cost an amount of 950 million shillings.
I will see that the highest cost will be used in those important areas but to accept this one is a big campaign and therefore there will be a great cost of vehicles, the allowances of the involved and many fuel can be used to reach one billion, "this newspaper was told.
CHADEMA has received a total of 237 million shillings as a grant from government every month and so that this campaign can use close to four times in one month of grants.
When required to say the real cost that can be given by that campaign, the director of information and propagation of CHADEMA, John Mnyika said that it is not good to mention those costs because it is same as putting secret of the party in public.
"The constitutional sessions have received strategies and the budget of implementation this year is not the right time to write everything in the media when I made it, it will be same as explained the secret of the fight before it is in the middle of the war," he said.
CHADEMA has been having a high procedure of looking for him from a politician and the popular businessman of Kenya, Simeone Nyami.
However, it is not CHADEMA only that has been getting a huge costs of running its political activities in the country, other parties that uses a big amount of money is together with the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
