
"Ukara," to help Kingwendu who wants to vote in Kisarawe county.

The parliamentary candidate of Kisarawe county through CUF, Rashid Mwinshehe "Kingwendu," yesterday was an attraction at the time he was introduced by the presidential running mate of the United Republic, Juma Duni Haji.

Juma Duni Haji is the running mate for Edward Lowassa the candidate for the presidential position of the United Republic of Tanzania through CCM, but being under the umbrella of parties that form Ukawa, NCCR-Revolution, CUF and NLD.

Kingwendu who is an artist of the comedy field (Orijino Comedy), used that profession to ask for votes when he was introduced by his running mate, Juma Duni Haji.

If you use the comedy field, the six minutes he was given to ask for votes he used well by putting a rally, when he went to the comedy words, "he started therefore," my brothers get out of anything so that the person has been successful in search of a knee injury.

"Let me look alone, what you have you explained to you and to be taught since independence," he said while getting married.

Every statement he made at the main table of the running mate, Juma Duni Haji, was supposed to be insane.

We look at the estates, instead they ask you, that if you pass you, you're just a little, then you're going on, then you're close to you, so the problem is no employment, "he said and added.

"We look for forgiveness from the end of independence during the vehicle, maybe it is tired with the intention of having a traditional people that is being requested for tax or passport for a gift of a person you want to me.

"Belief that CCM is very dangerous poison that you are not supposed to do so, we should make sure that this year, look at the roads they have reduced up because it is walking up!"

What came from him is only fashion in its appearance, but it's still a comedian who has decided to use that opportunity to give a message to convince the community of people with Kisarawe District to vote on October 25th.
