RC does not want town to stop drinking alcohol.

It has been written by Nakalega.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

Provincial Commissioner of Kilimanjaro, Said Meck Sadiki, has urged the residents of Rombo district to organize afresh so as to avoid bad qualities that affect the incidents of robbery, raping and drinking alcohol in Tanzania, childhood pregnancies and smuggling of products.

Sadiki said that while he is leading the fundraising for the construction of a Special Police Station which will cost more than 84 million shillings, that is being built through the power of citizens and the stakeholders of internal and outside the district.
"You must change every day when they receive information on security and security of the province, you will be mentioned to lead in those events, I will give you an example since January up to now, 60 students of primary and secondary schools have got pregnant in your district," he said.
He said that the district is not mentioned in those events, he will not launch that district only but to return back to development and reduce investment opportunities in various sectors.
Sadiki said that the construction of that center will be a catalyst to reduce crime incidents and prevent the smuggling of smuggling that are taking place through a reduction of 239 people that are available from BADEA.
While inspecting the construction of the administration building in Karume Health Center, the management of the council of council and water projects, Sadiki wanted experts to cooperate with his office so as to look for money to complete the construction as an improvement of services to citizens while in his report to the head of the province, medical officer, MSabatama, Uledi, said the construction of the police station needs 64 million shillings so as to be completed.
A professional to 52,316 people in 14 villages in four wards which previously got a distance of 12 kilometers to look for that service.
Earlier on the district commissioner, Agnes Kijazi said that until now, construction has costed 198 million shillings and that the fundraising was directed by the provincial commissioner has made a success of 65 million shillings together with construction equipment, 270 iron sheets, 30 iron sheets and five incidents of apartheid.
