

By Amina Omari.
The problem of the child labor under the age of 18 is one of the biggest challenges in many areas especially in developing countries like Tanzania.
Because there are children who have been struggling for the hard work that are there about their ability, a situation that causes the effects of body and psychological problems.
Tanzania is one of the countries that comes out and challenges of the presence of children who are determined, especially in danger of the dangerous work such as areas of Turo Port in the bar, infrastructure, and homes.
However, according to the research that was done by the institution of technology, the problem has been seen more in the provinces of Tanga and Kigoma for many children to work in an environment that is not safe for their age and danger.
On the side of Tanga Province, the child of children is in a huge level in the areas of huge farms for tea cooking, including the physically challenged child.
On the side of Tanga Province, it is not an unusual thing to meet with the child in the streets getting married, nuts, and water while his colleagues are getting education.
Likewise, when you get lucky to visit the breast cancer areas in the peace area, you will meet groups of children especially women who are involved in agricultural activities as part of increasing the income of the family.
In my view, it gives me the child for the activities of property, we will contribute to reducing the mother of the child and be able to prevent them from the growth and development of its growth in general.
As this situation is caused by the community to have a small understanding about the effects of the child, a situation that contributed to poverty in the level of households.
The community is using the problem of poverty of income to use children as a result of getting them in activities of the child labor so as to increase income to the family level.
But in this issue of the barley farmer is a female child who at a large extent the child is affected by the system of our culture is.
That system gives an opportunity to a female child to start being given responsibilities of work together with upbringing when they are still young though the male child are given opportunities to be given priority to education.
However, despite the government getting various international contracts together with the making of the laws to protect children against the child, but until now they have continued to get a long time.
If we believe that children are human resources, therefore parents and guardians are there to make sure that we protect our children to ensure they are not partnering with dangerous employment.
And if there is the need for you to work, then you should make sure that they are taking place under special management and not to affect the mental growth and its growth.
Parents especially the villages and those in the villages and those who are in the farms, be given appropriate education on the effects of the child labor so that they can protect and stop using them in their production activities.
The government will place a friendly environment for providing education to ensure that school will have better infrastructure for providing education, teachers and enough equipment.
One of the areas that causes many children to get into the child is a lot of schools that have a poor environment of providing education especially the shortage of teachers.
Also, the government to make sure that the law to oppose the child care for children be followed and supervised by closely so as to ensure children are available for the best and safe growth.
It gets 42 kilograms of contraception?
