
The barley farmer of Tanzania has launched a new cement of the elephant's farm (425).

Rashid Mkonga.

Being a great effort to give a stable company more to the contractors and the farmers that sell their cement, "3G + 25," which is stable and strong winds up with huge projects in infrastructure such as bridges, roads and other parts of sports.

Speaking at that launch today, the chief executive officer of Llongero Tanzania, Catherine Lilenga, said that a huge number of 225 students is a special machine that was invented to meet the great increase in the needs of a stable foundation is a result of good research that was done by our experts and has been prepared to meet the market needs. "He said.

Speaking about the development in the construction sector in Tanzania, it is claimed that in general the value of the construction sector in Tanzania, it is estimated to have 6 billion shillings in the sector was to 78 billion shillings for the year 2014 and is expected to increase in line with the increase in houses and infrastructure. "

The Director of Marketing and Communications of the LSE's company, Allan Damiba, said that a total of Supperdoll, which will be sold at a total of 50 kilograms of cement is the biggest of its cement that is in the market due to the strength and the cost of users such as required.

He started improving early, something that will increase the income of products that are derived from.

In Uknga region, an issue that will enable them to be able to be controlled quickly and increase productivity.

Buy a good foundation of preventing yourself and little use of water to strengthen.

Meek Mill said that a poultry farming has been launched so as to meet the market needs to have enough cement, while announcing the cement that is based on their work, "apart from the strengths, the other benefits of Supperdoll, is to be permanent for a long time as a result of the buildings that will be built through that cement will last more.

He said that a word of Supperdoll, means faith as a result of early treatment and to sit for a long time in the strength and cement is part of the cement bags.
