
The company will be charged 120 billion shillings, order to cause cancer.
Florence Majani ya Kuzuia na kukosa kusajili kadi za wateja wao.
In Dar es Salaam City, an order of Johnson Mbwambo, popularly known as fox has been termed as a rash on the health and many people in the whole world has been revealed to cause cancer.
Yesterday, the court of St Louis of America has commanded the company that makes those order, Johnson Mbwambo and Maliya Bergh.
Up to now, more than 1000 women have been completed in achieving the company on claims of removing that cancer after using an order of Johnson for many years.
The relations officer of the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), Gaudensia Simwanza said that they are not a report on the effects of those order, although they have not yet confirmed himself professionally by taking place in the country.
"We thank you, (Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority) FGM) where there is a mother that makes Johnson Mbwambo, but until now they are not ready, we should wait," he said.
He said TFDA has done investigations into the citizens about that order but it did not see any effects.
"But maybe it is for the order made to be brought in this phase, we are continuing with more investigation on the citizens," he said.
Simwanza said that FEST has also been able to give information to the users of those products in the world about the effects of that order.
The year 2013, Berya was the first woman to defend that company after being found with cancer.
After being satisfied by a Berlusconi's complaints, the court commanded what is Johnson Mbwambo and Johnson as a warning that happened, Johnson as a company owned by a company owned by a company built in cancer.
After one year, Berya opened again that case with the court revealed to be paid that amount of money.
The doctor of Women's Women's Hospital, Daniel Crala, gave evidence in front of the court and explained that more than 10,000 women have been discovered to have breast cancer eggs in the hospital and so that those women have been forced to have cells, talents, interest, "on the cervix.
The doctor of cancer of the Ocean Road Institute Herbert Louis, said that there is a possibility of chemicals, talents, a special report "that you get to the skin, up to blood and getting into the blood cells and then causing cancer.
Even so, this issue needs more investigation and also to someone they are being affected, it is a must that he has used this order for a long time, "he said.
He said that it is not a must that this order has affected someone by using the secret part, even if you use at least in the near areas, can be free by reducing maternal deaths, but many eggs are affected by cancer or the eggs are affected by cancer, "he said.
Another witness of a Berlusconi's case, confirmed that he saw the cells of 'talents, a report that is in a Berlusconi's eggs and another one on May last year, shows Gloria Rider to warned his customers about that order causing cancer.
Rassemblement have refused that it is discovered from cancer, the year 2011 after using that order by reducing the secret part for several years especially the court advised Rwasa who will also be paid 55 million dollars.
The website of CNN explains that the research on chemicals, talents, a special program, causing cancer was brought to many years ago but Johnson and Johnson as they did not want to open the truth to their customers.
"It is like companies that make cigarettes, know that it has already been confirmed to be smoking cigarettes, causing sexual cancer but they get to the public about this," said the report of CNN.
