How are we themselves for praising or?
May 29, 2014.

In this period I explained in details on how political politics in all country are must believe in Diplomacy.
Politics that were celebrated well in charge of Diplomacy, are needed to continue being involved in their homes.
It has been my advice that Diplomacy, has gone to our country since leaving the government at Julius Nyerere which is the only ones that involves us because of its leadership, teacher entered us, some of the times more things have been done.
One example is that one that is related to Angola and how Tanzania did not get badly on the 11 of November in 195.
When I say it is that in that environment of that year we can say that Teacher she explained, or he knows how his advisers do not recognize him or because he had a easy way to make him be shaken.
Right now, what we witnessed is that Diplomacy is headed, and it does not have direction. I have said in the past article that this situation has been going on, under President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, and later President Benjamin Mkapa, then made President Jakaya Kikwete.
All of them have been running those commemorations, because they did not want to understand why they are supposed to understand what to the interests of the benefit from the foundation is that the local politics was eliminated, and today this is still continuing to be installed.

If I said several times, political politics without a result of a must and outside the country, that is Diplomacy, will move forward if there are a lot of mix up in the country, and outside the country, then you will come out and I will give a few examples.
The country as the Central African Union (car) has been in violence in the country for more than the year now, its citizens surprised the lot of challenges of religious ideology, and now the country is known as a country that is known as a country.
Who can we expect that the country like that country can have Diplomacy, which will be understood by the foundation of Diplomacy, which will be the meaning of these things that will be supported, and the meaning that will bring together with a short foundation?
There are a lot of countries in Africa that touch with this problem and they have a lot of mix up like that, or different from that, but important is to see that in a lot of mix up of home to get a lot of life.
A lot of mix up until now because the authorities have been unable to have leaders and show any other reasons, one of them is that many of them are not leaders, and they have never been a leaders of their citizens, or of everything they had never done.
It's a people who came to power because they felt it was a chance to enable them to enable them, their families, and they did not have plans to improve the lives of their citizens, or to protect themselves against danger of them.
This is not a problem of Tanzania only in the whole Africa, has brought together people like these those who died here in areas of their countries promised this and that during the promise they were not aware about the promise (they don't want them) and they still get votes that they had decided.
Another problem sometimes it is that many politicians shouldn't know that the political game because it is to give a promise that you know since he was not just on foot and other words, there are faith that is built that politics is saying anything.
In this article starting from this week I have a intention to return to the headquarters of our politics and our economy, and how we have been doing relations between the areas and different areas in our country through a way that is a threat to the security of our nation.
In order to discuss these issues, without doubt, I will have been forced to look in details if we are still continuing with efforts to build themselves in the country or we are determined to make sure that it's true the truth is to the local resources and its people.
We will not be possible to discuss these issues without talking about the whole issue that we witnessed in what was called on the process of writing a new constitution because of our country, a scandal that has left many people have asked if we have witnessed in television and radio stations.
