The month of 2015 has been planned.
October 30th, 2014.

Famous politicians have been mentioned to vie for presidency in the next general elections in the year they have started to plan their column, and already the names of people mentioned to be "chief ministers" that we have started to get out, the Prime Minister has promised to be informed.

These reports have been emerged during the time that parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) have got into an agreement to stop one candidate in every level of elections from now.
Until now, there is no camp for those candidates which has been ready to prove out of one of the planning of elections because different reasons, but this newspaper has been given the names of "the prime minister" in every main camp that wanted to vie for presidency in the year - inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and among the opposition parties.
According to the constitution of Tanzania, the prime minister is expected to be one of the members of parliament to be elected as part of the provinces of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, and the ones mentioned to vie for presidency are looking at more than the elections of the elections.
Mke Mwema should be told that the criteria used to look for people who will not be trusted by the prime minister is religion, a place where he comes from the age of the age, attraction to the community and political consent.
We think this is the analysis, the one being mentioned to be candidates and faithful.

Edward Lowassa and Andrew Chenge.
Although he has not opened up, but one of the secret that I have never happened for a long time is true that Edward Lowassa will fail to vie for presidency through CCM just after the funeral was asked officially.

This newspaper has been explained that Lowassa has already decided to be Andrew Chenge, as his prime minister if he will get the presidency on CCM ticket in the next year Andrew Chenge, but all of them are Christians and although their difference of private relationship and the region that takes this situation.
Lowassa was coming from the North of Tanzania where he has never been told President Andrew Chenge, looking at the provinces of the Lake Region which is the biggest number of voters.
"These are also friends who have died in difficult time together with Lowassa, he would like to have the prime minister they have known him and no longer has been given that opportunity to be a good minister," said one of the leaders of CCM from one of the provinces of the lake region with the conditions of not being mentioned.
Frederick Sumaye and Zitto Kabwe.
Sumaye has never heard his intention of leading Tanzania if he will be called by his party to vie for the very high position.
Mke Mwema has been told that because he has left the government a long time, there is no one who is in government now who will give that position.
However, one of the close people of Sumaye who speaking with this newspaper explained that the dream of Sumaye was to get the prime minister as he was given by Prime Minister and Benjamin Mkapa in order to attract youth votes.

Already Sumaye has explained his intention to vie for presidency through the opposition party if the process of CCM will be affected by bribery and this is his close people when they love it to the opposition politics.
"To the youth, Sumaye has continued to be the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, because he saw like a politician who doesn't know him, that the party that are accused by Zitto Kabwe has identified himself as a party that is accused by Zitto Kabwe, has identified himself as a party that is involved by Zitto Kabwe.

"Than the same time, Zitto appears from the western part of Tanzania and he is also a Muslim, the issues that made a result of that list will not be remembered if Zitto Kabwe will make it or from CHADEMA where he is now and moving to CHADEMA.
"The problem of Mzee (Sumaye) is that among the leaders of UKAWA, there is no one who has the same way to vie for religious leaders and the important region for the purpose of vying for presidency in politics and who also requested not to be mentioned.
Mizengo Pinda and Adam Malima.
In the recent months, the name of the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has increased in speed as part of the politicians who want to be approved by CCM to vie for the presidency in the next general elections.
People being mentioned to be in his camp they mentioned the name of the deputy minister of finance, Adam Malima who is the name of Pinda as the prime minister and the biggest reason is two and the religion is mentioned to be considered.
Malima who is an economist, is 48 years old and was coming from a political family that his star and the father of this minister, the late Professor Kekeletse Phoofolo, has been reported to have no doubt among Muslims here in the country.
