Law of local government.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

I was published today 14th September 2016.

The law of local governments, the 290 issues that concern tax issues, is being renovated and the process is in the last steps so as to remove the big cargo of small traders including women.

The Deputy Minister of State, Office of the President, Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi), Selemani Jafo said that the government is making amendments to that law, is related to taxes.
His process is in the final stages with the aim of reducing the small business traders of the tax, Doctor Jafo said that the statement by the government is to make sure that the council to stop involving themselves with non-scale farmers and that even President John Magufuli in his regions have been doing their businesses.
He was responding to a question about the increase of member of parliament for Rombo, Joseph Selahura (CHADEMA) who wanted to know the government when they get women who have been affected by the council by being taxed.
Jafo said that every council is required to show the funds that were set aside for youths and women before passing its budget and all the councils have been set aside 5678 billion shillings.
He gave an advice to the citizens to stop making high groups that took place during 'billions of JK', he promised that the fifth term government is keenly to ensure the money set aside for councils are being used for the intended purposes.
Jafo explained about the money for youth and women, he was answering a question about the increase of member of parliament for Mvomero, Sadiki Muruma (CCM), who wanted the government to make sure he is in which way to help women and youth groups.
In a primary question, the nominated member of parliament, Esther Prosecution (CCM) wanted to know the government has a plan to enable women in the training and have a crown to their economic activities easily.
Responding to the primary question, Jafo said that the council through the community development department continues to provide education on business issues and entrepreneurship for women and youth groups before getting loans so as to ensure the loans are used and managed by required.
