
The workers are supposed to present his retirement documents.

It has been written by Eleuteri Mangi -information, Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The government in the period from January to August 2016.
To pay a total of 511,071 shillings being the arrears of the employer to the servants who have retired from Tanzania.

The Deputy Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, said that while responding to a question by the member of parliament of Korogwe Town, Mary Kazaula while talking about the challenge facing retirees of Korogwe town, Mary Massay who interviewed the challenges facing retirees of Korogwe town, Mary Massay who interviewed the challenges facing retirees of the PSPF Pension Fund in the financial year 2015 / 2016.
"You get getting into the payment of you, the manager from Tanzania and the government, but employers are some of the documents that are involved in order to promise the payments for the retired President, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji," said the documents that involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, "said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji," said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, "said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji," said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, "said the documents that involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji," said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, "said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji," said the documents that also involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji, "said the documents that involve the payment of those retirees, said Doctor Ashatu Kijaji," said the documents that involve the
In addition, a total of 8325 billion have been paid the debt before the year 1999, the situation reported that the government continues to pay the arrears of claims by retirees and other benefits offered by the fund to be able to run their lives after retiring from.
In the period of January to July 2016, the fund has given the pension funds of 1 billion shillings where for now the fund continues to pay the arrears of the benefits for the new retirees and other benefits.
In ensuring that intention of paying for the retired benefits, Doctor Ashatu Kijaji has said that since July 2015, the board of Social Security Fund are continuing to work for the retired benefits and to pay their allowances for 50 percent according to the instructions of the government.
On his part, Minister of State, Office of the Prime Minister Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Youth, Employment and Employment Jenista Mhagama has directed the Parliament that the system and law will be joined and give an opportunity for the worker that will relocate from one employment to another fund.
