Let us continue with another report that you want to go up to the valley of my wife.
The special ongoing operation for making human resource that was very disturbing and take water to the farms contrary to the poor law in the country, Stella Manyanya said that I think that I will enable the water users in line with clean water and then it will be the users of the rules and procedures in the country.
Some of the water users in Kilosa district, in Kilosa district, who are getting water to irrigate their farms from areas that complained about the haphazard use of commodities including their colleagues and therefore causing the others to get water with albinism.
The chairman of the users in the evening then the late Ramadhani Shija while talking on behalf of their colleagues have said that a big reason that contributes to the problem is some of the politicians to intervene in terms of misuse of domestic chemicals and some of the farmers to move the borders of sixty eight books from Zanzibar.
Therefore, we request that advice that if there is a possibility of any kind then to be used for us to have a team of the tests for you.
To come only to use or procedures but maybe you will be known, one of them passed away from the water room, I asked for that reason.
Welcome him by someone who in Karimjee stadium inside.
Yes, another person who is involved with me.
Remember I will come to that sun.
We will use me.
Your action is.
The teachers' questions are not yet and they did not want to ask how they still give.
And I have forgotten your gold anywhere in the world, then he doesn't know.
And.
Something that has a lot by Pope, ask for us to implement it is good.
For reference to you, he didn't know that the camp depends on water sources will not be close to.
That any person we will know where the water problem is going back to Honorable John Magufuli, she has shown that she is true, it's a problem but he can be happy about it in this areas because it is a problem that does not give him here there is a matter.
Second and.
When it is at home, the late does not say that there is still more than sixty meters because she told the referee what I do is doing communication but here I was shocked when I was surprised without having any difficulty.
When I was told, Abdallah a girl has said that the project has also been using loopholes to some of them lack of paying for water services which is one hundred and fifty shillings saying the areas under the control of unplanned settlements will help to save money.
We thank me to explain all what we see when they see it.
And others take over the water without a permit.
For those targeted West, we want to eat the southern highlands to use names, we have faith in this exercise, they will come out of many people who come down and let me get a permit for passing through the field below from Morogoro.
.
