When we have written the news and I was read.
We request to you in parliament you know?
There is no need.
We are saying that there is change.
There are some of us to hear from the right you get money in the budget.
Neema Rusibamayile as usual I don't have a report from that parliament because he claimed that she was going to come up to him who is a mistake.
But the?
That is not present by the speaker of parliament for Tanzanians in general.
For many Tanzanians we agreed to get in a new culture no to take them with the minister of loans the problem is in the bank.
It doesn't miss a desire to vote for many Tanzanians that the name of the late without having education on entrepreneurship.
I thank you for that event, you will discover you.
We are in the country Bakari and they are starting that I have been given what I was surprised.
There is to recognize that the phone raised me, I was able to know many.
It is like he was.
Commenting on the level it's not yet that we have already decided to ask them and credit are waiting for the best week, it does not turn back because they try and stand on that meaning before launching a state house.
Then for you to go for the teachers to go for a time, that is until I'll come up is to see if we have been a lot of brotherhood, explaining the problems that still Tanzanians are in the previous committee.
What is the situation?
In the sessions where it was running just soon, members of parliament were quoted saying it remains not clear that their committee will go to their foreign trips and so as to be a speaker of the ten parliament and one do not talk about it.
It is true here to see that we are complaining for now to do something like the step of saying.
But the sponsorship of all the star will be able to expand the concerned parties to put in the country or in the evening the positions will take place some time, where we will also come out, "we will also remain in different parts where we will have found themselves with the behavior of destruction that have arrested without itself.
When it went to go and be able to wed for that mountain, it is not that we have banned the journey, but a few months you put it well.
Honorable speaker, by saying here that the fifth commandment of here is the main job here in the country, it has changed the trend.
We will ask you to work the male child after putting you.
And give his opportunity to work well in the community park, we cannot have groups of other people living in different areas, we should not know that here, our budget had a challenge but you don't know the close to that parliament is a challenge but the change will not be dealt with.
But also, it is true that, they have succeeded to be good because in the speech to launch this parliament which is ending one year old, he said the parliament is part of using a lot of money for people to travel because it is not for everyone has reduced the number keenly.
I think it is one of the way I went to diseases what reduced what I could destroy the books.
Now as a speaker.
In Mererani Town, we cannot get out where it was not mentioned because I was not true for the purpose of buying desks followed by getting drugs.
When the holiday is coming here, I don't tell me what we are.
