
When the speech by the late you will realize that he will be able to protect the country.
The new Minister for Security Joseph Nicrox, was happy to be the first lady who was sworn in last week by promised to implement the responsibility of strengthening the security that had already cut off every citizen.
It was revealed that a load that was approved by this minister did not return to May but he believes that he could be able to buy and be supported by deception.
Christmas day is the day that he started his work with all citizens, they saw them a lot how security was paid by different parts including inside and outside the capital city of Nairobi.
Those who tried to prevent security on this day they found themselves being arrested by traffic police.
The partnership of the citizens that was impressed by the minister's efforts to end people that cause violence like chicken, were shot down and broke down and broke down with the terrorists who could destroy the freedom of living without informing them and we will live with joy.
AUTOT 717 AWK, popularly known for ODM Party has been taken by ACT Patriots Party to sign a veteran goalkeeper from Oyster Bay area one day and not the same.
The deaths of others would have been given a chance to listen to the voters of he said that he could not know that they could have lost their democratic system.
But now we can't have been approved on the ticket because the way that was used to agree that this and Moses Kajege "is the best thing that is still a lesson for many.
Peter Mwaluka, Pancras Ndejembi has also advised that court of ICC continues to fulfill faith, status, respect and honesty is among its members and Ulimwengu in general.
As a result of getting tired of witnesses every time, Miss Fatna Bowman.
Kenyans have already been a lot of time and he will not have a need to be done in danger of the evil deeds.
We are requesting you to give these allegations that are not primary so that Kenya comes back in the chapter and the map of the country lead the constitution of peace.
I have faith that recently, the cases of Kenyans that are remaining will be dealt with as it happened to their colleagues.
Each other than Christmas is the real meaning of Christmas was lost very well because of Christmas season usually do not know that is the time to be assisted by other things that are against the love of the Almighty God.
It will be good leaders for religious leaders to need to give birth to this holiday because it was in the past where people won't prevent God from cashews?
Eric Sambu village, Nairobi Huvisa added that the arrest of the arrest of the opposition leader of Al Shabaab is good so much especially in Kenya which has been baptized by the terrorist group.
It is good for sure that he was arrested for a lot of time those suspects are arrested while they were arrested and that situation does not help a human being.
It is our hope that the leader who was selected will help in the intelligence investigation and help in the efforts to deal with that group that is dangerous to people who are not guilty, it has no important information about the ones who were arrested.
James Mbwana Msangule has said the government wants the teachers to support the government to be careful about how the government will handle issues of teachers here in the country.
When we increase the teachers as they did not wait for a case in the previous year, although now it seems that the new year will begin in a strike.
It is good that the government should be accountable if he says that we have been unable to listen and not only with the teachers but also other public servants.
The normal citizen is usually used as a result of loss of time to time though they give you a lot of money to contribute to the national economy.
Carlos Puyol with his lover.
