Fear of masturbation.

All servants of political parties.
The police who died on the users to play.
With Benedict Liwenga.

The Ministry of Security and Defense.
To build a nation, it has given one month to all servants to present their certificates so that they can be used.
The verification to know if there are fake certificates.

Permanent Secretary of that Ministry.
Job Ndugai, made those remarks in Dar es Salaam city.
Dar es Salaam yesterday during the training of public education.
The community that was organized by the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority.
Community (SSRA).

He said from today.
All servants who are under that ministry will be required to present certificates.
Colleges we saw them, "I give one month from today to January.
They show their votes in the ministry that they can be able to remove it after the inspection will follow up on the areas.
They were seen to know if they are.

The officers using certificates.
Fake phones, "he said.

He said the police.
It is revealed that using fake certificates and to get positions at work, will they be aired.
Where the aim of that inspection is to urge the workers to study in colleges.
That is recognized by the government is not in the estates.

He added that, that plan will be taken.
It will also involve the servants that have been shown by the ministry that they will be required.
Their certificates, on his side, managing director of SSRA, Miss Irene Uwoya.
He urged the workers of that ministry to join the Social Security Fund.
The purpose of putting their benefits.

He said there are many bags.
Therefore, every servant can choose any time he would like to join with them so that it can help them.
Against events that you should not expect to stop these events include diseases, disabilities.
Officially retiring from work, stop depending on voluntary or a must, speaking about the challenges.
In that sector, he said statistics show those citizens in the sector.
Officially, they are estimated to be 15 million.
And that sector.
