Henry Joseph of what Taifa Stars?
Sep 5, 2013.

The head coach of Taifa Stars, Kim Poulsen has done another incident this journey has assured a player who has never seen him for more than one year at the Tanzania national soccer team (Taifa Stars) that is preparing itself for the match against the Gambia Union.

That player, Henry Joseph, is the first to be signed by Simba team for the purpose of this season of Tanzania Mainland Premier League that he left the country in the year 2009 to go to Norway where he was playing for Aston Villa Club.

You can inform Simba for bringing back his former player who was the captain when leaving in the big soccer clubs in the world, all days there are positions for the old players.

He can be able to have a good level of playing with the club but its presence of many youths who were made in that club will have a person to look for example and knowledge on their journey to play football at a high level.

In the national team, there are two types of players who for teachers are expected to inspect the youths who have shown hope of being good players in the future days and players who have qualified in that team.

Carlos Quirer, Christiano Ronaldo will play in the national team of Brazil while on the age of 17, although he did not play even if he did not play in the World Cup match in the year 1994 and he did not use him even in one match.

You can understand when the coach told the upcoming player, but Henry Joseph who has attained 30 years (according to her documents) for two years to come, he has been called for what to have a team that he has dropped for a bridge.

Let you have heard that the last time for this player to play for a national team played on a very high level to an extent that people were surprised when he plays soccer in Europe.

It's not possible for it's impossible because it came under the teams that are in the team because of this year, Kim Poulsen has called the national team that he called Young Taifa Stars that his work was to be used as usual those players of the Stars of Stars.

Instead of taking one of the players who he put in the camp and get them in that team, he is facing a player who is no one with its own record.

This is possible for many to see the match against Gambia Union which will be played at the end of this week, it was a good opportunity to provide a chance to youths as Jonas Mkude, showing their ability.

Henry would have been left only to serve Simba SC but Stars would have been left to the elderly who are in the form.
