
On Tuesday, December 30th, 2014.

Relationship between the mother and child care of children - 2.

At the time we are preparing to look at yourself the upbringing of children aged 0-3 as we had promised to see how these children can be affected by the upbringing that they get, it's good we shall look at shortly when he did in the four main parts of parents that can affect the upbringing of children.

I don't know this is the collection of results of the children's relationship with parents, although you divided into four groups of the child with a habit, so that every group has two sides, positive and bad results, therefore, every group has a bad condition of the child and her mother's relationship, therefore, it will be touched on the third round.

In a short briefing, I don't know four positive things that are targeting to give the child a child and therefore make sure that you get close to the parent and other people who have lost their differences.

To know or not to recognize special needs for a child.

Here we will talk about the ability and will help them to deal, and let me know that he is doing a child and make sure that it is good to know what the child wants to know what the child wants to know what a child is in order of hunger, a pain or not to be heard.

A parent of this ability is blocking us because that your impatience will not be afraid, therefore there is a bad desire to know that this situation does not build a strong relationship because the child has not been sent to him for any environment.

To recognize that what maybe the child has a great dangers and it makes a child to indicate that when it happens, you can see several things in his relationship with close people and start seeing them as part of the life of the family and his voice is heard.

Against him, it is not knowing what maybe the child for failing, to read, "what is his right to claim to be heard, but the mother was unable to understand why her child gets but also a person to listen to him.

Likewise, not to recognize the needs of the child can be involved with other needs which essentially has not been able to play with her child as a woman wants to live with her child and it's not a must for a child to get a child because what he believes is for a child.

The results of failing to recognize that what the child makes him do faith and those who have gone into a long time when he claimed that her child is available and would like to see you have no ability to identify their differences and causing things to move forward.

The determination of getting the child is to fail to receive the child.

The coming of a child with a big amount to change the life of her biological mother starting from every day, the view and the body of the body (for a mother), at least sleeping and wake up, and even such acts are part of the cost of getting the child.

For them to say that, things can change because of the coming of the child, the child was to receive the child themselves and to see that the child is usually expected and even if a child is needed, there is still efforts to help him.

Against him, it is unable to change the process of putting ahead the private needs, private plans and other private issues that have no longer be used by the experts without any other reason why they may be allowed, if we shall see if we will be.

Not ready to receive the child is together with putting your needs as a parent in front of the child by thinking that you do not think about what is not true even if it does not help the child to deal with your fears.

Likewise, to fail to receive the child is together with what seems to be recognized by what seems to be recognized as you are annoyed instead you are annoyed instead you are annoyed instead you are annoyed instead you are annoyed so much, how many days do not lie! "

Absolom went to partner with a child or lack of patient and lost himself on things.

For the origin, children are born with a voice that is heard and causing things that do not be done since when he is born, the child didn't want to communicate and put a lot of things to cooperate with others.

A parent of cooperation with her child, you know and gave him a good position to the age of his age, I don't know that she will not do it, but to give them an opportunity to make him be trusted and to show his ability.

Responding to cooperate with the child's meaning is to recognize that he had a lot of things that he has like, as a human being and that their responsibility is to ensure security and stop from us and believe those who face their parents.

Contrary the importance of collaborating with him is a habit of failing to withstand the freedom of the child by getting himself on a point and therefore made him also want to control anything without any person's lives and to make sure that everyone wants to control the life of the child.

There is not necessary so as to sign him when he is.

Like the way we say at in, a child needs a lot of mother to be infected with feelings of it is the existence of a child's life in order to get an opportunity to identify its capability, the challenges that their parents and others do not want to be given priority.

When a mother wants to see the responsibilities of work so that I have never been at home to see the child a mother who decided to stop the plan to go and home because it's only a child that need to get enough opportunity to be close to the child and the meaning of getting enough opportunity to be close to the child.

Contrary to it, it is to put in another activity with the cost of proper upbringing when they aren't easy to think other people like my grandfather, and when they can help us to carry the responsibility of the upbringing so that we can be able to focus on how other things must be in life.
It is in believing that the child can grow without the cost of postponed other things that are seen as a primary school while it is considering the responsibility.

However, it's understood that a lot of life has a lot and sometimes it is forced to be far from the child again for a long time, but in addition to that, it is a must to know the child or to stop others so as to protect the child and effects that are facing them.

That is saying, to be careful in the activities of life and to stop the issue of maternal and other people is the same as possible, it should not recognize the child and make sure that this child needs to affect the relationship of mother and child as we will see as we continue.

The results of the child.

The upbringing of the child has two major effects, are affecting the way he sees himself and secondly, they affected the way he knows them and in relation to other people with a mixture of four people, like the way we say above, you can give birth to the fourth child.
First, it's a child to see you so much and so as to see others like people who are unsatisfied and this is not the ability to live well with people because they do not make a lot of people to send to other people for their benefit.

Likewise, the third possibility is to build a spirit of a child who doesn't have a strong desire to kill them, although he sees others like people with value and even when this one will have a problem of self-employed and can be a problem of self-friends.

He did not know the fourth term, it's a child not to understand and see if you do not like to see others like people who do not have problems and that is why they are not affected by what is needed.

In this article we shall begin to view children aged 0-3-3 so as to see how he didn't know the four main parts of the child were done in this.

It is continuing.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
