
For the funds that were given by he said it is more than a need?
By Mohammed Dewji.
It should be true or not that governors who will allow some of the money they were given to the development of the high level, it will not be the first time this issue in the country.
Previously, we have seen members of parliament to return the money for the development of the development of parliament and various ministries to be forced to restore money in the high level for not using them.
This is the one to be blamed because this situation is that those who receive the money or the ones who do not do or do not have a lot of money and we are not happy about the good road but we are not happy about the main road but it's not a good road.
Those who purchase goods are normal as they don't know the virginity and to stop the poor more than it.
Despite a lot of departments to provide a public rally, give many parents not to be dealt with.
Also, he said that he had already started a lot of projects to strengthen security in the streets especially by putting off the famous electricity 'that has been burnt down, then for what money is brought back to the high level instead of being used for the intended purposes.
Normally, there are culture of people who are trusted by those money to be a member of parliament, the governor, minister among others to start using them when a time has passed, another problem is the use of budget for a budget contrary to its intention and raising the citizens that service.
For example, one of the recent reports that was given by the controller of the budget on the implementation of the budget in which he claimed that by March, he claimed that until March, he said such as Nairobi, Kakopi Kapesti, and hip-Fi which were using a lot of money for personal issues such as the purchase of two wives, a visit to the purchase of money in Tanzania.
The chairman of the supply commission of tax (REPOA), has complained to his part he has expressed his lot of money and also the chairperson of the governors of Islamic Council in the country, has denied claims that they will return the money they were given because they saw it.
In this debate, who is the one who spoke about what the citizen is waiting for to see the fruits in the sky.
