The small business people were given.

September 28, 2016.

President Doctor John Magufuli, has been asked to solve a long-term conflict in the southern highlands following the spread of the markets that are not official at the periphery of that market and caused more than 250 business people to run their businesses at a loss.
While speaking to this newspaper yesterday in the market, those business people said that some of the business people have been sent to a plot in Baboons in the high level that is owned by CCM branch in Kinondoni Municipality and running business despite the court giving an order to urge them to relocate from that area.
They said that the act of business continuing to take place in that area has caused customers to end outside instead of getting inside the special market of Magomeni.
The secretary of that market Mario Tuli told the newspaper that the business people in that market have been getting losses due to the spread of criminal offenses and markets which are not official at the periphery of that market, a step that causes customers to fail to get into that market.
He said that despite the market having a capacity to carry 400 traders to run their businesses, but currently there are 250 reasons for other reasons in the CCM area and run the official market.
"Said the main government to supervise and promote the markets here in the country instead of local governments that have been giving priority to big investment as the construction of the roads here in Kinondoni Municipality have given a letter the intention of construction of eight accidents here in the country we will go to where the customer will inform you," said Tuli.
And the chairperson of CCM branch, Daud Mziray, said that the business people who were seated on more than 19 years at that CCM property, have resulted in huge losses including paying for houses to run the office while they have the area.
"We are requesting the chairperson, our president Magufuli to help as from the era of the Provincial Commissioner, Abbas Kandoro, he ordered the business people to leave but they did not go back but they did not go back but until today they have not shifted," said Lambert.
Furthermore, the Secretary General of CCM branch, Lumumba Mwiru, said that the plot has an increase of an increase, Bollore Logistics and has been charged with CCM many years although it is used by the business people, a step that has caused the party to pay a lot of money in the leasing area for the purpose of running the office.
