
Police officers who were killed by Zainul Mzige.

July 31, 2016.

The country's police force is holding nine suspects who are suspected to be carried out in Ruvuma province and steal different things from the member of the commission on constitutional changes who is also a member of the executive council of the NCCR-Mageuzi Party, Dombeni with Sengelema province.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, said the arrest of those suspects has been contributed by the partnership that was given by the family of Doctor Mvungi.
He said those suspects have been arrested in Dar es Salaam city at different times where previously they were arrested six times but their names were at the end of the same way they missed the investigation.
The police commander of the special unit of Dar es Salaam, Commissioner Suleiman Kova, who was also there in that meeting, has now heard of those suspects as Msigwa Ngapa (30), Paul Nonga (2), Juma Hamis who was beaten and another by the name withheld), which all of them are residents of Dar es Salaam.
"These suspects who were found with swords, Kigoda and who have been confirmed to be used in that event, has also been found with a mobile phone company, Doctor Mvungi," said Commissioner Kova said, in Nyamajian, previously, he confessed to be involved in that incident and evidence has been completed by 80 percent.
"All the suspects have condemned the offense and we are looking for investigation so that they can be taken to court immediately," he said.
Ditopile, Mvungi has been killed, injured by people who are believed to be criminals in the night of November 3this year, at his home in Kibamba, Dar es Salaam.
At the moment, Doctor Mvungi is continuing with treatment at the MilPark Hospital in South Africa and his condition is continuing to improve while talking about the issue of arrest the illegal immigrants, by sending him, said the current plan to help the police officers together with the citizens to identify those people.
