
Modern hospital is expected to start on January.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The modern hospital for teaching health experts and providing services from the University of Health and Science, Muhimbili (Muhas), is expected to be officially opened and started providing services in January next year.

The hospital which was built by using various systems of information, communication and communication (ICT), will be the first to use the technology system of samples which took tests for a special machine and presented answers through the internet and to present for the famous people including the president.
Speaking to journalists in a special tour in that building, which was completed its construction since August this year, the Deputy Head of Muhas branch, Professor Kamunga Kaaya, said that hospital will give treatment of diseases including heart, cancer and kidney.
He said that hospital has been built and lost modern medical equipment in the world, that uses more ICT technology including an-infectious diseases, MRI tests, CT Scan images, special machines for measuring women's diseases, a special machine for testing and drinking alcohol, stomach, and fruits.
"We have also directed the modern equipment of samples which are in every department and get connected to the laboratory whose work is to transporting the tests and take them to different parts and the answers of those tests is presented to the concerned place through the internet," he said.
He said that the machine helps to reduce the shortage of congestion in the laboratory equipment, increasing success and destruction of tests but also takes time and to prevent the tests for Professor Kaaya, he said that hospital will also provide medical services, to investigate various diseases and research activities in the health sector.
"But also we have special seats for the purpose of patients with the diseases that spread like Ebola, diabetes, and chest," he said.
He said that the hospital's building has nine sections that are worth 13 houses among them being one of the surgery for emergency patients, modern laboratories, modern equipment, maize flour, cooking oil, maternity ward, room for paying the bodies and equipment for teaching.
Moreover, he said that in the ward area there are 12 wards of the famous patients including two houses with modern machines to follow up on the condition of a patient with a high status including the president.
Professor Kaaya, said the construction of the hospital cost an amount of 4800 million American dollars in that area which is a total of 3,800 dollars, it started since the year 2014 through a loan with affordable interest which will be paid after 15 years for a period of 25 years.
According to Professor Kaaya, the hospital that will also be an appeal, will help reduce the big number of patients with great diseases to go out of the country, as it will provide treatment and tests for many sexually transmitted diseases.
