
The arrest of water infrastructure.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

Eight residents of Dodoma town have been arrested by the police force for allegations of destruction of TANESCO infrastructure including electricity, lines, and poles that were found reserved for some of their houses.

Also in some of the houses, those poles have been used in fighting corruption and developing the police force, Salum Mwalim (20), David William (21), David William (21), Victoria George (48), and Vincent Joseph (27), all the residents of Dodoma Makulu.
Speaking about the incident, the acting security officer of TANESCO, Dodoma, Estrada, said on September 20, this year, in Area A, when the defender was in an accident area, he rejected the person who passed with a bag.
After that defender, they stopped the accused and questioned him what he had carrying him, he was given an answer that he was second with hand, but he continued to destroy the bag and inspected the ship.
He said that after the bag involving themselves with pieces lines, have been closed down in three parts.
From that defender, she felt those lines are TANESCO's property, that is where he has thrown out a suspect in the small police station of Kiziguto, when he was interviewed when he got the lines, he said he saw the person followed the bag and that he decided to marry off.
"In an official interview, he said that he has been directed by those lines and someone who sell iron sheets at the whole area of Jerusalem and said that, they have condemned the lines in the whole area," said Siraji Idd.
When he comes to further, the suspect said that he had given the tender to take place, to the resident of Area A and by bad luck when they arrived, they found himself.
Siraji said that the next day they decided to go to Makulu area for making an evaluation of the area, because there are non-communicable diseases which have not been removed after being built through a new electricity system.
He said when he interviewed the person, Denis Ssebo, that he asked for what they took him, while there are people they talk about their houses and develop a cow as well as investing in the pillars of TANESCO.
"We hurt up to those houses and there were five houses that have been abducted, but it has been beaten by using the electricity pillar and there is an outbreak of cows that have been built by using TANESCO poles," said Siraji Idd.
Acting Relations Officer of TANESCO in Dodoma Province, Bells Michael, said the destruction that took place is big because citizens have been putting off the pillar and some of the houses that were found with the electricity pillar in the country.
