The mayor of Ilemela, Kobbina Awuch.
December 31st, 2013.

After being in the conflicts and his party, the Party of Democracy and Mahalangu (CHADEMA) for a long time now, the mayor of Ilemela Municipality, Mwanza Province, Henry Matata, has played a new twist of some of the workers of that council on the use of his authority.
Reports that got to our salvation, from the council is accusing his Mayor, for the use that is not fit for the office of the offices and the fuel that are offered for that vehicle.
According to our news reporter, Mayor Matata has commanded drivers to put part of the level of oil in his private vehicle instead of the office of the office and that it is only a little amount of office vehicle.
In addition to that, Matata is accused of using that vehicle up to the same night with private activities, a situation that is explained to remove its drivers who are forced to be at work sometimes up to nine o'clock in the morning.
"Through the normal procedure for the Mayor, the vehicle for the mayor comes from two times a week on Monday night of 70, and this liter takes 40 percent on Monday and it takes 20 percent, therefore, it will see for a week, 60 liters of 60 million is joining himself in his car," explained our news source.
That source has continued to explain that that it has been a normal procedure for that Mayor since he came to power and that is the reason he has been facing the drivers who fail to fulfill its requirements.
"He is a driver who was with him until recently, he refused to put in oil in his car that we will put up all in the vehicle of the council, they did not agree that he will sack him and he wrote a letter to the director showing him by mistake," explained our source.
In addition, the source told our reporter that together with the bad use of oil for the council, that Mayor who recently has been campaigning for him as the Court of Court due to his lawyers who were selected and until now he has changed the vehicle when he started working on Monday this week after two who were unable to fail.
"On the side of the use of the car, if you talk with his drivers, they will explain how to get problems, there is no time of the work that is understood, and at the other day, he will start a new driver," he clarified that source.
One of the drivers who have ever taken that Mayor has told BBC our citizens on condition of not being mentioned in the newspaper that there were other people who were sitting until eight o'clock at night.
"Mkomagu led that at the hours you took her home and he advise you to give him a car in a hotel in the city, but the regulations of the council wanted the car to be awarded that vehicle, in that environment as it is very difficult to work," he explained.
He said in addition to lack of a special procedure of doing that situation, sometimes it has been a family problem, because the driver is where he has reached two hours when he comes from work.
"How is this way if you want to give a report at home, it does not know where you're on how you don't know where there are many times not known if you are forced to sleep at nine or ten hours without any primary reason, that is it true?" He said.
Explaining further, he said according to the procedure for working until the night, it needs a permit to be the ruling secretary of the province or the secretary general of the ministry, but this Mayor has not doing that.
However, Mayor Matata who recently during the tour of the vice chairperson of CCM, Philip Mangula, in Nyamagana district had promised the CCM members to return again to the party because that is where he had decided to sack him by the name of Juma on claims of dealing with the theft of oil and revoke the director that he was expelled.
He has explained more that he was a leader of people who has the right to use that vehicle for all the time and protect them about that, it is people that do not know the procedure or political enemies, they have decided to investigate it because they have no other way to destroy his things.
