
I have been forced to have a new bacterial infection, can destroy the country Jide 5 in 2012.

Recently, a very rich country in the world, popularly known as G8, made its annual meeting in which Africa got "luck" (or disaster) and was represented by President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete (Tanzania) and the chief leader of Ethiopia, Prime Minister of Ethiopia.
He was called to those two leaders of the poor country in the world to sit in one table with a very rich country in the world that it does not affect the mental disabilities (a slave) to sit on the table and discuss a matter of "benefits" and his wife.
In the year 2001, the former President of the third phase of Tanzania, Benjamin William Mkapa, was appointed to be the co-chairman of the international commission of Tanzania together with the president of the rich country of Finland, Mama Taraji Mvella.
Friendship in rich and poor countries like us are in conjunction with our leaders are supposed to read history where we are, where we are and we love.
More than the past 16 century, the husbands in women, who what is doing it in the African continent with the name "Uku" to look for what he wants.
With great intention, and without caring about their lives and fear of not getting married, "they don't affect diseases and different meanings in order to bring the light of faith," those who had been caused by poverty, "wrote" and bad faith.
The achievements of these mystery (claimed) was to be dealt with from a new country, "those in the beginning were known as locals, the spread of modern science and old diseases, new diseases and modern education.
Although it came to the name of spreading religion, but the fact that they were part of the colonial history in Africa, as they want to give the solution, business people, and the attackers, despite having the previous old agents, that was also allocated the doors for the colonial government system.
In a period of 50 years of our freedom, there is a new religion that deals with a new generation of the "Missionaries of the European Union, and have spread through a very high level and loss of our nation, but under the top religion, he said that in the past, the development of the liberation of the world has faith from outside.
At the past we are taught the trials, "our father came to heaven because your name will be expelled, your name will be expelled from America where your name will be expelled from America, you will inform us that you get into the policies and your culture in the past,"
The Missionaries of these marriages are international organizations under the World Health Organization (WB), Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (IMF), Tanzania Food Development Corporation (WB), Tanzania Food Development Corporation (MARI) and other things related to the neighboring countries of the third world.
It has been unable to prevent it, the aim of "the Missionaries of these countries claimed that it's to go to the profile of these countries that will produce a load from poverty through donations and sponsorship, to give birth to the western culture a lot to educate them on how to benefit themselves economically.
In the past, we are taught how to serve the load of sin because of Toba, we are told to serve the burden on the debt it is through the use of donations from outside and paying the old debts.
If it was in the previous years, Africa, maybe more than any three world in the third world, has remained in the exercise of voting.
"Kimaiao does not mean?
It is a resident of Dar es Salaam, a vibrant mid-fielder of English, who revealed more than 40 million people in the previous year 1895, said that so as to get markets for products we use industries and mines as we want to avoid the fight for themselves because it must be m-Peru. "
(Am an artist from Vernon Fernandes of Vasco, "it has taken a call by Mrs Asha Ambassador Ombeni Sefue that day of captain.
It is in this view that, the world's tenth commandment, especially the countries with industries, popularly known as Gigabyroid cancer, are clear that if the poor countries like Tanzania will be left roofless.
Therefore, drugs which is being buried is the way to uplift the ones that fell though making them pass through a great problem of preventing themselves with chemicals so that they can get a lot of strength to buy a debt, and shivered and continue looking for a lot of cargo.
When I have been buried, according to Langoni Area, there is no reason for the people that would be able to be done by nations with great nations and be controlled for the economy of the country and foreign countries.
The gospel singer has explained to him that, we only have the poor because we have never thought the knowledge and direction and therefore we must make the gospel to be "liberation."
We are told, we need to be affected every day because we don't know what our wealth is getting, but only when you're buried and the visitors.
Look at what we say Mrs Lungangira who is in his book "Head 'Julio" says, "Africa cannot be a partner in the world economy because this continent is getting that is supposed to be expelled and to cross the world, it would have refused and bring back to God (God)."
The gospel singer, which does not want to be affected by our downfall, can be compared to the gospel singer of the Missioners of the past, so as to inform us we should have a lot of sadness and when we will continue singing "with a lot of hunger?
Fans from Onderstepoort city, in his book "Ambassador Seif (less than M) Miss Tabata)," is the deputy president "in today's world, the requirements of the nation does not mean again if the national requirements are not true."
Here again, the Missionaries of new members do not want to depend on their interests of the nation because any activities that aim to appreciate the contractors to claim their rights or not to come from anything related to lack of the gospel music of globalization, or terrorists.
If you are not involved in Kathmandu, the reason being forced to send himself from God is cruel, "Kibana, and we are forced to obey the IMF and WB leaders not to tell me, I don't know what I believe in, even if it is a lot of fifty years."
Africans are what sins even so, they are saying what does not depend on IMF and WB while asking for Toba for failing to our economy is swelled by the many gods?
This new gospel can be compared to the old gospel musician who warned those who want her soul in this world (the world of globalization) they shall surrendered to a girl in this world (the world of globalization) they shall surrendered, "
The different from the Missionaries of the first, that allows you loan to the interest of data.
"We are good, and give birth to!
Let us know that there is a fact that the rich country (Ambassador Gwao.
20) will fight the poor country with a heart which is normal, while considering the way it was stolen, they are continuing to eradicate conflicts and smuggling of poor countries, since the era of the Missionaries of the world like who is claimed to be between a rich and poor country?
Fact, the poor countries are the ones that seem to be rich in the country but because we have been able to send themselves themselves and stop using the eyes, "three, these, all of us were found, we have already been infected with our leaders, we have no need to act.
Take an example of America, the nation with great and rich more than all over the world, its wealth is due to the suffering from the toilers that is used for slavery.
However, the business person has been banned following the revolution of industries, it's these African countries, or their differences have been shown to the industries, under difficult conditions and this wealth is possible for the United States to rise up to all the countries that are developed economically and the army.
I thank you, if the industries' products are brought in our country, which could speak about if the machines and the machines would say, if we had come from poor countries, without any doubt they would have gone to our country, without any doubt they would have gone to, "we said.
It is an appropriate truth that the countries of the third world is the main market for the first world products from blood, to an extent that even products are not fit, or those who do not depend on us because of using our people who are supposed to lead you.
For example, who needs fake phones to be insane are mutilated with skin and products that are not affected by the African Community?
Do your accounts to see the benefits the countries are getting from the poor country in the country, I will see that what is called "loans" or "donations" from a rich country is only one of what we got to the left and "being sponsored by the left.
Look at how the international business system is the one that enables a rich country to buy crude oil (cotton, chicken), minerals and other crops at a high price from us, but contrary to them, you get by selling our products at a high price (high price) from those countries.
More than that, rich country protect the market of its products by giving grants to our producers but we want to do that to our people, IMF and WB are not to give grants, "the truth is that gospel from WB and IMF are not for liberation, but it is to raise us.
This means that is called "the local debt," it is not good that the poor country will continue to join it to it is abolished, considering that those two countries have not been able to compensate them from poor countries.
On the other side, a few groups from the countries that provide donations, by partnering with the few people who call the scholars and politicians who want to pay the debt for the farmers and employees to fail to pay that debt, it is the end of getting more loans.
But in addition to that, obey the debt, it is same as removing its suicide for example, Tanzania now it has paid a total of 9 billion American dollars per year as fees (interest) to serve the money for paying the debts that are charged interest.
If this situation will continue, in a period of 10 years, we will also pay 32 billion dollars for that purpose, instead of 9 billion dollars for the current year.
Conditions of WB and IMF in the poor country have continued to be rich by the trap of paying the debt, including industries and agriculture, equipment are full of buying products from outside, including technology, technicians, and other experts.
At the same time, an expert who is also known comes from your advisor, the producer is the producer of products that she wants to prevent it, it is also one with the statements and fear about the development of your country, through WB and IMF are saying that they love me "Amina" in everything he uses.
And little of you, you should be given if the donation has enabled us to the way that it does not stop a slave in the debt you forever and to make sure to prevent them to prevent us through independent ways.
It is wrong and ignorance, for poor countries to continue uniting our country, which will attract more country rich and continue to follow the conditions on the internet.
What should we do?
It is the only political fight, with involved the strength of many people, that will discuss this system of repressive system, plans that concern the regulations and implemented by our scholars and the local believers.
The progress of the true system of development systems, are those that give the poor power and the ability to plan their development, and to evade the concept of planning policies, management, and implementation of its policies is by doing so that we will be able to ensure the symptoms of the disease is by doing so that it will be able to make the symptoms of this disease.
But we know that we know that, the amendments of this kind are not involved in using the agenda of our international sponsors, who want those donations to use them and benefit from a small class of being selected (believers) in the community.
It is lack of thinking that, the economic reforms that concern the expansion and the experts from outside, by involving their few agents in the country (which is part of our problem), that will enable them to serve the cargo that we have been cheated.
The nation did not affect the accounts it is free, as a economy and its culture is continuing to be ruled by the requirements of the outside.
Here, there is a need to test his intention to the community of few people who have been appointed / we are requesting them to lead you, and even discourage them when they are seen not to represent the requirements of many people.
Look at the names and citizenship of all those who asked me in the FDL scandal, Richmond Development Goals (TPRI), Merkel, number old and another for all, all of them are guests for opening the door and not our colleagues that we gave them a bond of leading.
Until when we will not hesitate to be afraid that while the community gets many?
Finally, I thought the word "virgin" is dangerous to you but on the speed of corruption this year, I started to see that or else they are corruption, most of us want to let us stop themselves by depending on "Amina" in every corruption.

