
The parliamentary committee has brought down the council.

It has been written by our correspondent, Dodoma.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

The Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Local Government (CAC) the day before yesterday has banned the District Council of Itilima, Simiyu Region as a result of recognizing the huge embezzlement of money and caused the reports of those books that were handed over to the committee.

Speaking soon after the council started to arrive in front of the LAAC Committee, chairman of the committee for Kyela District, said that the committee has caused the books of Itilima District Council to identify that they have a bad state that caused them to work with them.
"The reports of books have been attracted very much in the preparation, there are big embezzlement of money, basically we did not exercised and we like the committee that we cannot be questioned and we want them again," he said.
The committee had directed the administrative secretary of Simiyu Province, Tuesday, to make sure he is going to sit with his people and prepare themselves at the Audit Office after being called to arrive in front of the committee for another time in an interview.
"I do not want to organize afresh, to prepare afresh the science books and put all illustrations and before September 30th, there are those books to the CAG for inspection," said Ngombale Mwiru.
He has said that in general, that council is one of the councils, which the committee has gone through and witness a big destruction.
Moreover, he warned the director of that council, Mariupol City, who is a guest of honor because he has been taken to that council so as to bring change.
"Another period, the director does not know the argument of the committee and not otherwise, it should prepare any other time to move ahead of the committee being faced with a lot of goods, then we have narrated it far," he said.
However, the director said they will plan to remove all those mistakes that arose in line with explaining the motion keenly.
