Sports and entertainment.
The government has announced the guest of honor at the Nyarugusu refugee camp in Kigoma province for one hundred thousand refugees from Nyarugusu refugee camp in Kasulu district without the consent of the government giving a report to return the refugees before the end of this month, more information and more than to be exposed.
He has said that the end of the last family of the refugees of Burundi they were living in Nyarugusu refugee camp in Kigoma province which is the one to open among them the refugees from Burundi who have already been taken here in Dar es Salaam, the minister of internal affairs Emmanuel Nchimbi has met with journalists the aim being to give the last report at all.
Watch the camp!
It does not have a refugee.
It has been closed as it was a schedule and the government.
Until we have remained with a little of twenty thousand that they had been transferred to the behavior.
There should be the release that if you get married I think that we took the Nyarugusu but also there are twenty people.
They sell Christian people.
Those who had patients have said to help the transport in vehicles to the procedure we should consider these are human beings they are not far from the success, Minister Nchimbi also spoke about the challenges together with the use of that camp.
He urged the government for the church talks with the government of Burundi together with the organization for Refugees in the world.
There are ways of making them not to go.
We are doing a very big campaign to convince them to return.
But our campaigns will not be taught.
My friends.
Mary believe that he will be areas of the government.
On his part, the director of the department of refugees, juice, management, talk about citizenship and also Dorice or another while we are looking for a mistake as an interpreter.
For them, there is a cry like a veteran politician who was to live in a long time, but not every primary school.
Somanda Hospital was more than five thousand refugees from Burundi where local government will continue to return to them a total of five hundred thousand refugees in the world, who carried out the violence of one year's three hundred thousand in Burundi of Same and this is not one.
