I know what we are doing so as to be taught.
They are doing a certificate.
And one and.
The holy and your family like it does not have a family but without being found.
And the effects that will be able to release two to release it has been good, a friend.
To see Miss Vicky Kombe did you know my son?
Well, Iyanja has said that your body is growing and takes care between the father and mother.
We are not seen and they are not seen.
The female children at home like soda, and where we are where we are.
For those who know your are misleading the two children on the side mean?
Because if the farm becomes a girl, she was coming from here then may be with you or when the child comes with this, the child has come from at home, I'm from home and until the end, I think this holiday will miss this holiday.
They were playing inside.
Polepole said.
I advise that there's look at that time.
That is a time which is very bad, we have been getting the answers of what we had on the computer to the meaning of-crime and even if you get little, try to use by using-crimes because the holiday is needed.
A day that is small host.
Swai I was able to advise all the young friends of all the activities only that people who were from the family as usual as the father to avoid things, I was a sister to work together, I agree that I will give and called '.
There are a lot of things that have never happened at the end of the second period regarding my advice to parents, and there is a habit that she does not have a lot of long-one hundred thousand, but if he knows her, they don't have a lot of fees, we believe that we are self-driven and they know what we are doing.
In the evening you shouldn't come out and eat with several times more, click here is the time of time to resolve it, I think I have stolen it because it does not have a foundation because I do not have the family.
What has come to speak more than depending on the issue and requested not to be.
Very fast, I don't have sure that other things continue to pay for children because of-crimes and there is also a result of continuing those phones, there are still a big number of children, but we are still a big number of children.
And security is also safe, I know that the police force are doing his good work with crime and even if the police will be able to remain in our homes and other things we need the Ambassador to move it.
Listening to him she was born on her on the topic.
