
Children are encouraged to love science.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been published by 19th September 2016.

Parents and guardians have been advised to encourage their children to love in science and science subjects so as to produce a lot of experts in those sectors and eventually growing technology in the country.

Head of the Bendel Memorial Secondary School (FL), Ibrahim Yunus said that in the "GCup 'competition run by the school in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology together with the Ministry of Education Science and Technology (COSTECH), that took place at Tegeta, Dar es Salaam, the day before yesterday.
Yunus said that there has been a big challenge to many students, lack of science subjects and thus causing the shortage of science experts in the country and therefore continue relying on technology.
He said that competition is aiming at bringing about many students more than loosing the studies of science and mathematics, whereby this year, class seven students from 10 provinces in the country have participated in those competitions.
He said those students came through the primaries when 63 students were selected to enter the last stage so as to get three winners.
"After the long period of time, we have brought these students in Dar es Salaam to do exams so that we find three winners who will receive various prizes together with cash money and also those winners will be able to fulfill their goals," he said.
And the Higher Education Officer in Mbeya Region, Teacher Joshua Nasari, said that competition has been putting up talents in students and encourage many students to love science and mathematics whereby last year, that province won the second winner in primary schools and the second winner in secondary schools.
We request this competition to be considered in all provinces so as to encourage our youth to love science and mathematics because our reasons have seen its benefit.
Our province for this year, the last step have dropped out of four students from primary and two schools from secondary schools, "he said.
A teacher of Semwenda Secondary School in Mtwara SB Primary School, Hawa Bayumi said that the competition has made great opportunity for students studying in science and mathematics, and urged other students not to give up and stop reading the studies which they have a lot of employment opportunities.
Those who emerged as the winners in those competitions are Rosary Kissima from the girls' Secondary School who emerged the first winner and the second winner having a guarantee of Shangani secondary school in Mwanza province.
