
The England Parliament and the painful truth here, chloroquionone, 31, 2012.

For another time again, if the nation we have been told the painful truth with the British members through the United Nations Development Committee.
In recent years, the England Parliament is the one that led to some of his members of parliament, the purchase of military fees from the United Kingdom.
However, despite of them to oppose the parliament, our parliament had condemned the purchase of that purchase and finally the fees bought for a huge price to an extent that the level of "bribery" that had been planned to have succeeded and is brought back to now a few months ago.
This journey, the members of parliament of that parliament have urged the ministers of their country to make sure that the countries that are getting donations are in Tanzania including making sure that their money for money from the English tax is used to help its better revenue in those countries.
They have thought and decided to help us as other small countries to enable the revenue authority in our country to be able to make its work as required.
It's like we do not see more opportunities of collecting taxes in our country, to an extent that the representatives of other countries where they are collecting taxes and in terms of tax they are surprised.
In another language, we have been writing about tax revenue to an extent of enabling the representatives of not paying taxes in other countries, they should use part of their time thinking on our behalf and then give them an issue of doing.
The chairman of the England Parliamentary Committee, Sir Malcom Company says if poor countries need to get out of that situation, then, the collection of taxes in the standards are required and that they will help them to invest in revenue collection.
Unfortunately, it's only that, those members of parliament have not done research to know which because of laziness in the collection of taxes, and especially to the big investors you used to identify.
Those members of parliament have said that the painful truth is that we have been not using a high level of open opportunities, we have already reduced the economy without being employed in the collection of revenue generated from the opening of the economy.
We have been using the value-added tax (VAT) even with products that have been ordered from outside to enable them to have the mining of minerals in the country.
Although the decision to remove this bill has been done, but you are not ardently just to be the decision, it is a shame for the sponsors.
