
TPSF is competed for products of Tanzania.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 29th September 2016.

Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TSNP) in collaboration with stakeholders in the country have organized to be held on October 7, this year with an aim of increasing production, employment and income to the government by urging them to buy better products and use better services in Tanzania.

According to the Executive Director of IPP Limited, Godfrey Simbeye, said that the awards arose from the CRDB Fahari Huduma shops in Tanzania with the aim of ensuring we buy better products and get better services with the aim of enabling the private sector to contribute to Tanzania as a country of industries.
In those awards, apart from partnering with the ministry of industry, trade and investment, Simbeye has mentioned other stakeholders who were cooperating with them as the United Nations Scientific Cultural Organization (TFDA), Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TFDA), Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TFDA), Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (NEEC).
Simbeye has told the editors from different media stations in his office in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan will be the guest of honor that day on October 7, where 50 desks for better products and better service in Tanzania will be sold.
"This is a campaign to encourage the use of better products and better services," said Simbeye, and added that the campaign will enable the production of products and increase employment by expanding the production and thus increasing the revenue for the government to collect more revenue.
In addition, he said it will increase competition in making good internal products that will be international market, while we allow them to get better service.
He knew the speech by the third phase president, Benjamin Mkapa that he made on September 30th, 2001, he said that the manufacturing of better products and provision of better services will enable Tanzania to stop relying on better services and to provide better services and thus the products and its services will compete.
EXIM Bank Tanzania's campaign manager, Emmanuel Kalobelo, said that the awards involves 150 bags who had been injured after collecting opinions from more than 20,000 participants from the provinces that were in Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Tanga, Dodoma, Mtwara, Mbeya and Mwanza.
