
The Mharage Change has apologized for statements.
And apologized.
Non-governmental organizations (Nida), uses the president Uhuru Kenyatta to ask for forgiveness about his statements that he did against them during the celebrations of Mashujaa Grounds.
The chairman of the union of parties of the organizations, Miss Regina Gwae, gave advice to the president that those organizations are used by foreign countries to disrupt the government.
He knew that the leaders of the United Republic of Diamond who want the law to oversee the former lover.
He said the claims that this sector is a lot of foreign nations who do not have any basis for all the contribution they will be given for citizens have a great importance, "he said.
The sponsorship of the Nairobi press conference, Miss Julietha Kabete has protested in the leaders of several non-governmental organizations, he said that those statements should indicate the beginning of government's efforts to destroy the former government regarding the procedure that will reduce the level of sponsorship they receive from the sun.
The Member of Parliament of Gothernburg, South Region, Mister Moses Kusiluka, is leading the activities of passing through the former boss, which will lead the organizations to be allowed to receive the sponsorship of 15 percent of their budget.
According to Miss Julietha Kabete, social media stations have emphasized to the law to manage that sector last year so as to ensure there is transparency in their activities although the government wants to make corrections which will affect the important services they provide.
"The government has brought together renovations that are going on against the objectives of the law and constitution and the amendments to involve the regulations without involving other organizations," he said.
He said Kenya will pay 152 billion shillings provided by foreign nations every year through social media networks that are used to strengthen important services including the health sector, education and agriculture.
In his speech, President Kenyatta warned that they will not allow many foreign nations to be put in charge of his government through the issue of cement, while doing a long time some of the community organizations are used in developing terrorism in the country.
The national coordinator of the social media council Mister Swaliatu Msuya, said that those organizations did not want the government to follow up the law, such that those that use human rights even if the government will contribute to those efforts is same as terrorism.
"If the government has evidence that we are an entrepreneur, there are institutions that have enough ability in the government to investigate and take action.
It is a big offence to say that we are the terrorists without giving evidence, "he said.
He said the contribution that was given by non-governmental organizations to go back to Kenyans who were stuck on earth, where there is an indication that Ebola is enough of its importance to the public service.
According to the, the government gave a small contribution to ensure those nine Kenyans have arrived in the country through safe way compared to the contribution given by Kenya Red Cross.
