
How are people to send their scholars.
Dec 27, 2012

Approximately four African countries have witnessed how some of its citizens explained the great wealth and a lot of money they were in the summary of administration. Some of them are the leaders themselves.
Others are sending to those leaders or a system of administration to get those assets and all times the ways of using them are not legal.
That situation did not start today or yesterday in African Continent, Ras Makunja, who died on 16, who died in 16 this year, "that man was born with her dancers as he was controlling the burial tomorrow, Yemen.
Among the profession that she got into early marriages, it is the phone of the Arab language, mathematics, that logic and the philosophy of his first book at the age of 19 years of manslaughter, Khalfan, is identified as the father of the history, education, education and community (not in the picture) and the growth of the economy.
After getting all the effects which have been blessed with Pep Guardiola and he performed several political positions as well as a prime minister, where he was going to go to home in Spain, Spain, where he was going to go to home in Spain, Spain, where he went to hostility.
After losing to Africa, Khalfan will be welcomed with two hands on the past, and he was appointed the prime minister because of his long time in accordance with the chairpersons, Khalfan will see many.
And it is not a must that there are fighting corruption of assets and they do not make others - and that is also the type of corruption - it is about the type of corruption, "the big levels are not less than the benefits and benefits of other allowances.
When they have shown the symptoms of going against the administrator or even when the past is when he is faced with a doubt, then their balances, "Masau boasted.
In the previous system he is forced to each time to have an issue of giving birth certificates or even discourage them so that those leaders can be able to control it in their world.
The corruption of that kind happens even in African countries, it is not true that the corruption of all types has been increasing in our country since the wave of democracy will begin near the African continent.
On that, it is not a lot of African countries that are due to democracy when it is there and other countries have been depending on the process of democracy because they had a fools should not agree on the system as a result of several issues inside and outside the country.
There are important to measure democracy in the criterion of elections, but that is just one criterion on it, because of the qualifications, it is true that the elections should be free, justice of justice and the results should not recognize the problem.
If we will use that criterion on elections and the qualifications are mentioned by then it is a few countries of the African that are facing the cause of the real democracy.
In the years since 2008 to 1990, the presence of an African government to be changed through the revolutionary government, which many times put the leaders just after the time they were given, there were no alternative system of exchange of power.
The current system has not been run and they do not be responsible for the church because it was a huge system that is being run and are tired.
The system tried to prevent and be like the East African Community, "Dictatorship of Africa" Ukawa are using the slaughterhouse and caused the blood pressure but every time it is not again the stadium to fly the power.
