Magufuli, you are the president of a music band.
Hudugu Ng'ombeni, 2015.

I request for me to thank Brother Magufuli because if you said during the campaign, it wants the work of service, you will make him see if we are doing your fellow servants, after the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
That is why I believe it was not bad luck, Brother Anna Mghwira told the first time when he was handed over to victory to the presidency, if your impatient, is saying that the party does not know where the leader was called Honorable. Turnbull.
If you will be an indication that there is an indication that there is spongers that are canceled due to these things that they can be the citizens, now a servant for your kind to serve us can be understood.
First, brother Magufuli, I urge you to give my condolences to the heavy responsibilities that you requested for us to continue doing so, but I am no reason not to believe it is a lot, but if you have never seen it is a lot of someone who did not have a lot for a long time than any Tanzanian that will be equal to craziness.
And it is possible that as a result of the weight to that load, that is why if he was given you for you, it will also get problems, they did not get problems, they did not get problems, they did not get problems, they did not get problems, so as to think it is Mnyamwezi.
You have been using the signs of Architect Editor of the port of Singapore, Lee on Yaredi, which is the popular leader of the music band (Constituent of WFP). The popular leader of that nation, everything is working independently as a music industry.
The music media at the time it's only many and do not played so much, for example radio, piano, Tarime, cooking oil, four bed sheets, four and other singers are not supposed to create the whole music if they are not the leading leader and to allow the instrument or passport.
However, the quality and competence of music is the one that makes music to be careful in the ears and entertain the brain of his listeners as they are preparing to form the 'Foolish Age' team.
"Television depends on the government will not kill a Fiterawa and the Prime Minister which does not stay," said the prime minister, to know it is good and lack of a music band.
On this issue of importance of the team, you know early, your condolences to President Kikwete that he has occurred and the people he appointed is evidence that you know the importance of the desire to make any development plans.
In addition to ensuring that, it is clear that, it does not make it easy to be easy because there are some who are able to know a certain thing is dangerous, or no benefits for the interests of the nation but they have given the contractors for reasons known as' it's.
In Tanzania that we shall lead, it is not a new nation, it will be paid 54 years in the next year, this age is number only, the real state of this nation is not like, that is expected to start first, because after the few development steps he will move from freedom and we started to go back.
