
It has dropped by the security does not affect tourism in the country.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.

The adoption of the new law to deal with terrorism was appointed to the new minister for internal affairs, Retired Judge Joseph Namkoveka said that he may open up the tourism sector that currently has gone to the increase in crime in the country.
The new laws of dealing with terrorism was signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta on December 19, 2014, despite the existence of the objection that some of them are violating the rights of Kenyans.
Miskry said the terror attacks that was implemented by Al-Shabaab that have been witnessed in the year 2014 was affecting the tourism sector which contributes up to a large percentage of the country's income.
By August 2014, the number of visitors that arrived in the luxurious hotel went up to 15 percent from 75 percent from 75 percent since it was in the beginning of January especially the Coast region being affected.
More than 20 hotel of the were scored all over the country due to lack of tourists in the developed countries will reduce the number of workers and even reduce the salaries of some of them.
According to the party of hotels and workers (NIDA) more than 50 people lost their work due to that situation.
He also said that some of the areas that were affected are in Malindi, Watford and in Masai Laugwa hall.
The sacking of work, approximately six houses were scored in the main areas of the ones with the big number of workers being forced to go back home, "said the chairperson of Mike Seo.
The director of the Tanzania Tourist Board (KMU) Agustine Juma, confessed that the situation of lack of security affects the tourism sector since the tourists who already have shown an intention of visiting here in the country in the middle of the year they discussed the interest in the last minute.
"The situation of lack of security has been witnessed in here in the country this year, affected by a large extent in the tourism sector which is an important pillar in the most of the years of 2030," says Miss Juma.
He explained that they were stolen in the tourism sector there is affecting the country's revenue because the millions of tax were reduced due to lack of that business.
"The contribution of the tourism sector in the national budget has decreased since Kenya has been losing a lot of money for tax because of praising him in this important sector," said the director.
According to Miss Juma, tourists who were able to tour in here in the country carried out intentions and instead heading to the neighboring countries of Rwanda, Tanzania and even South Africa.
He said that in order to save this sector, Kenya is expected to use more than 1 billion shillings.
"Attraction sites that were tourists to visit here in the country has changed and that is needed is to ensure that there are effective strategies to revive the sector," said Mrs Juma.
He added that though the security situation has been distributed in areas with tourist attractions, security officers are to ensure that all the areas in the country is safe for now the terrorists is needed even the ordinary citizens.
