
Khajida Kopa, the swim, "Matatizo."
Zainab Maasai, Citizen of Gongo la Hoya.
The new discovery of color may not affect the modern generation.
Khajida Kopa, a pests who continues to sucks in a human blood is not allowed to combat a human blood as part of removing the blood that is doing to be their food.
It is dangerous to the young people that know if you feel like, but they have a small shape while one is believed to be an average of three millimeters and three millimeters.
Retired doctor, Abdallah Saidi says that he has been approximately 30 years old but I have never seen a patient with the disease that is caused by a penalty.
He says that they don't have any effects to a human being but he has a nuisance to disruptions, especially during night when he gets.
Doctor Said says that when it bites someone involved in small pain, but it does not lie for a long time.
"I be known that he does not have any effects even the ones that don't affected with any kind of any kind when he can be known but it should also be among the pests who live and lies," says Saidi.
Researchers and drugs in America are saying that they have discovered that they don't like some of color to win another color, the researchers have after doing quick investigation, they are saying that they feel like color is black with a red card.
However, if you are annoyed so much by the yellow fever that if they see the results of the research, the results have been published in the magazine that it will help people to find themselves and arrest the people easily.
However, those scientists are saying that it is still early to realize that if the value of yellow fever can be used to chase them and in bed.
Certainly, it is a lot of small-scale farmers to sit very close to their food, blood cells and those capable of switching off and drinking water, clothes and loopholes used in bed and fruits.
Kraehenbuehl, the color of color, Doctor Izike Moalimu, and his colleagues wanted to know if color can affect the areas they are proud of, they used the small pieces of different colors in the laboratory and inspection that they put aside.
Those who believe that you don't know yourself and on the color that arise from their bodies, color is black and a red carpet.
The doctor says that when they saw the person they could have done a red card because the blood is a red card.
However, after the investigation, the main reason we have revealed, made Tanzanians to love the red card is because the two themselves appears in a red carpet, therefore it's looking for color to their colleagues. "
It comes from a yellow card and the color of if they see ourselves about the light areas that are not safe to remind ourselves about the research conducted previously has revealed that these color are still not involved in blood as a mosquito.
Kraehenbuehl has not seen those drugs despite being involved with dirty and poor environment, a person has emerged as a fox which has a great ability to make it a danger against his life.
A new research has revealed that the pests who can be taught it is not only a subject of fire and coldness, but also modern drugs for manslaughter, are available.
Kraehenbuehl has been discovered that they can't put a mistake a lot of poison that concern them by strengthening its ability to protect themselves against each other after another.
The pests who live in color in the blood of his host having a great ability to protect themselves against severe poison.
This is saying that as the future generations to know your poison that drive out poison that requires its ability to prevent disaster among their children.
Furthermore, the researchers say that 1,000 tests of great poison that are of the type of AIDS (syphilis) / = shillings, was called to kill a person in America in the Caspian Sea and Michungwani compared to other parts of the world.
Those researchers have now said that there is a big danger of the killing in all over the world due to the cyber-market market which has made world to be a big neighborhood.
Those scientists should have a different way to deal with the law without using poison such as well as looking for others who are able to prevent and prevent us to spread all over the world.
Certainly, it is a sharp object in drugs, a situation that will cause someone to be able to withstand the amount of drugs for manslaughter.
The number of people have continued to increase the international journey which will help the pastor to be a nuisance to all over the world.
Drugs of manslaughter, are believed to be used in large numbers to manslaughter, but by very fast, the ones have been oppressed on drugs.
Killing a fox which can cause drugs worth more than 1,000 times more than the one needed to manslaughter.
The eggs are spread in their homes and in the office and this has been difficult to destroy the Jews at each time when they can live up to one year without eating the red carpet.
If insects and others have been covered with albinism have been covered with skin rashes.
Opinions or questions have written to a member of health @ mkito.
