
The arrest of 'self-employed "the patient will be treated.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.

Police in Manyara Region is holding two people on allegations of getting into the Uhuru One mine with an aim of getting minerals of Tanzanite against the law.

Speaking in that mine, the police commander of Manyara Region, Francis Massawe has mentioned those suspects to be Ramadhani Juma and Mohammed Ramadhan.
According to Massawe, the suspects who had four colleagues who moved to the gold mine, Shahali Ngwali, on September 19 this year, having a medal together with the equipment for selling minerals.
He said that after starting to carry out, there was a critical condition that caused the lack of climate for several hours according to Massawe after their condition was bad and went to the main goal of that mine and asked the police officers to sit down.
He said after opening the opening, four people out of them succeeded to get into the bar and previously claimed that there are two colleagues that they have remained in the religion because of their condition as bad.
He said following that situation, a lot of doing her bit during the bus will be One One in collaboration with police started working on her, where they completed after 24 hours.
He said after visiting those suspects, they took the small police station of Mirerani in an interview and they saw two miners who were forced to do that work, the commander said that the mine was supported through security reasons, but small miners have been sacked.
Following that state, the barley farmer of the Tanzanite One company, Focas Malengo has said the Head of Energy and Minerals, Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Ally Samatta, to implement his promise to ensure the borders of mines at the Mirerani area Simanjiro District in this province that borders the Tanzanite mineral.
According to FEST has been shot by small miners, a big area that is more than 300 girls, a situation that causes the company not to get minerals in the area that is swelled.
