
Pastor Flaviana Matata has been blocked to contribute in parliament.

The member of the Constitutional Assembly, Pastor Christopher Mtelela, has claimed that he will not be able to contribute again in the debate of the constitution because the parliamentary office has banned from his statements.

However, the Secretary of the Special Constitutional Assembly, Yahaya Ali Hamad said that his report is new and he does not believe that the issue is there.

"This is my new and I don't see that it is possible," said Hamad.

Earlier on Mtibua and told the newspaper that he has been given that letter on Wednesday last week, being the answers of his letter said to the parliament office wanting a clarification of what he explained that he has been operated on the right to contribute to parliament.

"I started knowing after seeing that he was operated on, I wrote a letter requesting for information because I've been given an opportunity to contribute to parliament," said Mtibua and added.

"But the day before yesterday I received a letter from the parliament secretary general, it was unable to contribute again in parliament due to statement (information) my statements should be given for the process."

He said that when he asked the secretary where he was announced to contribute to that parliament he was given an advice from the chairperson of parliament, Samuel Sitta.

Pastor Mtibua and he said due to the arrest, he saw him Sitta so that he can't know his problem.

"This has not affected us so much, this parliament has been where they look at their interests and not the country," he said.

He said all the process has been given to ask members of parliament and representatives to be part of the parliament instead of citizens to elect the members of the parliament.

"There is no country that has done so, they are capable of billions of money that will not cause a constitution with any validity," he said.

He said that if Sitta will be unable to solve that issue he intends to deal with his evidence in case which is facing the constitutional process.
