Time has come to have a community agreement "in Zanzibar.
Mr of 15, 2012

"A human being has been born but all over the world has been born but all over the world has been infected with me," I have written this from the video of Jean-Jacques Lambert, that took place or a philosopher-fielder who died in France the 18th century.
Rsm Company has also been asked to write that the authorities in the country are public and because the public does not have any strength instead of lack of law, then you will continue to explain that any law that it has been approved by the public and it's only public with the strength of making laws in accordance to the law.
The philosopher-popularly known as the name of the community is controlling the community agreement between the government and the public with his book about "community agreement" is one of the main pillars of modern politics and social welfare.
The surprising thing in the meeting or education about politics and education was a great effects to the political parties in the past two weeks ago, these are attracting many revolutionaries of France that happened after his death.
The overthrowing of Zanzibar in January there was promised the people of Zanzibar about several issues that until today they have not promised to see the community of Zanzibar before the overthrowing of Zanzibar having the rights and opportunities which they are saying they were given a few and those who are treated.
Until today they do not see that we are all inheritors of that revolution, I urge you to explain about the ones that they see if they see such as evil to each other.
As it is common for those who launch the revolutionary people of Zanzibar during this time, they have claimed that they will give their fellow citizens to get opportunities available without caring about their status, in the community.
The promise that were given by the Revolutionary has been condemned and its results are that many people from the city and farms are still living in difficult environments of poverty, diseases and food shortage.
That situation is not ardently using this reason today the economy of Zanzibar has fell in the whole period of economy is going back with those who are eager to solve the issue, although the ones do not succeed to take legal action against preventing the economy to go down.
The condition of these issues continues to be careful because the agricultural sector has crushed, therefore there is no need of employment (like 70 percent of people with the ability to do employment).
That without doubt, it's not something to be proud of especially those who missed the Revolutionary Party and the history did not want to say God's judgment and to check if they have changed the community or they have changed the community or not to buy the economy before the overthrowing of Zanzibar.
There is a question that the people of Zanzibar have the right to ask for him, and it is why we look at 50 years of the government of all the fifth term, but we become a must to bring productivity and efficiency, but we become a must to bring productivity and success.
Today, it is not only economy but even the important sectors of social education and health need to have major renovations, an issue of encouraging the state is to see President Ali Mohamed Shein, two reports, one of the planning of the towns and the second on the economy.
They are supposed to ask the government and citizens to remember it is that Zanzibar is for all the people of Zanzibar and all of those times, all of those times, is not the only government, he has the responsibility to discuss this situation.
