We prepare to get a new constitution.
October 11, 2013.

Let me start this article on my sincere congratulations to our embassy in Kenya, who the day before yesterday was announcing that it has joined the social network of Twitter and so on, I thank the embassy for honor, it will get married "about that good news.

There was a terrorist attack in Kenya recently, I interviewed if the Embassy uses Twitter network to inform our agents who are in the country or / and at home about their security or brothers, relatives, and friends.

For many countries in the world, especially in the western countries, their ambassador and even their ministry of foreign affairs, they tell you so much on social media networks and their website inform the citizens about the state of security and especially during disasters like terrorism incident in Nairobi.

It is my hope that our other ambassador will unify the example of our embassy in Kenya and started using different media stations, especially social media to distribute and simplify communication.

After those congratulations, I want to happen on Twitter for example, according to my topic this week, recently I had talk time with one member of parliament of the East African Legislative Assembly, Abdullah Mwinyi (the first lady of the second phase, Mzee Ali Hassan Mwinyi.

When you get in details about our talk time, that member of parliament told me (fiancé) that I commend the name of "mystery" (your impatient, is a person who want to look things to worry, in a broad way.

I would like to tell you that most of my colleagues about different issues concerning the future of our nation, it has been dominated by fear and maybe that habit, is a result of being involved in one profession in the past, which is looking at every matter to fear, compatible with the concept of faith that you will lead your death (Trust, will get you shortly.

It is in that situation, my report about the whole process of heading to a new constitution, it has been dominated by fear and maybe be good to have good expectations, but it is important to have good expectations, but it is important to have hope and to bring hope.

For those who follow keenly the issue of the new constitution, they will know that basically the agenda was founded by the opposition party of CHADEMA, before being beaten by CCM party.

But the basis of the foundation is not who cared for that argument or who was stolen, but its importance to our nation, even so, the truth that CCM showed opposition against the idea of CHADEMA concerning the new constitution, can stop light weight that are ongoing in the process of getting a new constitution.

For those who follow my articles for close, they can realize that I have not seen in the whole issue of a new constitution because my answer is that I had a lot of things to believe that CCM is ready to clarify after getting a new constitution with the interests of the citizens, instead of it, it's been the norm for many years and / or not.

That CCM allowed the country to be included as a constitution instead of the party to rule (even if we are in the system of many parties) what I believe that the ruling party will enable any group instead of CCM itself.

It is currently a result of many leaders of CCM, every issue that deals with our country's issues is under copyright, to listen to various leaders of that party, you can think they are talking about how they get married and not the public.

And although it is easy to say that I am happy to get into that fish, but we will expect to do what from the politicians who have used millions of money to get into the positions they are now?
For many people of that kind, politics is more than employment as a way of getting the best way for benefit and even getting good wealth, if it is not the source in actions against the law.

However, even if CCM would have been a political party, "he is still being faced with a big problem of the senior leaders of that party, since" early, "the party was proud because he was a tyrant, where he stopped a huge percentage with his goalkeeper and guide the ruling party.

Everyone who knows CCM for now knows that although President Jakaya Kikwete is given his honor as the national chairperson of that party, but he knows that there are two three politicians who have great strength inside that party.
