
UVCCM of Arusha makes a report of money.

It has been written by Pamela McLendon in Arusha.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The delegates of the small committee of the economy of the Union of Youth of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM) in Arusha province, have denied reports on the collection of money that was read at the special session of the union of youths in Arusha province.

Furthermore, the Vice Chairperson of UVCCM, Mboni Masaudi, has appealed to UVCCM the province to study more and regulations of the union, as well as raising other projects that will be given a lot of money instead of returning and insisted that the projects they found.
Those delegates of the committee together with their colleagues who participated in the special council that was prepared by the top leaders of that party, have been announced by the high report that he was read by the acting secretary general of that union (nation), Shaka Hamdu Shaka.
According to Mwangaza, the financial report from the party's headquarters and those delegates of the small economy committee of UVCCM, explains that, for a year the union was collecting 212,150 million shillings per month as the tax for various challenges.
He said in that way, the union has a lot of money, but they were interviewed the delegates and those leaders said, they don't know if they are collecting those funds and they were sacked, Ezekiel Mollel was sacked by her secretary, who was sacked, Ezekiel Mollel, were closed down.
The chairperson of UVCCM, Lindi Province, Amri Mkomagu, who is among the leaders who came from the headquarters, urged the youths to live with love and leave it, instead, everyone should know the end of his long position.
He emphasized on that property, when you come up, when a question is why the youth through their leaders have decided to identify their efforts to improve through their union instead it seems to ensure that they were found.
Deputy Chairperson, Mhenga speaking with the youths, he urged them to time to read the regulations of that union because CCM will not be patient with any person who will affect the regulations and lack of the party.
Recently, the union was introduced into the conflict after accused MSabatama and Mollel of not doing the party's work instead, they have not been faithful and to elect delegates from various committees by protecting themselves.
The conflict was caused by the office to MSabatama, former chairperson of UVCCM and Mollel the secretary of that union who should not enter the union office by not accepting to receive the current secretary who happened in Lindi, Said Meck Sadick.
