
The department of land Mbeya is leading with problems.

It has been written by Joachim Nyambo, Mbeya.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Mbeya City Council has continued to get a scandal to claims that his department of land is leading in the complaints from every meeting to receive the problems of citizens, that is organized by the Mbeya Regional Commissioner, Amos Makalla every Thursday of the end of every month.

Every time it took place those meetings, many citizens who have been emerging are those who protect their land by officers of the Department of Lands in the City Council, different from a cry from the residents of other areas.
Among the problems that were cast by the citizens in the session yesterday are some of the officers of the city regarding land conflicts in the residents of VocationalTraining in the sake of the construction of the school, but later they stopped the use and payment of plots because of the construction of housing.
One of the residents of Vasco, Peter Mwaluko who is among the previous owners of the land that were taken by the council for the purpose of construction of the school, he said there are two officers that took the grounds from that area.
He said the construction of the school was held in a small area and other areas that have risen up together with other officers and also leaving other owners without knowing if they were not paid compensation and they did not be given a chance to buy plots that were tested in their areas.
"Now we need us to know, because they failed to pay compensation, in the area, it can be used the whole time for the construction of schools but to be restored so that we have many youths need the areas," he said and agreed that even trees that they had gone to.
Responding to those accusations, the lands officer of the Mbeya City Council, Patrick Masong has said that he confessed to lack of compensation to the previous owners of the area and said that the issue of officers set for plots is to ensure investigations so as to get sure.
He confessed that not the whole area that was used by the city was used for construction of schools but there are also other stadiums that were tested in that area for the purpose of construction of housing.
As a result of that situation, Makalla made a period of one week to the head of the district, William Ntwa Mitego, to go with the experts talking to the previous owners of the concerned area together with the school committee so as to get a solution.
