
Commission continued to control the politicians.
The year 2016 has started with a landslide victory, where the political leaders have been seen and to get known for the preparation of the general elections of the year 2015, preparations of the general elections of the next year.
This is despite the campaign period it has not been announced officially to be officially announced by the free commission of elections and borders (IEBC).
As a result of that situation, it is important for the relevant institutions concerned with issues of controlling the way the political parties are run and put on the eyes.
The institutions such as the commission of democracy and compatibility (NMAC) are forced to start immediately to put strategies to investigate the movements and statements of all politicians.
A situation of fear that has begun to be witnessed in different parts of the border is an important thing that the movements of politicians are not supposed to understand and understand.
We have when you see the community to be in Narok Kagera, up to Kisumu and NHO project and also different areas in North East of Kenya.
Although there is a fact that those violence are those that come from every time due to hostility, that had lasted for a long time, will make sure that politicians can use such a situation easily.
The issue of incitement in the community that comes from political leaders is not a new issue in the country, and this will not be informed if there are politicians who need the plot to attract more communities which have already been sacked.
This country has great laws to prevent inciters of violence and that involve one community against another, although those laws are not seen well especially if the suspect is a big person in the country.
There are many politicians who came for all the two sides, the government and the opposition, which had been opened up to now concerning incitement.
What happens, the truth is that no one of them who has been sentenced and given legal punishment.
This shows that the concerned institution has not been able to separate yourself from political leaders in spreading them, which can cause fear, violence and even killings.
It is a sign that we have learned a lot following the violence that is facing this country after the 2007 election.
It is not enough to hear some of the leaders like President Uhuru Kenyatta and others including religious leaders giving a call on peace and compatibility within the country.
When we want to see it is a stern legal action being given by lack of incitement without caring about the authority that they hold nationally.
