
Easter, July 12, 2016.

An ancient attack, B.

When he got the M-Pesa which was officially launched in October 2012, the launch was a big challenge to all who were present and considering that there is a great need to strengthen the education sector, farmers and community institutions together with the aim of strengthening sustainable food production and to improve the lives of farmers in Arusha Province.

Operations activities.

The analysts group that was proposed by several party members of the Protein company and other stakeholders in the country which had a great importance in agricultural activities being also the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of the East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters of East African Community (EAC), was appointed as the headquarters

The following of the agenda of the stakeholders of the sector.

The work event that took place on 5, October, was organized with an aim of serving the agricultural stakeholders and the agricultural stakeholders in Arusha province, about the strategies that was organized and also in the implementation of the plans.

The workshop of the stakeholders of various sectors (22 - 23 October, 2012) gave an opportunity to the members of the ACT-hop party to plan the agenda.

At the time of that workshop, members formed a group of work, follow.

- the availability of land.

- the creation of a god.

- the creation of the input.

- the creation of marketing.

- the view of business to farmers.

Availability of land.

Even though the law of Tanzania shows the rights of small-scale farmers to own land and do agricultural activities in that land, many residents of the villages are not educated about the benefits of the company from their land.

A group of this work has an aim of improving the state of farmers by giving them training and other land stakeholders on how to use them at the right time.

Availability of capital.

The financial services to farmers is an important issue to the community that depends on agriculture like Tanzania and a group of capital that has been prepared to plan and build cooperation with strategies that already are like the agricultural and business exhibition, etc.

Availability of masturbation.

According to the view of the gender group, the availability of full reports on the scholars is the responsibility of some being unable to be dealt with, different companies and the government.

This group has been organized various activities with the aim of uniting these stakeholders so that they can be able to reach this goal, to inform the farmers to know how they get into the input and how to use them.

The availability of marketing.

The content of this section uses of other non-communicable diseases, such as Airtel's information system, to meet both buyers, agriculture and other things, the following step is to look at the discussions so that we can be involved, so that they can be involved, so that they can be taxed.

Opinion polls to farmers.

To develop a small-scale farmers, that is the main aim of the Who Lives Fores, but it is why we will be able to implement this goal in high level since they are able to confirm that farming has no benefit as other businesses, if it will be run in correct way.

How would you love to join?

The party's activities that will be aired live in preparation and its implementation will start soon, if you have an intention to bring in your topics in the agenda, then you help them to get those partners, by joining them, it can be able to succeed in your goals!

For more information.

Apollo are participating in the Mbambo (SCA).

The coordinator of Ji-Pesa 'coordinator.

Barsheba I do not have been infected with the rules of annamatinde @ gmail.

Phones is + 255 22 girls and 340.

Maracute to de Bruyne.

The facilitator of the internet, Virgil Hinterland, @ mkito.

Phones, + 31 (0) 26th of 206.

Thank you in the internet platform.

We don't know Draw, miss / 05 / 2016?

When he gets a-hop artist in Tanzania, Puntland, China, Chole Road, Msasani Penrency, Pindani Nyalile in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

The R & Protein company, Wilfried Bungado (43), Pina 108 - 6800) through Noma (NL).

T, + 31 (0) 26 32074 / E of Plasmodium falciparum.
