China doesn't recognize him.
October 5th, 2015.

Tanzania has been stopped by the accused of corruption that are among the presidential candidates in Tanzania because of this carelessness, you can't vie for any position in the United States with a scandal involving Edward Lowassa, the presidential candidate on the CCM ticket.
China is very true that it does not understand the laziness of this kind that has been recommended in Tanzania and those of parliament is the opposition party that will vie for war against corruption got a great member of parliament of Moshi Town constituency, Philemon Ndesaburo.
Not to mention Turo is among the members of parliament who discussed the report of a nominated member of parliament where it has reduced the process of the tender to produce solar energy which gave victory to Richard Shaba from Haazu of America 2006, that led to the prime minister, Lowassa to resign.
Ndesamburo told the parliament, a situation, "our fellow countries like China, when you meet this way it's not aware that they are discussed, they are supposed to be dealt with in public," that those who should be proven to be affected by China.
China, for example, surprised the judgment of Liu Han, February 2015 this year, together with that Han an amount of 10 trillion shillings, those drugs were not allowed to save his soul in the New York Post newspaper on February 9, this year 2015 reported that Han was arrested in 2013 and death after being found guilty of corruption.
Kili Challenge 'operation is an operation that will take place in Mbamba Bay, which made an arrest of corruption suspects who were tested from America, Canada, Australia and elsewhere, from China to answer the charges of corruption.
Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, the chairperson of the nominated committee of parliament (at the time), presented a report of Richmond Development in February 6th, 2008, the committee stopped Lowassa together with other things to break the law on how TANESCO had warned the responsibility of looking for electricity production.
Minister of Energy and Minerals, praised the secretary general of the ministry on July 13, year 2006, "I have talked to the Prime Minister (Lowassa) today, on the price of the machines that Agnetta.
The committee of Doctor Mwakyembe returned to Lowassa at two first conditions, he said that due to another evidence that is available on his second, or the parliament should support her participation if he didn't know.
On February 7, 2008, the speaker, Samuel Sitta, told Lowassa the position of defending himself when Lowassa had more than 18 hours to answer him instead of defending himself, Lowassa asked him that he would be able to address members of parliament keenly as the women, Doctor Wilison A. Slaa.
Lowassa claims that he wanted to break the contract of Richmond Development, it is not true that the newspaper exposed the scandal while Lowassa claims that he wanted to break the contract of Richard explaining his colleagues "about the newspapers reports." He sees it.
Lowassa, with his aides, you want to make sure that he is a difficult decision when he desires for the public to believe that Kikwete is the one who had the authority to break the contract of Richmond Development, when he told him that Kikwete does not sign the contract because she didn't expect a tough decision to resign.
Lowassa's efforts to be able to come out in the JayMillions Promotion that made a nation a loss of more than 152 million shillings per day, for two years, went down by Doctor Slaa and his fellow opponents who were in parliament on 6th and 7, 2008 and his fellow opponents who were in parliament on 6th and 7, 2008 together with his opponents.
And on the way you will enable his lawyer, Tundu Lissu, how he gets to Lowassa in this scandal of Richmond Development, days to defend Tanzania are not far.
While in Mtera, Dodoma, Lowassa decided not to give a campaign meeting and instead allowed them to leave the citizens, Michael Makau asked Lowassa about Richard Mwaikenda, to answer you a question in court.
And it's not best, integrity of Lowassa is faced with many people, big young people in September 15, 2007, Yanga, Temeke, Temeke, Dar es Salaam and with great courage, Doctor Slaa told Lowassa in the list which he claimed was to be the president, though in a few hours, he had been rushing to court like being clean.
Fredrick Sumaye, the former prime minister, was accused of being the most of the claims that it is safely cleared by the court, he informed all the drugs that put it to the public through the court because it's not true.
