
Safe JPM has a great contribution to music in the country.
Sei 22, 2016.

In the most popular dance competition in Tanzania for several years now, Wiz Khalifa is among them being a few people in the group of youths who don't know this lady and he started getting popularity when he started serving at the East African Television station and television and later to be the judge in the competition to get upcoming music star in ITV television station.

Its broadcasting station at the radio station which deals with its advertisements in the East African Community and the judge in the Bongo Star Search contest, is the one that made it private with many others.

This is as a result of his courage to tell me the truth when he performed poorly in the Bongo Star Search competition, it was normal to think that I wish you the participant that "you are not happy to sing, look for another job."

This issue is true that it was very happy because of the fact that, there is a big part of our thoughts that were not aware.

It is very clear that, the development that were done in the field of music of the new generation have been contributed to a certain amount and this lady's video was saying openly when that issue would have been done in the film industry in the country, because maybe I could have witnessed development like the ones that are in music.

A Mkasi TVProgram has been very popular in the country and even the neighboring country because it is Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani together with small errors that many stakeholders have complained of, but the truth is to remain when the television station is entertaining in a big part.

Then I go back on social media networks on Twitter, Wiz Khalifa has told no less than 350 followers of this number continues to be among the big artists in Bongo Fleva like the FA and AY, even Professor Jay said that the only thing that is showing his popularity by maybe be loved among the community.

He is following (follow) a total of bananas, among them is the mid-fielder of Manchester United which explains that it is a lover with a team of Manchester United. Something appears to be true that he is a fan of the team is when I wrote on Twitter, but we think this we will be infected with your team. "

He is also popular among the famous people as Paul Pogba, the most expensive player in the world at the moment of Manchester United, musician Vivian Mpalile from Kenya and a tennis player from Germany, Dominique Nasi.

He is also the president of the third phase of Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa.

A large section of issues that we like to involve those who follow the ones related to television issues that he is leading and also issues of sports and entertainment as a whole.

"Thank you for you by checking if you eat at Ngilangwa at the venue which is taking place tomorrow at six and a half hours through www.fastjet.com.

He is also in Facebook, although this one does not use much as it is on Twitter.

It is a good work he knows especially in the development of entertainment here in the country and also in nations that use the East African Community, I will support him and I believe most of us are doing so.

I will end.
