
Tuesday, January 29, 2013.

Dar es Salaam and thanks of Yamoto Band.

My fellow voters for Muleba District.

The receiver on the unique congratulations for the good work that you have done is to bring a huge victory to you, for them to enter the whole country and to your party, the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).

It is you, the elderly women and those who come out to victory in the village elections and the last villages in the country to have five villages and 10 villages.

This is not the results that made it just like the heavy rains, but the results of the strategic plan that we made by you and me - 29th December 2012 is the evidence of the construction of our leadership that we did in all 18 wards of the province since February 2012, and December 2012, South Ugunja.

This is the evidence of having all the work of all that we have continued to prepare a special conference of the region and big public meetings that we have done in September 2012 at the Kihesa Market, Kagimu, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga, Nyanga and Izike

Many commanders have participated fully in bringing this victory of its kind, I request to be heard very few, on behalf of all others who have completed the work of this work.

There are also commanders from outside Muleba District who we have collaborated to build a party until that step by the Lord God bless Lema, Alphonce Mawazo, John Heche, Victor Wanyama, Renatus Nyanda, Victor Mkumbo, who were also known as you are for all citizens who are looking for permission from CCM administration.

I remember one day, it was on Saturday, before voting, Karege and Rwegasira, welcome him with four times a few hours when he gets into a campaign meeting, according to the campaigns.

I remember this Friday, our secretary of Ngapa Ward, known by the name "Kaumba '- he was killed by unknown people, God rest his soul in eternal peace.

In a clean environment, CCM begins in villages and neighborhoods, even if it is one of us, it's victory.
Whoever will happen even one person to claim that it is all of us because all of them are all of us, today, we will not have a need to do another research through their houses, within the villages and their districts here in the country.

He hurts me!
