
A reduction of tax payment appears in the new.
Beatrice Moses, Mwanachile in Dar es Salaaam.
Dar es Salaam City, the decision by President John Magufuli to reduce two percent of the tax of Msepwa (PAYE)) has raised the debate after it was revealed that they give a lot of money to the employee, while some of the efforts to be made to control the price of industries and agriculture and some of the efforts to be made to control the inflation rate in order to ease the needs of the employee.
The day before yesterday in the commemoration of the World Women's Day, President Magufuli announced to reduce low income from 11 percent to nine percent, but in accordance to the decision it is a reduction of 1,100 shillings to the low amount of 3,800 shillings for a salary that starts 360,000 shillings on a salary that starts 360,000 shillings.
While expounding on parole.
He said that the income starting from 360,000 Tanzanian shillings will be cut off without a 20 percent of the car, while the salary that continues to PAYE) together with 25 percent on the deductions.
That issue has also been done by the analyst of social and political issues, Godlisen Maramia congratulating the document that was sent on the network of the reduction of that threat to President Magufuli.
Malisa said it was surprised by the act of some people to see the reduction, including the opposition members.
"If the president has reduced, at least 10 percent from 30% were now, it would have a lot of great meaning more than reducing PAYE)," says Malisa in the document.
"In short, it will benefit more than the salaries under 720,000 / = shillings but the ones who are paid more than there are no benefits.
Any kind of those who are paid under 720,000 / = shillings will not be very little. "
He claimed that if there is no member of parliament who already bought a reduction it is clear that he doesn't know the habit, therefore he is supposed to be reminded that they can be able to understand that to reduce them if they consider the standards of your salaries they continue, it's an illusion.
"What is the president what I did is to make the increase in a salary increase," he says.
He said that it's true the opposition in accordance with the opposition to be reduced since the year 2011 that it has gone to Tarime with one point and that is how he had promised him but he also advised that the cost of switching off those accusations could not overlap.
"I have decided to say this because I see many members of CCM (parties that make up the Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) are playing the song of Magufuli.
They are starting to listen, (that the opposition we advised the issue since the year 2011, "he says.
"Others share pictures until the speech of the opposition camp that talked about that issue and they should not be silent and should not continue to talk about the things you want."
An expert on tax issues, Doctor Mariam Nchimbi said the amount of low income is clear in severe pain and helped many to prepare well, including continuing to pay appropriate taxes.
"It is clear that in that step by President Magufuli has helped them to a certain amount, those who are the salaries of middle level, but those of the high level will also be reduced though by 28 percent instead of 35 that are reduced," he said.
But other analysis went to doing an issue to grow the economy, saying that the decision will be made to benefit from his salary.
Professor Humphrey Moshi at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) said that an affordable prices to the lives of many workers will be due to the presence of enough industries together with improving security.
"There are a lot of things to look for so that the employee should have a salary cost," said Professor Moshi.
"The national income is involved with a great extent, therefore if a modern environment of growth, it will be good for the industries to build the income by 25 percent and not eight percent as it is now."
He said he believes some of the industries that will be able to produce their crops, there will be agricultural farming which will increase productivity.
"I believe that apart from those areas, many other industries can be beneficial to the production of agriculture and production," he said.
He said on the side of the government a low-income tax for its workers are required to be used in the environment maybe by putting a special department that is looking at the standards of salaries.
"At the moment it is clear that there are servants who benefit as they ever explained the president. That is, people are paid salaries like in Europe and now, you can be a scholar with a high level, but it was paid 1 million shillings," he said.
Professor Moshi asked for those two different levels, what has been used to decide with great education to be paid little and with small education easily.
He emphasized that the government is supposed to be afraid that the board of its institutions that have contributed to the environment of paying millions of money without caring about the state of the country in general.
Another scholar, Doctor Mwanazuo's Palace from the primary school of UDSM, said that the government is capable of controlling the inflation rate.
"It is clear that even if the government will increase their income, the products are reduced, there is no high level that can meet the lives of the servants," he said.
