
Noise from taking off from CCM is a fire to cross on 1st, 2012.

After pride and noise from there and in the end, "the fire outbreaks that are measurable.
Maybe that are measurable in the fire is the results of the way you were received by the public and not the secret that despite the great efforts that took place to announce "the birth of CCM after that party is not the name of the political party," said the party is not only.
The fear about that step by CCM was contributed by the truth that, basically, the problem of CCM is not in skin or Magato, but inside the body of the party that uses a lot of time to serve the citizens.
Some of the people who went aside more and took him a statement "to take off the red card, using a real example of those creatures that are facing a habit of taking off the red card, especially a fox which is very dangerous than before the act.
The others claimed responsibility for the CCM's statement by being noted that if he is taking off, he didn't know that when she was forced to believe that even before it was forced, there are some of the leaders of that party who claimed that he was forced to believe that the statement (wearing a red carpet) was fake.
What raised many of us to trust CCM, it is true that its welfare at the moment seems to give him a lot for example is good and correct example is how the current chairperson of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete was successful in power.
He doesn't know how some of the leaders of that party, those mentioned as Magato said that he helped him to get the presidency in 2005, he will be living in another country.
We are the others that we are doing well and "investigate", the thinking of getting the presidency, from the attempt failed to enter the state in 2005 until when she started to enter the state in 2005 till when she started to enter the state in 2005 until when she started to enter the state in 2005 until when she started to enter the state in 2005 till when she started to enter the state in 2005 until when she started to enter the state in 2005 till when she was going to go to the State House 2005 till when she went to the state of corruption.
If it is in agriculture, then, the period had come in order for the rainy season to rise up on the farm, and we are witnessed so much to get into the State House is supposed to form a wider network and strong winds, by bad luck (without bad luck).
If we are taught in urine, there are many times a relationship between a human being, I give you a solution to you reading your password "the most successful" to take their dreams, "in everything you came up.
On that logic, the CCM can be correct to use the statement of taking off the red card as even to some of plants reached the place, it gives the farmer to climb with him but to do it further.
But it is not everything that would be able to continue to be active in Magoza village, in education of his creation, a human being that is equivalent to skin disability in the human body (example human being), if you see a man and a human being that will be a series of life and maybe the cause of his death.
Likewise, among the effects that come from human skin to be avoided, together with the parasites of diseases in their activities of taking off the Magoza village, CCM has been faced with a problem like that where Yusuf Makamba has caused the coming of people as Nape Nnauye.
The name of Nape started to be sent away after his statements were on a way they would like to think those of the opposition party, I would like to think that I was among the people that helped me in the young man, because his statements are affected by others with bitterness for their country.
Now, if it was silent, just after looking for popularity or he did not believe that, it is another issue, but what happens it is true that the patriotic decision has been seen since he went to politics before they emerged victorious, "insisted and Kikwete to be the head of the district.
After being handed over the Secretary General of CCM, Nape has emerged as the commander of honor to believe that, finally, that party has decided to reach any cost, to stop some important leaders but on suspicion of corruption.
It was not difficult to feel that despite implementing his responsibilities as the party's spokesperson, Nape also was waiting to be pardoned with a chameleon after some of the politicians that performed poorly with big political problems in the past.
Private, I believe that Nape had a great faith that his party is determined by putting off the Kigambini bridge, while insisting that the suspects of corruption have only one days to be responsible, and otherwise they will be accountable.
There is a saying that England's saying that was forced to cut off the feelings of mental disabilities (SMS).
If he was divided into patriotism or a desire to revenge, the young man gave an eye on the truth that the politicians that he didn't know or is an important part of the life of Kikwete political.
It is people who have the sun in details, and you believe that they have an important secret of this head of the country especially to their participation in the network that brought President Kikwete in power in the year 2005.
But before Nape to see Magribi Town's dreams, we did not see a report on some of the newspapers that one of "bad luck" of Nape met with privacy and Kikwete for a few days later, the Secretary General of CCM, Wilson Massawe, put open the stand of his party to be no leader who was given the same day.
In other languages, the referee is not yet officially released the statement of CCM to take off the Magoza village, and therefore in the neighborhood, "Nape and all the people who started believing that the party has decided to believe that the party has decided to believe his marriage.
Instead of preventing and reading the wind direction, Nape said that he decided to move his pain and put off from CHADEMA concerning the salary of the opposition party of CHADEMA, Doctor Kizza Besigye, due to the purchase of vehicles (that was used) by the party's chairperson, Freeman Mbowe said he had tried to kill him because he will be paid a huge salary.
I believe Nape is discussing that by the answer to realize that he has been sent away from the issue of taking off the White House but he knew that even in the era of socialism is not a sin to be paid a huge salary.
We shouldn't have problems with the salary of Doctor Slaa as he knows all of integrity and every Tanzanian knows that the noise from Doctor Slaa and CHADEMA will help President Kikwete to take action in resolving issues of citizens like the price of sugar.
I have decided to finish this article to remind them of CCM that we will not be possible to solve the problem and where the Tanzanians will not be demolished because it's not there, it is not there to know that the foundation problem is in Kikwete.
It is a person who came to and educate the students who are called Magupa (corruption). He can talk about them that he wants to kill them on corruption, but his soul will help him to stop the people that brought her to where he is now.
