Those who are looking for, election is a must.
May 20, 2012

This week I decided to open a new chapter on this platform with great interest in discussing on issues concerning the political activities this year, the general elections of the president, members of parliament and councilors.
This is the main activity for all the time that has been on up until the end of this year when scientists will vote to elect their colleagues who will lead in the past five years as planned by the country's constitution, and then heads who were chosen as they become a new government.
For sure, this will be a important period in our nation's life, because this election has a huge meaning to build a democratic administration so as to ensure that our country is dominated by rights and that the ones who are in power they do not have their work by putting the interests of the citizens in front of what they invented.
But all those are similar to what they were supposed to be like that what is in all the United States said, and how our leaders seen every day it is clear that there is no doubt that we have made there above.
The truth is something very much in this period, we will see a lot of things, close condolences and these are up of each type of politicians in every kind of politicians who want them to face, agree and every kind of suicide, they want them to be discriminated.
For these blogs that we want to see the truth that the actions of those politicians will be able to break the power of democracy, although the politicians have claims that they do is strengthening democracy.
It is important that for that, for us that we love democracy to be eyes and loss of politicians and their aides to identify all actions that can protect democracy instead of strengthening democracy.
The importance of being a eyes on all the issues concerning elections is due to the unholiness of the concept of a human being, what we have we been able to serve, and to respect the truth.
The sacred heart of elections is due to us (if you have agreed) that we are forced to put a government that will involve our administration, our country and its property, and that the government does not have any consent to have any consent, the consent to move through our votes.
The concept of the sacred heart of the elections are near the elections, and not the election again, but the scandal of violence erupted, corruption, and cheating in the sacred bridge, will go to move ahead, competitors and their husbands.
When we go to know, and we continue educating each other, that the elections should be informed, the community does not have faith in the danger of getting leadership, and often that alternative system is the one that depends on violence and murder, and that is the one that depends on violence and murder, which is the one that depends on violence and murder, which is the one that depends on violence and murder, and that is the one that depends on violence and murder, which is the one that depends on violence and murder, a person that goes for violence.
To disrupt the elections because all of them is a big sin and which would have been able to be shown by the same punishment and the one they did in the park, we have witnessed the way that forced the killing of hundreds of people and destruction of property and destruction of property and villages.
Now, let us look for a short time on the logic of these things, as a person who want to remove the government into power contrary to the legal procedure it was sentenced to those who face the elections, while making their actions can be the source of deaths of hundreds of their colleagues?
To try to remove the government that is in power through the army's strength (Ip d'Park) for example, it is a series of treason and denying them the existence of death because there is a cause of death because there is no cause of death because it is needed by that punishment.
If you go through many African countries that have ever been involved in violence and local war, we will discover that among the universities of those violence is an election which will be given, therefore, it would be given Juma and they should not accept it, the truth is that you want to fight.
