
Farmers benefit.
By Bashir Yakub.
Maize farmers in North West region got Christmas day after the Deputy President William Ruto, announced that the government will start buying their products before December 25.
While speaking on Sunday after attending a service of giving thanks to the Catholic church of Our People's Catholic Church of Llongero village, Parliament of Turnbull, he said that warehouses of the national rain and Mazimbu Hospital (NCPB) in that area will be opened soon.
I am happy that you know that you have assured us that you have bought your maize at a store, when you can be patient, "said the Deputy President, who was accompanied by members of parliament and several sections.
However, Mister Netanyahu did not recognize the price that the government will destroy the maize, but there were said that the end of 90 kilograms will be bought for 3,000 shillings.
For now business people in the country pay the end of the maize by among 1000 shillings and 1,200 shillings.
He was answering a lot of joy from the leaders of the western part of the country and Race.
In addition, he took the opportunity to assure farmers of the western farmers, the government has set up plans to revive the sugar industry of solar energy which is accelerating in shambles after being disturbed by the debts and bad management.
He said the agricultural minister Felix Kengele posing with his fellow musician, Henry Rwasa who are participating in the plan to revive the company.
That company is being faced with a threat of being beaten after the bank involved in the importation of 10,000 tons of maize presented a case against 93 million shillings.
Those farmers have complained of getting into the maize price with the shortage of maize that has caused the farmers to get a huge loss after thousands of maize flour were destroyed by that disease known as Mujahideen (MK).
The production of maize in Ranaut have been removed from 21 million shillings to 16 million last year after the farms were attacked by that disease, a situation that is expected to be bad this year.
