The leaders that were sacked are baseless.
TASWE Saccos, 2016.

And our reporter.

Mwanza - a few days after the sacking of work of the Moshi Cooperative University (NRF), the General Manager, Richard Somba and the chairperson of the board, Zeno Nkoswe, have been questioned and put publicly that the party's ethics for many years.

The general manager, the Chairperson of the Board of Namkoveka said, the Chairperson of the Board of Namkoveka said, Said Kadama, Samson Kadyage has been sacked by the office of the registrar of cooperatives on July 15th this year as a result of the directive by the Minister of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba.

According to the letter of praying for the work of July 19th this year, signed by the acting registrar of cooperatives, Asumpta Mshama said that the punishment is due to a result of an agreement between the management and the Board of Nthepheya.

Those leaders have been suspended for some time to pave way for investigation on them about those accusations that are facing him and already the deputy registrar of cooperatives has already appointed the Chief Executive Officer, Juma Mpozi so as to get the position of the general manager to manage all the activities of that party.

However, while speaking in a special interview with Raia Mwema, at different times in the city at the end of last week, Sido and ornaments has said, has decided to be given that punishment, they denied being involved in any way with actions of brotherhood, embezzlement and theft of Nthepheya.

That the embezzlement of different property of Namkoveka said that the lack of their work was done for many years before they get to power.

The general manager.

Surely, he says that he was surprised to be surprised by the action of being stopped from the allegations of embezzlement of human property, which took place in the previous years before being employed in the party in April 2014.

"Even those elders (meaning your name) and his board members, the minister has left us because I was born for nine years to get to Nogu when they found their property, has not been sold, it is unacceptable," says Sakali.

He says that they are suspended from the internal auditors of the country, they are continuing to inspect the NGOs of April 2015 / March 2016 and that the inspection was not shown the embezzlement of revenue and property of that party.

"The inspection has shown that there is no theft, there is no loss of property and income of the party and that internal auditors have not been put in," I asked me that the minister is praising him (is keenly)?

The sales of the factory.

When he is mentioned among the wealth of Nicrox, that are sold in a environment.

Being the New Life Orphanage Center which is at Uhuru Kenyatta, which is at Uhuru Kenyatta, which took place with 83-84 in the area of Ihanga village, Mwanza town, which the factory manager at a price of 354 million shillings.

However, the selling that was done without the establishment of the general meeting (NRF), contrary to the law of the district and its regulations, but also despite the Nyanza Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency, LTD promised to pay that amount of money for the existence of one cup.

Instead, the payment of the tender is supposed to be resolved until October 30, 2001, the participant of the purchase, that is Satoshi Nakalega.

In addition, the new contract that put it open that the on that is sold is wealth (that factory) that is in plot and 83 C84 and openly stated that plot and 81 tons will remain under the Nthepheya.

"But up to today, it is that we did not pay 68 percent of all four stadiums, that is number 890,283 households were not supposed to be separated to have at two stadiums, one of stadiums and 83 and others in stadiums and 83 and the 84.

"It is a truth that is open that plots with 81 percent and 82 are still being sold because they were not involved in the new contract," he explained and added.

He also said that the factory was sold against the registrar of cooperatives on the letter of the registrar of cooperatives on the letter of reference.
