
As youths you want to go up is the difficulty of the Big Results Now "that drive out laziness?
Kalala Jamal, The Citizen of Gongo la Hoya.
In Dar es Salaam, there is no research that have shown especially the number of men who are taken care of, but there is an official evidence in the community that is still ongoing.
Some of the youths have confirmed that this issue is and that the difficulty of life and lack of thinking or not to do work, has become a catalyst to the growth of these actions.
Some of the youths in the scene to be the Ilala Municipal Council, had told this newspaper on a condition of not having their names or not to be known despite being popular among them being popular so that everyone can benefit from a woman who depend on them.
One of the youths who had held a big phone with her chest with her chest, he said that he has never been working but he has no friend 'that he wants to live well in town.
I am living well, if you see it, if you see it, I know how to be very much but I know how to avoid mothers who like the youth, he says, while refusing to mention his name on claims of stealing their vice president.
Dogo Boy (not his real name) who is 29 years old, says a big reason to do that is the difficulty of life.
He says that many youths do not have a job including him as the family going on. "In a state like that, I get someone to ask for me and giving me your joy?
"He told this youth.
Boy is saying that those who had a value of a person and have not provided to the heart to make sure his lover wants to solve the small scale business problems.
To believe this car, he told him to when I'm looking for my birthday, to I am attaining 28 years, and he did not care or giving me a gift, I have never worked on or giving me a gift, I have never worked on, "he told Boy.
A youth who identified himself by name Kocha, says that despite having a difficult life, he got a girl in their neighborhood, tribe of them and it's also a beauty, but he said she had no desire to do not like girls.
He says that by a little income, he added that his money that he was paid in a certain factory after being given out of work, he started a business so as to bring back to citizens, but the bar and another lover.
"I followed closely, his girlfriend did not believe because she was a whole person than his fiancée who was living with him," says Melela Kololo.
Melela Kololo says that from there what he did is to change the procedure of life, when they get good clothes, the ones that pour at their own body so as to have the attraction.
, "Sanga it is true that I was the third, first days I am happy, but I've not heard, but I've not been able to see and see it is normal, I want my capital to be successful.
He is saying.
Lover of Melela Kololo who was not ready to mention his name says he has everything money, children, vehicles, several houses, but from getting him who need from her husband.
He says if you identify her husband is making Tanzanians not to be treated together, but her husband does not see the importance of participating in him after having left us.
He is saying it's not a man and his wife in the month and more without informing them.
Rajabu Boba is saying the difficulty of life also contributes to the youth to love 'brought up'.
He says that apart from the difficulty of life, lack of thinking and love the success of life through the same way, its results are the murder of those women with albinism and widows.
"This situation is going on after some time many youths will have diseases, because they are looking for them is only money, they have not received their health, they are run every time they are told to do," said she matron.
Andrew James says the difficulty of life is the truth is that many youths are illegal and thinking.
"Youths like these, they have changed the women to raise them as they think about things that are not easy in the community including in the same sex relationship because they have up and see that their body is the source of bringing about income," says James.
He is not supposed to do work is the catalyst to the growth of these actions in the country, but they have effects because they can be the source of getting AIDS disease, to be cursed by being arrested or killed.
