
Honorable Kikwete, who attacked our money in Switzerland?
Frode Dyrdal of 28th, 2012.

In this article of 229, I wrote on this column, asked our leaders to be when Tanzania will face James to make our colleagues.
I wrote on that article following the incident of the most international friendly week which was a governor of Niger region in Delhi of Nigeria, James Ireton while being shown by a court in England.
James Ireton was being reduced in seven years by the police of London on different crimes of corruption which she worked in her country and outside the country including the ones who are participating in a dirty business business (EFD).
James Iiwa is the most corrupt aspirant which for eight years in the month of Havana her in that province that brought the public funds that will reach 250 million pounds.
In the corruption, it's not only living a luxurious life, as well as to buy a luxurious car for instance, it has been shot dead in Europe, but also it had dared to try to buy a private plane.
Therefore, finally, the lives of corruption of James Ireton while they were arrested were arrested by international police (INTERPOL) in Dubai when trying to buy the plane for 17 million pounds, he was brought back to England where he was opened up to 13 years now, "the billionaire," that singer was removed in prison.
In that article, I used the example of corruption, James Ireton while urging our leaders in the country to have the efforts to look for and take them to court so that our protests.
Some of my readers who have read this article did not believe that Tanzania and us have the major mistakes of samples of James IHI (for sure, others do not believe that we are blocking the funds in the country and follow it on the banks outside the country.
You are pleased that the ones who did not believe that I wrote on that column, now they have every reason to believe in last week the report of the Central Bank of Switzerland to put things in public.
In that report of the Central Bank Central Bank, that was released at the beginning of last week, Tanzania is among the 11 countries in Africa that its business rivals, small and political leaders have been destroyed, billions of money from Switzerland banks.
Those reports which have had given priority to the internet and also two big newspapers in the East African continent on their Saturday of Saturday, that is the Ambassador of Tanzania, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Egypt, Boko, South Africa, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia and Sudan.
On the side of Tanzania, Mwanazuo's side that have succeeded in that there is 367,888 trillion shillings, equivalent to 5 billion Tanzanian shillings just they would have been expelled from the country and to attract them in projects to improve the community service?
But also I ask you to request another second question, even after the Central Bank of Switzerland, we are not happy about issues because we have been treated, and that our leaders have the intention of starting the process so that the concerned parties be taken to court and the funds to be taken to them in the country.
When you want to have the answer, "yes' it is in the second question, and going on to me to give the answer to the way from Andrew Chenge of putting one million dollars (he urged them) to take advantage of one million dollars (not in one bank in abroad.
But it's not only that, even the statements by our reporter like the one of "those who are crafty people are arrested, they do not know if our leaders have a commitment to start the intention of supporting our international lovers of James IHI.
Therefore, even after that report of the Central Bank Central Bank that has explained openly that our leaders have been injured in Switzerland, money they were tested for a sum of 315 billion shillings, but I did not meet our leaders to take any action without being handed over.
In that event to take action, we would have heard, for example, the Director of TAKUKURU, Edward Hosea, said that he will give him a letter to the bank on Monday, to allow them to work immediately, at least they should start that report from Geneva?
Currently, Hosea, said that he has not know that even in Switzerland to decide, in the recent years, to remove the privacy of an international blood and not by his will, and that even those reports will not be sent directly to those names?

Currently, he doesn't know that the names of those names and take action against those involved will depend on the legal action of every one country for those banks in Switzerland, where he inspected the pitch.
I urge you to explain that here is that, we ask for that report not a bad thing, but TAKUKURU has decided to start investigations quickly up to the first to be given that report, it is a matter that causes a doubt about the ability of that institution to address the huge corruption like that of the institution.
Listen to me, a question of asking themselves is that TAKUKURU was going for all the time until now they have agreed with that report like they have countries that have benefited from the ordinary citizens and our nation's security agencies including TAKUKURU.
Maybe I conclude that for my today's friend, just after the Central Bank, put things in public and assured us that our money which have been worked on in secret accounts in Switzerland Bank, is our responsibility to enable our leaders to take action.
We expect all of us from the ordinary citizens to members of parliament, politicians, Nronga s, scholars, religious leaders, we must inform us to inform our business people, administrative and political parties in our country who had gone for our money and follow it on the banks of Switzerland.
And it's not only, we should try to inherit the names, but you should try to fulfill the money to be sold to their country to be taken against them so that finally they go to a sentence, as he went to James Ireton, and the money they will go to be restored to their country.
And if our leaders will not hesitate to listen to this issue, then be heard this blood for foreign sponsors and requested them to stop the money that they had promised Tanzania in the budget until when we will take action against those who had gone them to resolve the money from those banks in Switzerland.
I am sure that abroad they will listen to you the reason part of the funds facing him and the end in Switzerland, there is possible in one way or another, it arose from donations or loans for us!
But I conclude that for my joy by saying that currently (TAKUKURU doesn't have the ability to investigate this issue and will not recognize the names of the leaders who used them to resolve the money, Switzerland said they should not hesitate to resolve the work.
However, the fellow musician from Nigeria - the Financial Services Agency (EFG) that defeated James IMR) to London City police and INTERPOL's commander, they fell in prayers and collecting various evidence and finally arrested him to give him a dirty business business in England.
It would have been EFG, maybe the Wanigeria Nkwankwo Kanu has been explained, up to today, it should be investigations against James Iiwa is going on and that it is not recognized.
My advice, therefore, it is that because these are enough water to our TAKUKURU institution, then I'll give this work to investigate and take them to court these suspects who were involved in that way - Mathalt, Scotland, Scotland and others.
Or we were unable to get that job to those institutions in the United Kingdom, then, we have told the tender that the international referee to look for funds of the East African countries that were stolen by the death of Switzerland, Ency Mwalukasa of Switzerland, Ency Mwalukasa of Switzerland.
I know our leaders will fly him that, Tanzania we do not have money to provide services to the media so that they can be allowed to make that work.
All the investigation of all the investigation that took seven years of 54 million pounds were issued by the England Department of International Development (DFIT). Therefore, we can request our sponsors from Switzerland, therefore the investigation will enable us to get married to resolve those funds.
I don't see the reason why to help as to help us even if it is by educating you for the donations and give them the money in the process of encouraging the corrupt people to give them a lesson to all others that there is no good place they should be safe.
And at the end, I advise President Kikwete that after the official report of the Central Bank Bank to set aside public things, now we should expect the names of those leaders who had qualified to stop using those funds, Switzerland.
It is his responsibility (Kikwete) as the president to make sure that, eventually, prevent us are expected to benefit the names of those players and the steps taken against them.
I know!
