
Patriotism of switching off the winner.
Uku, Kenya celebrating 51 years since they get freedom, the challenge of tribalism is still unknown "despite the presence of many efforts in peace, patriotism and the ratio.
According to the chairperson of the commission of promoting equality that won the National Identification Authority (NRF), Francis Saro, Kenya announced his efforts in monitoring the growth of economy and forgetting Mo Blog soon after getting his freedom from the hands of the colonialist.
"Kenyans have taken several decades before realizing that the issue of tribalism was not fit," said Mister Kaparo, during the debate about compatibility within the country that was organized in last month by the Hanns Seidel Foundation Fund (HSF) and the Hanns Seidel Foundation Fund (HSF), Nairobi.
He said that before the colonizers of Kenya, different communities were living in peace according to the culture and their daughters despite a few conflicts concerning water and livestock food.
However, the British who arrived used the system to be able to distribute people with sharp teeth.
Political parties have started to sell it even inside the big parties like Kenya African National Union (Dawasco) and Kenya African Union (KIA).
The traditional party was dominated by politicians from the Who Lives Fores and those who broke the tournament of the other things associated to the two communities.
Several decades ago after freedom, different parties were thrown out due to foundation stone.
The party of Ford, which was in the process of Restoration Bible Church (MARI), Ford, has met the People with Who Lives Fores - MKEWAWa - LSE's), SCA - LSE's and otherwise.
Half of the century after freedom now, the parties still were made up of tribe of Orange Democratic Party (ODM) party, under the former Prime Minister William Ruto has condemned the presence of the Blacks, United Democratic Party (URP) of the former president, Uhuru Kenyatta, and many followers at the central region.
Due to the hostility seen between the different communities, violence erupted have been finishing before and after the general election soon after the general elections of 1992, for example, more than 500 people were left without a little of 795 people were left without a headquarters in the Rift Valley area.
In the year 1997, there was violence in Likangara area in Mombasa with the year 2007 / 2008 with violence that led to that election where more than 1000 people were killed, thousands of people were married and even lost their headquarters.
A special member of parliament for Johannesburg, has mentioned one of the members of the parliamentary committee that is related to compatibility, he says there is a need to build a national logo where all Kenyans will come up themselves.
