
Citizens are separated by politicians who are chief friends.
The truth is that a breeder can baptize up until they reach the level of a lot to work but he does not benefit from them.
Fahm, a good thing begins in the fight while the breeder will continue to continue with war without asking his fate.
Many Kenyans have already reduced the farmers and the political parties of Diamond and Correa scored that we are blocking us without using anything.
While the leaders of the party have been depending on the light of the port or the citizens without opening the eyes issue and to see the issues if they are supporting them and led to death of tribalism.
Why is our expectations in the economy, education, health and other sectors to do, though we have fun and identifying our benefits if we like this, our leaders will leave from office without fulfilling their promises to us.
Later we will enable others to take this course because water takes the course.
Paul Pogba today, the University of Maasais' in Mara province is making politics to our party members or the religion in the country to come out in the country during the attacks that are planted on crime.
Someone being waited to be a terrorist who will be dealt with too.
If ODM Party is involved in crime in the country as claimed, let the government to make sure that Raila Odinga with his army is where here in Kenya.
Why we don't understand and want to place blood without guilty, statements by the government leaders to destroy their differences and we would like to take action against them.
The trainer, Mizengo Pinga, Nairobi the students have been destroyed, how many youths in universities and other universities in the middle and middle colleges are based on sex and even using sex to succeed in their studies.
Sunrevealed that those youths are that Kenyans have paid the cost to pay for fees and that are needed to show a good picture.
It is a must that the community gets a lesson on this matter. Itonya about the way to deal with it so that if you do not get her money to take the youth from universities, Eliud Tawi Nyauhenga, the University of Mashada stadium, since it is not respect and is not true.
It's not just one or two but I have witnessed, they were told to pay for two seats or even when they were left out of three due to them.
Three workers are very disturbing and should not lose hope of this type.
The day before yesterday at Nangumbu Village, Makanga said that she went with a lot of mother and I did not enjoy.
Paul Mwageni has said that in Nairobi, police were forced to be careful with the exercise for inspection for the registration of criminal acts in court, it is good for the concerned committee to ensure that there are transparency so that the police force can be trusted in the near future.
The officers found that they brought together many cases of corruption and in their society to be taken against them.
They were partnering with officers to implement the corruption that had been announced because they also donated those mistakes.
In the previous days and even now, the security department have been caught in fighting corruption especially the security department and police officers and citizens should be accountable.
Edward Lowassa comes from Ihanga village, Thika and western countries to put off the problems due to non-infectious diseases to put restrictions against them.
This means that we are collecting donations by misleading the community ethics because the donations that are given is supposed to strengthen the community economically, an issue and also ethics.
I advise our government to continue to implement those requirements so as to maintain our dignity and African traditions in general.
It will be similar to the colonial era of western countries to refuse to provide our donations because we have refused to fulfill the instructions which is the source of ethics for us.
Dickson Para, Nairobi.
