
Gimbi said that the government will help them to deal with them.
Sep 18, 2014.

The game of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, was opened on Saturday of this week at different stadiums in the country, this is another time for love soccer in the country to get football entertainment.

The day before yesterday, there was a game of the Shield game, a match that aims at the official launch of the premier league in the match played at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam by bringing together with Yanga soccer club and Azam FC.

Yanga emerged with a win of 3-0 goals that had been found in the second half, after Azam FC is seen to be remembered that some of his players are seen to do a lot of relief for attending that game in the second period.

The ball is such as fatigue and laziness of the players of Azam FC, give the new player of Yanga's new player, Mboma, popularly known as Jaja, causing any goal of its opponents two times, before Simon Msuva scored a third goal.

There have been a lot of celebrations to lovers and Yanga fans in some of the corners of Dar es Salaam city, celebrating that victory of three goals without answers while they have the right to do so, because before that game every side had a difficulty of the game.

But even the side of fans were not sure to all sides about the victory of that game.

This is allocated by how the teams prepared himself as Yanga who have been at the camp in Zanzibar, Azam also had good preparations considering that they got a chance to participate in the Kagame championships and they are doing well.

I want you to talk about the last game, but what I want to say before now, it is fear that he has started to increase in some of the teams taking the tape at the premier league on Saturday in different stadiums.

The schedule shows that the opening match is Azam FC against Morogoro Police, Stand United and Ndanda FC, Mgambo JKT and Kagera Sugar, Ruvu Shooting and JKT Ruvu.

But also Mtibwa Sugar which will welcome Yanga at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro, the game that is being waited for desire and love soccer and those who follow the history of Yanga and Mtibwa will agree with me that Yanga have a work to work away against their opponents.

One of the things that until now the coach of Yanga, Marcio Maximo, has been seen to have been written as a result of his team being used by a hard team in its final matches in the beginning of the league.

Apart from that statement, the coach has said that Mtibwa is not the first team but he is aiming to get a big competition after the game of the Shield game and he said the game will be difficult but he insisted that Yanga's victory against Azam did not live.

I don't have a lot of joy as to go to us, who once ever been under Marcio Maximo, the squad of the national team, Taifa Stars, says that due to the preparations of his team or it is due to the current history.

Mtibwa team has been one of the opposition teams when I met with Simba and Yanga teams at the Jamhuri Stadium in Turiani Stadium.

Four years ago, Morogoro Province has been lucky to give three teams to participate in the premier league matches of those teams which in Moro United, Morogoro Police and Mtibwa have been in a tough stand for Simba and Yanga teams.

History shows that Yanga has never got victory in the land of that province, more than five matches and scored one match for a period of four years.

In September 2012, Yanga emerged the defeat of 3-0 goals against Mtibwa Sugar of January 2012, those who had lost a draw of 2-2 against Moro United in September last year were forced to a draw of 1-1 against Mtibwa Sugar.

In his game against Mtibwa, March this year, Yanga defeated another draw with Mtibwa Sugar at the Jamhuri Stadium in Morogoro.

In this history, Yanga's coach needs to do an additional job to ensure that his boys are inspiring for a long time while Mtibwa appears to be seen and they are ready to meet with Yanga from different reports that their coach has been studying through different media stations.
