As all the body could have an eye on the body.
Sep 18, 2014.

We have witnessed all of us here in Tanzania on how political parties with great impacts as they have done a good step towards the State House of NCCR, Scotland and CUF and they have managed to do internal elections well it is a lot of time to stop leaving this party being safe.
Ukawa is to sign a new release, but you will not be safe but this is a strategy of CCM, wanting all the body to be an eye for all the body to get full light, it will be difficult for our nation of Tanzania to move forward.
It is good for us that we have a lot of words that we can be able to do back and even if you have been very attractive, I have faith that I would have come back these words.
"There is a lot of ways of serve, but the person who is one of them is one of the ways of doing a service, but another person is proud to be a lesson for everyone with her talent and sometimes his talent can sign him as a parent of God and sometimes his talent can sign him," (1 / 12).
Section of the like this is what explained to each other but the different organs of the way we say on article 10, it is that every person gets its appearance, but with the aim of using those gifts to the benefit of all.
The one who is looking is one, gives the talents and gifts with the aim of building one thing on the second section, is an example of the body with different types of organs but they work with one goal.

"The body has no one mid-fielder but there is a lot of organs for if you had never thought, then I am not support me, then I am not supporting him, then I am not having a lot of separation with the body but all the organs have a lot of honor, so as to prevent it," (1 mmscfd).
Almighty God, he told him that if all the body could have an eye, then the fire could have been important in our nation, when we write our history as a body of many other people in the country and other people in the nation are poor.
Others are hands, and these are doing their hands and others are football and they are doing football work, it's impossible for all the body and otherwise it is supposed to make all the body and otherwise it is supposed to make sure they get football.
It's impossible for us to be CCM, otherwise, it is wanting to make sure that we get their hands.
Also because an eye is not football, an eye did not be able to stop looking at a hole so that football does not have the ability to hold anything and to get something, but a man can refuse to fall into the country more than when a person sees it, that's when his body organs get to partner.
It is possible that all those who understand the performance of the past government and this government is in power, they do not have the ability to do more better than but they have the ability to make holes on the moment, and it is possible that they don't know if they are not seen in holes.
