
A very big leader in the world continues to land in the country.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The senior leader of the Sunni religion in the world Doctor Sechered and Mohamed Sheke was arriving in the country today for the purpose of leading the festival to celebrate the new year of Islam to the believers of those denominations.

Speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chief leader in the United Republic of Tanzania, Professor Addul Kiba, said the believers of the religion in the world will celebrate the Almighty God who is a new year of Islam.
He said the celebrations will take place at the Old Trafford stadium in Dar es Salaam city where Doctor Raqqa, he will lead you.
He said Doctor Seeing is dumps founded with 30,000 people from different parts of the world and 10,000 others from countries of East African Union who attended the celebrations.
Secretary General of the Supreme Council of Muslims (Bakwata), Suleiman Lolila said that the celebrations are expected to start on October 2nd to 12 this year in the city of Dar es Salaam and already various visitors have arrived.
"Bakwata in partnership with the Community of Fransico Kimwana from Dar es Salaam was the hosts of those celebrations and many believers at one place being led by Adamy," he said.
He urged the civil servants to welcome those visitors and generosity.
The secretary general of Bakwata, said President John Magufuli and the Mufti of Tanzania Mufti Zubeir, will participate in the celebrations that will be held in the main mosque in Upanga in Dar es Salaam city on the date to be mentioned.
"We thank our president because he is the one who had invited to come to the country when they met at State House, President Magufuli is making this leader to come to Tanzania due to his invitation thus Bakwata and all Muslims see him," he said and added.
And Bokilo who is the coordinator of those celebrations said they have received partnership from the security and security agencies due to the visitor and also have been given enough support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and East Africa cooperation.
