And when the world will take the action against Israel?
Jide 17, 2014.

News from Palestine have explained how the Israel army is running its attacks on air and neighboring countries in the country, especially in the Gaza region in a period of two weeks, including 25 children and approximately 23 children are injured.

At the same time, Israel has decided to strengthen and increase its army's strength by calling its 20,000 American soldiers, ready to bring in their homes in the Gaza region.
For example, one restaurant was attacked by people when they were looking at the World Cup match between Argentina and Holland, four people were killed while 15 others being injured by Al Shabaab held the killings like this in Kampala, and we said it is illegal.
The secretary general of the United Nations Ban Ki Moon has said.
"For another time I commend the air attacks that are being done by Israel in the Gaza region where these attacks are not allowed and also I urge the Prime Minister Netanyahu to stop the attack and respect the international responsibilities of protecting its citizens."
These killings started on the 12th of June this year when three young people were scored by Israel for the next day, Netanyahu and he will be informed with those acts that those youths were killed and that suspects were found.

Netanyahu said that he is aiming at the police and the army not to announce those reports and instead they will be given misleading reports, and they will follow it, but they will not be found guilty, even the young people were misled.

It's because Netanyahu wanted to use that incident so as to make forward the interests and agenda of his administration and that's when they run the national and international agenda so that it can be supported against Palestinians and say that he wanted to use that opportunity so as to protect themselves.
Netball teams did not use his army to boycott the West and Jerusalem in the east and Jerusalem in the region of Gaza and hundreds of people were arrested and were arrested by two universities being taken by computers were taken.
This means that it was a chance by Netanyahu not to fight up in Palestina area, Jerusalem and Gaza so as to tackle them and others were found with the whole nation because of three youths who died.
Same time, as a result of this situation, thousands of Black Americans in Palestine have warned them that they want all to be.

Its results, the Jehovah's group made a Palestinian youth, Muhammad Hussein Abu Dhabi (16 years) while heading to a draw at night if they scored a fire up to Jerusalem and then his bodies were thrown out by Jerusalem.
The Israeli soldier displaying an example of Nigeria where Boko Haram attacked 200 girls and Israel have already started the international campaign saying "they do not benefit our youth."

In the end of the world it is not allowed to be remembered that the three youths were killed and their bodies were found at the same time, already the army had made a statement in Palestine, where the army is born and that is the agenda where he has continued with more strength recently.
In addition to that agenda, Netanyahu had another agenda for the peace talks between Israel and Palestine which were carried out by President Barack Obama had blamed Israel, Mister Netanyahu wanted the blame to try and say.

Secondly, the parties of Hamas and Pickup, have been running a discussion and in the end of the national consent, they made the government of the national union that surround us, all the Israel have been attacked by that government, but the government has been identified, even by Obama.

This, it has written much Netanyahu and he said that it does not understand the relationship with this government that involves Hamas to be afraid that although Hamas has been criticized by Israel for the killing of three youths, there is no evidence that was given.
Hamas has refused to be involved in accordance with the analysis and who ask you, why Hamas doesn't stop the killings when they put consent?

It is good to know how the news agencies have been used in this world by three young people when they were told that the government does not have information but it's also required to find information but also citizens do not be informed because the journalists have been informed because of journalists they were given an order for analysts or to write the truth about those killings.
This is an example of the fact that when the truth comes by the media that have been cut off in Israel, one American newspaper known as' Neonatal Sepsis'.
That is the journalists that he was admitted to write that Netanyahu, Shreen SCA) and the police force that three youths have died, and those who did the killings were even so they did not want many to know.
