President Kikwete has signed this two.
October 11, 2013.

If I would like President Jakaya Kikwete even a bit about the law of the Marist law of constitutional changes in the year 2013, then I would like to sign that law by considering the main aim of making a national appropriate time, and that because all the groups inside and outside parliament are important so as to help to get a new constitution.
Also, in order to get an appropriate time with one group is wisdom of protecting that which they have got before what is in the sky, if you said the whites have gone into their sayings that it doesn't know her, because one plane has more than one hundred thousand shillings.
Already President Kikwete, as the head of the country, will be the responsibility of ethics and leadership to ensure he is delaying to listen to the opponents or other stakeholders so as to listen to their opponents and to build houses and all people, instead of a wall of the wall.
To achieve the process of writing a constitution it's supposed to be the first responsibility of ethics for all leaders living today.
Recently, President Kikwete said at the time he was addressing the nation, together with other things, he spoke of the misunderstanding that ended in the discussion process and finally be presented to the law bill of constitutional changes of the year 2013.
In his speech, he said that I have been told that the regulations of the parliament are not a must, therefore the committee didn't be resolved since therefore, I advise that this issue will be able to return to parliament so that the members will continue being proud because it will not be careful. "
President Kikwete, in his speech he advised on this issue to be read to parliament so that the members of parliament are supposed to return to parliament so that we are waiting for a new constitution to raise us to get the new constitution.
The issue of my article is to advise the way this issue is going back to parliament and it's going back to the nation because there was a group of members who participated fully with that action, something that they believe was not correct.
Secondly, because there was a few members of parliament who are very few "in parliament (as to be approved) and because of any democracy, views and solidarity of the nation, so that it should be clear that the law can be correct because of the law," the bill has been signed now by the president.
