There is going to work.
Therefore, it is also another challenge that is meeting with the teachers to go to know the profession of teaching but also what he wants to do if you are for teachers.
To go to work but another issue we see what I think one inside.
Ras Makunja has also used the teachers because people see the work of teaching.
It is not work.
See the person who is pregnant is that he is going to the teaching but I would like to tell you that we have people.
There are victims who are unknown but they are usually coming to have good teachers more than those who are not involved in high level, more than the success they were in with it but when we do.
As to prepare these students, we see the fruits in the area since our teachers of and visas in the school, I have said preparations for our students are ongoing.
Only when you differentiate or not their others, we are using more knowledge and they have been leading youths who are leading in preparation for medical equipment.
But the challenges are in ICU, their work place is that thousands of those who received they were asked, we request the equipment to make sure that, you are told that there is a problem he is going to work with them but he is told that he will break the heart to continue with which he is against them.
Teachers have been unable to consider the ethics or better trend in students.
This means that?
What is being taught in teachers when they expected.
Universities or college.
They are unable to sensitize students on how they are supposed to go through good performance as we know that ethics is real.
The progress of the development to achieve this student can continue to be because the teachers are there.
Ethics for students.
It's not true that development can't be there because there is a very important thing to the student so that he can learn from one step to another step, we see the truth.
Preparations for what he got from the audience not to return to universities.
It is good.
The problem is coming in the areas of protecting themselves.
What do you do?
Teacher and that he has been prepared well in a good way to marry off the student.
But when he is ending in that areas there is a shortage of equipment.
We know where the equipment are enabled us to be a student.
And how will be the one that will enable the teachers to be able to ease the exercise of teaching and not.
Therefore, the whole issue of goods is used in every student is a problem.
On Friday, it is very important for the purpose of enabling the whole issue of teaching and not being involved in those environments where a student and teachers are meeting for the purpose of improving the whole issue of profession.
In one way or another one will contribute to the drop in our country because the following ones we see.
A short time.
Teacher's when he is.
Preparations to get enough exercise so that he can do exercises for actions?
The one for the teachers to do.
Different ways or different ways or problems together with various challenges can go to deal with the time when the teachers and we see it is a very short time for teachers who are in the school for a period of two years looking for the teachers but for that time he is getting.
Exercises for you are just two times to an extent that where she is wrong for enough time to know the challenges that he will face them in this work and how to take care of these challenges.
Another thing is that waiting for the government's evaluator to help this teachers when he is born.
I will go to talk about one of the policies and seminar that since the teachers is in preparation of preparations.
The government does not see the importance of going to the university or visit teaching colleges for the purpose of providing various seminar to ask for the teachers to ask for them and how to deal with those teachers, I would like to fight with this topic because they would like to fight with this topic because.
First, we see the preparations which we become a continuation of teachers, we believe that colleges are preparations that are very good but when we become there, we have already succeeded in our working environment, when we reached there, there is something that is receiving bribes.
Everything that has never happened to the community in general you can remain in a place which is in a working environment but the community like the community get a place where it started to receive well and they don't want them well due to bad reception that you get from the community to prepare for the teachers.
