
Regarding the view of the members of CCM, Brother 12 lost 1 goals in the road accident as they go to Bahi, Kilimanjaro.

A lorry of yellow fever, which has resulted in a small vehicle of model Flaviana Matata, having remained with a small vehicle of Toyota in Same District, Kilimanjaro Province, the day before yesterday and caused the deaths of 12 people.

The town of Hedaru here in Same District, Kilimanjaro Province, yesterday brought down in cries and tension after the 12 mourners who died on the road accidents.

The mourners who were given an award for a car and the councilor of Hedaru here in Hedaru here in the county, Hinterland, (CCM), for the purpose of taking them to the Majengo area where one person died on the purchase of water.
Kilimanjaro Regional Police Commander (RPC), Robert Boaz has confirmed the accident saying that happened the day before yesterday at 2 o'clock at night and that it was bad since the start of the year 2014.
"It is an accident involving three vehicles at the same time, and 11 people were killed when others died today (yesterday), at the KCMC Referral Hospital," said Boaz.
However, he said he did not have a good opportunity to clarify in details on that accident because he was outside Kilimanjaro Province and direct it to be approved by the commander of the road safety squad (RTO), Joseph this year.
While speaking on behalf of RPC, this year Mkonga said that the lorry of Wilfried Baamar, that was coming from Moshi going to Dar reached yourself for behind a car of Toyota in Pickup, by having severe pain.
He said that after preventing yourself the vehicle that were carrying the mourners, the thing that was caused by posting those lorry accident which was caused by his name.
The lorry of Scania Tanzania was coming from Dar es Salaam to Moshi coming from his driver, Gabriel David, a player of Toyota Pickup, and sexually transmitted infections which are unknown.
The news that was found later, they said the driver of Fiterawa and he was admitted to KCMC Referral Hospital, when the CCM's veteran was carrying the mourners at the hospital in Arusha town.
This year Mkonga who mentioned the people that are Stella John (45), Salma Kizito (33), Neema Daniel (49), Neema Daniel (29), Rehema George (29) and Sophia Mboma (51).
The others are Riek Kalile (55), Mama Kalunga Stephano Cosmas (55), Melela Kololo, (55), Bahati Daud (25) and Farida Mgomi the age of 25 years.
One suspect, Maria John (33) who is among the 10 people who were injured, died yesterday morning at KCMC Referral Hospital, where he is admitted to save his life.
According to the people who saw the accident, those people got an accident at 10 steps from the area where their brother who was swept away by water and died, where his body was found abandoned at the area.
Alex Shirima one of the witnesses who saw him that the councilor got stuck at the mud blocking the road of Moshi in Dar es Salaam.
He said, before the coming up on the way to look at his car, yesterday happens a lorry accident in the past, followed up with several meters ahead where it met with another bomb attacks which was coming from Dar es Salaam.
He has narrated it that due to the size of that accident, that area left the human organs and blood.
Shirima who is a driver who arrived at the area two minutes after an accident occurred, he said that area is dangerous to drivers because of heavy rains in the city, gender, water and mud.
The situation is in the village.
One of the children whose mother has died in that accident, Sebut Mkwizu said that their village has been faced with her silence and tears while unable to believe what happened.
He said that the accident has taken the lives of his four brothers and out of those, seven were living in that village in different houses affected.
"I have lost my mother, a small mother, my three-in-law, the wife of my brothers and two children.
He noted that the funeral of those women is expected to take place today in the area of that village.
"We have been told that they will be buried in the area, but we don't know which one place, until tomorrow (today), we will get a full report," he said.
