Minister Kalemani warned the lovers of electricity in the villages.

The 29th September 2016

The Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Doctor Medard Kalemani, has given a warning to Proin Promotion Company which deals with electricity in the provinces of Kilimanjaro and Singida and urged them to make sure they complete the work of spreading electricity in that provinces by October 15 this year after being involved in that work.
Doctor Kalemani, gave a warning to Arusha province when he met with the company's executives before the start of his tour to inspect the implementation of electricity distribution projects in the second phase (REA), in Simanjiro District, Simanjiro District.
If your speed of electricity distribution in the villages is not seen in all areas in the rural areas to distribute electricity, the cause of your projects was still ongoing and I found your money to be paid, thus on October 15, it should be over, and when I complete your legal action, "said Doctor Kalemani.
In addition, while in Mkomagu led in Kilombero District, Simanjiro District, Doctor Medard Kalemani, urged the company that produces electricity in rural areas of JICA, Doctor Kalemani the company that produces electricity in rural areas of CCC and TANESCO manager in Manyara Region to make sure that they buy electricity in those villages on September 27, 2016 after the electricity infrastructure is completed.
In hand with that, the deputy minister instructed the directors of TANESCO to ensure that by October 1, 2016, they are starting to write names of contractors dealing with electricity in the villages at the organization's offices so that citizens should recognize them and so as to avoid the contractors' strike that goes through electricity for the promise of serving electricity.
Previously, the Member of Parliament of Simanjiro Province, James Millinga, told the deputy minister to be lit during the electricity in those villages that will enable citizens to do various development activities including business and that many citizens whom they will be able to study at night just after finishing their daily activities.
Likewise, it has called on the citizens to ensure they are using electricity infrastructure, because the government has been using a lot of money in its construction and asked the government to continue producing electricity in all villages which have got electricity in that region.
Moreover, the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Doctor Medard Kalemani has ordered TANESCO's staff all over the country, from the office and instead they should follow the citizens when they are and serve them.
"The workers of TANESCO are not supposed to be followed by citizens, they are the ones that are supposed to look for citizens when they are and give them various services and look for new customers who want to improve service to citizens and increase government revenue," said Doctor Kalemani.
Doctor Kalemani, said that many citizens still need their income is little, therefore, so as to reduce the burden on the cost they used to follow the services in the government offices, it is a must that servants should form the procedure of taking those services to the citizens by involving the local government offices, villages and ward.
He added that the government has a plan to build TANESCO offices in the whole country to district level and other small offices so as to move the services to citizens, even so he said that the implementation of the directive to improve service to the citizens will not wait for construction of those offices.
