Most of our photographer, Mohammed Mtoi, will live in our downfall.
Sei 30, 2015.

"Death were able to remove the eyes of his eyes, never they will not help in his heart" this is words of upcoming poets and the legendary writer of the books, the late Shaaban Robert.
The night of September 12, this year I met back home after a long session in the office between our chairman - the nation, Commander Freeman Mbowe and the headquarters officers concerning various strategies during this campaign meeting heading to the general elections.
I reached at home with a lot of pain, unfortunately, I was not the whole time when I got a short message to vie for the parliamentary seat in Lushoto region, a car that came back and entered into a swim, with your driver, who had survived, but you missed the world.
What you have come out your citizens in Lushoto town, we put your eyes and young children in a bad funeral.
There will be two days before your death, I am some of the officers of the headquarters and our brothers who had visited him in a short time when I met them, "we want them to support him in the next Friday heading to Lushoto town and when you want them to move forward, when I met my brother to pray for him as usual before going to me.
Now the journey of the constituency who came back to this is your argument because of danger of blogging, you've heard that Mohammed's seat in the office has given me what you want to bid farewell to your friends if your fellow executives do you come before to complete your friends.
In fact, the news of your death on Saturday night made me each one of us and bring back to leaders and our members of the accident that caused us to be a blow, where our discovery could have a lot of vision to sit for war.
The citizens of Lushoto and you love all changes in the country have lost a lot of sadness and losing a great father, her family has lost a great friend, I don't see God for your life and I don't leave God because we have been made in the stronghold of our opponents for war.
Mohammed Mtoi, his 35-year-old child was able to use your education profession and to give your contribution to the students, it used your skills to serve the nation by supporting our country's economy and strong opposition in the country that is making sure that the country of democracy of many parties is very dangerous to them.
For sure we will lack you so much, your friend, Mwasumilwe and Ambassador Jonathan Mndeme will not be heard in your voice during a rally of the "prime minister." The coordinators of the region and their officers have reduced, "good people don't have life."
There is no user of social media or the newspapers reader who had not seen Mohammed Mtoi, your heavy articles that led to revolutionary issues.
Our party has been with the culture of bringing up young people, "because of this culture, which is happening for many parties which made our party to have good leaders and also to assist the nation because it is among the youths whom our party is proud of moving to leadership and it seems that it is a human being.
On September 14th, 2015, we arrived at my village to welcome him for a last time, a big crowd that emerged was enough to send a message to say what you believe and also using your gap in what they believe in about the challenges they are facing.
In addition to having us in the body, but your thoughts will live forever.
Let it take our greetings to Mwalimu Nyerere, let me tell how what will enable you to fulfill his lover. On the right now they want change which they will look for them inside his party since the chairperson of CCM, but they did not know and there are no symptoms of seeing them.
They have decided to follow the alternative means that he gets to ask for forgiveness from CCM and Mkunazini - his party has begun to use religion and tribalism.
In giving our greetings to Reagigi said, you tell me the work of the party to hold that party has been completed and now we are waiting for a few days to be handed over dollars.
When I met Edward in Sokoine Stadium you will help the fifth term president in building a new Tanzania and continue the work he started to urge discipline in government and accountability.
On Doctor Senny Mvungi the work that participated in the day before yesterday was found with death by the brutal killings of the new constitution that has benefited from the brutal killings of a new constitution while on October 25, will be appointed the government of Ukawa.
A lawyer, David Banda, told me how the media freedom has not been found by the journalists that it has not been unable to marry off in their country. On the value of her blood that was brutally murdered by the police recently, will be treated when I will be born in Tanzania under Ukawa.
My fellow journalist Mohammed Mtoi, for sure that you completed the race, the Almighty God rest his soul in eternal peace, then your soul does not lie in peace, the commander said our website does not lie! "The day she plans to inform our family.
The writer of this article, Ben Saanane, head of the department of policies and research at the headquarters, will be available in numbers of 7671148523.
