
I hope more groups of CCM!
May 31, 2012

For approximately four years now, leaders including President Jakaya Kikwete, have been talking about groups inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM). They have highly condemned the groups without any success.
There's no one answer to one because if you see it, it has passed although there is a probability that some of them don't have the validity or status of rebuke inciters.
They don't have the validity between them being part of the rival sides being scored in that party on the side of Tanzania mainland.
The first group involves themselves at fighting corruption when another group appears to do with the speed of those colleagues, even so, a group of corruption have already been affected by some of the leaders.
Despite the surprise of a long time, the division is still ongoing and there is a big possibility of the number of groups to continue.
Why is the number of groups inside CCM?
The problem has continued to be big because what was mentioned to be in a division that has been sold or changed hostility.
The truth is that the group of groups in parliament among the members of parliament of CCM has begun just after the scandal of the Tanzania Geothermal Development Company.
Before this scandal, already there are a division or hostility among the members of parliament in the parliament led by the speaker, Samuel Sitta and his assistant, Anne Makinda.
The source of a division or hostility in the parliament has been being spoken by depending on the edge, but the truth is that, the source of division and hostility is to be defeated in the government in parliament.
It will be remembered that after the Prime Minister Edward Lowassa's resignation from the Richmond Development Company as it is for two other ministers Agnieszka Radwan and Ibrahim Ajib, the whole government was killed.
President Kikwete has been forced to form a new government, under the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, it is clear that there are members of parliament who were expelled from the government and the government that were unable to play for foreign trips or within the country, the interests of the business or a love to hold the great authority later.
It is clear that the government that fell had interests to some members of parliament and there are some who had gone through their promises, they will be very fast and others contrary to him, and therefore there are those who were proud to get into a long time of politics.
In those environments, it is not true that the parliamentarians of hostility seen to be defeated by the government that benefited as a group of interests or goals that are similar to them.
The issue of asking, what's the objectives of that group is to continue improving private business networks by using phones as are Richmond Development or get the presidential candidate or all the two?
Why should we ask for those questions, because it is not the first time for leaders inside the council of ministers to resign as a result of a chosen committee of parliament.
Ministers Professor Simon Mbilinyi together with Iddi Simba who resigned just after removing the chosen committee of the parliamentary seat for sugar saga.
However, the former President of Zanzibar, Aboud Jumbe who was witnessing by the executive council of CCM to vie for presidency, has left that council without hostility.
The cause of the division, hostility, when they surprised many in the possibility of the groups in CCM party and the groups will increase CCM although the efforts can be done so as hostility.
It is possible the hostility seen to be stopped but the division is spreading under the parliament and in other sessions of the provinces and district, without forgetting the level of national levels to collect trillion shillings.
The origin or the cause of these problems and others that will be emerged later is the process of getting the presidential candidate of that party.
Because of political issues they will agree that ways of running the process of getting the presidential candidate of CCM have changed just after the contest for 1995, what was witnessed by the father of the nation Mwalimu Nyerere.
At the same time (1995), the availability of the presidential candidate you focus on more reputation of integrity and the involved, the verification of integrity of the involved in his past life and the same time was done, under the guidelines of people who are not satisfied with the public as Mwalimu Nyerere.
Although there are some who say Nyerere helped to get the president who's bad behavior (Benjamin Mkapa), it is good to know that if the nation there is no special system of controlling and protecting the ethics of the concerned leader (president) every after a period of five years.
It's a few people like Mwalimu Nyerere who have never been infected with the private ability and register themselves and be supporting ethics without depending on the legal system of control.
It should be remembered that it is a country with a requirement to sell the most corrupt people that are in two minutes, the crowd that will be removed from all sides from the business people, investors and even politicians.
Therefore, for the ones that do not have the private ability to get ethics, they must be able to protect themselves and the official guest, because maybe for a long time we get a leader with the ability like Mwalimu Nyerere.
The mistake that was done is to believe in Mkapa that he will be able to join ethics, as it is for Mwalimu Nyerere, Tsehai said that the ability of the leader and seek ethics is not being infected.
This is an issue that need more debate.
Now in 1995, CCM was giving his presidential candidate by considering the special reputation and members made them to respect that.
But later, especially the 2005 general elections, the process of getting the candidate changed from the special reputation of ethics until the strength of the group (network).
As such as a party that depends on to get candidate through groups of groups (networks) can be able to avoid the lives of groups, this is clear that it is an issue of the regulations of the concerned game.
Different from earlier, for every member believes that a group (network) with power inside the committee on security and ethics, the executive committee, the executive committee and even the general meeting is to ensure the victory to vie for the presidency.
These changes in the process is the cause of groups, they don't have hostility.
Who believes that President must be self-0, otherwise the intention will not be taxed.
For leaders who want presidency and those with opportunities to select other leaders, they have a great opportunity to fulfill that goal.
By considering his future goals (presidency), it is a must that a leader with the authority to convince him to organize a group of making a group.
For example, the prime minister can make sure the heads of districts that are however, are usually announced by the president, he has participated in getting those equipment.
In that cap is the Prime Minister and by considering the possibility of Makabe between CCM and the government, it is clear that they are being built with a big political group that wants to contest for the presidency and leader or leaders of the party for a special agreement.
For example, it is easy for the prime minister that allows the presidential candidate to form a group in which he featured the party's general secretary or other leaders in the partnership can be controlled for the promise of giving them to the leaders soon as the intention ends.
The conspiracy between the Prime Minister and the Secretary General for example, its results can be among the chairpersons of the provinces of CCM and even permanent secretaries to increase the strength of the group within the executive council of CCM or other meetings of the party.
That example of the Prime Minister also can be done by any other leader with the aim of wanting the presidential election as I have explained earlier, great must he sing the group early as it is possible.
In this environment, the running mate of a certain group that believes there is no need to fulfill his goal when he fell, is a must for a division of hostility.
Therefore, it is clear that the cause of the division, groups and even hostility is the process of getting a presidential candidate, it has been changed from the availability of great reputation and ethics for the political group.
In that state, you will not be able to stop groups without using knowledge of high level, that will be accepted and every side.
Many will remember the contest for 1995, in CCM party they used to sell through groups of groups instead of muscles function and they fell.
Only one thing on that time is that the strength of the groups that were tested from his skill of the father of the nation Mwalimu Julius Nyerere.
It is clear that, as a result of that state, the groups don't be attracted even though they can be removed in public and while continuing with the fight down.
What should happen?
An issue of doing is together with the establishment of the committee of retired President Ali Hassan Mwinyi, for involving other leaders like, Abdulrahman Kinana and Pius Msekwa.
But making a committee it is one thing and the results of the committee is another thing that in this committee could also involve the conflict between the expectations of those who deals with private committees or members of CCM in general.
I think this committee can have a chance to remove groups not by giving suggestions to some people but also recommend the process of getting the presidential candidate of that party.
The committee is supposed to condemn the way to enable the party to have a security committee and strong ethics, that doesn't be faced with members of the committee to have great strength of constitution, not put great efforts of ethics during the process of getting a candidate.
But also outside that party, in the system of state, it is a must that the nation can have an opportunity to follow up the implementation of the general leader so as to test the standards of integrity and work.
We cannot continue believing that every president we had when he will have talent as the Mwalimu Nyerere's talent and prepare well, I have explained the possibility of a long time to have presidents that are supposed to be taken against ethics.
It is clear that in political parties that any time can be able to give the presidency, the nation should be a system of ethics which is controlling the party after being sworn in.
God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
