The killings of their wedding is in South Africa.
May 1st, 2014.

Following the next day, December 10 in the high court, the prosecution's lawyer, Ben Watson told Judge Oreo ', who was listening to the procedures of the South African government to answer to the rules and spoke to the rules and spoke to the rules and asked him to ask him to find him a woman.
And in the details of the South African police on the request to contribute to the rules of returning to the country in that country, to answer to the charges of murder, those explanations showed that, the brother to the law was recorded with his driver, when the hotel made them to run the vehicles.
The rules of law was seen to meet his driver, a few times without his wife inside the hotel in 24 hours before the killings and appeared to hand over a goat on an envelop, on November 16, being three days since it is based on those killings.
Before officially handed over the envelop, the rules and regulations were seen in the front of his father's father, groups, Mayemba who appeared in one of the death of his daughter, later, Tina appeared to get in one of the toilets of the hotel so as to stop the money given by the rules.
The lawyer continued to say that, the South African police have also said that they have given instructions that were given by the non-governmental organizations for smuggling in the country, who confirmed to recognize they have gone to the law to change the amount of 1,500 million American dollars.
Watson claimed that the amount was important after paying 30 million pounds, which caused the rules to pay the bank's machine, through its payment card (flyover).
However, the rule of regulations was left for it's intending to give his views concerning the case when he was on a work tour in the Larger region to sign him but he didn't know him and South Africa is wrong to kill people here. "
However, later in the year 2011, the police commander of Rukwa Province was chased away from allegations of bribery.
One lawyer speaking about the statement of OAFLA, he claimed that for the statement from a person who is huge in the authority of the law, he will not expect to stop the rules and conduct of rights in that case.
And Helen Zille has said the Governor of Western Cape county (South Africa), was the governor that is known as premier league, speaking about the case he said that it is a must for the rules of returning to the South Africa to answer the charges of killing his wife.
I did not believe that there is need for peace to this extent here in the world, so as to fulfill that person seems to have forgotten in South Africa, "said the white mother.
During the celebrations to welcome the new year of 2011, five friends of Anichebe was written about the success of the rules and regulations through the England newspaper, the United Republic of Tanzania, Ambassador Seif Sharif Hamad saying "we are saying that you are not guilty of these accusations, why do you go back in Cape Town, South Africa and to the police in that country that they have no mistake?
In that letter, the friends of Anhela Kizigha was forced to sell the rules and regulations to get in conflicts with the media and instead stop the what happened on November 13 and 14.
The family of Deuogratius Mushi started a historical fund of the death of Aniva band where the money has been used by the fund to be used to build schools in India as a memory of his death.
On the 8th of January, in the year 2011, AGAPE, gave a report to the media saying that, his family is not involved in the program and to explain the plan as the project of wanting him to change the rules on top of the community.
January 17, a friend of Deilee to the family's family's family (HFO), was seen in one period of the BBC television station (the England Broadcasting Corporation) saying that, the rules and he cannot be sentenced to South Africa if he will not be forced to go back to South Africa if he will not be informed in the country.
However, during that period of BBC television, the Minister of Law and Constitution of South Africa, Jeff Stibel, said Mrs Asha "for how I don't know, if the process of the rules and Deuogratius Mushi will be heard in the South African Court, so that the process will be run for justice."
