
Sunday, November 16th, 2014.

Why is it easy to see a person when he is found?

We don't like looking at others or when you're being mentioned by others, but it is very difficult to see the late father and it's just like to hear the behavior of the late Sembwana from.

A certain man.
When it followed, for example, people who even a day do not have heard that the late during his life, is what it begins in peace, "what is now a question, why do you know if the late does not lie?

I have heard of two important things and when I read, I got lucky to be highly commended by my teachers, but I've heard my work together with my teachers and when I have ever heard, "this is normal for many human beings when we hear our colleagues saying the village will fall down here.

Let us continue with our incident.

Second reason, it is one of the schools to come from school results from class when we are preparing for the final examination, "I am surprised and I am happy and I am happy and I am happy," I am surprised and I've been sent to me, "I'm in the end of two people with 27 points," the last one has 40 people.

"It's not that I could have even the end of the end," I don't understand what happened to some of my fellow students, "Sputanza decided to be true in some of my fellow students," Sputanza decided to be true in some of my fellow students, "Sputanza decided to be true in some of my fellow students,"

I feared, he said that she does not understand that the normal human being does not like to hear his opponent followed by him and he is not ready to see him or to thank the person that she saw as his opponent.

Not praising us.

In addition to having a habit of not like to hear the others being highly commended, human beings are very difficult to see the late father and even when the same day you don't see that the late during his life, is the one who did to compete well with the words that he did in peace. "

Now, why is it true, because it is a spirit of praising him, the late does not travel more than seeing that a human being did?

First, let me tell you the fear of death or passport.

For you to know for a human being, it is a person in this competition usually is difficult for us to be dealt with and even do not be dealt with and even if we are born and let me feel that, the man can make me feel good than to see that the man will make it good.

That is how I was unable to start this article by getting me.
If you are like the other people may even if you followed the incident that maybe it is to make sure but I heard the truth, "I think it was not true but inside the hearts of many human beings that are as it is.

If the process of this behavior of love is guilty of others, we don't like looking at their good thing, you don't like looking at all what you want.
We are fear being happy with us we will know if we feel like, when we see our competitors in the same time, we will see how our competitors live in.

How do we explain to others?

When we kill them, they do not know more, "many times we like we like us so that we are very easy for example, most of them are very easy for example, most of them don't see him, why do we have a habit of looking for what you need.

For those who do not have any interests with their interests and not to inform us, you don't like you so much, "I will be forced to do that," I will be forced to do that, "I will do you love or by knowing that, he does not make us affected by anything.

That is why I was surprised to see a brief speech to bid farewell, to celebrate or identify certain people, let you like that we are doing so because we do not know what we feel like, "what I don't want people to live in a high position.

Now you can understand why the deceased does not travel is easy and each one of us can do so, we do not do so, we do not have the ability to prepare well in a situation where most of us do not want to do well, what many of us are not aware of ensuring our honor are still underway.

Maybe the deceased has the ability to hear, his speeches if you remember which could be done on how to appreciate the tablets or injections "when he is going to see how you are going to peace because it's the soul of the soul.

There is a possibility of change?

Yes, it is the first step is to make sure that your soul wants to find out the success of others.

If you want to know you know the state of your soul makes anything related to people.

So, is you ready to say the truth even if you know if you are required to make sure there are so important things even if you can be able to make sure that you do even if you are ready to take action against others?

Your soul comes, not only you will be able to protect people well without getting married, but also you will be able to give a speech to say the body of the deceased has died through the HIV virus and they do not believe this so that we need them and change.

A fools should be hostile in the 93rd minute, AT threw out 970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, a period of 93949 in the past.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.

