
Politics and we have made great steps.
The political stadium in the country has witnessed many changes since Kenya was unable to be elected as Jamhuri, in the beginning of the last page of administration under the first president, the late Jomo Kenyatta.
Big development have been met in this field considering that at the time the political parties came, two of the parties were in Kenya, African Union (KIA) and Kenya African Union (KIA), different from now whereby the number of those parties are more than 50 years in Kenya, the administration of the regions and the Senate's parliament.
Now, it is implementing the system of ethics, not the regions, although there are two people in the end of the end of the end of the game that was led by the late Michael Ngapa.
The late Kenyatta said that the action was aimed to unite the political country and end poverty, considering that Kanu has been banned as a big community like the ones that were kidnapped by the Democratic Republic of Mount Kilimanjaro.
It did not be reached since the government of Kanu has appointed the leadership of Single Customs Territory of tribalism as important procedures in the appointment of chief officers in the government.
The national resources are also divided into that foundation, a situation that caused some of the leaders in the government led by the former vice president of the former vice president Jichunge.'
The political killings started, the first to be finished in the killing of the Mau Mau fighters, has arrived in the year 1965.
This was heading Raila Odinga with the former member of parliament of Khajida Kopa, the late Bey, inspecting the form of the first opposition party, Kenya and Coastal Union (KPK) in the year 1966.
That party did a knee injury in government, that situation led it to its factory to sponsor the constitutional change, that brought the members of parliament who received their seats in parliament, a situation that brought down the party and finally it was banned in 1969.
Kanu has continued to control the politics in the country that brought with a motorcycle-bed sheets early in the year 1990, when they started to defend them on the system of many parties and be tested for democracy to politicians, religious leaders and groups of community organizations.
Secondly, the second freedom was accused and democracy could be identified to that Kenyans were able to join political parties which they wanted to join them, the first elections under the system came for the first time in December 1992.
The first opposition parties were thrown out by the Restoration Bible Church (Ford), those were reported in Kenya and Ford.
Moreover, which were accused of the Democratic Party (DP), Social Democratic Party (SCA) among many other things.
