
Bro Commander Barwan.
October 18th, 2012

The police force have shown the great efforts to look for and eventually inform them in the legal action against the former police commander of Mwanza province, Liberatus Barwan.

When we increase the major efforts of the police force and also to resolve the killing of Commander Baranaba, who was believed to protect the safety of his fellow citizens at the regional level.

However, despite congratulating them and supporting those efforts in hand in addition to condemning those killings, we would like to inform the police force that they would like to eliminate the investigation of those killings, that is how their brothers who live or killed, would like the investigation or investigation of those killing of their brothers.

We thank the police force, grieving, the death of Barkley scored by insisting that, we are supposed to build the security force of the citizens that brings the right to improve the force as the police force is a must for them to recognize their position in providing good rights for the citizens.

For instance, or the investigation is supposed to be released keenly to all citizens and at all times, even if there is true that the resources of enabling the rights are few in the country but it is enough to be able to distribute those resources easily.

The police force is supposed to be treated with the deaths of other citizens if they use the death of Commander Barbosa from every event of death, it is a must you lead the side that is not hurt by that meaning, every time when the police force gets enough to the citizens, it is important to be given keenly.

As we have explained earlier, we as part of the community of our society, we are following up with the killing of commander Bartez had even so, his disappointment in order to go hand in hand with our disappointment about the police force when others are not responsible for caring for the rights for all citizens in the country.

There are our colleagues that lost their brothers to the killings but up to today or the investigation is not complete or it has not been started, and there are many citizens who have been forced to get ractory sides for the investigation.
The allegations they are facing even if they are of murder, he has not been accepted by the police force.

This situation is not same as we think of the police force in looking for the murderers, Commander Barsheba I have not joined them to do their work skillfully before citizens of God rest his soul in eternal peace, Amen.
