Mbowe is shot, "his ministers!

The fate of vying for Zitto Kabwe was not known.
Who complained to be interviewed in police at the headquarters.

By Goodluck Charles.
The leader.
The opposition camp in parliament and chairman of CHADEMA, Freeman Mbowe.
It is believed to have changes to his cabinet ministers.
Any time in the general meeting of parliament so as to implement the instructions.
The executive committee that met recently speaking to his office, the member of parliament for Kigoma.
Northern Region, Zitto Kabwe.

Zitto Kabwe.
He has been sentenced to his position as the deputy secretary general due to what?
He is involved in preparing a document to conduct a revolution of leaders in that party.

According to the picture.
The source of news sources from within that party would be remembered by this newspaper.
The executive committee that is the one that led the official camp of opposition in parliament, therefore.
After announcing that to Zitto Kabwe, his office (it is a shame is the secretary general).
It started the process of removing him from his position.

In parliament.
Zitto Kabwe is the chief leader of the official camp with the assistant of Mbowe and Prime Minister.
.
Ministry.
The finance director "for his position is the one who was participating in preparing the budget.
The opposition in parliament, presented a budget for the ministry of finance as a permanent minister.
But by being stripped off his position, it does not allow me again, "he said.
The report of the news service in that party is on a condition of his name.
The newspaper.

However, the efforts to get the director of information.
The publicity secretary of CHADEMA, John Mnyika has said that so as to be able to speak about that issue they hurt through the phone.
All mobile phone has not been received.

At the same time, the police force headquarters in Dar es Salaam today is expected to do an interview with.
CHADEMA Dar es Salaam region.
Henry Tandau after the interview went to take place yesterday because of that interview.
Complaints that are said to be presented by the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe.

That interview was done at the headquarters of the police force.
In Dar es Salaam, yesterday afternoon, but it was postponed for a short time.
She arrived at the arrival of his lawyer and other leaders of CHADEMA.

After getting the police officers they did talks.
His lawyer, but after the time they had agreed to be done today at five o'clock.

Speaking to this newspaper yesterday, he said previously.
They were going on yesterday at eight o'clock in the afternoon but what they believe in.
The police force arising from his lawyer, because he had a case.
The police force.

What is when he was asked, he is supposed to have police for what mistakes.
He said he does not have a report in details, because he was called a call.
Who introduced himself by the name Mbani and told him that he is supposed to arrive at the headquarters.
Police force in an interview due to the complaints that Zitto Kabwe.
He has noted that.

"I was told, I was told to answer the accusations that.
He has enabled police so as to explain what those allegations, "he said.
When he was asked, he was asked why Zitto Kabwe got a charge.
The headquarters of the police, instead of other stations as usual, Kilimba.
He answered me, "I don't know if I don't know the police so that you ask you to ask that question."

One newspaper (not.
At night, yesterday the news that explained that Zitto Kabwe has press here.
The listener is accusing to spread a document in social networks that it involved them.
The plans of doing the revolution of the party.
