
This has been noted that the relationship of the stars.
The whites are saying "age is not known as' age," that is not something but it is pregnant but here in Tanzania, the situation is different because it is seen that the music fans are following up and wanted to know where some of the stars involved in their age.
I know there are people who are surprised at the issue of these stars from women who joined for them on the age of these communities were present but by stealing a lot because people they see if not the ethics of our community.
But for now, because of 'big stars here in the country, they have decided to put it open their relationship with women who have gone for the age, it has become a big debate that they seem to be the cause of those decisions.
I don't think that it will be correct to think that directly, but the primary issue to view it is if those two have a sincere love for or they are doing so as to make better environment so that their work can be sold in large numbers.
American musician, Mariana Carey and Nick Cpwaa is one of the couple that have ever been a very big difference of age due to overlap with approximately ten years, Mariana Carey and finishing approximately ten years.
However, we believe that we has reminded artists who are popular in the country for now, who have a relationship with women who registered for the age, and when they get out of, every person does not want to know their information every day, and here is where we know that love is not wrong.
It is like a style that has emerged for some of the male music artists to be in a relationship with women who have lived for age.
This trend will begin to raise us, and the community wants to know if when they get the money it is true.
The relations that started it was between Aunty Ezekiel and Mujahideen who is the name of Diamond Platinumz, was captured the most of the actor who scored pregnant and giving birth to a female child.
Diamond followed keenly to have no relationship with integrity, "Fenella Mukangara" and later got her child.
Wema Sepetu also entered into the love with the Big Brother InSync company, Idris Sultan on their relationship broke down by suddenly, but they stopped him again.
Eastwood is the one who has sent more in recent days after getting into a upcoming relationship with upcoming stars who signed a contract with the WCB company, Harmonize, and their relations has been getting married by stones every time, but all of them have shown.
In all that talk, we are going to continue that love is not only to the rules but they need to urge them because the person you want to do and decide to do?
This is an opportunity for many female artists who have gotten themselves in love with small youths, to show maturity in those relationship and be responsible for their small lovers.
It is important to have shown that what is now given from my heart and is not Swahili as many are many.
Let it be able to reach their action as the teachers to teach those evil deeds and to do things that are in the age, they have been outdated, because they have gotten themselves in a relationship with small youths, not to reach the steps they intend in the community.
There are issues that are still not yet known, I don't think it is wrong for someone who is mature and wrote her life in the television and to explain so much, these things usually be done by people who do not like it.
