After Syria, Obama will be awarded the Nobel Prize?
Sep 5, 2013.

Engineer Alfred Lwiza, the founder of the five international awards of a non-hop artist (peace, physics), chemistry and Literature in approximately 17 years ago (1896), who died on approximately 117 years (year 1896), had a special goals in starting the award of a non-hop award.
Alfred Lwiza who is 146 years ago (1867) for the first time in the world found the way to produce a stern warning, he explains the part of the biography of a person who is supposed to be awarded with someone who has contributed the great contribution (international) to improve the use of weapons and the army people.
Therefore, when one of the five people of the Norway Parliament (which is normal) has appointed the winners of a non-hop award, is expected to be the names of winners or the winner of the second-hop award, it is a must to consider the results or the winner of Alfred Lwiza.
By considering that, October, the year 2009, I was forced to be aired by some of the famous people in the world to be satisfied or put in doubt the decision by five people of the parliament of Norway who joined the United States, Barack Obama, to be the winner of that award, including the Bishop Sedrick Ndonde of South Africa.
Philosopher Rene Meza who was awarded the award of the hip-hop artist in the year 1984, was quoted about the decision of giving President Obama's award saying that it had a decision in America and many African countries but basically the relationship between America and many African countries but basically it was not supposed to take place in two parts, which was heading to take a religious division.
But the deputy president of President Barack Obama, about being given that award, from all the corners of the world, opposed to the slogan of the theme known as Too Much, Too Muchi, that it was very few because he had a long journey to lead the biggest nation in the world.
However, despite the lot of criticism, the wind of the world in the same time was forced to support Obama, she did not support him and there is a big possibility even the committee of five people who had appointed him to give him the concerned award and also when he got to explain the party's chairperson (opposition) in America, Michael Chilele.
Michael said that in that time (the year 2009), he claimed responsibility for the decision to give the award of the Nobel Prize, the president of his country, Obama said that it is a decision that comply with the popularity of the rapper's star (Star Power) and not a decision that consider the list of the heavy responsibilities which he ever reached and finally to protect the peace of the world.
Obama, you want to shine after the first black president had a great attraction but it's like he was not in the exams on the leader despite the existence of heavy questions about what it will do America in Iraq and Afghanistan.
There are correct argument that led by the defense of Obama although the defense did not depend on reasons, in addition, in the defense, it was correct that Obama had previously made a relationship or bad conflict between America and Muslim countries that I have explained earlier, and that, many of them have already been given the award.
And maybe that's why Obama has talked about the decision of giving an award saying "to take this prize," to take this award as "I will not expect it to be in the group of who made changes in the world and to be awarded that award.
I remember the words of the former minister of foreign affairs of Iran, Manento said that the decision to give him that award she could have seen the United States to remove its army forces in Iraq and Afghanistan and then peace in those countries will be controlled by the energy of Diplomacy.
As a result of doubt, self-employed, about the award of human beings in the United States, today we can think afresh, so that President Obama had given the chance to ask ourselves and to think about this time in America under Obama said the solution to kill Syria is to understand the army and to guide the beating.
