That leader has extended the war of parliamentary in Arusha, Manyara.
Jide 29, 2015.

During the campaign to vie for the parliamentary position in various provinces in the country through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) heading to one day, some of the members of parliament and political leaders in Manyara and Arusha provinces are in the danger of being defeated in the opinion polls.
Those campaigns were released on July 28, this week, in all the regions and the opinion polls are expected to take place on August first, in all the provinces in the country so that the ruling party gets its candidates.
The news and political reports in those regions has mentioned the regions where his members of parliament through that party are not known, "politics is together with Babati City, Babati district, Simanjiro District in Manyara Province on the side of Manyara Region.
In the province of Arusha, the states that members of parliament and its leaders are faced with great opposition include Ngorongoro, Arumeru East, Arumeru East and Arusha town.
The news followed by our citizens from Bahati town region say that the political wind has not been sent away "to the member of parliament of that constituency, Kiswandui, and that the possibility of that member of parliament to defend his seat is not only a lot.
Olemedei is being faced with great opposition from seven cadres of the party, who are together with Ramadhan Madabida to be, Ally Msuya, Ally Ngeruko, Ally Samira and Cosmas Mwaifani.
After the campaigns of one week now, it shows that Ramadhan Slaa is a great opportunity to emerge the winner as a result of his great ability in building the issue and to explain themselves with fluency, "had CCM members in Babati City.
In addition, the reports indicate that the difficult conditions of politics that is involving themselves arising from the state of the member of parliament to be read to them in all the wards where the candidates of the party were held every time they tried to move ahead of the members of CCM.
Those reports are hopeful that they were expelled from the short period of campaigns that took place in Maasais', Singers and Dononda village where two wards of Nangumbu Village and Bagdad where his meetings took place at the end of the week.
Moreover, in another step, unknown people are also spreading rumors that encouraging people to ask that member of parliament in the whole city of Babati.
Vierra has said that if my fellow citizens have been written, "this section will withdraw from Babati (TOC) done changes" that are spread since the start of presidential campaigns on July 20th, this year, in Babati City together with other areas of the periphery.
Msambya emerged from the politics of Babati in the year 2010 after forcing the former member of parliament for a long time in that constituency, Omar Mateen, who in the opinion polls later the presidential candidate, Paulina Shao.
Speaking to this newspaper one of the popular members of CCM in Babati City who asked his name to ask for him, he claimed that the biggest reason for the members of CCM wanted to set aside their rewards.
This "Mister has never come back to citizens to solve their different problems and even in parliament, he has been named in one report that it is between the members of parliament who had never been contributing to issues or debate and asking questions that do not exceed four years in a period of five years," he claimed that member.
Speaking to Good Citizen on mobile phones, he clarified that all the claims that have been directed to him are not any truth and all the candidates have a chance to win that election.
"Every candidate that took the form has faith that he will win, as I am, I have faith that the members of CCM of this region do not know and they will they elected it to continue serving the parliament," he said.
Another region that his member of parliament has a bad state in Babati district where Vogue Bambini Journal is faced with great opposition from the 12 cadres of CCM who came out to contest for that position.
Some of the cadres have been mentioned to be the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Doctor Vicent Tinganya, Daniel Sillo (any worker TRA), Immaculata Nyoni (the teacher) Hassan Silayo- information, Jamal Kassim Majaliwa and Engineer Steven Mari.
Some of the things that are mentioned to be that member of parliament is together with being unable to implement his lot of promises, in many areas of the province, especially a human being of land and also lack of attraction to the people of CCM.
However, in an interview with this Daily News newspaper denied being faced with great opposition in his party and added that a large number of members who came out to contest for the appointment, did not live even a little.
"First, I have executed a lot of promise, especially in the education sector, health and electricity, for education, I've directed the construction of the first teaching college in Manyara Region to build science subjects that is in Msasani ward," he said.
