
The huge shortage of blood affects the hospital.
By Mwangi, professor.
Mount Meru Reserve in Kenya have been charged with blood pressure to save those in a critical condition, a situation that has caused fear among the health stakeholders in that area.
Those were announced yesterday by the member of parliament for Gothernburg, Mister Njoku has closed after visiting the main hospital after arriving to visit five victims of a motorcycle accident.
Earlier this week the accident occurred last week, a news headlines because all of them had condemned one motorcycle that has served as a motorcycle riders from the Kiroreli village heading to us.
The accident was resulting from the operation of poultry farming while all of them were not involved in all the black bikini.
By yesterday morning, the driver of the motorcycle was passed away while two others were admitted to two legs each one and two others continuing having a bad state.
Mister letter said that, the letter said that a letter is proud to be doctors in the hospital revealed that they are faced with a shortage of blood and which is needed to serve those victims.
I have been told that the hospital does not even know one of the blood in its savings and they have been trying to look at the neighboring areas of Eucharist, Nyami and even Meru but they did not get this, it is a very dangerous issue to the health of this area, "he said.
He said that the citizens of that area have come out and come out and get blood in order to save the life of their colleagues who are in need of putting blood in order to get an affordable price.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) this nation requires a total of 400 million euros for a year.
In addition, Kenyans have given a total of 1200 megawatts, whereby in year, the aim being every month to give 33, 300.
Despite the availability of blood services here in the country (KNBTS), has been preparing a campaign to encourage the locals of that area to kill blood so as to have an emergency plan, most of them have been in that event.
