I am saying.
A lesson so as to all those who were selected to join universities where we are not allowed to join universities in the whole country, we have also been able to see so that I had their great opportunity to see that I have them their great and good child in our country but there is a lawyer.
The secretary of all the ministry explained to see that recently with those people themselves, there is one thing in order to say that there is something that's called for them because the minister did not have the information that the minister did not turn up to the front of the newspapers in front of the newspaper.
Television together with more than the reputation, this issue seems to be a priority if the assistant must be a look for if it is on Sunday at the end of the week, she has already been silent and has no doubt in the sector but we are supposed to stay in the sector but we are required to have a certain problems of more than eighty days.
You don't look at if you look at home until when we want to press here.
It is a must.
Why are you related to you where I was not seen, they did not meet in America.
There is a person reading this reader!
There is a relationship between a person, that is a relationship between TANESCO and the reader.
We are looking for this debate because for ninety minutes.
What is the relationship between the body.
Our soul wants you to listen to me two classes and confirmed to be.
When a person is listening to a radio, there is a relationship between a person and asked me when you want to get into a day we want.
I have written in addition.
One way to one.
I have a relationship with one person in one way or another because there was a real situation if you are coming from you in a situation which is very poor again for what we were found, there should be a lot of people to get out of the concept.
I have seen them not to destroy the bad luck that they don't have money to continue with the problems like this which happened in the community, when the community did not agree or see the leaders they have every day and to meet the reports they need.
More than five hundred passengers.
To enjoy the spread of the fights that we will be able to get his secret because it is the sun.
He cannot get into the head because we have a lot of problems that he has been buried and others are still poor.
Now those things like that, that make sure that you get married, they do not get married to see me what he knows how he gets to him, which is there to live with him.
If you have never told me that you can see that you find many questions.
How does it mean?
There is a relationship with eighty days to three hundred billion shillings.
A chicken has been burnt in Tegeta Escrow account.
What is the relationship with.
What is the sun for praying for us to meet, then there is a relationship between Tegeta Escrow and.
It is needed for a topic in that hospital there is a relationship between Tegeta Escrow.
In addition to a way to talk for example, make calls in educating students of the University to lack loans or a person who is seated on the father to get the money that is facing a person asked me, so I need me.
A small group of people.
You have lived for us.
I was giving you a little but he has given you a lot of public property that are in our community which is going round and we said that, that is the ones that are near the streets and have resulted from a lot of contribution for the citizens that we're with them every day.
What is the level of her husband in the past, he added me in an accident that added by 89 percent.
We also expected to get into an account which we hope to resolve the ones not agree with the real price if you told the legality of the level, therefore I want to see.
The rights has been done so much in one way or another and the good thing that we had managed to see if we were able to see the real situation of Bongo, but we know what we had to know so that we can be able to know how their lives were after that years.
We have seen some people are playing in the analysis and they are saying that it is three hundred thousand shillings.
If a human being compared to the national stadium, they say three hundred million shillings of Tegeta in East Africa are expected to take the five more that the children's status is in the areas of the children.
When I think I wish you, we build a five hundred thousand shillings, it gives three hundred and six billion shillings, it can get out of ten thousand students and it can't see it in the internet and it will not make it in the internet and it can't see the situation of not agree with journalists.
This type.
Champions, it is happy to understand the account about little death and to write the studio what is looking for us at the ICU.
No there is a little life, it is a must for people to be able to get to know that we know more than three hundred billion, it will accept it that the youth will not be easy.
