By ten thousand, this system of payment of electricity using mobile phone and the bank to customers have been launched in the whole country on the month of six and ten thousand in order to eliminate the foundation stone in the offices of TANESCO and enable customers to pay their bills directly using the internet.
The launch was held at the offices of TANESCO building and led by various stakeholders of TANESCO.
In the event to launch the program to pay their bills to the senior manager of the information and communication technology of TANESCO said earlier, he said that this technology will make sure the availability of services that are available in order to save their lives so that we will continue working on their activities so that we can get something better.
What should they do the stone will be easy.
First will enable Mbeya Region to intervene in your stories with meaning that they do not produce their cases, for example the wife is not true.
We can be able to pay through their agents and the bodies, he said through post office through how to use them.
Yes, it is good.
There was no war.
Ras Makunja has for payments through a phone.
If it will be easy.
Here for goods is at the moment, when you go into the internet through the network of the network, he threw all the money given the payment of TANESCO's reputation as it is common because there will be payments for them and he is capable of blocking the customers that your life is safe.
The late God is not doing so that those payments for the money are for sure that TANESCO will continue to improve its services so as to ease the lives of its customers here in the country can be taught so as to ease the life that the children can be read.
John Paul planning.
Similarly, everyone being called our drinking and walking for a long distance.
The book has enabled us to play for we hope.
Make sure that there are all the field where all of them, Doctor Tulia Ackson here to identify the problems.
Speaking at the launch, Engineer Mramba said TANESCO will improve all its services to the electronic level so as to ensure that all services are available quickly by the changes we will be able to cause various changes the time you are.
That investigation is the road.
And we are continuing to do things.
He told me only.
TANESCO is the ones that we played for this first network to use my grandfather's product last year.
You can change the way if you can go, I would go and buy products.
After his wife, many other people came up to our place being built?
Later it is not there.
