
We need to look for him to look for the new agenda of the presidency of Sei, 19.

Between the issues that Mwalimu Julius Nyerere wrote a lot about the leadership of the country after going back to the system of many political parties, to have an end of programs that are not two months for the president of the United Republic of Tanzania to sit in power.

Little by bad luck is that for this, the teacher who had a huge challenge, was done there without going ahead, so as to make sure that leaders and citizens know that especially inside the system of many parties is not something to sit in power for one period.

At the same time, you have reached the stand that maybe a teacher did not put it an issue on the foundation of two programs in the port is supposed to be an assurance that in different issues in the world, we are good and misuse of them are there.

Previously, it shows this well, it is good to welcome him for the talks I have ever made two times with one old man who he is very respected in Tanzania when the talks were held towards the end of the first phase of presidents Benjamin Mkapa and Jakaya Kikwete.

The old man is a person who believes two things on first of first, is that someone who have succeeded to be president, then it's just the only people to prepare for him to finish his 10 years, not just after five years not more than five years.

Second, that without doubt, any president will ask for every situation to try more in his second phase because even the issue of voting is not present and what is supposed to understand it is something that is in a normal state, a leader would you need to leave.

Another as the President of the United States, Barack Obama, he had gone ahead and concluded last year that he will continue to be a very good president of one period more than the normal president of two seasons. "

In Tanzania, the analysis of presidents Ali Hassan Mwinyi, Mkapa and Kikwete, explains the way the second phase of those leaders instead of being better, it has been a shame for the side of Kikwete is a shame for the first time since his first half.

I don't have to say because on my view, it is not an accident that all three presidents have found themselves in that condition of controlling the second phase.

I'm looking for a short time in the previous years, "I think about these political problems that we have, I can say that our country now is like we have been able to have enough leaders after a teacher that we are supposed to understand what we want to deal with challenges of this time.

I say only by bad luck, the teacher has contributed to a lot of ideas because he left many followers that are not keen, because of failing to stop better leaders.

I assure you that our presidents of these presidents who present Mrs Salma Mwinyi, Mkapa and President Kikwete in the group of good leaders as well as Mwinyi, on how the teacher was forced to intervene in various primary issues in his presidential elections, you cannot say that he was an example of a leader to follow.

I heard about Mkapa, there are two other things and the action of him to address them in the presidential campaign 1995, while he has introduced himself as a shame and that a delegate in the cabinet of ministers was a part of success or failure to the government. "

In addition to a huge shortage of having leaders who are not leaders with the real meaning, the concept that someone who has succeeded to be president, then it's just the people to prepare for him because his 10 years is okay and to tell citizens, what does not mean?

I urge you to say, that period of two terms has contributed to a huge amount of reaching us here, where we are, in contesting for a high position in many countries in the world, to build a very big issue.

It is my faith that if Mwinyi was seen since the beginning that there is no end of the presidency, he would make sure he must change his amount to have ideas immediately after how he will be accepted in the front elections.

It is true that Mwinyi was told the citizens of the presidency in the middle of his second term to an extent of showing the direction of wanting to change the constitution of the country to lead them a third term.

It is important to say that, different from this issue that occurred in the year 1992, is that Mwinyi started very disturbing as a result of knowing that since that, it was his last period and a very only thing is very delicious.

That situation continued as well as Mkapa and it is going on because of the high level of President Kikwete's president.

But maybe it should not be a very surprising thing about Kikwete, because I believe it is a result of someone who was serving in a very close to the government of Mwinyi and Mkapa, it is difficult for anyone to have to work close to 20 years in a bad environment without being taxed.

Two years ago I wrote that "my body, it doesn't know it by fear and we see a thing that can get to the country if Kikwete will be able to get a chance and get into the State House again!"

My meaning was that in a bad state that was heading to the end of his first half, it would have come out to someone from his party's office to deal with him if I want to say that some members of parliament went to happen in the year 1994 to Mwinyi.

Teacher, in his annual book called "our leadership and the fate of Tanzania," explained Moscow 'leadership, except on the issue of what should be done, I think it is the same way to see me until now.

It is good that I commend the prime minister, "flash disk" to address the minister, even the Prime Minister said it is not a wonder because he can resign, he can defend him, but you cannot destroy the president of the country without stopping the country itself.
It is good that this issue will give it open and it's impossible to be very important because other people do not want to be careful, therefore, they are supposed to appoint them and to change the president of our country through a mistake of electing leaders of our country according to the constitution.

Another reason why you are not for us, and it is a must for us to do that which is inside our ability to prevent it, it is not forced to use it, it is not a matter to do with him, it does not be forced to take action against the president of the country. "

The tragedy and disaster is done, according to the weight in the world, an example is that since the former president of the United States, Richard Miles, today there are true people from the country who are believed to say it would have been a presidential term because it is not only the country of Tanzania but many countries have been affected.

It is not Tanzania of the year 1990 and today this week and today's work, due to the big work he made by the teacher to build Tanzania to be an example to be played in Africa, why should we should not continue to be an example to be followed by making great changes in a peaceful procedure?

Ending, I could make it clear that the situation that was done in Tanzania has deeply saddened her, equivalent to an employee who has been rich by complaining about that act of humiliation, rich and her husband ran away and claimed that he has left Ruvuma Province in the near future.

This is the dangerous state that is being complained to the people to stand firm and not to allow someone to continue with injustice to the end of the period because of his position of quote of the country!
