
I thank the government to caring for the children.

It has been written by Arnold Okwi, Hai.

It has been published in September 2016.

The New Life Orphanage Foundation that is in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Province, has urged the government to forgive which food tax which has come in the country for the purpose of helping children being taken out by that organization.

Those thanks were issued yesterday by the director of the organization, Fiorentina, while speaking with this newspaper in this district.
According to Shoo, the step of the government has shown to care for children with needs and that action is not supposed to also be taken by that organization.
The show, who is also the bishop of Tanzania Evangelical Lutheran Church of God (TAG) in Kilimanjaro Province, said the organization got food from their friends of America, worth more than 40 million shillings that are enough to be valued at eight million shillings as tax.
He said that organization is 70 percent of the orphaned children who live in difficult conditions, together with those who come from the families with poor lives, especially children from the community of Same, Maasais' and Allied Sciences, Maasais.
The show said all students who are studying in primary and secondary schools by that organization, is 30 percent only, they can pay their fees and 70 percent depend on sponsors, a situation that causes the existence of a huge cargo in order to listen and care.
He said that the food donation will be enough for those children for a whole year, thus reducing costs for the department involved in food issues for the purpose of those children.
"If the government would like a person that would like to go for the tax of tax then the food we get in," he said and added that for now the organization has failed in modern farming and livestock production so as to remove flaws in the outside.
In line with the thanks, Shoo said that recently he will start selling tomatoes more than one tons, which will collect them together with livestock food so as to make it more income and be able to serve well the children that is raising.
