
Minister like Jungle.
August 19, 2012

The leadership of the ministry of transport, which is alleged to have decided to "institutions under him by enabling its officers to change the activities of that ministry which includes the seminar, journey of leaders and their visitors, activities that are not paid in the budget of those institutions, our citizens have been told.
That decision was like a close to the one of the former secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, David Jairo, during the time of passing the ministry's budget last year, he is mentioned to disrupt some of the decision this year, under several ministers, including Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa, who is currently the Minister of Education and Vocational Training.
The news from some of the institutions, say that apart from being able to force those institutions to provide money to the ministry's activities, the leadership of the ministry under its minister, Omar Nundu, is alleged to build a hatred in some of the executives of those institutions.
"The leadership of the ministry has been able to force our institutions to provide money to the meetings, seminar and sometimes the journey of the leaders and their visitors.
The stakeholder who has worked with government in government, told BBC Afrique reports that for now Minister Nundu has been struggling to change every issue that was done by his predecessor, Doctor Shukuru Kawambwa, without caring about it is a decision by the government and not private.
This person has been asked to disrupt the building and change every thing that he has done or started Kawambwa, while all of the two are still ministers and decision done by the government.
"He has been telling his disappointment with each issue that I had found and he does not pollute the talent and executives of its institutions, this is very bad to the concerned ministries like that," says our news reporter.
Mke Mwema has talked to some of the senior directors of institutions (names are reserved) under the Ministry of Transport who have started complaining under the trend of leadership of the ministry.
According to those talks, issues are explained about the heads of the heads including the leadership of ministries not to care about the budget of those institutions and disrupt the plans that had been made.
Institutions and organizations that are under the ministry of transport include Tanzania Meteorological Authority (TMA), Tanzania Railways Limited (TGT), Tanzania Railways Limited (TRL), Tanzania Railways Limited and Zambia (TAZARA).
Others are the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), Tanzania Airports Authority (TAA), Doctor Assumpta Massao (RAHCO).
There are also Tanzania Port Authority (DMI), the National Institute of Transportation, Marine Services Company Limited (MSCL) and Air Tanzania Company Limited (ATCL).
This newspaper looked for Minister Omar Nundu so as to give explanations about the claims that was explained to him together with the leadership of that ministry, however, those efforts did not have fruit after his mobile phone calling the whole time when he was called yesterday on Tuesday, this week.
Recently, the Ministry of Transport was in the process of 55,731 in a big project of expansion of the port of Dar es Salaam, that is expected to cost approximately 600 billion shillings.
The internal reports of the ministry of transport and the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), have said that the government of China through Barclays Bank of the country has agreed to provide money to the expansion of the port of Dar es Salaam but there have been several restrictions from the ministry.
The project is involving the expansion of that port, the dock has 13 number 14, close to the dock of oil (Wanging'ombe).
The government of Tanzania through the ministry of finance have already issued a certificate of bail for the purpose of that project which started the establishment of the year 2008, that was Shukuru Kawambwa being the minister of communication and transport.
There has been claims from various stakeholders in the transport sector including the owners of the ship, agents and even public servants have great problems in the port sector arising from the investigation that is run by Tanzania International Container Terminal (TICTS).
TICTS which has participated in the country in a special environment, has been in conflicts from time to time with stakeholders and now its workers from what is explained to have the support of big politicians who have been unable to stop the transport sector in the country.
