
A big blow is for agriculture.
And Oscar wrote.
The government will need to set aside more money for investment in agriculture in order to deal with the danger of food shortage in the country, the Minister of Water and Planning, Mrs. Anne Semalenga has said.
This is after it was revealed that the production in the agricultural sector decreased from 419 percent in the year 2012 to 29 percent last year, those statistics were issued to the inspection report of the economic situation that was done between the year 2012 and 2013.
That report explains that this situation resulted from the shortage of rain that has been witnessed in some of the areas that are expected by bringing in large numbers.
"In order to strengthen the sector, the government will focus on construction of nuclear industries so as to reduce environmental prices to the farmers, invests in the farm so as to reduce the huge loss of rain, apart from increasing part of the land that is used in agriculture," said Mrs Brenda Kharono.
The produce that were affected more in the period is coffee, whereby production decreased by 18 percent while the production of maize pass by two percent.
Through that report, the government has also announced that the employment opportunities were increased from 1298, 8 million for the year 2012 up to 135 million in the year 2013 and this is the meaning that there was approximately 42800 dollars in the period, whereby 19300 were in the public sector.
In general, the national economy has improved at least 1 percent per year, a situation that was contributed to a certain level and not to be successful in agriculture in the period.
"The economy was established as it was expected due to the shortage of rains that affect the agricultural sector that involves more than a total of national income," said Mrs Brenda Kharono.
Other issues that caused the economy is a reduction in selling of products outside the country, worried about the security situation in the country and the general elections of last year.
According to the report, the income that resulted from the selling of products outside the country were reduced from 517 billion shillings was in 2012 to 1,02 billion shillings last year.
On the other side, the cost of buying products from foreign nations has increased from 1 trillion shillings to 1 trillion shillings last year.
