Tanzania and a curse from.
October 30th, 2014.

The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has land in the war against themselves as a result of its wealth of human resources including mineral gemstone, which is used to make phone and computer.
Those types of minerals that are used to make the electronic fiscal equipment are carried out recently in the country, is also in the Kihinga Village, Chunya District, Mbeya Region.
Oil, diamond pink and gold have changed to be a curse from different nations in Africa including Nigeria, South Sudan, Siera GT.
After it was revealed for gas resources in the country in the recent years, the growth of the economy and development are asked.
"There is gas and minerals that Neema or a curse from Tanzania and other rich countries in Africa!"
Professor of the economy of development (development) in the school of trade, economy and law, University of Greste, in the country of Sweden, with an eye on how those resources will be used to build sustainable economy and be independent in those nations and not to benefit a small group of the leaders.
Professor Olsson gave his opinion recently at the Nane Nane meeting of the International Development Program (EFD) at the time when he was giving a topic on political parties of promoting human resources (EFD), that took place at the Golden Tulip Hotel in Dar es Salaam city.
To succeed in the use of human resources in the nation and its citizens, one primary thing is to happen, and according to Professor Lipumba's economy is required to have transparency in the whole system of developing those resources.
"Kibadeni has said that, the series of iron sheets, the presence of Tegeta Thermal Power Station, a penalty that was paid for All Fund," says Professor Olsson missed the foundation stone for sustainable development and freedom in Africa.
An official way, Professor Olsson says the transparency is a primary issue to prevent or from the mining of resources, the government must increase all the revenue that they receive from the government due to the revenue collected from human resources so that people can decide if the revenue are used for sustainable development.
The lack of transparency in the improvement of resources, revenue and its expenditure is said to be the foundation of conflicts that is caused by continuing to be in many African countries with human resources, all of the resources resulting from the revenue collected from the resources for private benefit.
The fights that come from these resources are for private interests and not the development of the nation and its people, and finally the results of the fund will use the citizens' groups, that are contributing to the interests of the citizens while the truth is that the contributing towards their personal interests.
Professor Olsson believes that Tanzania for now has a stable system and that the country has a stable system usually has good democracy and good governance.
Who uses human resources in the country.
Together with the presence of good systems, the economy of the economy is advised that the best way in the ownership of that resources and believes that the economic growth of foreign companies (TET).
The expert who is also an advisor at the World Bank says that it is dangerous to leave the international big companies to continue with the sector, due to the culture of companies in the world to consider more on the availability of profit.
That system is not new, that is being used by big nations in the world as well as one of the doctors, it shows that the ownership of ten best companies in the world are or public or the government (need of Islamic state).
It is true that gas reaches Tanzania!
It has been revealed for gas in the country that has changed people's problems, especially leaders, many have been looking at that discovery a only medicine for poverty that is found, that gas has been found in the country in a short period.
One citizen of Mtwara town, while testifying on the violence that arose after starting the process of construction of a gas pipeline to Dar es Salaam city, he removed some of the top leaders in the country saying they had to them that gas that is available in the sea in South Africa will be like Dubai in a short time.
