
Jairo has said.

The government has condemned the former secretary general of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Blacks, "and the former secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, David Jairo, while giving his position the former chief physician of government Deo Filikunjombe.

Nyoni, he was suspended together with the former senior health officer of the government, Doctor Deo Filikunjombe and all of them were allegations of using their power to the public servants.

Jairo has said that his part was suspended from raising funds contrary to the law with an aim of helping the process of passing the budget of its ministry, in the financial year 2011 / 2012 and now he has been removed from public service, while the parliament has not yet got a report on the implementation of the resolutions that are facing them.

The investigation of this newspaper has revealed that "Nyoni for now has returned to his former employer, the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), being holding the position of one of the heads of the department, Doctor Mtasiwa has been appointed as the deputy secretary general, in the office of the prime minister, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi).

Secretary general.
Chief secretary general, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue has appointed the newspaper about those servants and that procedures have been followed.

"My friend, is that Blacks, has no employer of TRA and his contract has not accepted, it was not a reason that he had two contracts, in public service usually is a procedure of making public servants.

That is why you can find an army is seen in the army and to be taken to citizenship or a servant from one department to another one and to our part we have removed the secretary general and in TRA he did not have a problem, "said Ambassador Sefue.

Regarding Doctor Mtasiwa said that appointment of Doctor Mtasiwa was open and even when he was sworn in all the things were announced in public "he continued to speak about Jairo has been removed from the general secretary general," the director of the service and education to the taxpayer of TRA, Richard Kayombo, supporting him saying that he has returned in his previous employment.

"It is not said that he has been employed in TRA, to go back in his former jobs, he had working here and now has come back," said Kayombo and added that "he has done any charges he made.

That statement was supported by the chairman of the TRA Board, Bernard Mchomvu, who said "Nyoni, he was called by the government that is why they came up," the one was surprised by the government, "he said and added.

"Because I did not ask that person, I have been told that he is clean and me do not know how people get problems, even if a person has reduced, then I would like I would like I would have no wonder someone.
