
The government is getting fear of tribalism.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
More than half of the Kenyans have no faith with their colleagues from other regions, according to the report of the commission of improving and compatibility in the country (NMAC) that was released on Monday.
That report shows that between 10 people, two are not qualified among them.
The chairperson of Nronga group, Francis Saro, says the hostility between various community is due to the step by government without enmity.
"The results of that report shows the hostility that are there between various communities.
Separation is a big challenge in our nation but we are following any way to ensure we are continuing with this disaster, "said Mister Kapama.
According to Nicrox, the residents of NHO project is the ones who are filling more than 656 percent while they scored the Heir, believes that the people of race are different from 26 percent.
He said another he says that the level of not knowing the level of not filling in each other has risen to Hong Kong, students in Mombasa, Lamu and Kilimba.
That report shows that there are a lot of areas that have a lot of resources, a situation of compatibility compared to areas that have a shortage of resources.
According to the report, hostility out of different types is caused by abuses of history that have never been resolved since old.
Other issues that were mentioned are mentioned as the cause of compatibility within the Kenyans are lack of employment to youths, use of drugs and crime.
"State of people are not worried about the performance in the public institutions," warned that report.
The report of Nsalaga and C results of the year 2011, showed that tribalism is wrong in public institutions.
That report shows that a big percentage of the position in the public offices is being held by people from few communities while other the main ones were set.
Politicians have been mentioned as the cause of a lot of patriotism in the country because they are using their private benefit.
President Uhuru Kenyatta, together with his assistant, they have been accused of being unable to unite people despite they explained to each other being given, the most of us use the community to end encryption so as to address a lot of patriotism in the country.
