
By our reporter, Dar es Salaam.
Achievements and a good performance by students result from the efforts of teachers and parents to build a good environment for learning.
Due to that situation, there are different schools in which teachers and parents have come together to make sure they help their children with an aim of giving them better education that has benefits to the community.
A Victor Secondary School located in Mkuranga District, Coast Province, has been on the front line to ensure that their students have developed the working environment for learning.
The acting director of the Education Rights, Godfrey Bonnele hotel, recently was the guest of honor at the eighth graduation of that school, where among other things, he said infrastructure and environment of the school has resolved.
He says he believes that for the environment he found in that school, it will be doing well in his results.
Last year the national exams of the nation Bonna Mafoto says that without experts using their expertise, the development situation in the relevant area will not be available, in order to avoid the development of education, agriculture, economy or many things.
They can increase the nation, income, needs experts and scholars to use their education in order to get progress to the concerned areas.
"In order to have a quick development, it is required to have our experts and scholars to use their expertise in improving the development of development," he says.
Bonnele hotel wants graduates to evade the habit of using social networks for the issues not to be not fit, instead make sure that they use the way to learn more things that arise in the world.
He says that good infrastructure is the catalyst for success in any school in increasing the success every year in the national examinations.
He congratulates that school for recognizing the contributions that are given by their teachers and decided to give them ability.
Increasing the success of education.
"It is true without giving birth to the teachers and the students do not depend on well, its examinations are required to care for teachers and students and not caring about the contribution and failing to serve the teachers," said Boncour.
On his part, the Executive Director of that school, Thadei Kihinga says the strategies of their school is to ensure that every year they are doing well in the national exams.
He says the school leadership has been blocking the motivation of teachers, students and parents, thus he has helped that school every year to enter the best 10 in the Coastal Region.
Mutta says the system will continue every year so as to make good fruits that have benefits to the community and the nation as a whole.
And the head of that school Hammidu Mbijima has said that their director is the native, patriotism and good development especially in the education sector and he has been easy to support the government's efforts in making better and learning environment so as to better education to be given to the youth.
He says that some of the civil servants have been taking their children to study outside the country for fear of the education given here in the country, but the director of the school has been on the forefront to change their thoughts by starting a school of St. Maasais.
He says it is an appropriate truth that the education that is being given in these schools is better and that can meet the education standards in the country.
Segu says that at the graduation, more than 200 students are expected to end the form four education, where among them girls are 127 and boys are 123.
