What are we waiting for disaster?
October 11, 2013.

Last week after the match between Coastal Union and Azam FC on Saturday, October 5th, I got time to talk to three two with the coach of Azam, Stewart Hall, but his mind was not a game but a bad state of the stadium.

", as it is impressed by the soccer game, TFF (Tanzania Football Federation (not pictured), it is not possible for the stadium that you are supposed to be played a big match of the premier league that will happen on the night before the match," he spoke during his face.

Well, I arrived in Tanga city on Friday, I was surprised to hear there is a Fiesta Concert. I went to Mkwakwani Stadium last night when I met a crowd of people dancing in the field where his morning will be ready for a period of 24 hours before.

By 10 o'clock this Saturday, I was called at the stadium to look for what they have made leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who will go to the airport owners, they did not succeed anything more than the end of classes that are used that are measurable.

The players did not have an opportunity to continue playing for all ninety minutes, while explaining no one who got injured in the stadium, but when the game was going on at the right time, it is clear that there is among the dangerous things that were left last night after the festival.

The event to sell the soccer fields has started yesterday or the other day in July this year, I was in Arusha City to witness the youth soccer competition under 20 years of East and Central Africa, popularly known by the name Race.

However, while the tournament is going on, the leadership of CCM in Arusha town stopped the letter to the leaders of Rankings, the match that were planned to be played at the Sheikh Amri Abeid grounds, to sell them in another stadium because the stadium will have a gospel festival.

Apart from the leaders and coaches from different teams from Tanzania, Burundi, Burundi and Congo are believed to be done in one day after the final match was expected to have many fans and the general elections which had not been able to take the number of fans.

The mockery that shows this means of use them in sports fields is not only in the provinces, even at the former stadium of the nation takes a lot of community activities, the party and the government which have left the stadium being in a bad state.

-chancellor of Federation of International Football (FIFA) that will make the inspection of soccer fields in the country, for sure there are few stadiums that will be safe for a long time.

It should be known that in the 17 soccer laws, the law number one talks about soccer fields, you need to have, for other things and other things to ensure that many stadiums used here in the country did not meet.

For instance, the Mabatini stadium in the Coastal Region and the Manungu Stadium in Morogoro province, have no stable foundation between the stadium (center) and the platform of fans.

The day before yesterday at the stadium of Mkwakwani Stadium, Coastal Union went to score against Kipre Tchetche of Azam, they collided with a red card after disagreeing with Kipre Tchetche.

All this resulted from the lack of a stable foundation in that stadium, fans would have gone down the stage and put up players of Azam and referees.

Moreover, in Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya town, you came to bring about great disaster, the leadership of CCM will not take a stern warning earlier to remove flaws in the field.

The forum that Yanga car was shot in the game between them and Mbeya City, has stones and the bricks are used by the fans to sit on the same way at the area of playing for a ring on soccer and athletics in the whole area is not safe for fans and players.

All the time leaders of TFF were asked about the bad state of soccer fields, the answers take him by saying the issue is out of their ability, because many fields are in the hands of leadership of CCM in the concerned provinces.
