Corruption have failed.
Dec 6 shillings, 2012

Despite the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) to report about the corruption that is taking place through the renovations of the government vehicles, the law have continued to hand with some of the players who own some of the estates they have been using millions of corruption, through those renovations, our citizens have been told.

According to the guidelines for the renovations of vehicles, motorcycle riders and government equipment, the responsibility of managing the renovations has been taken against the Ministry of Construction, through the Technical and Electrical Agency (TEMESA).

In the implementation of his responsibilities, TEMESA in Karume Memorial Stadium has been encouraged to inspect and approve the renovations of the government vehicles, and even to allow the vehicles to be made in private schools, but it has been revealed that he was surprised by now.

Our news sources from TEMESA and some of the drivers of the government vehicles have cautioned that many vehicles have been taken to the estates they have been taken to the Indian Ocean by a permit for TEMESA, in line with the violation of other procedures.

Some of the other procedures associated with the aim of buying millions of money in the renovations of the government vehicles is how to select the estates of the estates.

The guidelines for the renovations of the government vehicles that supports the garage of public funds, will be realized in accordance with the law of purchase of public servants, "because of the procedure of tenders that will be supervised by TEMESA.

However, the report from TEMESA explained that the guide has been surrounded by some senior officials of the government, the ones being mentioned to have partnership with some of the companies that have been given work for making public vehicles.

Apart from that, the process of payments for those private schools has become a big part, it is to break the procedures.

The guide explains that the payments for maintenance from the department or ministry will be confirmed to be supported by TEMESA, but the implementation of the requirements is a riddle.

That section that wants the payments to be taken by TEMESA in the first, has been depending on a huge payments so as to get extra money, an issue that would not have been possible as TEMESA would have been used directly.

Our citizens has been told that the big number of the ones that are used to make the theft.
Through the renovations of the government vehicles, it is low-malarial and the ones that are not registered officially for that work, something that is also contrary to the law.

Some of the drivers of the national leaders who talked with our writer is on a condition of not being written in the newspaper, they have complained to the other to take those vehicles to private schools without following the government procedures.

"There was evidence they will be taken against TEMESA workshop so that it continues to have the ability to make government vehicles, there are leaders who have started living in the streets and others have gotten a special partnership with the owners of those countries," says the driver of one of the senior secretaries in one of the ministries in the country.

He also congratulated the "vehicles that are under its management (TEMESA), that will be taken to those trainings for maintenance and payments which are taking place at a high level so that the more than four money.

"To that, the player will have got a lot of money due to the big payments that were done by the second, he will have got benefits through its partnership with the owner of the country, because that situation is running a business."

The explanation of that driver is being supported by one of the agents of the Financial Institution of T Depot (name withheld), who claimed that for a long time, the government has been losing a big amount of money because of few people with caring about their interests.
