
His silence was handed over but he has returned to clear them.
After the silence led by his action of leaving the country, after the special general election of the year 2008, Joseline Kamuhanda, has returned to new songs in the process of developing talents that they had introduced as one of the vision of fees in the country.
Under the new identity, the RnB in the music industry that he will handle at the moment, makes a total of foreign affairs and African countries, he has announced his new advent while refusing to get new talents in the country.
"For now, we have decided to register two musicians, get married, Vivian Olle, we see the good results," he explained.
It is known for taking a big number of artists who scored against the old generation music such as summoning demons, Jimmy Gigabyte, Points, and Rafiki Surgical Mission, Odas Bilame 'among others.
Listen to me who is the founder of the Fiesta Awards, despite leaving, as the executive officer, he wants him about his new advent, because the scandal involving more than ten years ago which claimed to step down from office as the executive officer.
What took place in the year 2008, an amount of make us lose?
TJ has said that if the protocol would have been involved in recording news headlines for ODM Party, an issue that did not use many. However, there was a way to get more challenges in my profession since here in the country, I have not built a name.
It's not true that you are one of the weapons that are used so much in the country.
TJ, I have done you to do good work like the weather, without forgetting that when those times there were relief for few days to be easy for our songs to be played on the radio, different from now where the competition is big.
Your leadership in the explosion was heard last night after nine years.
How was it?
TJ, well, I am the founder of the device's award and said that, my awards have made it better if I had been appointed, despite being the executive officer, an issue that has raised any objection because I had decided to give that award from music because of money or awards.
If the protocol would have done with the previous musicians and modern musicians, there are different meanings in that time and now?
Thatcher famous as a very big one, for now, there is a good technology that you can record any music video by using phones, an issue that though when they get our awards, therefore we will return our music videos in the past, whereby most of them will return to the country to witness our culture.
On your part, if the sweetness of you are doing to return the great shape of music in Kenya?
TJ, through this R & B label which is accompanied with a culture that supports the life of life here in the African continent as well as African descent. Here is not important because without talents and my colleague, we are not supposed to do work.
You have a short advice to artists of this kind?
TJ, especially those who follow everything they are getting in the international television stations are supposed to realize that I have lived in the country and many artists there have come from music and not a good thing in them and not aware of them.
