At the same time we will talk about you, we will talk about words saying what should happen in order to get consent at the sessions of the constitutional parliament and this I have come from after knowing that there is a lot of ideas but you want to know what should be done so as to get consent in the special wife they started shouting.
You know where Mister.
The sessions are recently on claims.
If they recover and give birth to hatred.
Probably you have been supposed to make a constitution and that part since we reach it, there is a union.
The constitution of Ukawa are admitted in the sessions of our parliament.
They do not go.
And women are required to be a opinion?
It's only people to be something, because we know that we have great faith in our leaders and I was following up on the special constitutional parliament for other pastors and Kibaden.
Put the stock.
That was discussed in parliament.
Going to the province.
Approximately these days only?
Truly I have seen the constitution on Tuesday.
Most of the time you are for many times you are looking at the everlasting problem it was given, because they are vying to vote to him Barnaba, a must that he started putting a knee injury.
That in front, when I talked about this is hard to see what is needed.
So as to achieve my goals it is that members of parliament known as soon as a topic of fellow members is possible to be implemented while they get to the constitution even when they get to the constitution except in the opinion that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitution that I would like here is that there is a constitutional issue and related to someone.
You mean that every person has a right to have a right to know what should be done but if we get to our country, we have to start these different differences and then we can have a new constitution to do with him or you have said.
Members of parliament?
Something that has you been done I take.
Everyone is looking for a constitution that its own kind, is what I come here to bring a problem because it will be launched for example, maybe a good person will be given, maybe in Shinyanga group, it will be a good thing that he was in the beginning of human attractions.
To bring this opportunity to investigate the meetings, what is in the parliament during the purpose of giving birth.
