
The government allowed the sugar to be sold in shillings.
The government has been doing a great effort to ensure that its citizens are getting enough sugar and at an affordable price while the government's planning was to see the water being sold for 1,800 villages.
Many shops have now not have a lot of sugar that have the products sell at up to an amount of 3,000 shillings to 1000 shillings per liter, shortage of sugar in the country has a long history by Haazu being removed by the fifth term government.
In this state, the government that is currently in power, is supposed to prepare well for having reliable plans to deal with that situation for now and the coming years.
In the economy of market and investment of the private sector, basically, the price of products or services is set aside in the market, according to the level of production or services on the other side, the job should not be done by the government, instead it may be done by the government's strength.
It is in a special events and very few events where the government will be forced to clarify in the market for organizing a high price or high price especially where products that will be concerned is very important and to be in life or life of the citizens and that its lack can cause a disaster of hunger or of peace.
I don't have sure that sugar, has the two qualifications, I have been satisfied by the condition of the shortage of sugar, without being forced to plan for a guiding fee, still the government has a great ability to control and monitoring the distribution of what is located in order to deal with the huge benefits of masturbation.
A high price of sugar in the country, on a high level is due to the world market at a period of the shortage of sugar in the country, I advised the government to allow them to be sold at a price of 400 million shillings in terms instead of a guiding fee of 1,800 villages that was announced previously.
I believe that the price will enable many business people to come out to sell oil in public in their shops.
The price I have proposed that as a transition period until that production and the availability of sugar in the country will go back to his normal state in the European market (EU).
It is the biggest market for sugar imports in the world.
And close to 60 percent of its sugar needs due to the sugar imports including Egypt, Mauritius, Zambia, South Africa, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Mozambique, Ethiopia and Swaziland.
For example, in the budget of the year 2017, the price of one acre of sugar is holding on 487 billion US dollars equivalent to approximately 1000 shillings.
The price was taken as a price in the industry, then give you the cost of transportation and distribution, fees and government taxes, the cost of the reserve (if they are there), together with little benefits to the businessman, the last price to the consumer can be easily available.
This is just an example, and you can work if there is no any shortage of sugar in the country, in the real state of these environments of the huge shortage of sugar, the government does not have to know the correct needs of sugar in the country for a year so as to have the correct amount of the use of the country.
Also, the government will understand by producing an amount of sugar that is growing and in our industries in order to get high risks.
The business people have the responsibility to help the government in ensuring that it does not affect the economic and business environment in the country.
Tonny Samuel Sitta and on the right is the analyst of economic and social networks (03555).
