The interpreter translating to the case of murder.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

This is a case that deals with Charles Quiah, a technician that led to a series of killing of women who are denouncing the political tensions among the killings that aimed at hiding the party that makes in Ghana.
It was in 1998 when Ghana country preparing itself with the general elections of the president and members of parliament for the year 2000, where it was faced with a series of killings that was aimed at a surprising thing.
The campaigns of the campaign has started with the president who was in power at that time, Jerry Rwangisa, who came in power through the free election through his party he termed as he still holding his position as a result of military revolution last year 1981 which was finishing his administration.
It is after getting blood from the sponsors, that president was forced to organize a free election that will involve many parties, while he praised the Democratic Republic of Revolution (NDC) in the year 1993.
The year 1993, the President of 1993, President Jerry Rwizile said that the presidential candidate of that country through NDC and won in two terms, that is the election for the year 1996 and that of the second period in 1996.
Being in a difficult time as a result of being held up by the opposition party that it has received popularity at the same time, New Year Development (NRF), that was being led by John Lukuwi ', his party was forced him to vie for the presidency for the third time, his party was forced him to vie for the presidency for the third time, Doctor John Attribution, who was his vice president.

In that period that's where the country was faced with those killings and gave a difficult time in the year 1998 until when it reached in the year 2001, after the general election was caught in power by the name Joyce Boateng.
What does the killing of witchcraft or political?

Charles Hilary, was arrested in the period in which the Department of Ghana police have been in a difficult time to investigate the deaths of women who were carrying the death in various parts of the country.
Areas like the Spotify Network which Khajida Kopa, Asmara, Tesfaye, Tesfaye, Testosterone, Adallah Mayimbu, where the bodies of the deceased was named as Matopeni Ward in Accra where the bodies of the deceased was arrested.
When it received when women were not fear from outside their houses, when it got to three o'clock at night because it was not known or the murderers, will be found guilty, the bodies of all women who were killed and also having a mixture of blood cells in the private parts, indicate that the late was caught before being killed.
Until the year 2000, they have been made by 34 women in the same level and out of them, it was noted that those women were visitors in that country they were involved with business from Togo, Nigeria and Lil Undule.
However, due to the brothers of the deceased being unable to take the bodies of those women, we were able to take them by the government so as to reduce the bodies of the bodies from the United States Agency (FBI), including the FBI director and from the department of Investigations (TELC).
As a result of the cooperation from FBI, that is that Charles Quiah (36) when he was arrested was reported that when police police were questioned, he confessed the killing of another woman who was mentioned by the name AGAPE, that is owned by being beaten in the Ashanti International Airport, January 19, 1996.
A Quiah has confessed to suction and killing nine women out of 34 students, in various suburbs of the city of Accra in the country Mister Quiah congratulated the police until areas that he was making some of the bodies of those women, just after killing them.
