
Artists to play affected with the earthquake.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The artists of Bongo Fleva and Bongo Movie, tomorrow they are expecting to play friendly matches for the purpose of contributing to the victims of the earthquake that occurred in Kagera province recently.

Speaking to journalists yesterday in Dar es Salaam, the representative of the film artists in the country, Steve Nyerere, "Steve Nyerere" said the aim of playing that match is to help the victims of that earthquake which have been left with difficult life after the earthquake.
He said artists have decided to support the government in helping that disaster by playing that match which amount of money that will be sold as a contribution.
We are playing football as a sign of contributing to our colleagues who were affected by this disaster, and I have faith that you will be used as a contribution from the Tanzanian artists, "he said.
On the side of Bongo Fleva artists, artist Karama Masoud has urged citizens to come out in large numbers to see those artists can use their talents and singing.
"This Sunday, this game is to remove our squad that is organized and it is going on to you on September 25 when we saw the opportunity to see those artists together with clean entertainment," said Masoud.
And the head of marketing and business unit from Tanzania Breweries Company who is at home (TSN), Jide Kessy who are the sponsors of that match said they have decided to sponsor the match by providing sports equipment valued at more than three million shillings.
"We have decided to unite and bring together these artists so that they can help to support this disaster and it is my faith that we will be able to help our colleagues in Kagera," he said.
In addition, in that game, different artists are expected to join together with the entrance to the game that will be played inside the National Stadium starting at nine o'clock in the afternoon, the entrance is expected to be between 3,000 shillings, shillings 5,000 shillings.
