
A cargo of drugs contributes in the five questions from MSD, Muhimbili.
The Archbishop of Shangwe should be remembered, The Citizen is healed?
Dar es Salaam, the scandal of disappearance of civil servants and drugs for a period of four years from the referral hospital (MSD) to go to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), has raised five questions that cause the safety of those drugs if they reached out the beneficiaries or loss.
Those questions have come as a result of the statements that have been provided by MSD that were inspected but those of the leadership of MNH, while the report of CAG came to mark the possibility of loss of drugs and those equipment without the leadership of the hospital to have a report.
Despite MSD to show in front of the press the day before yesterday, 23rd of 23, the confirmation of presenting those documents, Muhimbili have continued to appeal or refused if the drugs were reached, an issue that aims to bring about questions that they got to patients in the whole period without medicine.
Normally Muhimbili runs approximately 1,200 patients to approximately 1,500 patients in a day as kidney patients and the heart that resulted in that hospital due to the drugs for those diseases to be very expensive.
Speaking to The Citizen yesterday, the Executive Director of MSD, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that Muhimbili is unable to accept the issue that is open.
He said that their questions are hard to answer to that CAG found that problem after getting 23 percent of the documents of receiving a load and self sustainability, "from MSD and those that showed that the load when they were received.
"It should be understood that CAG stopped our documents there, but they had not been received officially when Muhimbili's statement has not yet answered anything like they were not satisfied if the inspection was done in them, but they were not aware if the issue continues to bring controversy," said Cardinal Pengo.
He said MSD has been giving a sales thing when it was taking the cargo itself and it is not how it gives a factory for medicine to get a cargo in that hospital.
"You are supposed to say that they are copies in our country continue and they are already there, we are not knowing that we are not knowing if you are not therefore, Muhimbili would have services to customers for a period of four years?
He said in order to avoid eating the statements between those two organizations, MSD has brought the instructions between the Ministry of Health, Social Welfare, Gender, Elderly and Children.
"We have done all the documents and they are supposed to do and evaluation, they are politically discriminated.
I have been getting a letter yesterday to the secretary general and Minister Ummy Mwalimu when we are in one ministry that we are looking for if we are going on to the sky, I have given all phones. "
He said.
Responding to the motion, the head of public communication unit of Muhimbili, Aminiel Aligaesha said they previously gave a clarification about the right procedure of receiving goods in the hospital.
When he was asked if Muhimbili received drugs from MSD for a period of four years, and so if they are not supposed to be taught well about this issue, "said Aligaesha.
