Signing the signed contracts.
Sei 08, 2016.

A few months ago, leaders of the country, members of the East African Community (EAC) were announced to agree not to sign the economy cooperation (EPA) and countries of the European Union (EU).

That decision resulted from the views of various stakeholders including scholars and retired leaders who advised that the contracts did not have any economic benefits to the members of the community.

That agreement was planned to be signed in the month of last month during the meeting of the United Nations Educational Scientific Cultural Organization (CPA)) that was planned to take place in Nairobi, Kenya.

Speaking about the contracts the month of last month, retired President of Vodacom Tanzania, Benjamin Mkapa said that the "promotion which Tanzania and other members of EAC wanted the contract not to have any logic or when you check the number, it did not have benefits.

And at the moment it is expected that ministers of the EAC members will meet the day before yesterday because of more talks about entering the contracts, something big news have emerged.

That the countries of Kenya and Rwanda have signed those agreements in a week which was expected to discuss with their colleagues concerning the issue that took place in Uganda, has already announced that it will sign those agreements with EPA this week.

The ways that are used now affect the leaders of the EAC who are the same ways used since the century that will rise, to our leaders know everything about these issues but they have agreed to be victims.

In this news, Tanzania and Burundi are the only countries that will remain members of EAC who have not signed EPA and we continue with our government and believe in it as it is now because such agreements do not benefit us.

If the structure of the contract, its conditions and benefits and its advantages and disadvantages of the same time, the government of Tanzania will not have a reason to sign that contracts the same time, it is not wisdom to join many people.

We have said that there's not third agreements with the way it is now on this way, but our government has thrown out his stand of wanting the best interests through that contracts of economic cooperation.
