
Shein was arrested the parliament of East Africa.

It has been written by special writer, Zanzibar.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has emphasized to the Parliament of the East African Community (EALA) to put better strategies in improving the tourism sector in the countries of that community because the number of tourists visiting the area did not coincide with the attractions available in the area.

Doctor Shein said this yesterday at the representatives hall of representatives, in Chukwani Unguja City, when he launched the second session of the fifth session of the East African Community (EALA) that is taking place in Zanzibar.
He said that in addition to that area of East African Community has many tourism attractions, the number of tourists under 5 million shillings that are in the area from foreign countries is small compared to one billion tourists from this world.
Doctor Shein added that the amount of the tourists will not coincide with the popularity as well as the attractions that are in the region of East African Community and explained its hope that the number can increase if great efforts will be taken.
"A total of tourists who visited Zanzibar in the year 2014 were 361, whereby our aim is to reach 500,000 Tanzanian shillings in 2020," said Doctor Shein.
Moreover, Doctor Shein used that opportunity to explain the bills that are expected to be discussed at that parliamentary sitting with great laws that will ban the illegal business of transporting human rights which is crime and a huge violation of human rights.
Speaking about the bill of controlling the use of plastic equipment including bags, Doctor Shein said the bill has come at the right time and that Zanzibar since the year 2011 has begun to implement the law to ban the importation and production of plastic bags.
He said that the decision to ban the products in Zanzibar was taken after seeing that bags are derailing the environment, including the sea environment as well as affecting the important tourism sector.
On the side of the bill of gender violence and development, he said it has hope that the bill will give way to improve gender equality and the participation of women in the implementation of development plans.
He gave thanks to the decision by the parliament for deciding to make Zanzibar to be the headquarters of the Swahili Commission of East Africa and explained that the decision is correct because of the fact that the Swahili channel has come out in Zanzibar and promised to give every partnership that is facing the activities of that Commission.
He added that the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar on its part has taken intentional efforts to improve Swahili to the international level and already it has been put in the curriculum of universities among them being the University of Zanzibar (SUZA) to reach the level of doctorate.
In addition, he used the opportunity to thank the countries of that community in a way to give birth and participate fully in helping the citizens of Tanzania who were affected from the earthquake which occurred in September 10, 2016 in Kagera province and explained that the step aims to ensure that the partnership between the members of the community are not pleased with the contracts but it has brought together more about caring about his humanity.
Speaking about the issue of employment that makes all the countries members of the East African Community, he said that those countries have no reason to leave where where the National Revenue Authority in the country is estimated to be approximately 25 percent, which the countries have been set up to the year 2032.
Doctor Shein said that Zanzibar has a history of being a big business center where it was used by business people together with giving them the solution that they traveled in the East African region, therefore the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar has decided to strengthen the port's infrastructure and road construction so that it can reach its plans.
Due to that step, Doctor Shein urged the delegates of that parliament to cooperate with the government in making Zanzibar to be an important business center in that region of East and Central Africa.
He added that the development of industries only is the ones that will eliminate challenges of employment in that area.
And the speaker of the council of representatives of Zanzibar Mufti Zubeir Ali Maulid, while giving his speech he congratulated the meeting and explained that the meeting was not completed and explained that the meeting is not stable and it will give more opportunities of those two sides to learn how to run parliamentary activities from every part.
Earlier the secretary of the Parliament of the East African Community, Daniel Fred Msemwa insisted on the issue of peace and harmony in the area of the country that form the community to enable its citizens to continue with their activities without fear of losing their lives.
Moreover, he used that opportunity to thank Zanzibar and explained that there is a big possibility to make Zanzibar be an important area of business in the East African region and explained that it can be the Dubai of Africa.
