The commissioner of operation of the police force is not there and Paul Chagonja said that the project to reduce roads at the central road of Dar es Salaam will help eliminate the great problem of vehicles of different cargo as it is now joining our writer Moses Sethole.
While opening a seminar for the owners of vehicles of goods inside and outside the country and the police force in the road safety unit in Dar es Salaam city, Commissioner Kova who was the guest of honor said together with other things, the project will be told to serve in crime where the system from implementation of road safety laws in the main road seems to have errors that are needed.
Therefore, he is not true.
Now it is not that police has touched me one.
What is enough to do?
I know William Ruto, my body now must understand the wife.
Already it was played in the morning of posting a pose.
But in the manufacturing of the implementation.
Some of the police officers and me.
You did not know what they love.
The good work is in doing business.
Names of so.
These are the commander of the road safety squad, the senior assistant commissioner of police, Ahmed Mazrui, said the road is one of the ways of communication which contributes up to a large extent in the economy of the country.
The actor of any changes the late Adam and now has been confirmed to be in the community then up to the end, he mentioned not to get married to anything and maybe if there will be a primary school.
If it is.
Another teacher in there you can get married and is also known that doesn't understand what's not praising?
Where he is those?
On their part, the party of the vehicle owners for transporting goods outside the world have said that they believe the seminar will be productive and to eliminate challenges that are there in all African stakeholders including the police force, but there are some people who are trying to resolve the person coming here in the country, but his car I get to do.
There is nothing something that is the one, care is.
