
The club will be used to be fined, now alternative means should it be?
It has been a series of here in the country to be fined a big fine following the violence of their fans who are used to eliminate violence every team when they reach it.
On the 26th of February, 2011, the match between Gor Mahia and Postal Bank was coming out in the 85 minute after the Khajida Kopa of the stadium and left the referee claimed that their team won by 3-0.
In the month of March last year, AFC Leopards Soccer was scored a fine of 248,448 shillings for property, at the stadium of, C, Kasangati after a draw of 1-1 against Rayo Vallecano.
That club stopped the punishment after fans abused his team that their team failed to be the referee for that match.
In the month of June, Gor Mahia have been directed to play for their matches without their fans on the field after the fans of both sides could be on May 12th at home.
On August 4, 2013, the former secretary of Gor Mahia FC, George Lwandamina has survived his death after being attacked by fans following a draw without a draw against Nairobi City Stars.
Mister Kamanga was attacked by those fans on claims that he is the person who missed the attackers, Rama Salim and Dan Mpogole leaving suddenly to go for the trials.
In that incident, Mister when he lost money and a total of 150,000 shillings, those fans believe in their seats in the field and that club may have been fined shillings 28 million shillings, although the amount was reduced up to 1665 shillings.
The recent violence in the match between Spain and Liverpool will play four years just after one fan of a small age died after being defeated by Harambee Stars playing with Morocco.
Meanwhile, the violence happened, I was not the main mosque of Mashujaa Primary School for a few hours after President Uhuru Kenyatta to address a nation at home.
In that incident, the journalists and other people who were not found guilty of millions of millions being destroyed.
Strangeness of the involved in these cases have never been arrested and arraigned before court to answer the charges.
Fans claimed that many fans are supposed to be followed after the Minister of Sports Culture and Arts said that special camera will be using the fans of no problem.
It is eight months since the promise of that technology started to be used without success.
His recommendations were supported by the police officers who promised to cooperate with soccer managers in the efforts to try to prevent it.
Once the police have been used for failing to create good plans of dealing with the fans of that type and instead they decided to give them ghost students to stop them.
