
The only efforts will face Yanga.
The Tanzania soccer champions, Yanga will enter the National Stadium tomorrow to fight against TP Mazembe in the second match of the African Football Federation (CAF).
Yanga comes back to the field tomorrow after the beginning of their first game by being beaten 1-0 by MO Bejaia of Algeria, which was played last week at MO Bejaia, outside-Algerie.
The killing of Yanga in that game has been explained by numerous reasons, while the team's coach, Hans Pluijm has talked about the referees of the game that they were carrying the hosts.
We think we have shown reasons because he didn't continue to complain about the referees, because every person has been decided by the referee or she has not seen, he does not change their game because it's the decision.
Pluijm would have explained the technical problem for what Yanga did not wed by the reason of being defeated, the system had when it was and the player did what to work in the following game against TP Mazembe.
That is what we get especially the fans of that team wanted to know more than the easy reason that Yanga were given to the referee that he was giving the host.
Apart from that, the biggest in the tomorrow's game against TP Mazembe, what is required is to win for Yanga so as to revive hope after losing that game.
Yanga's victory will be ordered by his fans because it will be home in the weather and environment that is so used.
For sure there is no objection that Yanga has every reason to win that game because it plays against her fans of these fans is as the 12th player in the field because it gets strength and especially for players.
The ones for fans is a primary thing in encouraging the players to do well.
Another reason for making Yanga to win is that plays in weather condition that was used to it which is not an obstacle to its players in the weather condition and coldness, can cause a team.
Another one that is supposed to be followed by Yanga players is to play with discipline so as to avoid non-driven cars and the need for five players who got a card at Algeria's game and it is what will make him Amiss Tambwe after being the second yellow card.
Sometimes the players are getting a card as an issue of talking to the captain, you will find another one who is going to help with the referee, its results with a card and it is a must, this should be coaches from the technical bench to inform the players.
International matches are different from our league which, a player that is associated with the referee and you do not know anything. In this competition, the referee is easy to give a card.
We believe the players have already been built, because there is no fear for the team and there is no doubt, after losing the first game, what is required is to win by going in front, there is no one.
In addition to various instructions of the technical bench and more than Coach Pluijm, we believe that players will have modified the mistakes and they are coming with alternative means to ensure they face the game.
We are leading Yanga every one with Yanga.
