Welcome me, even criminals give a lesson.
Sep 5, 2013.

It is clear that the police force of Tanzania is passing through one of the difficult decisions in its history of performance and this is evident that several cases of crime in that nation are believed to be conducted well by some police themselves.

We have witnessed various events of crime such as robbery, people to fall down, people living in corruption and other things have been increasing at a fast rate of illegal drugs, and others like fraud in using phones will continue to be treated.

What is happening and more important thing is the type of participation of the police force, or in dealing with these events and in order to make this legal action and to make this responsibility by dealing with these events, and not otherwise.

But now, it is seen that the situation continues to be different from Sihana Nkinga, a saying that in every institution, a place or anything that is expected to be few than those who are in the forefront, or even so, to our police force as the day they are increasing.

We have heard that police officers charged with transporting a huge cargo of marijuana in Kagera. Others have been arrested in transporting elephant tusks from Kibaha. Others involved in fighting the case.

As it is not enough, there are police who were accused of removing the millions of money that had qualified to pay for money in the city of Dar es Salaam, several months ago and recently there are soldiers who were accused of implementing the theft of a lot of money in one bank in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam.

Together with the Minister of Internal Affairs to announce their work, some of the police arising from being involved in some of the army events, the scandal that was reported by one newspaper on the theft that took place in this army's office.

He sodomized a gold which is the's property of the heads of police in Southern Africa (SARPCCO), with approximately three hundred thousand shillings worth more than 600 million shillings that was handed over to 600 million shillings which was handed over to Good Governance, which was given a huge scandal to this head of the police and nation as a whole.

It has been explained that the chairmanship will be awarded journalists as chairperson of SARPCCO) for a period of one year (2012 / 2013) and therefore it was to be handed to the leader of the police force of another country, a member of the federation some of the party members of the federation.

These times it continues to increase in crime and the number of soldiers who are accused to participate in crime in the country, this army is seen to do and seem to be seen in the market to advertise the motivation of money, popularly known as a huge portion "to those who are ready to prevent the crime.

The procedure of giving priority is not a new issue and not only to the police force, farmers have been distributed in different parts and in different ways, it has been the norm for them to be taken to the positions and be given money by doing good money that is not expected.

However, my view is that the rate of motivation to how it started being used right now takes a new chapter which is causing a lesson to another way to arrest those criminals.

In several events, the police force has announced that a huge contribution to anyone who will give important information to achieve the arrest of criminals with the promises they involve the amount of millions of Tanzanian shillings from 5 to 100 million.

For example the investigation incident in Kariakoo, Dar es Salaam city has been announced that anyone who made the arrest of those involved will be awarded 100 million shillings.
