
28 November 2013.

Ranches.
One day after this newspaper reports on children's news.
It has been asked by the revealing of the fire that is in that forest that is in Mabogini village.
Kinondoni Dar es Salaam City.
Which inside, there is a big building with houses, the police force has started investigations.
Tennis star, Masau boasted.

Our news source has confirmed that the investigation is done?
The police force of Kipolisi Kinondoni in collaboration with the army.
Police in Pwani province.

"Police are in great investigation since today (yesterday).
In the morning, it is not good to give information early before investigation is not complete.
We can destroy the investigation and those involved in run.

"Orphaned children, WAL, Pickup, at a Fm, P-Square," a man.
S P-i are holding on their health after being interviewed and given a full picture.
The area that is unacceptable, so the investigation will be complete if you will be told, "he said.
That source is on condition of not being mentioned by his name.

Ransom children alleged to be more than 60 percent in that area, which is claimed to be done.
And foreign citizen (MARI), collaboration with Wiz Khalifa where the children are there.
It may be banned in those rooms, as being raped.

Children have been forced to escape from the fire.
Is Emmanuel Robert (11) who is in class one in primary school.
That is in Tabata, Segerea in Dar es Salaam city.
And the small-fielder, let us use Robert (8), who is in class three in that school.

Those children claimed to be attacked from the past two in the morning of September.
This year, when they go to school to succeed to escape from that building in September 23 this year.
This is not a problem.

They have gotten tired with the health that causes the deterioration of a small station.
Police, Kibaha in Pwani province, those children said inside that building there are many children.
Female and male.

One of Pickup, who is a t-kilometer, is the one that will be done by being stoned.
You were written, and it is under fire by being beaten in power especially when they are asking for them.
Their parents where some of them are some of them.
Address and some being raped.

Speaking to the Majira newspaper, Emmanuel said after.
Him and her young man were scored and they were spread in the near future until they stopped.
Inside the building.
Afflictions.

He asked the government to make efforts of state and property to enable them to bring in other children in the country.
The building is going on.

Mother's mother.
The children of those children, Martha Mboma (29), who is doing her mother's activities.
The Sunni rebels, Tabata municipality, he said she was suffering more.
Three months to look for those children without success was the day before yesterday.
Coast Province, there was a black bikini, confessed to get reports of that incident and started to work on them.
