
They will involve yourself for failing and work.
And Oscar wrote.
Some of the four sides of Petti West have been sacked by partnering with the mining of illegal immigrants, taking a warning from them and chased away.
Those four people from three districts in the country, he said that they were sacked by the commissioner of that he, Mister Peter Buluku.
This comes after the President Uhuru Kenyatta to increase the authority that he has the work from that he said that in order to strengthen the performance of the national government activities, he said that those players were sacked from being involved in the production, selling, drinking and taking bribes.
"We have been looking for many times for the contributing of alcohol in this area but they have not found themselves, we have decided to suspend him," he said.
That officer said that they will involve the responsibility of ensuring that there are no cases of lack of security in that area.
Mister Edom Mwansansu said that they will involve any assistant ministers that he will take any action, who will fail to implement its duties well, "we want everyone to ensure that there is no illegal immigrants in this area," he said.
Commissioner Nsato Marijani has urged the leaders of that area to increase their studies so that they can be able to pay for better opportunities of planting to power and improve their performance.
"It is good for you to support these universities, when you get the time to be given opportunities to be used in good positions to benefit," said Mister and Senator of that county, Professor John Lilenga, urged all leaders to help in efforts to strengthen the education in that area.
We need more efforts to improve education so that this area can be able to make steps for development, "he said.
Professor Lerner has urged Tanzanians to give your education or front and to stop the cases of male and marriage marriages in that area.
"We will involve the eyes of the government and we believe that those evil deeds will be completed," he said.
He joined the step by President Uhuru Kenyatta to increase the commissioners who have the authority while saying that this will help to strengthen their performance.
