
The increase of contraception is not safe.
Brightiles 14, 2014.

Approximately 30 years ago, the residents of Rungwe, Rungwe, Mbeya were seen to have malaria diseases through a story.
It was a disease of living in the valleys like their neighbor, Kyela District, today, and can't sleep without a knee injury.

Malaria disease is not again a story, but it is part of their daily lives, mosquitoes have been among pests who live in those districts, a friendly environment for different types of diseases, including mosquitoes.

While the cry for the residents of Rungwe, Mbeya, it was spread for malaria disease with a mosquito, to the residents of Kyela, the situation is different from their cry, it's disappearance to the fish from their natural vegetation.

The disappearance of the fish from dams between the traditional weapons in Kyela District is also involved with climate change, that in recent years, you will not accept again and in the city it is at a little level compared to 30 years ago, thus causing dams to be in the season instead of being a whole year.

Some of the popular dams that were there up to five years of seventies, together with Matandiko, Lubara, Zekij and Nasi.

A resident of Kyela, Paraa Mwanga, explains that those ponds were used to go through fish and that it was under the management of traditional leaders, known as Malunde.

The administrator of the area is the one who had the responsibility of launching fish by the dam that is inside his authority, and the fishing continued for a special time before being beaten up to the following year.

Fishing in those ponds have been done in shifts and not all at the same time, the procedure that made sure the families sell fish in a period of the whole year.

Food experts recognize that fish is one of the food that has a lot of food and with great contribution to the ability of a human being.

The Manager of the Meteorological Authority in the Southern Region, Issa Hamad, explains that events of more citizens in the whole region are available and as well as reduction of heavy rains.

"The data for the last 50 years have confirmed to put more citizens more than 350 days," says Hamad in his interview with Raia Mwema.

"Inhaling of diseases such as mosquitoes get a lot in mind," says Hamad.

The changes facing the citizens in those districts of Mbeya, Rungwe, Kinondoni and Kyela, are needed to identify their colleagues in other provinces in the country, like Iringa, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Rukwa and Tanga provinces where those regions have witnessed changes in climate, an extent of affecting the life of life.

The threat of climate change in the world is very big more than any time, while scientists showing fear about the future of the world within approximately 50 years to the next 80 percent.

The question that is showing the experts is a state of the world that will happen, the world will reach four and 31 degrees Celsius, if the current level is at least two times, its effects are near the world and its residents.

Stem cells are supposed to do about the threat of terrorism?

The International panel of Experts on climate change (TEF), warned that some of the results that are contributed by the increase in climate in the world that they will not be able to hold it if the gas production can be reduced up to zero by the end of this week.

A short report of VICOBA CC that was released last week in Copenhagen, Denmark, for the purpose of leaders in the world it gives the possibility of an increase in climate change in the world, to show the possibility of collecting taxes to approximately four and 31 degrees Celsius.

Speaking at the launch of a short report for leaders of the world, the chairperson of NASA, Doctor MK Pinga, said human beings have the ability to prevent climate change, that there are many ways to reach the solution to the problem of climate change, to allow development to economic and human being.

The panel of scientists is emphasized that to withstand the climate change is not enough, but the world is a must for a must and continue to reduce climate change.
