
Pregnant women don't give him a letter in Diamond.

Musa.
It has been revealed that a thorough beating from the musician Nasibu Abdul "Diamond Platnumz," Zindzi said, "Zuttah won't give him a lot of millions of money, Friday has revealed that the whole game.
So!

It has been explained that, in every show the child is going on and the current mother has been looking for a lot of money because many of them are present at Diamond so as to see anyone who have been looking for a long time, so as to promote many Tanzanians, so as to promote many for them.

'Jichunge.'
In his investigation, Friday also spoke with various sources including a person from Wasafi Records, who confirmed that it is true the presence of pregnant women who for now has increased the millions of money to Diamond through a show that he has been required and to promote themselves and Zari.

Diamond entertaining.
That source got "virgin" is that, Diamond has already written that issue to an extent that there is a place now he is forced to go and get married.

I love you too.
It was known that, at the Jembeka festival that was held at the end of last week in Mwanza City, Diamond went to sleep at a big way to an extent that even the crowd that came out to receive him at the airport in the city were not able to see him because his agreements have no organizers.

"What he has done Diamond is to look at a hotel because in the show to promote them, they did not agree and listen to me if it is in the other show President Magufuli is currently available," said that source.

"It is something that doesn't know where most of us don't know but the truth is that Diamond is now he will break the money at two times when he is and Zari."

What is the two price?
It was claimed that if Diamond was taking 25 million shillings to the internal show, at the moment with Rob is just two times, therefore it becomes not less than 50 million shillings.

The show to place violence.
That source has explained that through the foreign show that you have not decided to talk about him and already she has already got the contracts of long money in different countries with Rob including, South Africa "Sawazisha '," Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Togo, Angola and another one.

Diamond Jubilee Hall.
After knowing that it is tired of the truth, our reporter called Diamond and moved to the same way where he was found, he confessed that it is true for now to promote many people have been doing a show with Rob.
Diamond said that, that issue is good but each one has its payments because he wanted to go with him the price becomes different compared when he is going back or with his Wasafi team.

Diamond, when I was going to go to the field (events) I ask the first a promotion in me if he will need to go to a show without hesitation and you are required to go to the show without informing them that you are required to go for a different price?

Diamond is well, let your impatience will be able to go and Zari, it is a must they have a cost of its existence.
Friday, what does it mean to have written that until it has said that?
Diamond is not like to know that currently, it has reached a step while on August, there will be a show that I will go and Zari, the number of people is increasing even if I will not get in the hall.

On Friday, let us think how she comes out of the exhibition?
Diamond, Zari, it is a foolish person, therefore he does not have a problem because his security is enough.
