So as the listener is in this article of discussions, there will be a lot of discussions so as to talk with the youth.
And today we are in Dodoma province, our topic says the sex scandal to the residents of Dodoma and the leaders there and they know.
Yes, we will go to speak or we will discuss more information about this problem, which they were looking for more in Dodoma but it's also a lot of bombs in their homes by the name is called clothes and Paul Pogba.
And the number of many lake region is looking at a situation like this, when it is heading to many students when it comes here, we want to change our sister's life in the region of Dodoma the availability of you so as to say our parliamentarians on the second side or sales are there and a big number.
There is a matter.
Facebook network, there are sex pictures of the Board of Statistics (d) in things like things like there are things that are not true to the presence of the parliament.
And they have said that it is confused.
I say it's impossible for you to forgive him, she has said that you go to the social network of the Pan African school because of the students you are.
The candidates want to sell for that Bongo movies.
No wonder but to introduce himself as students so that they are coming, but a China.
If we get in, if we go through the farm, it is contributing to the children getting married because I believe we see the church the members of parliament are looking at, but we see that if the government themselves and I think that they are doing so that we see if they see that they are the ones that are looking for.
Until students are taught.
You know that you can be able to protect themselves because they are contribute but on another side they did not get.
For example, I am me when I am going back home, I come from that I was told that in Dodoma.
It takes the course of the capital city.
There are there that there is a high court there is a must for change to try to look at what happened.
I think it?
You can't know anything and even if you have said that you will be able to follow.
And as you are here and that the victory that you missed into a new blogger.
Do you get my head!
And when you walk on the way it was surprised and he has stopped and shows things that do not be allowed.
Therefore, it is.
Look at a carcass is a week.
I have followed us but.
I will lead you to tell me that I do not go without you but it's still enough for you to speak, but I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know where I don't know but why is why you are found.
It is very clear in the sex market?
And it's not that, members of parliament are involving themselves and that is why many people can be able to look for them or small-scale farmers, and those who do not want them to go back to our parliamentary building is two different things here in the city.
The first government to implement its first laws this law of members of parliament.
The habit of people who have begun to do things like this, we will follow up on the law that people should support him so that they can be facing because of the future generation which she was releasing.
Leaving tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
They don't know or will be another one who are in this country and they are coming to stay safely and held the government now, every time you know you are safe because there is no reason to identify that you are safe and these brothers who are in schools.
When they look at celebrating the money even when the time hit was done at a lot of time, many students have problems in the moment it's a easy problem and it does not be easy because we get a student.
The third year Ugali, having business that.
There are many effects that have contributed to the students, but remember the people who know them are being taken by members of parliament.
Others are not students who are citizens.
Others are not outside the universities?
The secondary and secondary schools are there.
From those who don't know that, we say that when he is saying, I would like to speak about fifty percent and the citizens do not accept to say that she cannot get in Makerere parliament because they are using someone to get everything that they are using a lot of water to get.
It can't know why it was not the students that they are affected and they are required here, they are supposed to know what they are needed here and the students involved in these issues that them have come out to know what they are successful.
Now.
I want to talk about it is that the position that I have only lovers and Atosha Kissava is understood.
To oppose more.
But you are a student to know what you have not allowed?
By hypocrisy the member of parliament written about who is a example which is there.
I am a day I was asked here in the streets you will not know that I don't know what I believe that I don't know what is someone who does not know what I don't know where I don't know what we don't know?
I was not supposed to think that, maybe he was talking about Hamida Hassan, that is where those classrooms have come out and they are coming from Dodoma to believe that we were only one students even when I was just one of the students they were in the past, I also liked jokes.
The roads is forced to ask for him?
Only members of parliament are not present once in order to market him?
Before the parliament of parliament this ship did not have things to see that card as the only students seems to be dealt with from people of the country, who had different meanings in Dodoma and until when I don't have an opportunity to remember our topics.
The sex scandal to the University of Dodoma and Benitu.
.
To listen to the youth themselves, they are saying that it is not a must that the parliament issues have already been there for the student was in Dodoma.
And others are saying that not only students but also different people during the session of parliament, there will be a big increase in female children and the others want to be informed that they are universities for the purpose of continuing to keep him in Dodoma.
We go hand more when I asked himself, what should they do in dealing with this youth problem, they have said that there is a must they have been found to have a romantic relationship with students themselves and the citizens themselves that will make the members of parliament and the war can be unable to do.
Hai passes away.
Therefore, the situation is the thoughts of the youth about this topic.
The late?
So much of what is going for.
Now let us listen to it was not appointed.
If you go to Grind.
In our article I ask the doctor today we will have a guarantee doctor Fredrick elephants from Mwananyamala hospital that is in the district.
Where is it?
Questions, youths about different issues, do not have eight hours, should he be?
I have.
He is not there.
Outside the country.
It is not a girl, I have not been late to get health problems during birth.
How is the whole.
We cannot go?
What should I do?
The child was found.
Only we shall talk.
Let us give you in great age and give them me.
Well.
