
It is one government, one nation or separation with 15.

This is a continuation of my articles which have the aim of wanting the citizens of the mainland to give opinions of wanting one government to one nation in the debate of the new constitution and just after declining to have a third term government, "which has been getting married by people who are in Zanzibar together with the opposition parties.
It has also been the aim of allowing the current system proposed by the government of CCM.
"Two governments, two countries."
For close to 50 years we have been trying to build a nation with two governments and two countries, even so, the current system has brought great problems (not a nuisance), which are arising from the system more than political parties.
For anyone who follow the history of our country, it is easy to see that the ones that are called "problems of the union" basically is the results of a bad system that we are marrying.
Unfortunately, this system has been bad, after leaving the previous agreement of the union and its results to increase other things that have been a reason to bring many problems.
These issues of the union that deals with the system as it is now due to a large extent and we cannot discover that they join small and calm countries like Zanzibar it is difficult to have any ratio with anything without knowing that it's impossible for Zanzibar.
The history of us have shown that one of the reasons for leaving Zanzibar, believed to have a lot of things, it is to eliminate the feelings that Zanzibar has been taken (SMS) and the Tanganyika government.
Although some of the activists of Zanzibar claim that Zanzibar has been directed by the fact is that there is no country that has ever joined with other countries in danger of having great freedom as it is in Zanzibar Islands, then there are very few people in Zanzibar and the court is left to have its whole system of Libyan (president, parliament and court).
It has not been forced to remove some of the things that were specific to Zanzibar and again the government of the United States to go further and stop Zanzibar having its flag, his national song and right now seems to be allowed to have its army (outside of the union).
The citizens of Zanzibar are benefiting more in this union more than the citizens of Mainland Tanzania contrary to the claims that the union explains the truth is that Zanzibar and the people of Zanzibar are benefit from the union more than Tanzania mainland.
Think about this statement of Zanzibar, but Tanzania is the first of Zanzibar but Tanzania is the first to succeed or including the people of Zanzibar and the Zanzibar Islands, but the Tanzanian mainland has only one place in Tanzania.

He wanted to succeed in Zanzibar, the mainland person seems to be the guest or he was quoted as the guest of honor.
I think about the president of the union to appoint the president of Zanzibar to hold any position in the union without caring if that position is part of the agreement between the union and people of the mainland can't understand because the country's agreement is also a Tanzanian!
But the president of Zanzibar cannot appoint a person of the mainland to hold any position in Zanzibar because the person is not the desire of Zanzibar or even if it is a Tanzanian!
For example, you ask you why the president of Zanzibar cannot be able to be a member of the Council of representatives from Mainland Tanzania? I request it will be if the president of Zanzibar would have appointed someone to hold the leadership of the Zanzibar Department and the person who comes from Tanzania?
Now, for those who know the "three governments," will solve this primary problems but I think that if I think of people who have rights in Zanzibar?
In three governments, Tanganyika or will continue looking more to run that government and Zanzibar will contribute little, even so, contribute to there it will increase the claims of Zanzibar's claim "because it is" two countries same. "
The claims that we live on now will be back again with the new strength!
If this is true then I believe that the lasting solution to the conflict between the union is to claim that "the government is one of the country," this is together with making Zanzibar to be withdrawn from implementing its own kind of having his things and the mainland can be buried in the cost of the union.
In building one nation, one government is basically we will have forgotten the best way of running a full union (the Coastal Union). Now we have no full union but the top one is the one that will enable them to reach "the government and one country" and from this thoughts, "and from this ideas which is not known.
So as to achieve this, the citizens of Mainland are when they are going to give opinions about the structure of a union not to make sure that "the third government" since it will be a great contribution to those citizens.
If the two governments have already been a great contribution to the people of Tanzania, it is clear that the third government will be more big cargo and in the third phase of Zanzibar, it will be proud of them because the success of the mainland will be able to benefit from the concerned union.
For there, it will be Zanzibar, Tanganyika and Zanzibar are the ones that are done by the United Republic of Zanzibar and benefit from a little country, in Zanzibar together with benefit from a little country, one government and one country and outside that, it is separation with the person, but God is us all of us.
