
Ukawa has reported with a new, said Haazu taking part of the presidential results announced by NEC.

CHADEMA in collaboration with parties that make up Ukawa, today are meeting to discuss the activities that were not legal and announcing the results, they accused the Electoral Commission (NEC), CCM and the police force to cooperate with those results.

The leaders of Ukawa, Freeman Mbowe, who is the member of parliament, James Mbatia (chairperson, NCCR-Revolution) and Professor Abdallah Safari, who is a member of the executive committee of parliament who came to journalists yesterday at Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam city and said they did not know what they were not aware of those results.

Mbowe told the journalists yesterday that there are youths from Kenya, who have been placed in one hotel in Dar es Salaam who are doing work of revealing the results that are from the neighborhood and later to take it to NEC.

"That is why the results involved in the forms of our agents are not one with the results announced by NEC," said the speaker of parliament.

He mentioned some of the counties that are in Nyamagana, Rungwe, Kahama Town, Shinyanga Town, Kyela and South Ugunja.

"This work of contraception is being done by CCM, coordinated with NEC and big supervisors are the police," said Mbowe.

While contributing to the issue, Professor Lipumba gave an example of Tandahimba in Kibaha town where NEC announced that NEC announced to be the CCM candidate, Doctor John Magufuli got 4998 votes compared to Lowassa, 46,500 votes are different from 280 votes.

"But the real results from our agents show Lowasa in 44,547 votes and Doctor Magufuli is 44,253 households which are different from 284 votes," said Professor Lipumba.

He also said that NEC announced that Lowassa got 6000 votes in Tunduma City, while their results indicate he got 342 votes.

Mbowe also spoke about the 191 youths who were arrested by police, where eight out of them were taken to court yesterday to answer the charges of doing mistakes in the network.

"The act that was done by informing them is the brutal procedure it deserves," said Mbowe.

"First, there are two invited guests who are not involved in the activities of the parliamentary results."

He said that the action of the police to arrest those youths who had been unable to pay the results, has asked the system of revenue collection.

"But now we are using the forms of our agents that show (CCM presidential candidate, Edward Lowassa, is leading with a huge difference of votes," said Mbowe.

He said those youths have been arrested for the offense which was made by a member of the campaign committee of CCM, January Makamba who Mbowe said he has been announcing the election results with the number of constituencies without legal action.

"This is not the elections, it is air," said Mbowe.

However, Makamba said yesterday that there is no problem of him saying that they will win a certain percentage because every party has been saying so.

"This situation makes us believe that NEC's reasons do not register their voters' register and protect their opponents to inspect the system."

Mbowe said that they are forced to discuss this issue because the constitution is not knowing the presidential results being interviewed in court.

He said the parliamentary committee will meet today in Dar es Salaam city to discuss the issue and gave a statement and also a session of Ukawa leaders will meet today to give direction on elections.

Speaking at that meeting with the journalists, Mbatia said that, this is a disaster area that was made by human beings while causing its effects.

"The country is wealth of all the people and Ukawa don't want to violence and NEC is going to complete the decision that the elections for this year will not be free."

"You can be able to serve the results, you can't answer the feelings of stem cells," said Mbatia.

He said that which comes out is the action of President Jakaya Kikwete to refuse recommendations of the opposition parties that put him to change four things in the constitution before the election.

He mentioned the mother who passed away as the presidential results were interviewed in court, being allowed to be the private candidate, his presidential candidate won by more than 50 percent and the election commission to be free.
