My fellow Tanzanians recently.
When you get in Dar es Salaam city, we're very close to me, when I was found, I have found information that there is the seedlings coming from.
I advise you to tell my colleagues that by bad luck, because they had gone to.
The blood is common for our transportation of us, but all of them feel very much and wait for this seeds but because this time it has been late and I told him.
I'll tell ourselves that when I have risen to then next year all of us will be able to remove all the great wave.
Activities of internal meetings need more effort, although, by considering the traditional research, the biggest experts for agriculture is supposed to do this job for close cooperation and strengthening these sectors but they wanted the important information that we request to be from seven o'clock.
Seventies and nine of fifty and three out of nine and three out of fifty and three out of fifty and nine of five have passed and nine have seen that we want to travel.
The late God or the farmer is aiming to get approximately four tons of hectares.
The blood is what came from, comes back with the agricultural research institution in Kibaha.
I have the ability to give birth.
Ten thousand up to ten tons of ten thousand shillings per liter is like three times.
.
Production which becomes a probability by the poor is normal.
Now many years have been a problem especially in danger to get the seedlings.
And we have seen it is good that in this current procedure of removing them, I think it will be identifying your news on Mkulabi and Maasais.
Remember to ensure that the farmer gets correct technology so that it can be able to increase.
For that reason, then that is why he cannot go and let us see that we get enough to those who go to each other.
The late God rest the business of business but another one which is best in the potatoes.
They are war in May the world is divided into Karimjee grounds.
Potatoes as a criterion on women.
My claimed that twenty-five has been twenty thousand, for every one, one hundred thousand, one hundred and carrots there is an amount like Mathew gives my own and third.
Yes, my belief over the blood of the moment is Pickup, which is the source of shivered to the war.
It makes a lot of pregnant women to ensure that your children are under six years.
And it is able to see the truth and because, we have seen these diseases, and even so, it will help those people as one way of solving this problem of war in May they believe that and are found on the way.
Women and using the tablets or injections.
It is available by eating food that has the war, have done this work to be able to help them.
Almighty God bless people that are depending on their lives due to the reality of the sun.
The others will get part of the farmer.
So that can it cannot be careful.
That he will increase the production time or up to four times also the production he gets now because it is their own income, it will be five hundred thousand shillings, then it will be two hundred thousand times the preparations will be two million times.
The cost that the income will be taken against them.
And this is the current plan to remove poverty and grow the economy?
But the aim of the second goal.
It is saying that this farmer need us that he will go down there that he does not depend on the government every year.
It does not have brought these sentiments.
Therefore we give them training on this entrepreneurship that you cannot produce these treatments and provide care here at the time.
The biggest challenge that is in the farm is that they are unable to maintain the seedlings and during drought now, the strategy of giving the training for sustainable energy production and sells them in business because the first will be selling them but also I will sell the potatoes but by doing so.
We will help even with other people that they have no boundaries because my family of the Big will be those who came up.
Technology is science in actions.
He is saying that those planes arising from research conducted by considering the procedures and regulations as well used to be used in large numbers and so as to meet its quality to water health as well as to meet the competition standards in the market.
For now the fundraising is for a person.
Thousand shillings.
We have been told up to fifty thousand now, by doing that business only to sell the seeds that you will have been given a poverty to this farmer but it doesn't identify more when he becomes selling and potatoes.
So as Mkukuta, seems to be accountable through the agricultural sector.
Get better upbringing for us the benefit.
These hours we have been able to come out on bail, I get to me the best seeds when I went to me and I am very happy when I get.
To me, get its use to look for its use of masturbation.
The work was done.
I will talk you so much.
For you get agriculture one is accused of two farmers and experts.
Farmers are using an opportunity to ask many questions about their farming sector where the expertise to give good answers is very fast, I will go to work hard, do not give development.
Because when you get these teachings about the training he was given and for several years I will be able to do not have great changes in our families, is to use them easily.
Farmers of Tumbatu got the crops to meet their food needs for a year whereby most of them sell to a girl and then it will have reduced, therefore he will have been able to pay for someone by the buyer and even if it will be able to resolve it.
I will have already opened a contract to maintain.
Class one is the only place to learn a lot of things about the use of modern seeds so as to get better crops by using a small area in a very long time.
On another side, it is in this period where something's popularity to sell the blood is found.
Climate change is one of the topics that were given to the farmers so that they can be able to know how to protect themselves.
Agricultural stakeholders from different provinces to arrive in which they are used to get new seedlings.
It will be remembered that on another side, these farmers of livestock in this village have received the new seeds so as to get themselves with agriculture and it is not known as some of the farmers of that village to ensure that the plane had already been taken to the village for the needs of access to better harvest.
From the picture.
The executive officer of this village stated that together with developing the production and distribution of seeds that need the environment of water so that the government's directive on the sources of water sources and the water environment will continue to be taught.
More than ninety percent of Tanzanians are depending on food due to the production of agriculture and small-scale farmers including those farmers.
This plain truth and any one that lives in the areas of towns and in all villages.
Together with the benefits the use of these treatments, he will increase the level of numbers to different quality and types of herbal medicines that are popular by the name Morogoro, with the use of herbal medicines which are effective in developing agriculture and farmers who agree to come out of agriculture production.
