The attack of Arusha is about the collapse of the constitution.
May 6th, 2013.

By making a lot of words to be remembered that he ever told the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, while bidding farewell to each other, and with us to our citizens, we wish you greetings to our condolences to our writer, we should talk about those important words.
We are using those words to urge love and be patient during this difficult time of a threat to the peace of peace in the country and that we have been happy together with fruits of our peace, and now, we should wait until when we go together.
We should learn such as we see if we go together due to the deaths of our colleagues, and several injured of events of breach of peace in the country, not only because of the area of Arusha alone, but all events of that kind were affected.
We communicate with all others to pray for all the victims of the bomb attack in the Catholic church of St Joseph Warioba, the parish of Oliver Wema, the Catholic Archdiocese of Arusha, last Sunday, to get affordable prices and to those who died from that incident, we said that God will give them a solution to peace.
But apart from that, we are supporting all the steps of looking for the involved in this brutal incident of wanting people that do not have guilty, again people who had gathered in order to fulfill the requirements of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Basically, there is an incident to prevent those believers that are facing the collapse of the constitution and as such as suppression of constitution of the country is not an issue of being used to be completed.
President of the country, has freed the constitution, members of parliament have condemned the constitution and Good Governance, in general, we want to see the truth that the constitution should be done by our leaders in this event, and even other events that follow up with this issue should be a terrorist or not.
We thank all the government to give all important information that can help arrest the perpetrators of this event to come out in state agencies to give those information.
As he said, the Member of Parliament for Rombo, Joseph Selina, and many other members of parliament together with the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, is not enough to use this event of sadness.
We believe that making politics during defecation due to tears like this, is equal to the bereaved and even the victims of the incident, this is time to join and not the time to separate yourself from our knowledge by using a bridge of politics or different of the party ideology.
