TEMESA came out with his skill.

It has been written by our correspondent, Kibaha.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The delegates of the road board in Pwani province have requested the government to change the law of its vehicles to be made by the Technical Electrical Agency (TEMESA) from being unable to meet the technical criteria despite their cost being high.

While speaking at that session, members from different districts said at different times that the agent has been making vehicles under the level and causing them to work after maintenance.
The challenge has found the Coast Provincial Commissioner, Evarist Ndikilo who said that his car is in TEMESA is constructed by saying that there is a need for the manufacturing of vehicles to the agent to be looked at afresh.
The director of Kibiti District Council, Alhadi Ndonga, said that the government is supposed to look at that issue keenly because TEMESA has been putting up by lack, therefore, an issue that pushed them to see the need to ask for government vehicles to be made in other areas.
Ndaichako said that the cost of renovations for the agents are big and they do not coincide with the renovations that are being done.
The Member of Parliament of Kibaha Rural Constituency, Hamlyn Erasto has said that they have done research on TEMESA and discovered that their ability is small because they made a vehicle for five million shillings, but after a short period of five million shillings but now it is in the market is being sold.
While contributing to the motion, the Chairperson of the Chalinze county council, Said Zohra Moore, said that they were taking their car but the equipment that are required to support him will not be changed, the step that caused the vehicle not to do not in work despite the proposed constitution.
The commander of the road safety squad in the Coastal Region, Abdi Asango, said that the cost that are being used by that agency is big and they do not meet the need, he said the agents of vehicles from outside are making sure and said there is need to change the procedure.
The Manager of TEMESA in the Coastal Region, Richard Mutagamba, said it is good for the concerned parties to do research because they have been making many vehicles and there are no problems.
