
Dissolving the cries of hunger is not to break the union between Article 5, 2012.

The same as we wake up, if it is wrong, it's still a must, then it has been revealed that the community of the Islamic State House (IMR) in Zanzibar says that it has put the responsibility of removing the people of Zanzibar about the many of religion and the world.
Among those who are the United Republic of Tanzania that brought together Tanganyika and Zanzibar countries on 26th of April in the year 1995, in short summary, the community of the constitution opposed the coalition. There was no doubt that, that, it has many followers in the islands.
The community has been the purpose of giving education to believers and religious leaders about the issues of the constitution including the issue of coalition and validity.
He said that they have the freedom to do so and when the same time we should not think about words that Mwalimu Julius Nyerere told BBC Colyvas of the colonial newspaper of England in the year 1965, that he will not lead the bombs of people as they refused to continue with the union.
That act of that attack was done by several hundred people if it is not several thousand people, every time it will be done so as if it is successful thus it has been able to bring down the government of the national union and even discourage them, the situation will be stopped in the process of the constitution.
Their strategy is easy to make improvements by using the youth, they should leave each other to use the youth, they want to change the leaders of CUF and they inform the leaders of CUF and they face their activities.
If we want that by doing so, they will be able to make sure the heads of the government of Tanzania and the biggest of this world should be read to Zanzibar with another thing.
They want especially, and in this, they have their colleagues in Tanzania, it is difficult for the activities of the coalition.
The violence that started on Saturday the 26th of May, were approved by police by not using wisdom, they ordered the Sheikh Mussa Issa of his followers to coming out, to their husbands, big entrepreneurs in front of police station where by being buried and they are supposed to be free.

The police are going to fight with the crowd by diggers.
That is where there was a group of people who went to fire with the church and breaking the bar and breaking up with some of the bar which equals to Shangani areas where these were drinking alcohol.

It is good to look at how those events have been presented to the amount of media houses and taking people to believe that "Zanzibar will make people to believe that" Zanzibar will follow "and not where he went for tourists, Christians or WWW.
Unfortunately, there is no foreign embassy that has made information to warned their citizens not to communicate, Zanzibar, and there is no need to thank the demonstrators together with the army police by doing things that he could not continue to make the situation to be bad.

Former police received a lot of strength to an extent and they ever killed the demonstrators who do not have weapons like that happened in Pemba earlier in the year 2001 when several people who do not were shot by security forces in the year 2010.

If you follow today's end, it is possible that among the victims of the days of violence is one church that was a fire that is a bad thing, the same thing, the same way and the one to go against the teachings of Islam.

It's a mistake of criminal Investigation in any place of worship. It is also a big offence to try to blame any party or any community as the ones that is involved and reading the fire.

Zanzibar has the popularity of the people of race, color, and different religion as it is also praised to how Muslims - who are many in the country.
If they agree with our friends that are very few, for a period of more than the 19th century, those who have been getting full freedom of worship and they have been at the park.

About that Zanzibar does not have a lot of us as Islamic countries, we did not want to hear in history or witness that Christians and Zanzibar are disappointed because of their faith.

Certainly, in the middle of the 19th century and later in the Missionaries of Christian Bella, when seeking ways of using it and getting into the Great Lakes region and part of the East African continent, all of them started in Zanzibar.
In the end of that time they gave those who was carrying a lot of messages and informing members of the African Continent, let me do not tire the Missionaries of the mainland.
Likewise, the streets had given the Missionaries of people who want to lead them in their footsteps of spreading it in the East African region as it was in many in the past that is in Zanzibar.
However, the land that was set aside for the Anglican Church diocese of catholic marriages in Bunda town, Unguja was issued for free and Sultan Kipingo of Zanzibar and caused those two religious denominations.

It is not easy to say that you used that patient will agree. It will not accept it means that you have been built in the culture of Zanzibar in Zanzibar with the culture that are needed to be followed without making a difficult time.

The culture is not only that it does not tolerate any religion but also you are going to respect religious different and reproductive rights especially in the community.

When we see we have no need but to agree with President Jakaya Kikwete that he said that breaking a union could not be found guilty of hunger.
For now, a wise issue is to wait for the results of the police force about an issue of reading the church, we are expecting that criminals who won the step will be taken to court so that their step is not very delicious.
Similarly, we have never seen that this today citizens of Zanzibar have the freedom to say and in accordance with the constitution of Zanzibar and the law of the country, together with those of the government of the United Republic that are said that Tanzania - and therefore Zanzibar - it is a democratic country.
Likewise, it is important to see that the issue of the union is an issue that is affecting the ones that are being discussed and do not understand the groups of people without caring about who or the community also discuss this issue.
One thing that comes out in all the debate and it is not good again because people of Zanzibar have already identified himself the fear of them is that many of them, although they don't want to give them the current situation of the union of the constitution that has made his government to have great strength and great authority.
Many of them could not continue instead it is controlling, there is a union like the United Republic of Europe, in short time they want a union of two countries that are free and cooperate.

For now, people are smoking of patience, they would get the opportunity to give their views to their offices about the future of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Likewise, he has said that after that, they will get another opportunity to give their views in opinion polls, they should be asked if they don't accept or do not accept this new constitution that will be supported after the process of giving opinions.

That will be an opportunity to get available and will enable the referendum polls about the constitution to be votes on the union.

If you take their stand of giving a union to you, we should ask ourselves if the mountain can get into its project at this time of the process to go through the constitution.

We should not tell you that the religious community and all religious leaders are allowed to give their views on the issue of the union and its fate.

In Zanzibar, the contest did not affect the political leaders of different ideology from different times, they have made statements about their stand about the union. Even President Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein was quoted recently saying that he is participating in the exercise to go through the constitution together with President Kikwete.

Again, there are delegates of the council of representatives of Zanzibar who for many years have been explaining the way it is not less than impressed by the coalition and even before it starts the interests of Zanzibar, the issues of oil and natural gas were taken before the council.

Although you will still not give an official report about its policies, and you do that you will change to be political party, its leaders even so, they have been giving a chance to get to be the president of the United Republic of Zanzibar through the opinion polls that will ask the citizens if they get into the union.

It is clear that the religious leaders do not see this process of the current process about the constitution that doesn't have a meaning.

In addition to that, the leaders did not show a way that can be used to fulfill the aim of bringing to them the Zanzibar freedom and they did not show how the opinion polls will be used and if they will be able to fulfill their goal by using religious ways and religious leaders without involving the leaders of Zanzibar and the union.

