
The wife takes the husband's leg.
And Kimani will also understand.
Jokate Mwegelo in that here he sees injuries after his wife broke her leg because of carelessness.
Kalunga said that he was doing the driving work in one communication company in Nairobi.
"Even so, because of what his big leaders at work they mentioned as a habit of playing with work, relatives have been sacked," said the reception.
No wonder is that after going back, the alami, did not look for employment but instead, he won the whole day that could lead you with a modem.
This is because together with being a person, relatives have shivered.
According to the reception area, it is laziness that raised him, a situation that made him come from his life.
Yesterday's day, his wife left the and heading to the market after its own fire activities and leave depressed, as he continued to sleep it occurred when it arrived at ten o'clock in the evening when the children came back from the market.
Close to that mother, it appears to be afraid that the cows that were sent by their disappearance.
Listen to me, the cows that have been rushing to the farm and caused a big destruction of plants.
What made him the mother to travel is very attractive, they believe that at the time all her husband ran away, "on television.
Getting back to the anger, the mother entered inside the house and asking to face her husband.
"That is a whole, it has a whole man like you, then the cow could be able to escape and you can't know anything because you are a man to prevent it," he told the mother to rage.
"You should be given a lesson that if you remember in life," said the mother and taking part of iron sheets and broke her husband without stopping.
The cry for the Third was forced to save the neighbors who arrived to save their daughters, he made a bullet in the hospital so as to get treatment while his wife was going to look for a cow.
It has not been known as a person getting away from his wife or he will give him a mistake that he put him.
