
As he promised, they were being transported on August 13th, 2012.

Last Saturday, the ruling party, CCM, showed that they still would be able to collect thousands and thousands of members and his fans and he put him for some time listening to a speech after the government's speech explained what they used to make it successful in the short time future.
That Jangwani meeting was attended by many people so much, and many were seen to have a draw in that party that it was seen as a new constitution because that party could destroy many people to a long time, it was a difficult time for a long time, had been seen as a result of a long time.

I know that the viewers and most analysis have been saying that the crowd had a huge amount because the heads of the party in Dar es Salaam used a lot of money to rise up to those members, and that some of them were paid so as to hold that exhibition sitting.
Even if that is true, it is true that people who went into the desert to voluntary contribution, because we have not got the reports of all that was abducted by being taken to the desert.

Another thing on how to look like the victory of the ruling party is that the action of the ministers of the government to show caring about the citizens to an extent of knowing that they decided to provide information to the citizens, something that happened when it was heading to the ministers they will begin to report "to the citizens, who have now confirmed that they are the rich people.
The third issue which has been mentioned is that the ruling party has decided to answer to the opposition party's opposition by taking the statements by those opponents and scorned those claiming that it is what is done by the legality of our country.
Though they should come early, heads of the ruling party wanted people to believe that the aim of the Jangwani meeting was not known, to answer the death of CHADEMA, but the ones who don't know where the meeting was to answer the rate from the beginning to the end and it did not have another goal.

The fourth issue which I was made from that meeting is that the ruling party has started a campaign because of the next general elections, we have been used to meet the heads of the party when they criticized the opponents for conducting a campaign meeting.
It is possible that the stand of not doing campaigns until the year 2015 has been allowed to have a great cost of that party and that is why I have not decided to do if they are and heads of CHADEMA.
Now, at least we know that the political parties in the country, CCM and CHADEMA have been getting in the permanent campaign, and that these campaigns will be able to make sure more about the policies and plans of the party, it is easy to see for the soccer team to do exercises for what they have started.
I am saying that the incident came out last Saturday is a sign that the ruling party is not ready to continue to rule, the aim is to remove power because the ruling party is to remove it, and that's why the ruling party was to remove power, the argument and answers against the issue.

I will not wait until now is that in order to answer the rate, the ruling party will not make sure more problems of what is there and that it will make corrections without considering that it is easy for a group of people that have written them without considering what they have said.

For example, in that meeting in the Jangwani grounds, the chapter that emerged was more government than the ruling party, it is true that the ministers who were in the desert are party members of the ruling party, and that it did not have doubt.
Also, he was also the secretary of ideology and propagation, together with the guardian of Dar es Salaam Province, but the chairperson was where the executive secretary was where and the deputy chairperson was where the main message of the council was to prove that the truth of the party's work to answer the charges of the opponents for a permanent way?

I am happy that this was the whole issue of fire, the emergency preparations to try to reduce the pace of opposition by going through there they received and doing what they participated in their opponents.
It is a sign that things have been touched and so much, there are a time in two several decades ago where we witnessed opposition parties having been trying to follow everything done by the ruling party, which is against him because it is the ruling party that starts being done by their opponents.

It is easy to inform the ministers and go to the park, do not know what their government has done and it is intending to do, more than the political leaders inside the party to explain politics which even them don't know where this is why to take ministers instead of leaders of the party as leaders of the party.

Listen to me, the promise is a debt, and already the ruling party has already put aside debts since it has been a habit of giving false promises in the coming days of the year 2010, we heard many other promises in the coming days.

Eight years ago, for example, we heard the promise of making employment for millions of the year 2010 we did not like to hear a lot of employment opportunities, and they should come out and say that employment have been made although not many who believe in those stories.

It is important for politicians to recognize that the state of the country and its citizens have changed so much and today, we have many people, especially the youth, who are on well and by very close to them, and to identify what they heard.

Unfortunately, we have advised the culture that is saying that we believe that politics is false, and that in order to remove it in politics then you have not been seen today, therefore our politicians do not have the truth but they are not aware of their competence.

It is not supposed to tell the citizens that their government is dealing with inflation and difficult conditions of life when everyone sees that the situation continues to be bad.
Even if you have told them that the government continues to resolve the issue, and you want all citizens to resolve the issue, and you want the citizens to be patient, because they do not have patience, because they can do what?
In this campaign that started last Saturday, it is obvious that we will learn a lot.
For example, I know that it is the plans to start a railway transport in Dar es Salaam city and will start when it will involve the areas we will come to know later.
But we remember that more than ten years ago we were told about the high-speed buses in Dar es Salaam city, today, we see the roads are being built on a goalless draw.
You will help our heads if they had been able to sit together, in the party meetings, and discuss all the political issues, economic, community and culture before starting from Jangwani, to give another promise.

The opponents do not want to confirm because they have not arrested the power of the ruling party that has carrying a load of thanks what has done what is done in the whole period of his administration before it has said that it is supposed to do what to give another promise that will come to become a great intention.

My advice, welcome to reduce the promises they are just on how to agree.
