In the discussions there and Cargo to benefit from their daughters, there are some effects when a girl when he gets a fashion show, it shows how to start them keenly to the name is called live. "
One of the witnessing of the wearing of clothes that are not honor to them.
Is committing sin?
We like it is not because those clothes have the equipment have been touched by the ones that do not be used for this time and it can also be able to remain with the youths in the streets due to no need.
The cause of the state in the country seems to be due to the wearing of those clothes and the other effects may be done by the youth due to the clothes the same time you can meet it because we will be bringing down our culture.
There are a lot of culture, we have written the culture of another country that you can say what is preparing to have an agreement between the family there are people taking the clothes.
As a family like a family not allow you to get her home that she gets inside his own clothes, he has put it up to be his friend where they allow him to give it.
So that if you quote it is allowed, it is controlling and honesty, which is not official for fear and the name is called Mary Magdalene, most of them have been insulting each other from outside the country by causing great problems.
For example a girl can be put in a short message or clothes as what is in the country is caused a lot of problems that if your parents get married, if you do not give birth to an extent that if a person does not give birth to you, maybe the body becomes no value.
For it is good, that you don't know where I don't know if you are affected, the truth is so bad, the results are so bad, about the girls we separated even so things.
The things that do not go and not our origin who go to weight, we have never happened the same hours when we were directed and not the respect, others are saying what should be open.
What is why?
They are following these kinds of clothes to sell clothes recently claimed that they are not a fashion deal, but many of them use them by getting money, the people are using it, they know that a marriage is what they are in Fashen.
But this of this is not good to see if I have put on clothes to others feel that apart from his trousers using the board.
The tropical that is why he is in a fashion deal.
The girl getting your good clothes at a kitenge if you see you.
You're happy and also you can give himself the reputation.
Even when the time you can be engaged to you, you can make sure that you sell more than three others from the honor and clothes of honor which he will have a another thing that does it do.
Give them a short message, they say it is wrong, you find the another person they have been planned while part of the chairpersons have never been successful.
That is a criterion of having high risks.
And if you look at that short message even so as to be able to pass through you, you can't even if it is.
What is to look at and look at what he likes other things that lead you.
Yes that caused people to wear long clothes.
Or those that follow all sins affected by all.
You know the other to them is with his parents and strong, he says that she is the father's father and I cannot put on how I will stop.
But when he was surprised by those my friend, they are saying how many men are saying that they collect them.
They are told that you will know how you will benefit us what is what we are how to let me do even in status.
Go safely and at the time you are and other things are the source of people.
And everything that were found is the upbringing of another mother is what is the name.
Ras Kiduku was to marry her child.
And he knows this, Ngowi is not good.
And even if a child used to live, I will not be left to one hundred thousand applications but their parents are first to buy yourself when I see the groups.
Because you find a girl and a disaster in groups that are not good.
Friends, you pay you and you know where we go to, if you find the girl in his call, I don't know if she desires for now, you want many youths to see their problems because they are able to arrest those problems because they are able to arrest those problems because they are able to arrest those problems.
When I will play their daughters, now you will walk on.
The name of skin does not affect the honor even in the parts of other people.
Maybe as a result of the environment.
You find you the another person to change when he found himself using it?
His brothers or her sister do.
There is someone who plays doing so that there are other people he had gone down.
And globalization or what happens at looking for example, if these days there are these days?
Or to them, that is the clothes that she does not see.
Be careful not to be put on this mosquito when he was walking on how it's still a house.
Maybe he is a section that has done it to them, if he sees them, he sees it good.
Then.
Its results, you find you passing at the net, a whole person like her father, you inform us, I am happy to see that Brian Umony as he is insufficient.
She found himself and he is working with the father, you know the father's wife and his wife at home and seven children.
How to protect themselves as?
To go to be a good picture for us, we have had a lot of pictures from their daughters, a girl who is still continuing to wear clothes that are not of honor to our weakness what Tanzanians thank you from a fashion show.
For their daughters, they still continue to put on clothes.
Therefore, I would like to advise you.
There are good clothes that can be allowed to say the truth is a girl.
And not to follow the clothes of our White men.
The clothes to do clothes have condemned the body outside the truth, they don't have a girl like the name of Jichunge.'
Those long hands with short hands is an average, what did not see if we are internal affairs.
The clothes of honor are just a lot of honor, therefore the Ambassador and get a girl wherever you are using that is using it, from now if you are not wrong, except that are not true.
Effects have we heard of here from their colleagues.
To go to and at the time it is not about to show the fight against your discussions today I stopped him.
