All citizens can participate in the debate.
APR of 19, 2012

I would like to explain more about my saying that even the constitution would have been written in great competence and when it will be enough to be a solution to our problems if it will not be enough to go with those big problems and with a chance in the nation.
I am happy to pray for a constitution as an legal reason for political parties and the law is written after that politics has not been operated without any way, it is revealed that through one way, it's also a great debate, among all citizens.
All of us know that, it will not be even one time for all the citizens of Tanzania to sit together, in a sports field or at the conference hall, because of the smell to participate in the debate and eventually make decisions in together.
The smallness of the areas enabled that to be done, but in the modern ruling that I did, but we can be able to expand the debate of the debate of making sure that the whole country, every province, every ward and every village or small town all over the country.
In this way it is possible to ensure that every citizen who has the qualifications to participate in the debate is doing so as to contribute to its thoughts in looking for the national time.
By good luck, our country is among the countries with administrative structure, which is coming down until at the end of the end in Dar es Salaam and taking them to the end of Kigoma), Karineli (last in the end of the province), Karineli (end of Kilimanjaro) and Nyamukowa (end of Mara).
The condition of easy communication has just got to a great extent, due to the use of the website, but even before this growth we are participating in the ICT and administrative communication, especially through the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere radio, especially using the national radio and also the police radio.
Without doubt, currently the report of the coordination of the debate will go through easily immediately because of this growth of computer and mobile phones, we will take advantage of this opportunity.
I've heard about the thoughts being followed keenly of wanting every citizen to participate in the debate of the new constitution, because even this constitution they have not know how one of the citizens do not know what we have been living in the constitution and even the scholars is a few who could have seen in the constitution and regulations.
I think it is a big part this is due to the fact that people depend on a constitution like soda, which was not easy to be read by someone who does not be easy to be read by someone who does not be easy to be read by someone who does not be able to be read by someone who does not have the ability to understand the ordinary citizen.
However, we have no need to recognize that there is a long distance not, the cause of the citizens and the constitution that runs their country for now.
There are several times citizens, they were required to give opinions about some sections of the constitution because our leaders are determined to make certain changes and they think it is good to get a lesson to the citizens, but we request that they have never been able to write a constitution that runs their country.

That's the biggest reason that is making citizens not to use that constitution, an issue that I had started, about one place, and you will continue to follow up, to know how it continues, to know its problems and to think his fate.
This is true about the seeds that you used, that you will allow you to follow up, it will give it up, to give it more, to measure themselves and protect themselves on the water, forcing us against severe pain, and so on.
If citizens will be involved in writing the new constitution that will be sun, because they will have discussed its sections in details.
