
Who does not vie for his party, Zitto or Kikwete?
Dec 13, 2012

One newspaper for every day in the country recently, in the front page, made a report with the news reporter, "Zitto Kabwe wrote a secret of JK about the word" what made JK has come up to Kigoma North constituency to announce the CCM candidate. "

It is a report that was caused by the interview between the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, and the social network in the country, Jamii Forum, that was written by that newspaper together with those that were written inside that social network, how you remember about the truth of rumors that there was President Jakaya Kikwete and Zitto Kabwe.

I thank Zitto Kabwe for his patriotic heart, to address a very long time about his relationship with Kikwete.

Without doubt, prevent us from general they will have heard the statement of Zitto Zuberi to cook with his lover with President Kikwete!

There are a long time questions that we have voters for Kigoma North ', we have been asked without the answers Mister Elias Mwandu at the ticket of the 2010 general elections, Zitto Zuberi to write a ring saying that, "Simba cannot get her child, but it's not aware of her child."

Now some of the words have made, we have seen Simba is who, and his son who are. Before I'm going on, we should not return to the evaluation of the general elections of the year 2005 and 2010 to Zitto won the parliamentary seat.

In the year 2005, Jakaya Kikwete of CCM got more than 70 percent in that province in that region with 10 wards, CCM won the councilor in seven wards, while CHADEMA had three seats.

But together with the victory of CCM, for the presidential candidate to win by more than 70 percent, and also a victory to the councilors of more than 70 percent, the former member of parliament from CHADEMA, Zitto Kabwe.

The parliamentary candidate of CCM in that year, Jackson has called Mayomba, together with his party to get a landslide victory in the presidential level and councilors, he was unable.

We the voters of this province, who will be supported, Mayomba, we thought the voters they had gone down, they did not agree with him, so he knows the secret of an ancient attack.

In the year 2010, the presidential candidate of CCM (Jakaya Kikwete), got more than 60 percent votes in the election, a total of 11 wards in the last results, CCM collected nine wards and CHADEMA ended up two wards after it was in the year 2005 with the parliamentary candidate of CCM, this journey, Robinson Mela.

So, the voters of Kigoma northern region in general, they love Zitto Kabwe more than CHADEMA?

We shall think about the year 2005 to Zitto Kabwe, he didn't have a member of parliament, that great contribution to this nation followed it through this platform where parents and his brothers from Kigoma are not seen, but Kikwete?

In the year 2010, Zitto Kabwe got a servant in the government for more than 30 years, and between all the 25 years, he was in the top level of public service at the position of the director.

Apart from the year 2010, he was vying for a parliamentary candidate on the CUF ticket, that I remember by one name of the world, this one has bought several secondary schools in the country that offer great contribution in this nation it is not seen, but to Zitto Kabwe?

In this context, I say Zitto Kabwe did not make public to explain the foundation of his love to Kikwete, Zitto Zuberi to do CHADEMA, CCM members and religious leaders from general to be careful.

Analysis, you will ask you, which is a relationship that is there between the candidate and his party who had appointed him is the leader of the political party to have a close relationship with the party or every person to work without campaigning for his fellow party.

Personally I believe that the victory of the candidate is a victory of the party and that is why the presidential candidate, councilor and chairman of the village is called by his party.

Therefore, there is no way someone can separate the relationship of the candidate and his party.

And on the view of CCM, when it reached during the election campaign, it is the first person later on the same time, it is the responsibility of every member of CCM to fight for that party and the punishment for a member of parliament.

About the relationship between the leader of the party and another candidate of the opposition party, the relationship cannot be independent without being independent in the concerned party with the leader of CCM to set up a working environment, and that the foundation has reduced the power of his party in parliament.

When it comes up when the ruling party leader to help him the parliamentary candidate of the opposition camp, then he wants her to be as the opposition member of parliament, but the opposition member of CCM party and the opposition leaders here is that in politics, there is no free support.
On that basis, the secret of the party and the opposition member of parliament cannot be secret of the ruling party.

In a political system we have, the presidential candidate we have, the candidate for any political party to enable us to avoid the political party.

When it comes up, a candidate claimed that he does not pollute the peace, Swahili and others similar to that, instead of the policies that he has been sent by his party when they give the efforts to vie for, then there is goals and expectations of the members and the voters in general have been put up again.

In the normal logic, it is not true that the friendship is in good and health for the development of the party, it's because that leader to convince his song each other to his party in order to destroy the great goalkeeper from CCM and to join CCM.

Even on the side of opposition parties, examples are also the secretary general of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, he was able to convince his colleague, Rose Muhando to leave CCM and join CHADEMA.
This is eternal peace and their friendship within the party and contrary to that, it's true that the words of Zitto Kabwe is correct, Kikwete is not a number one candidate for his party desires to lead, and this should never mention this party.

All who followed the election campaigns of 2010, during the campaign launch of the CCM parliamentary candidate that took place in Mkonga ward, where he was at home for the former CCM chairperson of Kigoma Rural district, and who was also vying for the councilor seat in Kigoma Rural District, instead of posters of the parliamentary candidate of CCM and his party.

If the truth he said that Zitto Kabwe is open that which happened in the year 2005 and 2010, it is clear that Zitto Kabwe did not pray for him for the presidential candidate Freeman Mbowe, and even by Doctor Slaa's candidate, but by Doctor Slaa's presidential candidate, President Jakaya Kikwete.

That is the deputy secretary general of CHADEMA, and the presidential running mate of CHADEMA, it is important for CHADEMA to implement his album by Doctor Slaa or Mbowe.
Writer of this article, Baraka Shulukindo, has identified himself that he is a reader of this newspaper of eternal peace and member of politics of Kigoma North constituency led by Zitto Kabwe.
