
There are no land conflicts.
May 29, 2014.

The Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Professor Anna Tibaijuka, has given education about land conflicts in the country and explained that basically there is no land conflicts but that is, "conflicts of land users" which are caused by the increase of users while the land has not been added.

He has said that his ministry has put different ways to deal with that situation, especially conflict between farmers and pastoralists.

While presenting the speech of the revenue authority and the use of his ministry in the financial year 2014 / 15 in Parliament this week, Minister Tibaijuka said the solution to land conflicts in the country is farmers and pastoralists to enter into the modern production so as the needs of land has reduced from all sides.

"The solution to this is the digital change in agriculture and livestock, modern farmers using better seedlings and livestock which do not have a lot of land for small farmers not using poverty, causing conflicts and livestock to sell food and livestock as the reputation of wealth and wealth," said Professor Tibaijuka.

He said that land has not been added but the citizens have increased, conflicts of this kind is increasing and become a threat to the security of the citizens.

"When my ministry will do everything possible to test in areas, it is also possible to recognize that the best use of land and testing is important but it's not a solution to conflicts like this kind, markets of livestock are important and livestock come back on the market to be sold in the market under the leadership of the prime minister. I believe every side is fulfilling its responsibilities," he said.

He mentioned the four challenges facing his ministry to be together.
The understanding of the citizens about its sector especially its laws, procedures and guidelines which are given, their rights and their responsibilities, a shortage of working tools together with the performance environment that is outside the ability of the ministry.

He said that the ministry has been able to deal with the challenges by increasing the speed of providing education to the public on land laws, regulations and procedures together with preparing various guidelines, to reduce the shortage of equipment in the areas of work including the purchase of new equipment for monitoring and documents.

"I use this opportunity to remind the citizens to fulfill the conditions of land ownership including paying tax of land, the fees and other fees according to the law," he said.

About the land testing every corner of the country, he said that the ministry has set a strategy to make sure that every part of the land in the country was planned and it seems to be taken against them and that in the financial year 2014 / 15, the implementation will continue in Kilosa and Kilombero District, Morogoro Province.

I call on the citizens and the councils that their areas will be involved in implementing the implementation of this strategy to provide reliable cooperation which will be avoided if every citizen will not be used, "he said.

About the standards of land value, he said that the ministry has continued with the work of ensuring the presence of correct standards in the market for the purpose of buying land worth land and produce.

He said that the presence of all councils in the country have been given training and guidelines for the procedure to conduct data for market prices and to set standards of land and buildings so as to enable the citizens to be paid enough compensation when their land is used in any way.
