
The nation has banned the sessions.
Freetown city, Sierra Leone of the government officers of Sierra has announced their plan to strengthen security before Christmas celebrations and the new year by making big meetings as a way to reduce the spread of Ebola.
The infection of the disease spread through people living in body, and those cases have increased more to Sierra Leone in the recent days, especially in western areas like in Freetown city and the interpreter.
The head of the national center for dealing with Ebola (PARC), retired Major General Projest Rwegasira (Friday, said that the army will face the road to prevent the person from Christmas and during the celebrations to welcome the new year.
Mosques and churches in the country will not be allowed to prepare an application ceremony of closing the year, the activities that makes a huge crowd of people, he added.
These days before Christmas celebrations were witnessed in a lot of celebrations, but the important part is involving Christmas and Christmas season itself together with the new year vigil.
"We will make sure that everyone is going on home to think about Ebola," Constituent.
That announcement is employed while the government complained about the increase of cases in that disaster, a situation that led to the government to ban the gender and social media which are expected to prevent the spread of Ebola virus.
Sierra Leone was the country with many cases of the disease, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The nation made more than 1000 new infections for a period of three weeks ago.
This situation has requested government officials who have promised to put difficult conditions for the aim of controlling that situation.
On Wednesday, the east area of Kraehenbuehl has said that a huge wealth of gun had been surrounded by people being attacked by people being transported to arrive there after defense forces of the United Nations (UN) to get the effects of people who were said to have died from that disease.
