
Research will be able to work more than eight hours in the office for you will be able to die.

So, you are a very difficult job, first to arrive at the office and his previous terms from when you are competing with duties as well as usual these research can make you discuss your schedule.

Many research that were done have been huge effects by people who do work in the office for a long time, research that was done at the end of the year 2012 and was sworn in at the Forbes newsletter, shows that the collection of ideas (EFD), having a desire to eating carbohydrates, can be among more than one thousand reasons that can cause big health problems.

That research has also carried out the results of various research conducted in the 50 years ago and showing that working for a long time in the office can cause a possibility of suffering from a heart by 40 to 80 percent compared to someone she was working under nine o'clock in a day.

This behavior is claimed to have a historical problem especially when you are in a big age, it reaches a high level of creativity in the near future.

By Mister Phillipe Corsaletti and his team of research will collect data from the 12 sources of 12 that has ever been done since 1949, and explained that many researchers have found that people do not work for a long time (more than eight hours) they were in danger of suffering from heart diseases.

In his research, Doctor Mariana, has blamed more than 100 people from England, United States, Japan, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Nehru.

He emphasized that one of the biggest problem for many is to be treated for a long time, and also lack of a good time to do exercises for human beings they do not have a habit of eating well for a period.

We have been asked if you are working for a long time, look at the results of non-communicable diseases that resulted from that behavior, you will discover your health is usually in danger although it takes a lot of money or how it has completed the criteria for good quality.

Universal Communications!
