A fire accident in Mbeya, businessmen face.
January 26, 2013.

Citizens and various leaders in Mbeya City have started to question events in business areas and now they are selling to the business people themselves being involved.
While some of the leaders inside Mbeya City being unable to take advantage of changes in laws that concern fire accidents, the police force in that province has decided to investigate the possibility of causing business crime behind the fire accident.
"The current law is to protect the criminals, it does not affect the fire victims," says the director of Mbeya City, Juma Iddi.
In building that argument, that director is using an example of a person who is blocking him, he claimed it had survived, that the law is fighting to manslaughter.
Other events that are similar to reading through property, is when a person when he decided to fall into his car, that in a environment like those to the victims, because of a car he is forced to prove that they are not involved, and that is unable to leave it.
"I have my car, I got a fire with a case to answer, the Property International Organization," says the director, then he added, "therefore, the law must be stopped and not to affect the law.
In all events of fire accidents in the markets in that province, the reasons that are given is a problem of electricity or guardians of food, even so there is no suspect who was involved in those accidents directly.
"When it comes from this fire accident, the government is capable to carry weight, the government that is capable to carry weight and build the market environment for it is only an accident, the victims are not involved in any way," said Director Iddi.
While on the side of government using electricity reason and distribution of food as the source of fire accidents, the citizens of their side have been informing them that there are evil things, and once the fire reports are heard saying.
"Maphologela stated that the family, relatives, as usual they will bring in pain, and why do the shops will be compared to now."
That opinion polls have been built on the thoughts of citizens in Mbeya town at a very high level, they do not agree with any important reason, they don't agree with some of the business people as one way of making wealth.
It is normal, markets which go through fire in Mbeya town, to inform citizens who claimed to see some of the business people when they sell the spread in their shops, for what is claimed to have faith that many business people make wealth.
However, in recent days, some of the residents of Mbeya City have been seen to instill doubt in those reports that involved the disaster in witchcraft, that may be spread by some of the business people with the aim of controlling the people that will be aired on the second side, an issue that will be able to move out on the second side, an issue that is important to fire accidents in the province.
"Business people are so cunning, these faith of witchcraft are spreading themselves and if they get people on the truth," believes one leader in Mbeya town.
Among the fire accidents that remained more in the recent years include the ones that were burnt in Mount Meru in the year 2006, SIDO, Forest Service in December 2012 and followed by the clothes shops in Igunga District this year.
The flow of fire accidents in the month of December, has contributed to some of the residents of the city including leaders, where a meeting where a meeting was done and therefore come up with issues of business crime with an aim of serving more wealth.
"From the month of November, they are worried about the preparation of Christmas and new year feast, if you sell their products and it is clear that you can have a great burden, therefore, it is clear that you can have a great burden, therefore, they are telling their colleagues," says the businessman of Mwanjelwa.
One of the insurance company in this province has explained its fear in bringing about the business insurance of Mbeya from its environment as a dangerous danger to those organizations.
"Many business people in Mbeya did not depend on their business insurance, but the biggest environment for the insurance company, the agent has not accepted, the shops have already been discovered, the probability that have already been stable," says philosopher Rene Meza who is an agent of one of the insurance company in the city.
The police force on its part of the country have shown the concern of lack of conspiracy in some of the business people to buy a fire to burn their properties as an aim of being paid insurance or to play with the loans they intend '.
