Reproductive health, a big story in Unguja Island.
Brightiles 14, 2014.

According to the regulations of health and reproductive rights, it is important to the pregnant women to make sure you return to the health center.
That is because doing so to make sure that his safety and the child that is expected to be at the station there are experts and equipment for identifying reproductive problems and dealing with them before they have caused the effects to the mother and the child.

This fact, even if it is like a big story to be good, Ndaiao (34), a resident of the Ighombwe Village, Ukerewe District.
They meet with many problems.
"There is only one bed sheets, and the parents we know most of them, there are no electricity, there is no electricity, there is no power or three of them, you will get two parents or three they have found the best, best to take place at home," says good.

I remember in the year 2009, he scored pregnant in the pregnancy of pregnancy, together with being present at that station, the experts never saw that problem until a bad state.
"I was told it is a must to go to Ukerewe District (the district headquarters) where I went to a car, it was at eight o'clock in the morning while I saw them, but my life was in danger of God, he told me," he says.

In his opinion, he does not see if there is a reason to go to that station because it is nothing for the services that are needed because there are no enough experts and important services that are expected to participate in the clinic or any health center, "he says.

That view that was supported by Monica Mutoni (34), a resident of Fly 540 Africa in that village is in a distance of four kilometers from the clinic, he says that the station is being faced by a shortage of health experts and equipment that makes them to get enough services.

I was coming out here.
"She allowed me, he said those who goes on the same, again among them is about to give birth, she allowed me to go to Nansio Town, Musoma, I could not get the station," he says.

He explains that together with attending that station, I have never been told that he has the twins that seated on the same time when he was forced to go into a canoe that was forced to go into a canoe that was very close to Ukerewe Town.

"When I arrived at Bukore area, it has been advised to go to a Health Center, Mrara, which is being very close to Musoma Town so that the situation was bad and I succeeded to give birth in the evening one day," said Monica.

The northern town is the third largest in the world between many regions that make up the Ukerewe District, after Ukerewe Town (a high level) and Ukara.
Ukerewe District is the headquarters of the district and where it's where the District Hospital has a journey from Pemba Island on a canoe that is a speed of five to six hours until the headquarters of the district.
"But when the weather is not good, we can be able to use even eight hours.

The speed from here to Bukhai village is one hour and a half hours, "says Francis has denied the canoe that makes a journey between various provinces in the Lake Victoria.

Many residents of that island do not think about the distance and lack of reliable infrastructure between them and the headquarters of the district.
"When you are here, you want to go back to Ukerewe Town, many times we're going to Musoma where to take close to them," says Elizabeth Michael, a resident of that island.

The high speed from the Bukore area is an average of one and a half hours to a canoe that is from Bukore area to Musoma road is a speed of one and a half hours.
"Therefore, in Musoma we are close to Musoma, it is very close together with that transport is in line with the great fare," says Elizabeth.

The current clinic has a clean flour to one assistant and a fashion designer and does not have a lot of challenges to the extent that even the way to help the parents in the islands becomes difficult.

Speaking about that situation, one of the midwives have said, "there are primary problems, from equipment to nurses and we are only two, one when he was born and sometimes he becomes no service.
