
The reserve on the main road.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The government has directed Tanzania Roads Agency (TANROADS) to remove the fuel from the main road, which has been mentioned to be the source of accidents.

The Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the state Hamad Masauni, has given that directive during the opening of the road safety week at Kalala grounds in Geita province.
He said that the machines that are present on the main road have been one of the accidents of many accidents in the country and insisted that the situation of the accident is well the issue of road safety as the national agenda.
He also urged the security agencies to take stern measures against all those who cause traffic rules without fear or not knowing any person.
He said the road accidents have been a big problem and that the three-year statistics show from January 2013 to December 2015, show that the accidents that were given reports are 46,670 shillings which have approximately 230 people.
Masauni said that the group that deals with affected with the accidents are passengers where 42 people have died, followed by pedestrians, 3,328.
He said that motorbike will hold the third position for 2,413 people lost life, while drivers who died is 813, and pushed them a lot of more than 400 people have lost lives.
"Statistics of six months since January up to August this year, 6,971 deaths have occurred and caused 217 deaths and among them 1,707 deaths as well as motorcycle riders, a situation that is good and it is good for road safety to be the national agenda," he said.
He emphasized that the education on all users about the right use of the road, the owners and drivers to stop running unnecessary accidents and take place for time to time.
"Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) is also required to continue to conduct inspections, board and aspects of the buses," he said.
In addition, Masauni urged all road users to follow the law and road regulations, to stop support fast, to cross the road safety and motorcycle riders, to stop running the road and children cross the road under supervision.
The Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication, who is also the deputy chairperson of the National Security Council, Edwin Ngonyani, said due to the reduction of accidents, the council had come up with six months of reducing accidents especially arising from human crimes.
He said human crimes have been contributing in an accident by 80 percent and followed by the high speed which contributes to 12 percent, the road environment contributes to 6 percent and 2 percent from other reasons.
"We have come with the strategies that are implemented for six months, the main aim is to remove human mistakes that contribute in accidents, and in February next year, we will answer the success of those strategies," he said.
The commander of the road safety squad in the police force, Mohammed Mpinga, who is also the executive secretary of the National Security Council, said during the commemoration of those commemorations, the correct use of roads, and providing education to 300 motorcycle riders and 100 teachers at a high level.
