Fauzia Kullane is a few word!
Brightiles 12, 2015.

Our community is in the current situation where there has been a great wave of information that will enable the members of the community and even following people being stolen from their money, these reports are through mobile phone and even communication on television.
Most of them have managed to enable the community not to do a series of indigenous chicken or even people with able to enable quick loans to enable them even so, many times, those who do those activities have integrity, give them strength and so many times they need to lure them.
I have found their relationship, that Abutalebi will be careful when he went through her fifty after he found Mister one cutting the tree branch which she sang.
"Estardiol among the warning will fall in," Abutalebi will agree with the late and he continued to return the branch, she didn't know if he didn't know it, "the lady asked me to tell me how he would leave you.
Well, in this community service, there are some of us who use that opportunity to enable them to help in problems of their fellow Tanzanian communities, so that if they get them.
With speaking to him that she is doing a lot of things and the ones, the request for what he did is to identify, even if it will help this word, therefore it will help this word and basically it is important things that are not aware of the religious books.
In these days, where many people have been faced with a lot of poverty, ignorance, and diseases, the ones that will end the last day.
Today if you want to open a reliable business of customers, study at the clinic, a shop for drugs, or anything that is an expert in eternal peace, watch you, or start your denomination.
By bad luck, some of the business that have a lot of knowledge that are not true is for a shop of books and even a modern shop where the police station will be sure, it will be a police force, and more that they will borrow, it's a must.
We were very few, and especially those who have ever been the rich people due to poverty and the ignorance of many those on these days houses are being built for violence, not the influx of various denominations and those of the final days we had arrived.
"I'm in front of Mister Saso and keenly, Abrini does not lie!
Well, it is not every time I'm saying, there are some false accusations.
My dear brothers, if there is no one who does not travel, that is not stable, if there is a mixture of foot and likewise, do not accept any person to come forward! "
While looking for a mother who has claimed that the legs she has claimed that his legs, now is running, I will talk about him who will ensure that all of them and others have been prepared in this game of acting.
There is nothing to question and investigate it is not true but it was not true and there is no one who came up to know the whole truth when there was also a doctor who went to change his profession for five years or more.
This is not even in America to run this business, it is people with a lot of money.
Or for sure that many who will go up in the ignorance of medicine is providing them to what they have and gave them the ones that have already been given, if they do is to avoid the involved involved in this business.
This is being exploited by using religious faith that those involved in this they have built the ability to buy a Facebook page and even television, some of them have the ability to start radio and television stations.
The ones that try to market themselves becomes the place they were unable to have strength to an extent of having a strong person even when he was given a certificate for the leadership of the country, the president.
Usually also come to vie for a political party.
