We do not learn from Kenya.
APR, 03 / 2013.

I know how to put my emphasis on how I got to write about her neighbor to Kenya's general elections, we should learn from her neighboring country, we are supposed to learn from her neighboring countries, we have to learn, but we do not want them to see or learn.
We have seen that the general elections of Kenya, was followed by very close to our fellow politicians including our political parties, because of the party's Administrative Secretary and the opposition parties, but I commend him that there is no other political parties should learn from Kenya.
Yes, together with weaknesses in the country and there, Kenyans have heard a very big problem and that even in Africa we can run the modern politics, including a free election, including a free election, especially in Kenya and Tanzania, to bully in making progress in development.
For sure it is a result of development we should be able to be with them and I think that this journey, as a Tanzanian, I feel that I love us because they believe in Africa and the world that they can be a great issue of political and economically.
The process of change of their constitution and even to do elections in peace and transparency, is a great victory of the system and it's a victory for all Kenyans, that the Kenyans have tried a new system and has shown that is it good.
For example, following the results of the election results from the free commission, it was like "entertainment" political "everything was not clear up and this is no wonder many Kenyans were able to wait for the results in one week without stopping.
And even if it would have been able to wait for the two hours, I believe that many Kenyans would have failed without fighting, because they have had great faith in the free electoral commission and to protect the votes, "the work was released at the free commission of elections that they believe.
Yes, the Kenyans have learned from the ignorance of those politicians who are heading to violence after the general elections of the year 2007, many Kenyans have died and others lose their homes and their properties as they reached the new constitution in 2010, many Kenyans have been charged with bombs in their constitution.
Their government used a lot of money to give a lot of money to the Kenyans, for now they have had a high cost of peace and harmony, "what he made them have a huge cost, because of peace, we are now they have lost themselves so that we can start paying for them and later to start paying for them.
Through their current constitution, Kenyans have been able to reduce by a large extent, the problem of tribalism.

Now, in Kenya, Wiwa is 23 percent of Kenyans have broken 11 percent and others that were left are for other small tribes.
The procedure of tribalism and build better conditions in America, even if they will take a long time to take them more in that, but Kenyans have started to evade poverty in their politics through the constitution.
On that logic, if we expect it would be able to get away from religious politics by putting up in our next constitution, it is a must for the presidential candidate to win by 50 + 1 (50 percent) because that could make our politicians that vie for presidency and their party be careful. "
If it would have been a high risk to be the candidate and the party with directing religion, it would have been an opportunity to give the president of the United Republic of Tanzania or a chance to hold dollars.
In that meaning, the solution to deal with religion is in the coming constitution, if we have a strong desire to come from here, where we are and otherwise, the religion we said as a problem we will be bringing up themselves.
