
Those who were before the use of good administration has been given "a expert expert, Dec 7, 2012.

This week I have decided to communicate with the best administration in ensuring that, there will be a good page of history related to good administration, I have found one thing that was written more than ten years ago when the leaders of today are supposed to be through it immediately after time.

That letter was written by Imam Ali, Abawaki together with Prophet Mohammed's sister's greetings from the Almighty God's greetings and he had Khajida Kopa, one of his fellow followers and the commander of the army.

Malik was a man and with his courage, he was given a lesson to "a expert a expert called!

That life has a lot of training about how the administration is supposed to be Mister Abdul Masinga, the old lady of United Arab Emirates who was also a good thing that says, "an eye for an eye and an eye for a tooth and a tooth for a tooth '."

That letter Imam Ali has more than ten thousand people here and I will try to buy a few cents.

Certainly, my writer was not known that it is diseases or not, but he explained that they are some of those who were before.

He started by thank you a governor that he took her to be a governor in one country because some of the ruling party were good and the others were stolen, if he abandoned the ruling party and probably left him as he criticized the other leaders.

Imam Ali who gave you a lot of things in his letter and among them, the importance of collection of taxes, the agenda of the administrator to see that his country is run in foundations of democracy and justice and that his citizens love.

To persevere the different religion about this, Ali AbaTalib, also among citizens have two types of people, including your brothers, and those with another religion, and those with other religion, who are a human being like you.

Those who are in all the groups have that same steps and effects that affect the human beings they love each other, they think about your evil deeds and without forgetting your eyes and not to forgive me.

You forgive him and forget where you are happy to see here (or a shame) to forgive him and forget where you're unable to kill people and do not allow me or to see you that you have the strength to give that punishment.
The audience and the desire to revenge and this will not be able to help in your administration.

Make sure that the court does not want to inspect the judges who have good behavior of competence of high level with their professionalism, so if they can't be careful, those of the judges are not satisfied without favoring any kind of the body or not, then you will be afraid, corruption and bad administration.

You pay their benefits so that they can be able to meet their dreams and they should not be need to listen or borrow or get out of corruption.

Blood poured and destruction of elders like the country has success and if their people think it, it will not accept again and let him put any load of poverty that's the reason of poverty and the officers get the wealth and wealth through legal ways or illegal.

They do not want to get their positions or power and their administration and their administration have the right to benefit themselves in a short time, being unable to resolve anything from the history of nations.

Having the public, you must make sure that you meet yourself from the public, then I did not know it is proud to be false between them and the ones that surround us because there is true that you're blocking the condition of your citizens and the real events that arise in the country.

Peace makes a lot of grace if your enemy will enable you to abandon the contract of peace and we should not accept it because peace will eliminate the truth and that will give them your success and grace.

Imam Ali called Larger to make them fear that his advisers do not accept to take legal action, therefore he warned them to believe and to give a gift to those who were ministers of the religious leaders who kidnapped the ones who participated in the violence of those leaders.
