Precision Airplane with KQ.
Jide 11, 2013.

The state of Precision Air Tanzania is reported to be bad, "the Kenya International organization (KQ) being involved in the current problems of that organization.

Already Precision has started scoring some of its offices that are outside the country, by reviewing some of its planes of type Boeing that were set up to increase the areas where they are doing their journey.

Mwema should also be told that there is fear of the fact that that organization can announce to reduce its workers at any time from today.

Reliable sources of this newspaper have said that the towns that already bought its activities are Lusaka, Zambia and two major towns of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Kinshasa and Lumbumbashi.

"Said the fact, the situation at the moment is bad to cater for some of the countries be supported.

This newspaper has a report that two major things have contributed to the state of Precision for now on first of first is the bad leadership of the former executive director of that organization, Alike Kiango, a citizen of Kenya and not doing well in that organization during the exercise of wanting to sell shares in the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE).

November the year the day before yesterday, Precision announced the selling of his previous shares (there) in that market of Dar es Salaam but an amount that was found was under a half of the expectations.

While cement is used to get an amount of 28 billion shillings, it succeeded to get 26 billion shillings only, those funds are the planned for the purpose of the leasing project and the improvement of the organization's activities in general.

"KFC was expected to get a lot of money and that's why they were not able to get a little money than the expectations, we had to be using a big part of revenue to pay that leases of leases of hydroelectric power and that's when the problems were started," he said another source of this newspaper.

The verdict of the leasing plane with other commercial planes were taken by Kiango, who will change this year and his position to be given by Mtanzania, Rajab Luhwavi.

Mke Mwema has been given various allegations of corruption that they had flooded the road but it takes the reserve for making more investigation later.

Kiango, was the proposal of KQ leading to Precision Air and although its performance showed problems since he was the king of Precision Air, Michael Shirima, she was getting in the chest.

Shirima is the one who had a lot of shares worth 35 percent while KQ having 389 percent of the remaining percent being owned by other partners.

"By fact, some of us have begun to see Kikula has made the Stars to cater for us but every time I told Mzee (Shirima) claimed that she does not want to identify their problems," said Mwema, he has told him.

It is reported that Shirima passed it "a lot of sexually transmitted diseases while he decided to get in his office to save a ship from the end of last year and at the beginning of this year during the transition period between Kicheere.

After he was sold about allegations of protecting Kiango, Shirima told the newspaper in a phone conversation that as usual, he usually do people that he gave them responsibilities.

"It can be weaknesses, but I think I believe so much people I will give their responsibilities, if someone has decided to use my faith, then it is a loss but a person can do so much if he says he is trusted.

"I live in Arusha and offices are in Dar es Salaam city, I want people to do their work keenly and to believe in me, if I request it every day, I will be good and I want to believe my workers," he said.

However, the entrepreneur denied claims that his organization has a bad state and he said the decisions of closing the office was more business than a bad state.

He said any business person is looking at his business and if he has a office, where there is no benefits, he is nothing to wed in the office.

He said that they have decided to return the plane that are leasing for the reasons taking them into a loss due to its size, especially in time that the oil prices have been increasing every day.

Speaking about the situation of Precision Air, Executive Director of Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCAA), Fadhili Manongi said that according to the aircraft, that are available in that organization has no problems.

He said the issues of closing the office and to reduce the number of aircraft is normal in the air business due to the current state of the aircraft.
