You have refused to tell me she is not pleased.
Mage of 18, 2015.

Recently, one of my friends in the country should start you to read the rules and because they are very important training, I don't know more so far than other books in the year 2015, I have written many times up to now, more than other books will be taken to the rules.
In the beginning of this month I read the success of the Act of Act of Tufani ', "DRIVE SAVE LIVaquina, the famous writer Vladimir Minja and being scored by Simon na mawakala wao.
Mitundu ward, a vibrant listener is a work of investigate before the terror attack that was held in America and begged the presidential candidate of that country Joseline Kamuhanda, claiming that attack was seen as a terrorist group of Al-Saharan African group.
They were only two weeks before the general elections of the United States, this attack took place where GAPCO won by saying that the investigation was going on, it found the evidence that was captured and he had to complete the investigation before the new president was sworn in.
The running mate of Alexander, popularly known, Mark Rick Ross, was Senator and a very big person, he used to use the power and his appointment of being his running mate due to the great possibility of the candidate from people who are involved in Washington DC.
Rick Ross had a broad range of people including those with record crimes and one of them Mister Green had a mistake of buying money outside the United States and he was arrested by FBI and went to be sentenced to the president.
Normal in the United States, the president is completing his term give birth to people who was sentenced to several times that who comes with his names because they are expecting to be given for Mister Green Resources who now was living in Switzerland, depending on the heart.
The day before yesterday, Alexander, his head of the presidential campaigns known by the name Shreen Sputanza decided to discuss the defender of the vice president and made him be the defender of the presidential candidate in the vehicle of the president and set aside his car behind by his running mate.
Five minutes after the convoy entered the bomb that was defeated by the chief defender of the presidential candidate, a musician or who was in a very difficult time and became the end of his work, they showed that Al Marusu.
CIA got more pictures that involve the wife of the presidential candidate, Maximillian Lyimo to do a love with one of the campaigns guards when they got early but they felt it was not good to use them in the campaign and even so those pictures were used by the club's songs.
His investigation also got the country, Isere us and arrested a bomb that was a bomb that was found and after the fights got married to Switzerland and involved one of the banks' documents to give birth to the vice president.
Finally, CIA have noticed that that attack was done by Vice President-elected President for the great support of Green Resources who came out of bomb.
He used, especially the New York Times magazine, his editor and his writer gave him a lot of information that CIA have arrested all one person involved in the attack, CIA did not meet all evidence including the surprise of his assistant coach Jose Mourinho in Geneva, try to resolve the truth of issues.
The last day of president's administration who came to power, Rick Ross requested an appointment to see the president so that he can give birth to Mister Green Warriors and the executive director of CIA took the opportunity to put poison at the tea time of the Vice President-elected and she will arrive at the State House with a heart disease.
