Tax to save the tourism industry.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

The International Tourism Expo (Cultural Tourism Expo) in the northern region may be affected due to the step of three councils of Monduli District, Longido and Ngorongoro to put restrictions and fees for the tourists who go to visit various attractions available in those areas.
That situation has caused the number of tourists visiting the cultural tourism in the district to reduce by 50 percent and to provide fear to communities that are depending on that business to keep.
The community that may start being affected by the drop in the tourism business in the culture is Mzinga, and Grandans who live in the Lake Tanganyika Valley, Karatu district, Longido and Ngorongoro districts.
That business of tourism in the culture, has been increasing only to these communities following the changes of behavior in the country that affected these areas where the areas that are affecting their natural foods.
Speaking to the citizens of Tanzania last week, the Deputy Chairperson of the Public Tourism Expo project in Ngorongoro district, Lazaro Ndandavala, said that added up to receiving 1,800 villages and collect an amount of 80 million shillings for a period of three years ago.
"But this year we have not been sure like tourists they will go to shillings because three councils have signed three roadblocks at the sake of paying tax for the tourists they do not to look at the attractions available," he said.
Monduli District has set aside any hindrance of fees in Engendervillage where every community trying to go to Lake Noma, Mount Oliver Wema, which has lost 10 dollars.
In addition, Longido district has set aside a very long distances to Mount Oliver Wema and it fell for 10 million dollars to the head while Ngorongoro District has set aside approximately 20 million US dollars.
Most of the tourists getting the even before they do not arrived to visit any tourism attraction, they have been complaining that it is why you will pay 40 dollars on the way where there's no anything to see "he abandoned Ndeki.
As a result of the discomfort of these three councils, many tourists have been unable or visited the cultural practices and therefore denying them these community opportunities that have been causing a lot of income to help them life.
After the complaints from the tourists, the Tanzania Tourist Board (TATO) last year was forced not to take their tourists to the lake region as a way to prevent the councils to remove their talents in that road, but up to now there is no doubt that has changed.
The chief executive officer of TATO, Sirambi has confirmed that the big number of the tourism agents have made them to take the visitors that way because of the high costs they did not explain the eyes of the tourists.
"You cannot tell you the tourist when he is in the way before he is not a shame, but it's also a shame and it's also a shame, that can't understand the restrictions that the councils should stop the roadblocks at the locals and stop the most foreign money more than these they are forced to visit the country," said she said.
The issue of roadblocks at the tourists has been a problem that identified himself to head of Arusha Province, Magesa Mulongo because they are inspiring.
In their answers, the head of the province, all the three councils claimed that those charges were put by small law (pacemakers) and that 10 students will be avoided.
Speaking about that issue, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Lazaro Nyalandu promised to make changes in how to cater for tourists outside the national park so as to remove from us the official guest of charges that give him or return to Tanzania.
"It is a must that you know that Tanzania is a small country, the old country, and it's impossible so that everyone knows each other and start using money, our country is not only with tourism attractions so as to go back to other countries," Nyalandu insisted.
He explained that the intention of the government is to make the tourists to sit for many days in Tanzania by visiting the animals and the hosts so as to stop a lot of money more than it is now whereby many charges are affecting many days.
According to Nyalandu, culture of culture is very important right now because of its benefits to reach the ordinary citizens one different from any other tourism being done by very few people.
