Minister wants the directive by the prime minister.
APR of 18, 2013.

The minister of state in the office of the Prime Minister, Regional Administration and Local Government (TAMISEMI), Hawa Bayumi said that he has taken the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, who raised the changes of the leadership in all the councils in the country, our citizens have discovered.
Prime Minister who defected to TAMISEMI from Public Service, accompanied by the Prime Minister after being given a letter by the member of parliament of Segerea and the Deputy Minister of Labor, Employment and Youth, Doctor Hamis Mahanga, who wanted the arrest of the Ilala Municipality and removed from the leaders.
After receiving this trash and read the explanation of Doctor Mahanga, the prime minister using abusive language and wisdom, he said.
"About the advice of blocking the director of Ilala Municipality and to make changes in the leadership of another council, I would advise that the exercise we come to them until when we shall get the results of the concerned investigation."
However, after receiving that letter by the Prime Minister and before the investigation, the Prime Minister made changes and suspend the director of Ilala Municipality, Chiku Galawa and mentioned to make changes in other councils including those involved in theft of theft.
Investigations for a long time in the local government has confirmed that decision by the prime minister, has a lot of politics because the situation is said apart from political goals, there are strategies of "weaving the community in the TAMISEMI, with the aim of benefit some of the concerned parties.
When he was asked for a phone with Raia Mwema, this Tuesday, Hawa Bayumi said, "I thank the Prime Minister Pinda why I had been contrary to the directive by the prime minister, I cannot be able to work contrary to the instructions of the Prime Minister. I cannot work together and instead he bought a phone.
Already TAMISEMI has already appointed Mwendaharaka Maganga, who was the executive officer of regional administration and local government in Dodoma province, to get the position of Sedoyeka, while the whole leadership of Ilala Municipality is seen not to recognize the appointment.
However, the mayor of Ilala Municipality, Jerry Silaa, did not answer when he was given a call by our reporter and instead he answered me for a short message saying "I have heard that," I have told them, "I have been forced to make sure that I will not give you a long time.
In his letter to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister said he's faced with a letter made together with a letter written by Doctor Mahanga who is also the councilor for Ilala Municipal Council, as the member of parliament of Segerea, while giving out accusations in 4 councils of Ilala Municipality about misuse of money against the procedures.
Pinda has said that in that letter that he has contributed a advice that was given by Mahanga of the way to address that issue together with other recommendations, but he requested the controller and auditor general of the government to do a special inspection in the council of Ilala.
Using wisdom to be followed by procedure of involving the leadership of the district and province, Pinda said.
"Together with requesting the office of CAG to make that investigation, in the coming days, there are important events that involve the local governments, it is good that the provincial leadership will be given reports of the first position to address those problems and take action against what everyone knows before requesting for special inspection of CAG."
"Speaking about counseling to the director of Ilala Municipality and to make changes in the leadership of another council, I would request that exercise to come up until when we will get the progress of this issue earlier," Pinda said that in his two-term results.
In what seems to have close communication, Doctor Mahanga in his letter on October 15, 2012, showed talks with the Prime Minister before writing the letter saying that we were meeting with you Honorable Minister in a session of the cabinet ministers' council going bankrupt. "
A few days after the letter of Mahanga was presented to the Prime Minister, Ilala Municipality received the new treasurer, Kabigiri ends from the County Council of Mvomero, where they were unblocked of embezzlement.
