
The government denies the water problem in Dar es Salaam Jide 16, 2012.

In dealing with the great increase in the number of six percent in the year in Dar es Salaam, the government has come with a special program that will produce 710,000 shillings per day by the year 2014.
That is an increase of more than one hundred percent in the production of water in Dar es Salaam as compared to the current production of 300,000 shillings per day.
That report with hope to the residents of Dar es Salaam city was confirmed to the parliament the day before yesterday by the Minister of Water, Professor Jumanne Magupa when he presented the plan to the financial expenditure of his ministry for the year 2012 / 2013.
In his speech, that was published in this newspaper, Minister Magula has explained the various strategies that are already in the Water Utilities Regulatory Authority in Dar es Salaam and cities of Kibaha and Bagamoyo, where after completion they will enable the existence of more than 260 liters of water for a day in Dar es Salaam city.
Water production in the city of Dar es Salaam is currently in a day, less than 150 tons, whereby compared to the real needs of the city in a day which is 450 million pounds per day.
Together with the great increase of people, the water sector, the city of Dar es Salaam because it is faced with water problems in River Ruvu infrastructure especially during drought, the increase of new houses in areas that are tested and increase in economic and social activities.
The government is implementing that plan that started officially on February last year in collaboration with the Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (MCC), the Government of Norway, the Government of Norway, the Government of Norway, the mining of wells, expansion of Ruvu Shooting and expansion of the Ruvu Shooting project.
In addition to that special program in the city of Dar es Salaam, the Minister Mukhongo gave the parliament the existence of various clean and clean water projects that is continuing to be implemented in all provinces in the country and so that the ministry can make the projects left the parliament to approve 4890,67,888 trillion shillings for the use of that ministry for the year 2012 / 2013.
However, Minister Maghembe explained the presence of several challenges facing the water sector in the country which include the biggest increase in people and economic activities in the country, whereby on the increase of people, he said it is 23 percent in the villages, 45th, and six percent in the city of Dar es Salaam.
The other challenges that are facing that sector include lack of water infrastructure that are the biggest of the political businesses, the changes in climate, and reduction in water resources.
In addition to all the challenges, in his speech, Minister Maghembe noted that various challenges being taken by his ministry to address them, the aim being to achieve the government's plan to give them clean and safe water countrywide.
