Father of Magufuli wanted his son to be the father.
Hudugu Ng'amilo, 2015.

You've heard you, "you know the dream of your parents on your parents, wanting you to be recently, if you have ever heard, then you don't know your alone.
According to a friend and the neighbor of father of Magufuli, Elder Benedict Liwenga was enough (65), his father wanted that child to be an artist.
"I remember when reading to secondary, Doctor Magufuli left Semalenga after Katunga and joined Lake Secondary School located in Mwanza, a step that his father, elder Joseph Magufuli refuses," he explains.
"The old man wanted Doctor Magufuli to be an artist of the Catholic church and I as a friend and his brother who participated in order to convince President Magufuli that there was no difficulty when his youth studied in secondary school, he agreed with my advice," he added.
Byanyima came out (65), a resident of Mlimani area in Chato district, Geita province, has a lot of exercising near him while its neighborhood with her friend Doctor John Magufuli.
"It is true that Doctor Magufuli is a neighbor to my friend since year 1973, I had gone to this area, we have lived together like brothers together with his family members to partner and cooperate in social issues of problem and joy."
"In our culture, we believe that the neighboring country is an important person than the brothers, because when you get the first person to give a donation is your neighbor, even in the religious books it has emphasized to the importance of a person to go to the neighboring country, and to me and Doctor Magufuli's importance and we are going to go with," says Teacher Byanyima came for.
In an interview with Raia Mwema, that took place at home to the old man, last Sunday, has told him Doctor Magufuli as a good neighbor, friend, cooperation and love of its own kind.
Mzee Chilo has been enough for the government servant who retired recently, he has helped the country like the teachers to teach in different schools in the provinces of Kagera, Geita and Mwanza.
Jihadists of this area shows that Ugandan's city shows that when the late's house, Doctor Magufuli said that the biggest area of three acres of other family members and business houses that is owned by that candidate.
The house is at the outskirts of the main road of Chato-Chake-Bukoba which equals to Bukoba District offices.
"I feel very happy, we have been close for a long time we have never met joyfully, in any way, it is a good shape even to other residents of this area, they will explain it,"
"In the way we are living together I've seen Doctor Magufuli as a person who loves you and he does not want it to do with people of his age and it is not easy to do with him," he explains the old man.
According to the old man, that CCM presidential candidate is very careful when it comes to the issue of private development or social development and she does not have jokes in that.
About that, the old man explains that "for example, before being a member of parliament in 1995, the time he was for the teachers only, he used his private sector to sensitize the residents of this area to build better and traditional houses."
"He also requested them that I wanted to build a lot of iron sheets and it is a must for getting a lot of money and buying iron sheets and those bricks, but I am supposed to buy natural resources for free according to the income and can be able to achieve the construction in a period of five years only."
"He was a very happy person and he didn't know what I believe in and also I have ever started competing with his colleagues and when we got a chance to sit together, he advised the opportunities and ways to reach development."
About his expectations, Doctor Magufuli will win the presidential position, Elder Byrant, says that he has great hope that the candidate will be a good leader and he will make Tanzania from one step to another.
I am a whole person now, I have experience in public service, on my part I don't want to have anything from him, but let me say that Doctor Magufuli will be the example of example, "he insists.
Another neighbor to Doctor Magufuli is Charles Saleh (54), who is a servant in Chato District Council in the department of forests and also a business person, has explained his neighbor to be a person who loves you.
Saleh owns Serena Hotel which in his area sponsored by the business part of Doctor Magufuli and family houses that were built in the neighborhood and there.
"I started getting acquainted with Doctor Magufuli in the year 2007 when I was awarded a work tour from Shinyanga as the wildlife officer of Chato district," he explains that in his interview with this newspaper and added that a new district that was started in the year 2006, did not have houses to plan and all the important social services. "
He continues to explain that, "I remember that this year he was sent as a member of parliament and we made a joint meeting between him and the government servants, he explained to him that we could not tolerate its new district."
