27th December 2012

You will look at the bad luck you missed.

By Rose It.

It is clear that currently the state of life has been difficult because of various economic reasons, causing some people to live life.
This situation has also been contributed by the rise in prices of products including food and causing people to live life.

I have been said the state to rise in prices of products and food is caused by globalization, where basically you can be explained to be the process of controlling the economy of politics, community, business relations between the country.

Globalization makes a world that as one village that is not having up until where it is also insisted and the control of business restrictions and to make the world become one market.

It is clear that the procurement of civil market, democracy, good administration, gender rights, human rights, conservation of the environment among the concerned communities.

Despite the presence of that situation there are a lot of problems that have been caused by the existence of the local market and to do the lives of citizens that they have reduced due to that situation.

The main market has contributed to a large extent in the price of food, therefore, the situation has added problems to citizens especially low-income and assign them in a big possibility of getting a long distance.

The condition of failing to be contributed in some of the citizens are forced to get food of one type every day as a result of poverty that is high.

Recently, we have witnessed some of the business people when he was questioned about planting at the price of products where they said this situation is due to the freedom of Zekness which is caused by the existence of the local market.

Some of them said that, big business people have been buying many foods at a low price and waiting for foods to be called on season and to raise them at a price of shot dead.

I have been said, due to this situation, the farmer is not from poverty, because he is forced to sell its produce at an affordable price to big business people, while he has used a lot of energy in agriculture and benefit from them.

Doing so, it is same as the big business people to use their opportunity to ask the farmer by buying their products at affordable prices and to follow up for the purpose and wait for them.

It is clear that previously the price of beans was being sold at 1600 shillings per liter, but currently the situation is bad since the kilograms of beans is sold at the 200,000,000 shillings.

The maize flour was being sold at shillings 1000 shillings and now the price of rice bran and 10,00 Tanzanian shillings while rice has been sold at 2,200 immigrants.

On the side of oil of eating that was being sold by garnering 500 shillings for five thousand shillings to Shillings and making a state of people especially low-income as usual it remains to be avoided.

I have seen that this situation is as a result of the reduction of crops like maize, but still not the reason for praying for someone with a high level while the others can fall through severe pain and leaving others as usual.

As a result of that, there is need for government to supervise the prices of farmers by actions so as to help their lives and enable the income of the low-income people.

It should be understood that globalization is not a new concept as it is required to inform some of various scholars here in the world, because the history is telling us that the history of Christopher Columbus claimed to where he went to America to destroy the mining of minerals.

Africa was put in the official web of slavery as known as' President of Trumo Stephanie Gmwaijonga has said that Africa was done to be the source of strength in an easy price, whereby they will be taken to America in the country for slavery.

Africans were seen that they can produce natural resources for the purpose of industries in Europe and also the market for the industrial products in the year 1884 which was held at the Germany, famous as the name of Berlin.

This meeting was required to expand the African continent with various leaders, the colonialist has been encouraged to produce natural resources for the European industries, for example the colonialist that was under the colonialist.

It is the time of putting a strategic plan to withstand the difficult state of life by giving them their skills so as to protect themselves by inventing development projects.

This situation is going on such acts and taking action against the law to the citizens, a situation that builds the peace of the country.
