
Samia are lack of treatment equipment that affects many pregnant women.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was heard of 12th October, 2016.

80 percent of the deaths of pregnant women have been contributed by the lack of medical equipment, long distances to the health centers and lack of emergency services to pregnant women including surgery and blood transfusion.

This was said in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan at the ceremony of laying the foundation stone for the purpose of construction of mother and child health at the Provincial Referral Hospital.
Those buildings that are in third floor with a capacity to carry 150 nets each one, are being built through the sponsorship of AGAPE, and will cost an amount of 45 billion shillings to its completion.
The Vice President said that in that province, there is approximately 42 hospitals that provide emergency services, therefore, in the next 10 years, therefore, he said the construction of those ward has come at an appropriate time because it will help to reduce congestion at the Muhimbili National Hospital that caused the women to go down.
He added that in order to ensure the better service of mother and child is available, the government is prepared to ensure that the referral hospital and provinces are being implemented.
This will be done by encouraging private sectors to invest in health sector through the public and private sector, the aim being to strengthen the provision of good health services including the health of mother and child and this is among my important agenda when I met for citizens to pray for President John Magufuli, "he said.
He said the government is ready to see the importance of that sector, in this financial year, it has set aside 1 billion shillings which will pay medicine and treatment equipment, and among them, 18 billion shillings is for the purpose of reproductive health and the child.
In ensuring more improvements in this sector, we will continue to ensure that the health services is sustainable and to make sure that the money set aside in this group are ongoing at a time, to give training about mother and child health workers in the community and to build their ability, "he explained.
While at Mwananyamala hospital, Samia gave the directive by the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda to make sure he gets two vehicles for carrying patients in that hospital and if he will be unable to communicate with him.
"I have talked about this challenge of shortage of vehicles for patients from the senior health officer of this hospital, I know Makonda has the efforts, I give you two months, we find two vehicle for the purpose of patients that will expire.
Assistant minister of health, community development, gender, elderly and children, Doctor Hamis.
Kigwangalla said that the government recognizes the importance of better health services and the child will fight against the afternoon to ensure there are no deaths of mother and child for lack of good health services.
The minister of state in the office of the president (public service management and good administration), Angella Kairuki said that in order to ensure good services are being offered, the government will endeavor to make sure that it reaches the gap of the shortage of health workers and ensure it has already paid them in their appropriate time that will help reduce the great morale of work.
Makonda thanked Aisee Mjengwa for the support they gave, saying it will help to reduce maternal deaths to women and children that was contributed by the lack of better services.
