
David Banda, who is the killing of killing of Sean. this year.

We are giving condolences to the family of our fellow journalist, David Banda, who was killed at work, September 2nd this year, in the Nyato village, Mufindi, Iringa province.
It has been killed in the process of aim to fulfill the requirements of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania, which requires everyone to have the freedom of collecting taxes, spreading and getting information.
It was brutally murdered at the process of collecting information during violence that happened between the police force and some of the followers of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), "we said, God rest his soul in peace, the soul of the deceased.
We thank all our colleagues in the media industry, death of Latifa, is a big blow because one of them, one of them, one of what we used to do in other countries, the press that were arrested are now have began, now they have started in our country.
Although it's not our work to announce who was involved with the killings of Nelly Mwangosi, because that is the court's work in accordance with the law and the constitution of the country, but it is clear that in this event there is an environment that shows a result of some police officers in this death.
Therefore, in order to do justice to all those with doubt in the police force headquarters to investigate this incident and some of the murder of citizens, it is good for a special team to make investigation that will not be doubt among the citizens.
The head of the police force, Inspector General Saidi Mwema, for now it is not the right person to select the National Electoral Commission to investigate this event, because the groups among the society is not worried about him and his force is not true.
There are complaining of doubt and that he can select people who will reduce so that later the results of the investigation will be able to change his army instead of those results being justice and truth.
We can think that the killing of a journalist while at work is an event like other deaths of the deaths, no even though no one can be compared to someone, there is a broad way of death of a human being who is a journalist who is in work, again in the area which is not war.
In addition to other things, the death of a journalist who is in work is the death of the constitutional rights to look for, get and spread information.
The country cannot go without the media, and information can be distributed without a search of which they should be handed to power, on behalf of the public, so as to talk to them, it should listen to them, to listen to them, do not hesitate to talk about the broader interests of the nation.
Journalists is a very important mid-fielder for all that are being done because of the interests of the public in any country, and without doubt, in a period we are now like the country, a journalist has the only importance in every way to the construction of a broad way, peace and development of our country.
We pray to Nelly Mwangosi, because it is our fellow human being as it is to our colleagues who have been buried and his colleague, should be careful, be part of the efforts to fight and distribute information, be part of the rights of collecting and spreading information, be among the public and other institutions in the country.
