
The location of the parliamentary debates about sexual violence.
By Bashir Yakub.
The meaning of the writing of this article comes from the article of writer to Enock Nyandu "the effects of the reputation and behavior in the sun," (Taifa), December 31st, 2015).
Although I have written other articles to explain the thoughts, opinions and my stand about the view of this writer about the issue, I believe that there is need to give more stories about issues that are supposed to be given priority in the whole process of buying, distribution and we are requesting them to follow up with the use of Swahili.
In doing so, we will not put the foundation of a bridge that involves itself up to a second time - and to make us avoid having a high amount of limited space in the professional issues, a program, I need to speak it is where Swahili has been able to be held up with a heavy offense and that is using a foolish thing. "
And everyone knows Tanzania to be a expert in Swahili language and even the performance of FGM? I have given these articles in five main parts, every part aims to answer one of these questions, "said what is the creation?
They are women who are supposed to be involved with lack of discipline in the Swahili language but it is because of the ways that are used in getting rid of the veins.
So, there are policies, the beauty, institutions, and institutions of entering the Swahili language in Kenya?
It's true that (Tanzania)? (Tanzania) has been supposed to be leading the process of preventing throat cancer or at the end, what I completed the series of these articles by evaluating the problems that the problem usually happens in the whole process of lack of violence in Swahili.
For the reason of lack of positions, I will try to answer these questions at the following ceremony of giving a wider area, when I give you the creation of this question and to make sure this question is that a certain language is to expand, so as to meet the communication.
Most of the times, you have shivered, in the headlines or not using the language that is forced to expand, because of the speed of science and technology in the current world that was dominated by globalization, there are many economic development but it is nothing to make science and technology.
Therefore, every language will be forced to stop these development because it is not every language that doesn't depend on in the kitchen, all the languages in the world depends on each other so as to meet the new concept which they have been affected by the relevant language.
It is was known is that, it did not affect the language to mention anything or the concept of using the language.
Without doubt, you can recognize one time that the concept of the concept of shivered.
This means that the culture of Same West did not have the concept in future.
But the concept was emerged later, the District Commissioner were forced to borrow the word "Boers" and work on here and there to meet their communication needs.
Therefore, he will not be afraid that any language led to expand its agents in order to meet the concept that were not found in their culture.
On the same basis, I don't see you when you ask you to inform you or not to tell you or not to explain the concept of "
Another example that would be able to carry more light on this issue is dangerous to the Bible from English and Maasais', it will be very difficult to get a solution to the concept of "virgin" which could not be a farmer and therefore it doesn't have a breeder good wealth, therefore, then it will be a breeder good wealth! "
In how to give you, we will end in different ways used by experts in making sure that you use the virus.
Enock Matechi, is a lecturer in Swahili at the University of Cupertino in Pure @ gmail.
