Injustice to the use of motorbike riders, the sign of the smallness of the nation and our leaders.
October 12th, 2012

This week I would like to continue my opinion by checking other topics that is related to how to build a big nation.
Injustice they and the importance of fighting against all those promoting us among our fellows.

Look and doubt, injustice to the community is related to one and my topics of last week, I explained the importance of being followed up to the end of our life, in the community, in the community, and in the whole nation.

Injustice you are in many times, and many times happen when one place of the community is using the energy that will protect themselves in other parts of that community. I will give several examples.

We are supposed to protect those that are trusted by those with power in the country, basically the reason that they believe in power, the way the use of injustice they have a certain benefit.
These power that concern them are required to be dealt with by community members who need the injustice.

The heads of the government when they decided to share houses to the government were doing several things, one being the theft, because of taking your property without permission from their property, it is the theft and that was done when those heads face houses which are property to citizens.

But also to prevent us because the citizens found themselves don't have strength to fight with the government heads, and if they could have protested in the house and said that they don't know their houses that they have been made, the police would be ordered to destroy their houses.

Ndoinyo said that every day in our government in various sectors of the government officers that are in charge of land are not ready to eat a plot and attractive people so as to bring back to citizens.
On the right of the land that they are required to make it legal.

There are the whole community (people of citizens by hundreds or thousands) that concern them in the century of the century, "the investor told the land so that he can be able to produce or even able to prevent those acts.

The situation is same, in our court where citizens should send their rights but they are meeting with it is laws that are unable to benefit with the ability of money even if everyone is supposed to be recognized as a human being.

Prevent it has reduced even in the things that are required to have entertainment and joy.
Sports and entertainment, in looking for soccer champions, or music stars and beauties who have the reputation of conmen, the organizers of fraudsters who did not want to prevent the injustice to the community part which does not have the ability to refuse to be able to compete.

In a community that had lost ethics, weaknesses (or physical and relationship), you put the situation that can produce ZANU PF in the streets that goes to deal with him but only by using strength and use the high level so as to resolve the problem in that reserve.

The whole person that is living with her children (his brother) and he was a person they have lived and eating their food and where he is just because.
When the children do not want to make sure, what does not affect the affliction, and children, they will continue to get that, when it comes, the whole person to be able to identify the injustice to the act.

We have written a place even when it is appropriate you want us to have faith in anyone who is found in difficult conditions, we are taking difficult conditions as an opportunity to marry off more than two countries.

A good example is when an accident occurred in road accidents, then the people came to visit an accident that got an accident, not with the aim of registering him but with the aim of registering him, not to help him, starting with the government heads to ordinary people in the villages and villages.
