
The coach of Arsenal to arrest each other.
By OMR.
The coach of Arsenal, Arsene Wenger has announced that he will start stealing the best goalkeepers just after they were handed a sum of 15 billion shillings during the next week of transfer.
The year-fielder who are in the front line to be signed by Wenger is together Karim Majaliwa of Real Madrid, together with Loic Remy Ma from Newcastle United.
Arsenal will give him a sum of 15 billion shillings and that coach has hinted that he will buy a fast rate in making the club ready to contest for the English Premier League season next season.
"The important thing for now is to know we are very well in a period of two months and we know that it is a must to be reached in the month of July and August, during the launch of transfer," he said.
He added that the fans of the team should expect a lot, "what will I promise it is that we will focus well because the market has lost products but we are also many types of money and we are happy and I believe that until the beginning of the next season, we will have a tough squad," he continued to say.
Wenger has promised to strengthen three parts of his squad during the introduction of transfer, then on the right of the right round of the central mid-fielder and the Power Breakfast program.
He needs another goalkeeper after Lukaya and Fabregas believes that they join Swansea City and Attribution, Callawara Power Station (Southampton) and Serge Aurier has been selected to enter on the right wing.
Cesc Fabregas believes that there are people who are believed to get out of the middle and others are LStars Bana (RTO) and when got 6,173,433 votes (Southampton).
During the attacks, Arsenal won all over the continent of Europe and the ones who have been mentioned are together with Karim Majaliwa by Alvaro Morata of Bayern Munich who is a citizen of Croatia and Bayern Munich, Newcastle Club.
"This club has shown that it has faith me and to be happy about.
We have been a good work but sometimes our good relationship has contributed a lot of challenges but they are happy about this club because it knows me and we are expecting good. "
