Thank you so much my brothers, Sunday Shomari, and?
I love I?
I don't know if he said my colleague that even discourage each other with many teachers have been shocked especially in the province of Dar es Salaam.
We are also a resident of Dar es Salaam but because it is going to.
It is that a report given I don't know the research that he could make the late?
It is not true that we have not got the research like that and we have no sure that you can get where you can get, statistics and see that the teachers are good, as one newspaper's statement released every day here in Dar es Salaam, they will be able to be taken yesterday I met with the media.
Why do I look for?
We like primary schools.
It is told that one relationship of the children, one of those four children is to build it in a world.
We do not know what we are now in Dar es Salaam and for the whole country to reach, due to the inflation of students by many to give them hatred in secondary schools.
I was looking for five percent to the teachers.
And the children in primary and five primary schools but even so, the problem is big.
And now right is not at least one hundred thousand children until two hundred thousand even in the same way, children have been a lot of teachers for one hundred and fifty children.
We have also been infected with the statistics that he has found?
For now, we are there that there is no teachers who does work and do business.
He has been employed for the purpose of teaching of teaching and it is an indication that we take a example of us such as safe here in primary schools but now they will find people who have been studying the reports from the estates they have seen and asked the people to take them just directly.
And the audience.
We have urged our education officers, we have the directors of the council but they do not affect the people and know the reality of your work done by teaching the results they decided to give information that is not true.
Jesus and at this first priority is education and if it is the same education.
I will answer you so much to plan that he did not know that and his honor and not if they talk to them because of teachers doing other businesses you will get the time to go to do business at the time.
You can enjoy a child from one and a half hours until now legal and others am happy.
So much, the teachers at below and I request you to look at that there and also speak about those issues that are there in a must for the education system to get a chance to speak to the retired teachers, otherwise we were seen in this problem of teachers to teach in class and there was this problem.
So much and teaching to attend in class when they are usually in things we must know or in a four-inch width here in the country, it is looking at that sector in my opinion, it is the other sector Mary sell it.
For a long time.
And if you reduce that in the private sector, we usually do the nation for example our colleagues that they do this time you will give one computers to the child and we should talk about Dec.
For your teachers only.
Child is not similar to work, live with something that does not produce any person, but despite that, we will talk about issues.
Therefore, all the environmental environment will give you a chance to teach and learn not a friend to the child and not a friend for development.
And someone has money for research.
