How do you know the citizen to be "the country"?
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

There is one truth that you come to this today and the surprising fact is that a fact is a fact or a painful truth, although we have arrived for many years to speak.
We shouldn't know with us and we will also inform us that we are supposed to prepare and to stop the effects that are there and we will participate in improving the bad behavior.
The sure that themselves is that the army in Zanzibar is not a mirror of the people of Zanzibar, the society is the mix of tribe, religion, color, and ideologies for politics.
Therefore, at times now the army in Zanzibar want to be similar to the people of Zanzibar, I feel certain or a lot of political direction.
We are not even one person in the force, it is not among the high-level officials and not among the soldiers.
It is seen in the water army forces, he did not play in the air force forces, he didn't have the police force in the air force or not in the police force.
This is something sad and for sure, it is to resist the discrimination that is being done by touching the people of people who are not an industrialized blood.
Whoever doesn't know the blood pressure, the Arab Emirates or the world so as to make sure that you get a human human beings they are not afraid.
There is a need to say that even people with being thought that they benefit from family that are supporting the Civic United Front (CUF) are not involved in the army.
It is a shame that there is discrimination of this kind in the 21st century where it continues to see discrimination that had been done when Tanzania, in general, it is proud that it is proud to see the system of democracy, transparency, and encouraging all citizens to know their religion or political ideology.
For instance, it is a must that it is a system that requires all those in the community.
Without doubt, all those who want employment in those institutions are supposed to be dealt with because they are not dangerous to the security of the nation.
To do that is same but it has not succeeded to cause a lot of pain during the coming house of destroying the spider plant, common, religious or a party.
Or it is not supposed to do a party branches with great strength to be a place to give them employment to the citizens that is where those who are accepted can get employment.
Destroy the citizens because of their type or color, it is dangerous to them in the country they are required to be given the rights such as they are given their fellow citizens who failed.
In the event that would be used to enable citizens to be discriminated against the concept of your type of eyes on the eyes of the leaders.
The first kind is of those who have been infected by the source of "citizens" and the second kind is that those who be expelled and those that are done to believe that they are them and not others "with the country."
The citizen who is recognized by the constitution that it is "a citizen," is the second bridge during the first half, he becomes the one who had been attacked by the authorities to be the father of the party. "

CHADEMA has been having been able to look for him in a country to look for him so that there is no system of democracy that is same as the ones that are available all over the world.

However, there are things that essentially has been seen to have all types of democracy when among them is one of the government must be accountable because the votes they elected.

Moreover, all the rights of all citizens found themselves together with those who are few in the community, for example people who are from the small and rights of all citizens are protected with laws that were implemented by the police and the court that is free.

In the East African countries you are required to be able to work with special reputation so that they can be taught the first time, are needed to be careful in their country, and not for one person, or one party or tribe or one religion or one religion.

As it is right now in Zanzibar, it is that the army had a threat to one party of politics through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) has a special relationship with the army, security agencies and police.

This is contrary the required it should be in a democratic system where the army will not supposed to support any political party.

The Zanzibar army has a long history of Lennarth 1890, William Lettice Rutwengwe made a helicopter from the England's water army and taken to Zanzibar to form the heavy army of a structure of shillings.
