
Wednesday, October 29, 2014.

The importance of each other to build a relationship.

For those who depend on my colleagues of an event that doesn't be done by many, Ishaq Khalid, who is not only a girl child, Felican Mkude, who is not a child to give him a child, "Masau boasted. He is not ready to get another child.
I think this is important for now is to bring up their child and not to increase their own responsibilities.

To see that Rajesh Mistry wrote on how to get a child to get to that amount, it is true that she does not have a child not to give birth to him, and eventually, the person wants to run away houses for a long time to get a chance to reduce ideas.

Here we see the source of many problems involved in the neighborhood.
Failing to inform you that your partner with him has the right to think and decide on freedom if you are and that what we think that she would like to be law at the cost of freedom and the requirements of his colleague is not a thing that can improve relations.

In an example that I will give him, Rajesh Mistry getting into a conflict because two of the two or one person does not want to loose our differences while he wants him to be careful when he wanted him to be careful when he wants him to be careful.

Muhanga of him on his part is unable to understand her husband because he is proud to have a child of giving birth to him, he does not understand that inside Rajesh Mistry the desire to have good than his fellow child, these things are seen in a conflict and run away.

When it was surprised, although all of us would like so much understood, how come we are not conducting efforts to listen and stop the second side what we want to be understood.

Different are not helping them.

Lack of relationship that we cannot pay an opportunity to understand the second side like we themselves in our country, there is a certain way for the ones that come from feelings of not knowing themselves and they say, a partner that you believe is very easy to understand themselves.

Now you can ask you, "you should not understand us again?
They ate us believe that it would have been a reason to carry out different thoughts from his wife who could pay a chance to understand the issues of the second side and that they have already received any answers like without using their relationship.

Now a habit of people not to understand others and allow others to be able to see even when we get different opinions on social media networks like when we receive different opinions on social media networks if we see you and you are unable to hear and you are unable to hear and you are unable to hear from the second side and friends.

That is how it is in different relationship, it is a must for a must and for human beings who are born and different types of things, but it's not like that, different faith in our differences, but not like that, our differences and people are usually very much than that.

I remember one incident on my mind, one is a good religion when he didn't take issues of faith in the necessary weight.
You can call him a mother and now when it got to the Sunday, it was normal for a wife who was ready to see her husband doing any importance of going to the church.

I had resolved to understand the importance of recognizing, they want them to understand and get their differences.

His fate, by seeing that when he is done without the conditions, the husband changed and saw the value of your friends that you don't know, what you want to do, what you want to improve the difference between you.

We can inspect them and different from them?

If there are things we are supposed to ask before anything related to someone is if we can receive the same way, that he is without the expectations of any changes and that he is how you received it, except it's not able to change such as required.

That if your female friend today he likes a certain kind of fashion, hair or life, love, your love you love without falling, and some of the love you love without stopping.

When we talk about this, he does not show a person, it does not change the completely. No.
No. There are things that can be dealt with easily and make your lover without problems, and this is easy to recognize the response and direction of talks together with the ordinary citizens, while talking about the conflict and direction of communication.

But there are many other things that even if we would like to see our loved ones, the only way we can be able to deal with them but not to try to see our loved ones as they were taught.

And when it comes, there's a need to change, an only person you cannot change you and at any time it is you or change your views in that behavior that doesn't know or sometimes, there is need to change your behavior go hand in hand with the behavior that fell.

For example, instead of persist beads' has changed her husband who has the desire to fight against them without considering that, that is how he is.

The decision of change is?

I know there are different types of diseases that are not supposed to be completed, there are those that are called major mistakes that do not be completed and I understand so there are no primary decisions in a relationship that one can think it is a must to be done even if there is no consent of the other side.

In a environment like those issues analysis, we believe that it is important to test the cost of failing to change that they has changed from as compared to the cost of himself and that one should do anything without caring about his effects on relationship, or to do anything without caring about their relationship and even if they stop decisions that are not involved in the second side?

The fate of all, our opinions and things are not bad, it's health and good health care because we are not aware because we are living with their relationship and you can't understand what we go with their relationship and they don't understand what we go with and to respect their relationship with them and they don't understand what they go with.

A fools should be prosecuted?

It has been written.
Christian Bella.
