
13 December 2012

President Kikwete gives us fear from cashews?

By Mariam Mziwanda.

President Jakaya Kikwete has said that planting is in status of the hospital in the country and that the appeal will not be shaken by words, but that is being viewed as a quality of better services and reliable treatment.
He said the government will continue with the efforts of improving services together with increasing the experts in the country.

President Kikwete made those remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he was opening the hospital buildings in three centers among them being Mnazi Mmoja, Sinza and Mboma Race.

He said the aim of the government is to see its citizens get reliable services closer to the areas they are facing and evade the need of patients to be taken to Muhimbili from another hospital not to have the ability.

"As a result of the government to recognize the importance of the health policy in the country, we have begun to give priority to hospital with criteria and qualifications to be a referral hospital as it is to the Lugalo Army General Hospital, where its services will meet the best services in the country," he said.

He explained the strategies of the implementation of health policies goes hand in line with the expansion of the profession in order to increase doctors in the country and to eliminate the problem of lack of nurses in the government and private hospitals.

He said that the implementation of that plan is to consider the presence of construction of the 39th International Referral Hospital in Ilala Municipality, Dar es Salaam city which will give services equal to Muhimbili up to the year 2015.

"The government's expectations up to 2015 the Standard Chartered Bank will start providing services, again it will be modern with equipment and services because it is a referral hospital that will be washed away with Muhimbili, the aim is to see the ability of hatching of the services it is complete and the citizens benefit from the availability of health services in the country," he said.

He said that hospital will also be giving training to health experts from different universities, while the construction of the kidney hospital and the construction of the kidney services in Dodoma town is the catalyst to the development of health in the country.

Speaking about the big health challenges in the province of Dar es Salaam, he said the private hospitals are required to ensure they are investing in the side of patients, equipment and treatment so as to have a quality that will reduce people's congestion.

He urged the executives of those hospitals which have been launched to ensure that they provide better services to achieve the goals of mothers and child and also the South Korean ambassador, Chesensi Gavyole said the efforts of President Kikwete to make sure he continues and supervise that construction by recognizing the importance of four goals of Tanzanians.
