The declaration is terrorism at all, it did not inform us from terrorism.
Brightiles 15, 2013.

There is no reason which could be able to legalize the crime that was done on Wednesday last night in Bunda town, Unguja, to kill him using two English girls.
The attack is so much, the same way should be cursed by people who love all peace.
That act is as a result of the whole issue of the entire Zanzibar with our culture to welcome visitors and educate them so that it will go against the teachings of religious ethics.
I believe that two others are among the people of Zanzibar in general, we are supporting them as they heard the case, although the tragedy is not first, although the tragedy is not only one of its kind from Tanzania and pastoralists that had been killed by accountant of Tanzania and others in the islands of Tanzania.
We should come out, an attack on Wednesday last week was the first to eradicate violence, until now there is no one who was taken to court and being found guilty of all the types of attacks from Unguja.
Without doubt, involved in the last week, they have their reasons that made them to take action that they took.
What is happening in the farm, a terrorist group is rumors that is believed to be observed by the people that are not aware they are saying or those who do not understand things without doing research.
Rumors and another rumor will be observed by some of the newspapers and journalists in the mainland and they also know where they are doing and they are saying they are doing so that they are happy and without doing good research.
These are by the press together with other media networks of the western countries.
For sure, the advertise is this are some of the journalists in Mainland Tanzania, when they played a song that was played with the western media a human being, they have been writing information with buoys.
Those instructions are faced with the scene of preventing those girls and Muslims with great ideologies.
Others who contested for humiliation in Zanzibar on claims that the islands was the Faculty of terrorism in this region of East Africa.
All those information will not be given out on the basis of an Albino Buffalo that are given out on the basis of the concept of the concept of non-communicable diseases, such as usual, and the concept is not to depend on investigation or research of any kind.
The concept of the ones that deals with the western media has been a result of the journalists in the mainland to write information that are involved in the past week and Muslims with great ideologies or and that has been written by the terrorism name.
The press that can enjoy the concept, they don't know how they don't know what they did in Zanzibar.
When you follow keenly, you will see that they do not see that, they are part of the process that had been set for a long time to prevent the attempt to be demolished so that Zanzibar can have a full authority in the union of a new type.
They which she had prepared and took the strategy to make sure that by maintaining peace from Islam it will be easy to convince the Islamic State to support him in their conspiracy for controlling it and disamin Zanzibar so that it will not make a wall.
This evidence has been allowed early even before being distributed in the whole article that is present at this tragedy the recent rains.
There is another thing that makes those who help those who want to get to Zanzibar in front of the international community.
Again, there is a disease that deals with journalism in the western countries since the attacks that were done by Al-qa-Shabaab in the New York city and Washington September 11, 2001.
It will have shown that the disease now has been bad and it may not affect that industry in Tanzania.
Normally, the media are required to continue with any side, but these days we see that the media has a habit of looking for him on one side when the community comes with.
And it's not that, she has copied one on the one, but the patient is also faced with the official stand of the government or some of the government's stand, they have proposed that it has been demonstrated since Thursday in the Tanzanian newspapers which they started to write about the attack against the English girls.
