
19th December 2012

Pinda has expected to be 10 commandments of developing agriculture.

By our reporter, Katavi prime minister, Mister Mizengo Pinda, the day before yesterday has made a surprise visit and inspected the farms for leaders in Katavi Province to start with the farm, the head of that province, Doctor Rajab Rutengwe.
Another farm that he inspected Mister Pinda is the deputy administrative secretary of the province, Engineer Emmanuel Kalobelo, where all the farms are in the Makele area, in Nsimbo Ward, Mlele District, in that province.

Doctor Mwinyimvua has a five acres farm which has been planted on the maize and it is used as a class when Engineer Ndikilo has a four acres farm and a half years he had reduced.
Together with the modern chicken.

Apart from inspecting those farms, Mister Pinda spoke to the residents of Shimo village, to follow the 10 commandments of developing agriculture in the district and that province.

Mister Pinda who was on the fifth day of his tour in Katavi Province, Mlele District, said he has been forced to prepare those results by recognizing that every person needs to eat food without caring about it is a high level leader or ordinary citizens.

"Facebook has not yet known as the prime minister, teachers, the head of the province or the bishop of hunger and we will inform you, like every person needs to communicate," said Mister Pinda and added that, there are some of the disabled people who can grow them.

He said he has prepared 10 positions to speed up the development of that province which is every person to produce them, to withdraw poverty, with the ability to help them, should have two acres, since the year 2014 to have three acres and in 2015 to have three acres, "he added.

He mentioned another reason that, every acres that will be cultivated is a must that it has been operated on, it should have a size of 70 measures against 70, not to be self-malarial and not the fuel that is not recognized by using the quality of experts. "

It is a must for one acre to evade 164,547 as they agree with pain because I have done many areas in the country and outside to see how our colleagues continue due to agriculture.

"There is your acre to use a red card that does not make sure that it does not be able to increase the type of switching off their crops on the forefront to use that stand," said Mister Pinda.

He added that, the eighth commandment must be done on time and insisted that after getting the ban, he urged the provincial councils to ensure that every village makes small laws to help the citizens to implement those results.

He urged the leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in that province to start being an example because the first farmers so that they can be satisfied by the government to implement the ones he decided.

Yesterday Mister Pinda went to the Majogoo village where he will receive a report of the auction, speaking to the citizens.
