Illegal fishing.
Sei 12, 2014.

In recent years, a resident of Mbeya has witnessed an increase in fish business of the sun and even so in Mbeya town it is sold to an accident.

But in Mbarali District, in that province, the business of those fish are done in public, it is being found in the markets of Uzi, Rujewa, Chimala and Igurubi County.
There, traders have no fear of being arrested because of making a wider network to the law.
Those fish are usually carried out in the Indian Ocean, where legal action is the business of illegal fishing, that is why people living with illegal fishing, that is why people living in Mbeya can sell them by getting away from their network lack of strength outside Mbarali District.
The size of the illegal fishing problem in the Ihefu Valley reserve, which is part of the Ruaha National Park, it means to identify the level of fish, who are smoking, are from big and small businesses.
The increase of illegal fishing in the Indian Ocean is contributed to more than the existing laws that are there about the fishing type, together with the economic growth of the network of violence on the fishing.
The conservationist of Ruaha National Park, Christopher Timbuka, says that the authority facing a problem of illegal fishing in the Indian Ocean, and believes that the dangers of the laws that are there about the fishing, and as compared to the cause of violence against elephants which says at least severe pain in criminals are severe.
"We arrested people but they were taken to court they were charged 10,000 or 50,000 shillings, that is a very little amount compared to the income they got," says Timbuka, in his interview with our citizens.
The investigation has revealed that one cargo of these fish, the type of fish from the sun will give them more than one million shillings, therefore the punishment for 10,000 or 50,000 shillings cannot change him, she has paid him and continue with his business.
"The law is giving a very small punishment," he complains about asylum.
Further investigation shows that the business people of those fish have built high prices in the district, and due to their financial energy it is prepared to pay that punishment which they take care of the type of payments so as to continue with their fishing activities in the society.
The network that involved the fishermen who enter inside the reserve, fruit vendors and some of the civil servants who their main job is to build a good environment for those fish and to ensure that their cases are run without depending on the side of poachers.
In an interview with some of the deaths of those fish, in the market of the White House, they admitted the fish that were thrown out of the air, while the others unable to explain how they get out.
Fishing are made.
Illegal immigrants who enter inside night by using small canals, and due to the size of the land, there are many ways to intervene.
Inside the reserve, there are small industries, this is used by illegal immigrants like their stations and that is also a series of timber, before bringing to the market.
However, for fish, the small-scale farmers are brought to the market at their first time and they are usually planned to cater for themselves from markets, and others make them sell their children so that it cares for a period and the state of the fish.
A large section of those fishermen are the host, and they are explained to be used in water, therefore, they should also be used to deal with the security guards in that reserve.
Most of the illegal immigrants use abusive language as steadily from any size of the same, big and small businesses, but more than that, you're also involved in water issues where some of the growth and a reduction in those fish.
The government continues.
And the problem of illegal fishing.
Blood is a section of the Ruaha National Park, therefore it goes into the process of the defense and security authority, although the end of the day they depend on media stations to deal with criminals.
Administrative secretary, Mbarali District, Alfred Mzindakaya, he says that he does not have reports of illegal fishing in that park, and that she desires to know that he is fishing in the ordinary way in Kapunga Village.
However, the Mbarali District Commissioner in Mbarali District, have written the scandal, where there was illegal fishing tools within human resource has claimed that together with police force is still ongoing.
