Then he is enjoying anything after using their language.
And scored in all the condition of May, you know that we are going and agreed.
You can they be done here in order to be one thing.
When the constitution is still in the constitution that I understand what you are.
Little, we have decided to meet even one of BoT has lost the children, when you go to the children, you will give you a solution to let me go.
By Ambassador Seif.
We were everything seen to use that, it is seen to be given that person, he has not been forced to go and go to Bongo since he decided to allow our responsibility to you of Gongo La Mboto which they have found himself having been found on anything in a pose with a car.
A little of and the quality, have left different meanings together that it depends on the stock.
That was a series of fees spreading on that is a human being with a whole person, what I don't know which is being done, I was not there for all the time he was my husband who doesn't want.
There isn't anything related to the fight.
Under the nuts I will go down.
Now you have said that in the picture you should know the pictures of Hotel?
Tunduma after scoring one goal that I told me.
Its spherical guidelines where it is expected to start business, why did I want to call him who says she was not ready.
He thinks, we need to give opinions and other non-communicable diseases which do not get married, you cannot get my skin to you, you cannot go back, but you cannot go back, but you want you to know where I want to know what is there.
For you can participate in the park.
When you go back to re-term, it would like to take him in front of the winning is both sides of you, what would you know if I am just a saying, "we have said that we have been separated, we have been able to listen to who had gone to.
As such as a family as relatives, I have met with this issues that they got yesterday we are requesting the headquarters the day I found.
And when we are left alone friends comes by that one of officer.
She was a girl who doesn't know my son, Beatrice Singano because all of us now is not a company that you want them to mix up the procedure of up to the minerals you know, but a bad thing is their patient themselves.
And cook.
I'm in the country we were in which she was not aware if he did not have a lot of time to take a step that you're getting in, because the lady did not want to know if the father did not want to know then there were words and problems let me listen.
