Same as Mister Cosmas and Stephano Cosmas is a must that you can say that you have a lot of understanding and conflicts in search of your eggs and there is saying that if peace and conflicts are things that we live together with one thing, what we live in, therefore, there is an impromptu visit to you shortly.
Has identified himself true that conflicts has reduced.
Instead, a problem is only one day his bed sheets can't know life is to do people to do their work.
Normal thing is only that in order to say the ideas with each other and everyone is thinking to do with.
There's no problem like these words, but a problem where five will take.
This issue came up a week and the government institutions started to grow and fail to work.
To return to his condition if you have us that we have said that it is good for Ukawa and different steps to prevent before we are underway.
Ahenkora has said that there are some journalists in the sea or media networks that they are there because of doing business that the aim of looking for information that maybe you have written the news that if you get the news, we know that those who own the media are people or the ones who are involved in each other and we become a terrorist attack.
And artist and will be aired more than fifty hundred and fifty years and the newspapers more than five hundred thousand, that you find that many believe it is little.
Politicians and business people.
They are talking to them, it is that they can get only a good money also.
The performance of the press for information should be dealt with.
The salaries of journalists?
You know that the journalists and still have a great challenge and the first challenge is to know what he can get money for paying the first in the stomach, to know how he can live in.
It can contribute to one type or another the whole world.
To the coming out of goals that do not have the expectations that his listeners and viewers have been asked to meet, you know that we're going in Dar es Salaam when we go through it.
It is easy to be able to reach the high level but building peace?
It is a procedure that is the police force or not that it can be able to return to one day because it is a must for news agencies to know that it is up with us even if they are paid badly but they do your work well.
How is it needed?
I would like to know outside.
It's not worried about the business people that want them to get money for that, I request for journalists themselves and you asked him.
Read the topic there and working on their stand.
For milk but in the past you can do well in doing the environment why do it work.
It is not right.
I thank you so much, that we are.
