24 December 2012

Conflicts of politicians appear in the voter?

By Esther.

It is a long time now, there have been political confrontations between the two rivals who are two cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Mary Nagu and the retired prime minister Frederick Sumaye who have been seeing each other something that is shame for the leaders like these leaders like each other for bribery.
Election as it has ended, there's a reason to continue with great tension without any issues that citizens are supposed to meet their leaders, the time those who are able to arrive in the villages to check the problems of citizens, it's an issue that's supposed to reach the end now the Tanzanians have gotten tired with these cadres.

In the way I will see the current leadership in the poor country like our country's leadership that can't be a lot to the leader as Sumaye who was a big person in the country why that you are doing, there is another foundation that did more than the current conflicts.

There are a lot of work of doing why I do not understand more on politics especially in the message of the executive council of NEC because there is what happened where the introduction of these people should give birth to that amount.

I personally asked himself, what happens inside the revolutionary party until there should be a big conflict to this level which even signs of saying you come to end, Sumaye and Nagu, all people are doing a fight against them.

This situation is true and it is enough for now to be a must and discuss other primary issues because the day before yesterday is the news of Sumaye and Nagu, the moment the citizens have gotten tired to listen to those acts of listening to the development of the nation's economy.

I am supposed to inform me, when you know politics since many years you serve the nation it is enough for there are good that he made with the bad luck he made but giving them.

My leader has said that most of the community works, especially the opening of orphaned children and living in an environment to help the nation, because a nation has a large number of orphans who need to be assisted.

This is now a shame for the nation and the citizens who had been leading to see that this leader is going out to find out, there is no reason to continue with this disease which was not last when the responsibilities of doing there are many.

That is now the Tanzanians need to recognize that a big percentage of the leaders are looking for more than to check the problems of the citizens that concern them in the villages, just think about elections and other leaders of the executive council of CCM (NEC) from an end, more than three months but these officials are still continuing with their differences which are not even signs of end.

I believe that in the leadership of the Revolutionary Party, there is their responsibility for now to inform these officials and to sit with them in addition, an important thing that made the good pictures of our nation, Mister Sumaye this is a bad thing that is a bad shame.

We have seen a great example to Mzee Mkapa the retired president that he is doing so because he was not born with his advisers and stop politics since they cannot be a good adviser on the war against corruption, which it has been a good teacher in various government institutions.

When the leadership is ending or they were unable to be like our elders, Sumaye and Mangula, are the ones who are going on to see the pain of bribery.

Even Health, Mary Nagu, the day after falling on the other side put him in pain and seems to be a series of rumors on bribery when he was walking, therefore, every leader is supposed to enter power through not using bribery since its results were like that.

Recently, Sumaye who is the retired prime minister and Nagu, is the minister of state in the office of the prime minister (investment and empowerment), have gone into conflict and this conflict made the speed during the election of getting a member of the national executive council of CCM, through the Hanang District, where Sumaye was killed.

The two of them have now entered into a huge tension by being involved in public about bribery, something that is not good in front of the community and nation.

In that election held, Nagu won the votes, and later, the retired prime minister emerged and explained that the failure to cater for the bribery that were made in the election is under the violation of several leaders of CCM.

But recently the day before yesterday, Sumaye removed the government on corruption and went up more by urging members of the Union of the Union of the Union of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM), making war with all the use of bribery that he explained that currently, they have been a series of bribery that had become a sign in the party's elections.

Speaking at the UVCCM's election chairperson in the Hanang District "that took place the day before yesterday in Katunga said the use of bribery in the elections of various positions in CCM are required to be played against CCM members of UVCCM, because the youth is the army of CCM that is required to be on the front line to lead the fight.

But also in this, the vice chairperson of CCM, Philip Mangula, because he arrived in power he is not supposed to intervene in this issue so as to be able to end since this style is shame for the biggest leaders if these interests are a great shame, I have faith that the vice chairman has done this time before it has not completed it.

I have faith that this issue now will be coming at the end with Mister Sumaye and we were waiting for the talks about these conflicts, because as a retired leader get him a good reputation as a retired leader.

I have been explained to this in this is that Bwambitions are supposed to remain as a good leader of the party on different types that arise in the party but not what is looking for now is a great shame to sit and vie for the leadership positions.
