A deficit of the farm is a big problem.
October 24, 2014.

The very high statistics in the world show that Tanzania is now of 16 countries in the world because it has a huge shortage of life compared to the National Revenue Authority.
According to the Economist Intelligence Unit through his letter of Octa-RT company's edition of this year, a deficit of the budget now has reached 19 percent of the National Identification Authority, being joined by Mozambique, a report that is not attractive economically.
Many of the countries that are on the best ten in the group are those with the history of war, economic restrictions and which still have not seen from the whole period of four years ago, but Tanzania which does not turn up in that group.
In the countries that are in the East African Community (EAC), it is Tanzania and Uganda only are the ones that are in the group of these countries in other African countries that are on Tanzania in this group are Liberia, Sierra Leone, Zimbabwe, Guinea and Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Guinea and Lesotho.
That magazine has mentioned a deficit in the budget of Tanzania that it is expected to reach an amount of 4561 billion shillings (seven trillion shillings), a level that is big to the economic growth of our nation.
We think this issue needs information about what the government has done to reach this situation as it was resulted from borrowing, this loan will have benefits and it will not make sure to be able to be able to be restored to the whole group.
There are only two ways of explaining about the deficit of the budget and the first way is when the use of the income and the second way is when the government gets a little tax.
The way to fight with this is first to reduce the use of the government and the second is to increase the scope of tax collection it is ready, through different reports that Tanzania is losing a total of five percent of the National Revenue Authority due to the collection of taxes done by big foreign companies in the country.

If the problem is a great use of the government, there is a need to look at how to make sure that this situation is, that is being shown by anything because, there is no reputation or explanation of having a big deficit of the heart.
What is needed for us questions is true that these three countries like Tanzania, Uganda and Mozambique, are the ones that came to discover oil and gas in their areas and maybe this situation has a relationship with the discovery.
These can be signs of what is called "-hop, "where the country with great wealth is therefore, they will be difficult to know if there is any relationship with this bill until when the good instructions are being administered.
An important thing to the government is to view these new reports and to work on them.
