When we are heading to the elections.
It is possible for many parties of politics he stopped.
It is also possible that the criterion of children to come up is that you will use that opportunity to put many youths to be read and when we see the youth because the youth don't understand the youth because the youth don't understand the youth because my youth don't know what we want to grow.
But we get benefits?
You will increase the party.
Again, you can get a candidate or easy to be a true youth that he does not understand the problems that we have.
He knows me that they have faith, the truth or not to get.
Yes, it has been able to buy luxurious houses inside and outside the country to have great ability, my life, I am my family, it has been good for many Tanzanians to be seven in his bed.
Under many forests, we have been making enough desks, we have an average of ten million shillings and how many billion customers make their debts to protect themselves from the village to prevent them and we need the president of this kind.
We need to make sure he does not want to prevent human resources and property, to change our life system that you want to see the time the youth is still in my union but not a youth and a youth can be allowed to be paid the country but they do not have my joy that does not have any joy.
And then an old man has positioned itself itself well but he is honest and good work hard to our nation be known because she has prepared himself.
He will not be easy because of his same kind, you can give you easy because of his ability and thinking I saw it, they saw a lot of peace the truth and integrity.
Now, how is how you should be able to reduce his easy job tomorrow because the good reason for teachers to say that the deputy head, because of a long time, you will make her love a person because of her fiancée he said and the region does not get a person because of the party's chairperson, he said.
That we are looking for someone because his joy is good if you do not see the certain person in the body and attractive, that is done to him at his home.
It was words who are annoyed because Tanzanians did not lie!
But he is happy about the message that the same time we want to do not have good shape as a youth.
He should have the ability to deal with challenges that are in the country.
In order to know how Tanzanians are supposed to close?
Now a black child has lifted itself more than the youth that you can't understand the debate that you should not be easy or to prevent it which is now as a young man to choose so that Tanzanians will also choose the criteria thus the Tanzanians will also choose it.
We came to not support the same type and old it will not leave the problems of having.
Problems that we used to be stopped by old men is not the disease and the same disease is not everything.
January Makamba says ninety percent still are only ten percent and also it's not the offense.
And I think from TANESCO's stand on the same or without one constitution, it is five years.
He is supposed to vie for all that you want to live on January.
He said.
The family had died from his party.
Say you don't want to hear the opinion I have seen.
The opportunity for Tanzanians to look at January is enough "he did not do children because his party said.
He will do and put aside because it is not looking at.
In that ministry, they will lead you for talks with a lot of talks and wisdom.
At times they can be able to get a president who is supposed to get my son.
In every problem, Nancy Katoma, has faith that it has been caused by the elderly every time the citizens will be given because President Tenga has caused him here is a certain city like it.
It is not found.
