
18 December 2012

A new constitution comes to the carelessness of directors.

The constitution is a fund of regulations that are leading in dollars and provide guidance on the procedures of the national system to inspect them in accordance with the regulations and regulations so as to identify the responsibility and rights to the leaders and guardians.
The history of a human being has resulted in five systems of relationship in wealth creation.

There is no Tanzanian who died from this systems that is the source of the constitution and after the human activities in order to improve our weakness in the environment he is living, that's where security was going on the issue of the same production.

That situation contributed to lack of nutrients in each other with buoys who were tested for rights on discrimination.

The problem has contributed to the production of property, class seven, an increase in land conflicts, equity and share experiences that are available in production.

Those conflicts have succeeded to brought down the systems but still a political relationship, continued because the only thing is of political procedures to make sure that they get into the group of interests and the ruling party.

A big community has no right to use the resources of the countries that have been given by God by giving up and what this is what will happen in the current generation.

The directive is that if the constitution will not be discussed in details by all citizens so that the policies and argument that can be understood, the citizens will have a decision to fear and therefore open a lesson for poverty, ignorance, and diseases.

Those challenges will remain like the regulations of the new constitution that will protect the nation's resources for the interests of all of the constitution as a system of regulations for defending justice and responsibility, it must consider the views of the citizens instead of defending the interests of the ruling party.

The new constitution is supposed to stop poverty, ignorance, and diseases instead of protecting politicians and leaders who are in power so as to speed up development.

We have said that, Tanzania has a lot of resources to be able to serve its citizens.

New constitution should be accountable for the government officials and the citizens that use the country's resources to benefit themselves and consider the democracy to people with good love for the benefit of their nation.

For example, our children are organized by the scholars and some of them do not have the awareness of creating a student so that they can succeed in those examinations, its results is to prepare experts.

We would like to see a new constitution because the act of laziness in the work performance of development activities because Tanzania is a country with great grace but the citizens put it due to the difficulty of life.

Our faith is that, citizens have the ability to produce property, but they still have a lot for reasons for lack constitution and rights.
