
Football are not supposed to be crafty people.
I went to a little time and the life of the conflict between Stand United and early they were affected as a primary thing for the team to be a company, but still the administration system does not cause mistakes.
The construction of the club to be a company in Tanzania started with Yanga, at the beginning of the year 2000, George Mpumalanga 'meeting, who stopped him to make sure the team becomes a company.
He saw different changes and would have been record.
It reached a step in the meeting of Yanga that took place at the culture of culture that was played at the toes of the toes and many wanted the company, but four people were given.
It is difficult to bring change in the club which especially has been built by members who believe that if the administrative changes will be held, it should miss the position.
Stand United has land in the rule of administration, the structure of club from the normal club having a plan to send himself and be a company.
Change to the club that a company is the right way for the future of the club, but it is a procedure that has been done even by the club to reach that step?
It is possible that some people have found good direction and even to bring change in the system, but the big way is the procedure to change the system and structure of the club to be a company.
No one does not want to change and there is no need, is to see that everything is going on, but it is because of the ways you are not supposed to have symptoms of few people.
I was also congratulated the Acacia company who are sponsors, they want to get to sponsor. It is possible that the rule of administration continues, but if the sponsors, they were required to wait for his end.
I think about the efforts of the government wanting the completion of the conflict that is there between Stand United and the executive committee of that team which is under the office of the Provincial Commissioner, is of the federation.
December 23 this year, the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Nape Nnauye met with the leadership of Stand United and urged the issue to be finished.
Nape said that and now the club will be given freedom to run itself by using their constitution instead of ethics and another party with private interests, he said the ministry will help to see this conflict between Stand United to be given his authority to manage and run their team's activities in accordance with the constitution.
Those are the words that affects the bus and that is why I said that there is no one who did not want to change or success, but if there was a question, even if it would have been able to agree with it.
It is a must that the consent of every side should be able to vie for poles when the construction of a house is one of the problem with the problem of some people.
On another side, it is required to TFF, to Stand United as its stakeholder, to look for what is done to finish the conflict by checking the constitution of the club and administration system, even if the changes have been planned, but not outside the club's procedure.
