
He started by touching the players such as Miriam.
His voice maybe, I'll give a ring, as a lady who turned out with a own kind of music, which he has gone into music since the year 2010, when he released his first song of gospel known as' It Off '.
However, his music journey was started before recording the song as he was in a band of gospel songs, Eunice Chiume, where he was serving as the assistant singer.
Lieberum, at the Majani ya Chai Secondary School, Narok Kenya, where he got getting her in his music video, what he did since he was in a third time when I had written my music video, "Kasunga said that I would have died in the day after seeing many people," he said.
It was surprised after starting his music journey, it is that his first song is believed to be better than if he was expecting, "the song is very happy because it was received well.
I was happy about upcoming musician, "he said that she has been impressed by happiness.
Despite the song doing well, he sat for a long time before giving another song as an obstacle is lack of money to record, which the patient is usually a challenge to each artist who is wrong.
I went to a ring on the year 2013, when I gave a song I have talked to him, "the chief message in that song was to be engaged to God, despite a lot of challenges that I have been able to face in life," said Liike.
As his first song, that song was received very well as apart from that, made it is making name, while the media were playing for a-inch width.
After that, he released another song Noma, Wiz Khalifa, which he released in December 2014, through this song, he gave a message that God can give someone in addition to improving his life.
During the moment, we have been done to live in the success of those songs, he started the strategies to prepare his album since he was the one who started in mature adults.
"
And in which, it is unacceptable, and the message came out in that album, Lieberum, he was selected to be elected in the award for more than 100 music awards, but he was selected to win two awards for the performance so that the success could have been invited in that country by the organizers of those awards so as to promote gospel in his songs.
"The victory was known as a request for the request that I have been asked since I start music. I wish you a lot of lot, all in the process of looking for my work," he said.
According to one of the challenges that we have ever made through agriculture, where he didn't succeed.
He advised the gospel musicians to be an example to the community through their actions which are contributing to consider the message of their songs.
At the moment, it is preparing to release his album at any time as the reason that you managed to go to America following an invitation to make their award of talents in Swahili Awards.
Moreover, he has been Lieberum, pictures of the Permanent Secretary General greeting the young children for giving the help of the children's headquarters.
Read or annamatinde @ gmail.
