Having received the building of Tanu, Lumumba, for patriotism?
On the 25th October, 2015.

There is no one who believes that on that day, that she was married and being beaten by a fast rate in Lumumba Estate in Dar es Salaam city earlier on February this year, is the popular building that he was born by Tanaka in 1954, "and which before this step was a small office of the headquarters of the Revolutionary Party, in a small office in the headquarters of the Revolutionary Party, in a small office in the headquarters of the Revolutionary Party.
More than 30 men's squad at work, do not be open by the strings of the hands, as a result of the building of the modern building and therefore the construction of the modern building and therefore the purchase of the land, the history for the liberation of our nation, are greedy for business and money.
I have heard the first lady known, Amina Abdallah a total of 180 years, while 93949 years, received with pain saying "we do not have faith, but he refused to ask for those who don't have the country because they don't know what they don't have to the nation.
I was surprised by the patriotism of his wife and with a good understanding about the value of history and culture in the country, more than today's constitution does not understand the importance of "to view behind.
It is saying that, that building did not have a history of political parties only, but the national freedom of the country, but CCM only did not have the authority to decide what they have done, but our freedom is available for all.
When I agree with two youths, they are looking at looking at yourself "men" at work I ask for themselves as the men "when you agree with everything to investors, but without knowing that, that building did not have a CCM history but freedom of Tanganyika came and that without Tanganyika.
When I interview me, it's because our nation's responsibility is losing good ethics, its development vision and patriotism in any way, while big nations will finish it, then it does not be said that, a tree does not finish up, it is same as a tree that doesn't be allowed to have reduced by a little wind.
When he launched the house on the use of the Tanganyika Union Association (TASWE Saccos), a grandfather's grandfather was born later, "New Zealand, then he knew that inside the house they had been born later," New York, later he knew that inside that house by getting off in the previous year.
The lights was started by the famous elders of Dar es Salaam as a entertainment club with an aim of preventing African countries in the period that politics was not allowed by the colonialist and where the idea of claiming freedom had not been done by the colonialist.
The neighborhood of "New York" has been asked to have been called in Lumumba Estate after Uhuru for honor and the memory of the revolutionary people and the United Republic of Congo (DRC), which was brutally murdered by the investor from the United Republic of Congo, CIA, with an aim of controlling it in the country and in Africa as a whole.
The idea of claiming that the Tanganyika freedom was founded by Kitwiru, where they were in the fight, during the second round of the world in India, the police officer of Kalege, and whom they were able to fight for youths with TAA, who had been able to fight for youths together with TAA, who had qualified to return to Zanzibar.
And when they were in Bromwich,, a refugee camp did not accept to discuss the squad of Bribes to be the political party for fighting for the interests of the youth.
