And after Ramadhan pregnant, I told the leadership I was coming from if we get the songs we also had in home.
That people's the one who has managed to be our president as a person sees it completely.
Our by wanting to be a leader like a phone not to be accountable but the other day they see.
By being seen here, I see the life has never been good that Singida I see very much when he was politically discriminated, so I can do everything to do so, we can make people no good or mother, elderly or media networks are clear that they are going to do.
If you know that there is no boundaries because when we get the ability to someone who is.
Put up the roads since there is no cause of paying money and attractive, there is a question.
The truth is that because of the members of parliament from the questions, because of writing to them, the minister will be so because the number of a bomb wife and it has been used to be used.
Be like that like this house number one, everyone sees you.
Let me look for a big shot on the first time.
He is supposed to know what I got as it is and we can make sure that what is okay, it is first to know the problem and problems they have been asked, they should not tell ourselves that it is honest and not to marry off.
To know it's just a person who wants to vie for a member of parliament because of the interests.
When I was trying to say something a servant can be so much let me leave while others here so as to learn from there are interests to be careful so that if you see that, everything will go back.
To show people were on the way he wanted to change, there are different meanings in the past, he said.
Coming out to contest.
At the same time, the former God for the liberation of industries; therefore, the community which had a very close person who had a strong desire to see that's property to see that they are told to reduce them to the father of alcohol.
But in that years God we have been campaign like I will change a lot to change about the late and you know what I don't know if you don't have a lot of ability to inform you so as to have been set aside directly into the pitch.
My partnership will help me if there are many people like they don't like, through the people, they love the club the same time they can use the club the same time they can get to the culture the preparations should go through politics there is no to citizenship.
Insults cannot get away if it would have been seen and he was extremely tired and there is a certain things like I would be able to go.
That brings us residential houses and.
When a mother did not know, they could not tell you that on your part, you can't see what he didn't try to where he is doing.
I was on fire in depending on the way you came and wait for forgiveness from Kawe, they were appointed.
A finger but from that meaning.
Your right is education to be a problem.
The shortage of you cannot be a member of parliament after seven o'clock in the country.
Starting from skin to a year and buildings, some of the ones have gone to return, they believe that if he was forced, I would like to tell me that I will help him to help our message, he has said here is a problem of 'Imebaki Story.'
The new behavior of you must or more than leadership?
