
Stop Pep Guardiola is called!
Sei 15, 2016.

The Manchester City coach, Pep Guardiola is decided to be called Pep Guardiola and leave everything he is doing on the face of the world is not something that can be done by many human beings of its kind.

He used them in different football during a period in which many of the teachers of its kind have already qualified in the right time and he has remained the right time and he has remained on the right time and he has remained as the deceased.

His system is used in all the teams that inspect the clinic, he advised that many coaches and it will continue to marry off the system that makes the opposition teams to be sent in the field for a long time of the game being involved in the field for a long time.

Pep Guardiola is owning the ball with a big percentage in Jihadist Barcelona, Bayern Munich and now they will play against Manchester City as they see today in the English Premier League that uses a lot of strength and mental disabilities, Pep has come into courtship.

It was not something very happy to see Pep Guardiola and Elichilia Khamis, and Joe Hart for his squad in the security area and bringing against Rayo Vallecano.

Mangala is a good user of strength, Pep Guardiola is not supposed to make sure, he knew the mind of man can't see and start attacks from the past.

This is yours, you do not understand what means that you can organize ourselves, this is a human being of discrimination.

In the world about Pep Guardiola at the end of last week in their game against Manchester United against his opponent Jose Mourinho, he named Mourinho, his administration at Old Trafford stadium and the men attacked the 11th stadium of United inside the stadium.

A lot of time of that contest, the live news headlines, Jichunge.'

Every United States tries to prevent the attacks with a series of crime in which they found a hole to the opponents who attacked the ball and came to them again at their final match of the game 2, United 1, and this victory, and continued with Pep Guardiola to Mourinho.

Pep Guardiola is a request that her lives with himself, Arsene Wenger has bought football at a big level, but he did not get good flavor but it does not allow football and is dispose with them on the legs.

It makes a mixture of ball with your close friend and giving back again and you put it again and then you need again to pass the place where enemies are very close to you.

This type of football usually uses many players and another time to play each other and given your card will be carried in the teams that are carried in the past, while Pep is and Barcelona while Kicheere.

Achileus and those pass from Xhosa culture, Andaman Sea and Lionel Messi at the Wembley Stadium, that brought Sir Alex Ferguson plans to be a best player in the world, and even him (Pep), Messi called him to be one of the best coaches in the world.

I will end.
