
Minister has ordered the servants of TRA, TBS to clarify.

Has been written by our correspondent.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

The government has urged some of the employees of Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) in collaboration with their colleagues of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to pass more than 100 containers without passing by the organization at the port of Dar es Salaam to surrender as well.

Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage gave the directive at the end of the week when he launched the council of workers of that organization, "I have started collecting the list of names of people who helped to pass these containers and let them see," said Mwijage.
He urged all those who know themselves being involved, to surrender as well as summoning demons.
That minister also urged TRA to stop giving containers, without the organization to confirm or inspect the quality of products that are imported into the country, because of the authority is TBS.
He said that the who will be pardoned for him who participated in a way to speak with when they come with and when they come up with who will go to the areas where the governments are able to stop the situation.
He said he believes that those who did so in TRA, did not meet their will, without the participation of their leaders, and now it has come to stop the behavior.
Last Thursday, Mwijage gave four days to business people who bought tickets at the port without inspection by the TBS, to give information to the organization, he said that after getting a report of the existence of 100 containers, that were given out of the port without inspection by the TBS.
"I urge all business people that they bought those drugs, to surrender to TBS before starting on Tuesday so that as soon, I know starting tomorrow (Friday) for a half time, but TBS will put up a certificate to listen to him up to Monday and reach Tuesday action will be taken by all those involved," said Mwijage.
He said the business people who will not surrendered after the completion of those days action will be taken including paying a fine of 15 percent of TBS is among the stakeholders of the port.
Due to the medical services, the port has new stakeholders who are Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), agency of democracy, institutions of controlling the quality of products, TBS, Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA), the chief chemist of the government, commission of nuclear radiation and others.
Those 100 containers were planned to join TBS at the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (ID), which according to the procedures, they are involved and protecting the cargo that are used in the country.
Furthermore, speaking about the council of workers, he wanted the council to cooperate with the management to ensure the problems happening, should be given solutions for the interests of the country and that the government will ensure it increase work equipment and servants in order to achieve the goals of the organization.
According to the acting director general of TBS Egid Mubofu, that council has 48 members who come from the different sections and they have a period of five years.
"This council is made as a result of a contract by the management and the union of workers (RAAWU)," said Mubofu, and added that the management will partner with the council to work with productivity.
He said the workers are required to work skillfully and integrity in their daily responsibilities, the chairman of the board of directors of TBS, Professor Makoko Maboko wanted the council to work in collaboration with the management and the board to ensure that the quality and quality activities are taking place very well. "The board will continue with the management and to advise the management and to advise the management and to advise the management and to advise the management and to advise the management and to advise the management to make the policies and law," said Professor Maboko.
