
Zitto Kabwe has been named "ACT - Tanzania.

Kigomba, that has been placed by ACT's chairperson who was suspended by the chairperson of ACT Patriots, saying that Zitto Kabwe joined that party four days ago is supposed to wait until when it reaches six months of his membership.

The police who still know if the legal chairperson of ACT-Tanzania, has given that statement during his meeting with journalists in Dar es Salaam city.
"I am still the chairperson of the chairperson of ACT-Wazalendo, because a letter is claimed to receive him from the chairmanship position was not legal and it was doing that issue in court for the purpose of getting guidance," he said.

According to the law, the party's constitution is clear that any member who wants to vie for the position of leadership is a must that his membership should have attained more than six months since he did not support the party.
"I look at you Honorable Zitto Kabwe, who joined the party recently in a special environment, the constitution does not allow him to vie for any position in our party, let me ask that she has loosened his son to be a normal member," he said.

Also, he has requested the secretary general of ACT-Tanzania, Samson Jumbe to stop the members concerning the election since it is not legal due to the intention of opening the constitutional case in court to oppose the involvement of chairperson's position.
Speaking about the source of that conflict, the government has said that all those have been contributed by the office of the registrar of political parties, from that office to work with the will while giving the reports associated with it.

It has clarified that he has decided to take him a Registrar at the Office of the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption (UDART), on claims that he has failed to give him a letter of blocking him to be the chairperson of that party.
He has given an order that he will continue to die more than seeing that party they had started a huge cost, depending on the hands of corruption.
"There are people who thank God, but if you receive them, you will inform you that they have stolen from that hat because of denying them the rights of their fellow people," he said.
However, the leadership of ACT-Tanzania has said that their constitution is located at the registrar of political parties, that shows that any member can vie for any leadership position if he attains seven days since he did not support the party.
