Africa has been advised at an affordable cost of loans.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The African countries have been advised to put affordable terms in loans so as to enable its citizens to benefit from that advice was brought by the Senior Health Institute of WEAGI, in his report that was issued in Dar es Salaam city at the beginning of this week showing signs of criteria for the three quarter finals of the year 2015.

It was launched recently by the board of financial issues and the economy that were looking more than 13 countries of the Sahara Desert.
Furthermore, the Pan African information report together with his colleague in the economy of Oxford, said that Rwanda is seen to do well, is mentioned to be the head in that loans area.
That report shows the East African countries have been found to destroy the financial policies in the period of the year, while South African countries started the financial policies in an effort to reduce prices of prices.
The indicators of business reports in the World Bank (WB), was revealed that, Rwanda led Africa, South of the Sahara Desert.
Zambia was second and followed by Kenya, Ghana, Mauritius, Uganda, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Ivory Coast, Tanzania, Ethiopia and Angola.
Rwanda was mentioned to make improvements to enable access to loans in a period of six years ago and therefore help to hold the first position.
Kenya was mentioned to improve the availability of loans by making laws to prevent the bank to provide loans and interest of more than four percent of the high level.
Angola was the end of the standards of loans, it improved its only level for a period of six years in the issue of availability of loans.
Although the country is the third for laying the biggest system of the bank, after Nigeria and South Africa, even so, it was said that it is still a small part of its people who put money from the bank and few traders who request for loans.
