How do I have?
Any also there is not there and no one is not that and it's not the same way between JKT Oljoro and we will get that one, I am putting on a shop but I'm with alone.
The late does not get a photocopy I met what I did not get that on the date of ten to one or ten o'clock.
I will be with a chance even you will be.
And then we will stay with the same person.
So that you can't be worried that I am going to do so that one person doesn't end since there will be no need.
What is it mean?
Human rights are near our photographer, everyone should narrate to you the identity cards if you need me in this electricity.
If you know this one, you know that this is a difference with the one with the one who we are going to see me, I was with a girl with the girl in that office.
The late God said it is impossible to go to the provinces where one of the participants to fill the forms should take the late God that is expecting to go with the government while it is impossible.
That is not producing, if you want to say the truth is what the child's documents will get a chance since I was in two weeks, you will know how the identity cards will we know, I will know what I will do so.
The late God rest another thing that let me make me.
But also you know your password and a phone is not aware that I will succeed my and your day it was called me and I will do you with each other.
You are in good deeds that if he will have a lot of work if you do not loose hope, you know what you are doing so that the phone does not lie!
It does not have a word to start something that is done now to prevent it, it does not have problems with this statement saying that was being recorded, even that is why you get the first time when we are told.
You don't understand our knowledge, there are something that are doing people to look at the shop or the way it is used by talking to me, now it should not be the side.
The late God bless you.
Now you know now of because of that activity not the one that we have said on ten to one of the ten thousand in this life that we have.
It will be a Friday.
The late God bless you for a short time, the students of that country is going so well about that.
On the date of ten years and two of the past two and a few minutes, the day before yesterday went to control.
Yes, the message has told the ten o'clock in the late God bless Tanzania.
Ras Kiduku was able to cook with your wife and those activities will be early but it's not the late God bless you, then you know that phone will go to cook when you will have a chance tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or tomorrow.
