The match of people in our country have come to give peace.
And said all borders.
After announcing that.
The chairperson of the television station that is owned by the government of the country.
That statement has come after those police said that the order of not walking his country in the past has started to be implemented while the constitution of property should be implemented.
Those police who were sworn in yesterday has said that the government of president does not mean?
It did not have enough weapons.
In order to deal with the rebels and the rebel group involving the deaths of the north of the country.
African Union, the late God bless you on acts of soldiers.
At that time she is derived from the minister of foreign affairs in Kenya, Moses should have been together with his delegation that are in the country, he urged the citizens of Kenya to vie for home safely after the attempt failed.
To market who is in the field of hotel moving to the television station of the local government.
He joined the Union of African Union to go to the country to look for a goalless draw in that country, the government of Kenya is being done a procedure of sending away its information in the country.
However, the spokesperson of the state house has said that most of them is safe in that country although the cries of gun has heard on the state house of that country that is in their brother.
Boko Haram group in Nigeria.
We have made the talks of bringing peace in that country and instead it has given a call to religious followers of the country in that country to start the fight against the government of Nigeria.
Talks between the government and the group that has been said that was done through the representatives of the two sides that already harvested after the representative of Boko Haram attacked the arrest of religious leaders in the country.
?
A group of Boko Haram wants the introduction of Islamic administration which has many believers of different religious leaders, several times he has claimed to be involved with bomb attacks in Nigeria at the police stations and areas of religious believers.
And the second native language of Guinea Bissau, will take place between twenty and two hours live and nine in the month of April this year.
The election commission in that country has said that it has been forced to repeat the elections after all the candidates for the presidential position.
Failing to get fifty percent of the same way to prevent it.
In the race, the current president does not lie at twenty percent and three votes were scored when his opponent, former prime minister, Carlos Bob Junior has got 89 percent after their votes.
Previously you are related to other candidates.
He complained that there was cheating in the voting exercise and he has planned to present those complaints in the election commission of the country.
