If you go to Grind.
Therefore, when a person wanted to go to Sumbawanga town today, they are not supposed to know but Aziza Mumba where I think even the countries that are affected by Malaysia and already.
Said.
What is it?
There should be a result of a result of the trend which will be allowed to fulfill the speed and the driver.
But all of us know that there is a government of the government that will have no problem.
And a special reason.
Therefore, those buses will go through that speed and of people we are told.
The late I thank you that currently there is currently there.
If you have been selected to be taken to those areas where we have been able to be used where you should be grateful for people who go with that law to get a hundred and twenty-kilometer, that is not available at the same stadium to have a small vehicle of the vehicle for all the passengers to be.
Efforts of one type.
That I also care! I know that English is even a book and I will show that speed and at the Indian Ocean here now, we have to be left to someone who will have the vehicles that is not a person that comes back to me.
And who is a person?
The chicken used in the oil he will not play for twenty years.
Or what do you know what happens during this period, what is a person who has spoken to the social media, he has got into the farm but he was speaking at a hundred and thirty minutes and he has been from my friend.
The normal person you can't take the concept and I advise you to protect themselves.
You must get the problem if I would have requested to start the first team with her sister and her sister and the traffic forces to see those vehicles be known from here to Dodoma, it is a speed for how many hours from Dodoma and Singida is a speed for how many hours I request.
To strengthen the security of the people to save people, "said the opportunity for the ones that were added.
There is a person they heard.
Wednesday, there is no one I have heard from.
I arrived in the province, I'm looking for equality of SUMATRA.
He is giving a message that I don't know why the government is supposed to have a lot of revenue because they are collecting a lot of revenue to the traffic police and his father alone, the preparations should not affect the traffic police.
Until the end up to Mbeya we cannot be able for those other organs.
I can be able to put up here because I know the countries that are outside, you will find you that it's not good for the motorcycle that are those with those who want to consider the road safety or the ones that concern me, I say this is good but I am saying this is good but a human being.
As a human being, it wants to disgusting to you so that?
To know that the law is being taught in him, I don't know even though the police can create a fast speed and many stakeholders have died in an accident which many people have died in accidents, most of them have died in an accident which many people have died in accidents.
The security situation in Dar es Salaam. the police force in Dar es Salaam. the police force visited the police force, in Dar es Salaam, even if possible we citizens can also give a great contribution.
By giving a report to the police without a report, it cannot be impossible by the police on iTunes. I know best to obtain their phones.
One time they take over the steps.
