
There is tension about the good flavor.
APR, 03 / 2015.

Tension between sports parties in the country are there every place where many sports parties have been following up about the source that it has dropped by games.
At the end of last week in the country there was a match of the international boxing competition in Tanzania that involved the Tanzanian Mohamed Shein, "it has come up to Manchester United and the Chinese reap from Hjelmaker.
The match that was played at the Diamond Jubilee Hall in Dar es Salaam, is ending at the Tanzanian emerging with a win of points.
In that contest, there was changes in the final stages by putting it among those boxers who were not among the ongoing rains.
That situation ends the current situation where those boxers did not follow the procedures of the game, including the weight.
That situation led some of the boxing stakeholders to question the procedure which is against the procedures and the boxing game anywhere in the world.
Previously, while speaking at the leaflets that were announcing that game were a photo of several boxers who could have a ring on playing in the previous games, but the last minute is the ones they went into the net.
One day before the game inside the Information Reporting Hall in Dar es Salaam city, were issued to a boxer from American Joseph Butiku, who was supposed to play with a Tanzanian, has said that he would have been able to come to his contest.
Reasons that they gave the organizers about those changes are being supervised by his brother when there is no worries at that, as an emergency like those are there.
Other boxers who were in a kitenge on the ring, Japhet Kasibu, who was scored by Koscielny and Mada Maugo.
Thomas Kashililah was supposed to play with Karama Nyami and he is not expected to play with her husband where these are not going on.
Nyereregete, he played with Ibrahim Tembela, due to that he did not come to the ring, Suleiman Kova and Benard Mdie as a result of those reasons.
Mke Mwema should look for some of the organizers of that game as well as talking to them about the mistakes.
Karrima Carter during the contest, Jay Z, said he is disappointed with the act of ethics not to come from him and said he is in the race to go to a police station to identify the cases of theft to be trusted.
Msangi said that he has done an issue of preventing their money and not playing that contest, and that they will take action to be a lesson to others with similar behaviors.
According to Msangi, it has been a habit of doing so, explaining that she has ever taken money from other organizers and he was not found during the contest.
He said the parties in the boxing game are required to accumulate points since that act, while urging them to bid farewell to participate in that game outside and outside the country.
When he told Citizen newspaper that for now he wants to retire from boxing due to the conflict that is there for now.
He said that before signing a contract to play the contest of Msangi, he has signed with other contracts that he was supposed to play before the Msangi.
He said before being forced to a match against Nyenshile, one week he had another game against Abdallah Percent "Dojo Janja.
He said that Msangi was supposed to know that there is a matter that can happen because of getting an eye, he said that in his contest, he said that in his fight against the eye, a situation that has been allowed to go a ring until after 20 days.
He is saying that boxing could have been faced by many people who do not know anything or its laws, something that said it reaches the status of that game.
The musician is disappointed with reports that it has happened that he has taken money and not to be seen in the fight and said that to promote football and not to listen to many words from the parties of that game which also they are contributing to them.
He insisted that some of the leaders of the parties of that game which have been partnering with the government to promote the boxers and especially the issue of their health.
"I don't want again issues of boxing I plans to retire from this game any time from now if there will be no changes and I cannot work by benefit very few and to make my family continue to see the fruits of what I do," he added.
According to that, there is a need for sports parties to use that shortage in order to restore the status of the boxing game in the country.
There are many have been said, but they are required to be taken as challenges for leaders of the parties in that game so as to restore the honor of boxing as it was in the past.
