Events in Kilindi are signs of bad policies of CCM.
Brightiles 20, 2014.

For another time again, we have witnessed things that were very few here in the country when they have witnessed the conflict between pastoralists and farmers who are forced to use the land area for their needs, including some members of parliament to look at how they can solve this problem.

However, for a nation of people not to like to keep in mind, this incident is not an incident.

About the killings of farmers and breeders in Kigoma - October 2014, this year there was reports from Kigoma to announce the presence of fighting between pastoralists and farmers which have caused the presence of three people killed by breeders and the farmers which were found themselves in fighting with farmers of Lakonko District in Kigoma province.

About the killings of farmers and breeders in Arusha - May 2014, one of the long-term conflicts between the citizens of our country is this Loliondo land, where the Maasai clothes have been solved because of a long-term problem but its results in fighting has emerged again this year more than 11 people were killed again this year more than 11 people were killed.

In this conflict if there is suspected of the conflict in Kiteto District, which are used not to be human beings (HIV), unfortunately, and also there have been use of fire weapons including AK-47, that could have a gun with different weapons.

Regarding the killings of farmers and breeders in Morogoro town, one of the conflicts that has also been mentioned in the country, on behalf of its violence is the one of Mvomero, where for a period there has been a fight between the groups of farmers and farmers.

Those killings came out last year in the month of November where seven people were killed and more than fifty being injured in conflict that had caused traditional weapons and modern equipment, the conflict that had been set for long time have not been able to be given a lasting solution.

About the fighting in Dumila, Kilosa, this one with other fights which caused the community of farmers and breeders in this conflict was planned to continue breeders so that any person wants to go to farmers when it was announced to continue with the citizens there, this was January last year.

Regarding the fight against farmers and pastoralists that are in Shinyanga and Tabora province, another incident that caused the blood pressure is that occurred in Shinyanga town near the outskirts of Igunga, Tabora province, this incident caused five people being killed and others being injured.

This is just a few months of conflicts with involved in these two sides, these examples have not registered conflicts in the Kibangu river or the Rukwa and Katavi provinces, and we have not destroyed conflicts between these two sides of farmers and pastoralists.

And this is looking at this conflict in Kiteto District, for people who follow it, it will remember that this day before yesterday is a continuation of events that have been a wall in Kiteto District for approximately two years now and the destruction of the blood and destruction of various public property.

One of the things that maybe have not been seen well in which way the leaders themselves inside the government are seen to choose the side of the deputy speaker of parliament, Job Ndugai, who is the member of parliament for Agriculture and Livestock, Benedict Liwenga.
