Media houses in the process of the new constitution.
APR of 03 / 2014.

I will start and leave the mockery, in the article of the last week when I saw Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba between the year 1985 to 1990 and said that he was the prime minister and the first vice president. I thank my dear reader and I request for me for any offense and I request for me for any discomfort.
In the last week I heard that the aim of this column in this period of the process of creating a new constitution is to give my contribution and even my recommendations as a result of research and looking for him about the position of news agencies in our democracy and which is growing slowly.
And bad luck when I come back in my platform, there is a big debate that was going on about the speech of Judge Warioba and President Jakaya Kikwete, in the last month, as I said recently in Dodoma when I was talking at a seminar for journalists concerning the thoughts that there is a good thing of one person who think in the community.
The environment of everyone wants to agree with each person and that all of them are saying that without a question that is dangerous to the community of human beings who are recognized as creatures that think and those with great ability to diagnose health, shows maturity and symptoms of concerns.
The expectations of those who believe in the fact of the truth is that Judge Warioba and the commission of President Magufuli led to collect the views of citizens on new constitution deserve a lot in order to fulfill their responsibilities, but the second process they led in reducing the understanding of citizens on various issues concerning the administration of our country.
Third, the process alone has started his lights and fell on a different problems of citizens which are rarely discussed in weight as the one for a long time.
Four, so as to look for an additional information explains that even the recommendations of the commission that brought up a big debate, especially after the speech of the president, also helped grow and remove the debate about the kind of the country to make our citizens hope.
And it is clear that the media in general, apart from the shortage of here and there to some, it has given a lot of contribution in accordance to the constitution and let it be the only importance.
One thing that, if people we have, we have no reason to follow up and take advantage of our colleagues that if it involves itself, there is no wonder because it involves themselves as a result of those errors and why you agree with their issues.
In democracy when it is mature and when it is mature is true and reach eternal peace, the debate is holding the top scorer on the argument and they get married because that is the basis of those reasons.
In democracy, most of democracy, or even local democracy (MAGM), then when they feel they have flooded the age of cross the river.
The expert of political issues called Hovind, in his book that he wrote in the year 2001, about democracy in the young countries of Africa, Asia and South Africa, explains that there are steps of going through democracy when it is not involved in Tanzania but even elsewhere in Africa.
These are her good explanation and even if they are still using heavy affection in his book of the year 2011 about the history of administrative systems we have today, the expert of political issues, Francis FEST has explained the challenges of democracy and young in the context of the history.
In doing the journey he visited history in order to know the most natural resources we are taking as usual this week, and we are happy to conclude that this democracy with the reputation that we will be listed here is to understand that this democracy can work in the country because it is not supposed to be dealt with by two hands.
