The lawyers had the chief justice Frederick Werema, has said that the government will make sure it's supposed to force the African Union who will cause a loss due to assume the advice to the attorney general of Patrick who is used this report from Dodoma.
The last day of the supervisors of the office of the attorney general of the government continues here in Dodoma town with two lawyers and several resolutions wanted to increase efficiency in their responsibilities including the management of the case and justice of public servants and the government.
When closing a meeting, on behalf of the attorney general of the government, the chief lawyer, George Masaju has said that in recent days there have been a lot of challenges in court against the government has given priority to the government officers on the violation of law Ngowi.
.
In a house of times, what we have been Al-Fi which he said.
Lovers through road safety.
He knew the rapper's lawyers to be patriotic by doing justice without stopping.
Baby is a Cameroon.
She gets to Dodoma where I am looking for?
About it to go to the news that will be found.
You have lost in now.
I take a report but it is like the person of the Parliament bought it about Rwanda.
That I am a father, it is not know I am a person to talk about himself, you know it is good.
Even the rains and.
Among the participants of that meeting include the arrest of the government lawyer from Iringa region, speaking about the attorney general of Iringa region, speaking about the legal training on the management of various professions, giving an example in the mining industry.
Now our responsibility is to ensure that from first, those leaders do not want this decisions.
They are following the rules and procedures, even if the complaints we have loved the last one to get married to the honorable president can do you.
To ensure that all the primary procedures were not unable.
To be able to learn about the issues of contracts that he has learned something that is in general for example, let him go into issues of gas and oil is up to now, we are happy about the contracts that are related to gas and oil issues from Dodoma's manager Story.'
