
The market of NSE is swept away.
By Mwangi, professor.
The financial market here in the country (NSE) will be sold from the major organizations of few organizations until the public through the selling of its shares before August this year.
According to the guidelines of the activity which has been given by that market, Kenyans will get an opportunity to buy shares of the market one by one and then get a copy of benefits such as the use of the companies that sell its shares.
Clarifying about that new situation to the nation today, the director of Bayport Financial Services and the former Deputy Chairperson of NSE, Mister Bob Entertainment, said that the step will expand investment in the market.
"For now, the step of fulfilling the success is in the fifth phase of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (MCA) which is in need to give open strategies to change from market to the stock market," he said.
Mister Karima said that, for now, the market for NSE is complete by 12 financial institutions to the companies of 10 companies that sell shares in the country.
"All the 22 people that own 90 percent of NSE, while five percent including the news control of the government.
Other five percent are the source of shareholders' authority of shareholders who give sure them that there isn't any resources like his company's shares in shambles, "he said.
Mister Karina added that for now the transparency strategies in the activity of climate change is organized and recently Kenyans will be given an opportunity to join the market to buy shares of NSE.
"It is a situation that is aiming to protect privacy on the shares sector because the company has been selling benefits through the shares of shares, now it will sell its shares and for a meaning there is no one who expected to lose their shares," he said.
He said that the management of the market has been growing up immediately and until now there is no one who can say when she lost its shares following shambles and selling of shares.
