
Soccer and cinema halls as they join each other!
May 31, 2012

In a short period of two weeks ago, there have been an important information among the sports lovers in the country especially football about getting in the market for a new Swahili film called "September 11."
In the normal state, the coming of other Swahili stars have been a very important thing among the sports lovers, especially those who are not good lovers of Tanzanian films, due to the fact that the launch of Swahili language is not a great issue again to the country.
However, the launch of "campaign dubbed" September 11 "was expected to attend soccer lovers of soccer in the country because of that game involving people with great names in the world of soccer in the country.
Some of the participants who were mentioned in that film is together with the secretary general of the Tanzania Football Association, David Mwakalebela with the head coach of the Tanzania national team, Hassan Mussa "who is the popular goalkeeper of that team, Juma Kaseja.
The list of the stars who participated in playing the film, has also involved Yanga's goalkeeper, Nordety Claire.
As a result of the fact that until now I have not made a chance to see that film that was announced so much, I will not talk about the acting standards of the people that I will now mention you with their ability in matters related to soccer.
Today I would like to talk about this issue of our film organizers in the country to use famous people in the cinema halls that are open is that David Cameron, Marcio Maximo, Juma Kaseja and Benitu.
Previously when the cinema profession continues to take place, we witnessed the famous people like the chairman of the Board of Restoration Bible Church, General Ulimwengu, while one of the senior participants in the film that got the great popularity of "Landscrona" which was involved with members of parliament, John Komba and Rick Ross.
We can even ask you to go back further and to find the old man and the former prime minister, Mzee Rashid Kawawa with him got a famous presenter in his campaigns and they should come up with that song which could enable them to reach the top level of leadership in the country.
I would like to believe that there is no Producer who has tried to follow my Elder Kawawa grounds and requested him to vote in his club while he is ready to be the prime minister!
At least in that first period, films were prepared for great keenness and now whereby a person who has never been in school is to wake up in the morning and to be the star of the cinema where he is just on the village.
For sure, after the film of "flash disk", most of them have shown the hope of continuing to see our famous people in the country and in doing so as to contribute to our expertise and experience in the profession to build the film industry in the country.
Unfortunately, the situation has been without any way, I would like to believe that this is due to our films now being a very high level and involving everyone who could be acting so as to make fear being involved in the film of the type.
While we give him Mwakalebela who only has played in the cinema.
"September 11, but also his company, Professor Venant Film Board is concerned with a great extent in preparing that film, we think this is an appropriate time for other famous people in the community to come out and show their ability in another profession more than those who are participating in order to improve the profession.
After failing to enter in preparing and playing film, we expect that there is its chairperson, TFF, Leodegar Tenga, who will get into music studios and emerged with "recent music" one that we can even remove his name to be "we play soccer"!
In this context, we will also understand that there is a day that the chairman of Yanga team, faith that they will get into the studio to measure, "recent music" he will make it a name which until now it's only a slogan of the Jangwani Club, "I hope.
We are expecting that after there, the chairperson of Simba Club who will retire from playing for the song "Simba's stable" and so as to ensure, eating him and his club due to that name, it is a slogan of those black spectacles.
After retiring from playing soccer in the Manchester United Club where he got great success, a player, Eric Pierre Ciano he was doing his trip with cinema where he got success.
It is that there in Manchester United where several times the players have gotten themselves in numbers to millions of its lovers in the whole world and therefore increasing the popular club's income to see me.
At least Auctioneer Mwokozi, they can be very difficult because with his colleague Madega due to his experience in music issues especially given that he is the former prime minister of Solo Guitar in the year 1980, while the band is needed to have its own kind of humor and Statistics.
We think that it's not good for our famous people in the country to end up in playing soccer club, a profession that can say now, "we have risen up" due to each person going to play soccer but also they are leading in taking pictures of film without experience or a school that is understood.
We thank our famous people to show their talents in other professions like music, blindness that benefited from the writing of books as he did to do a famous musician in the country, Zito Ally, "Zorro" and his book of bandit in the end of 1970.
It is a good thing for our popular citizens in the country to show their talents so that we are affected by Almighty God that they have more than normal as we are used to see them, just after seeing all the ones that cause the desert in dancing.
There is now there is an issue that it happens and there is every reason why others feel it is only viewers!
