With a lot of bed sheets, fat Joe, in a short article that has been put to put a light weight in which she has never happened in South Sudan in the whole issue of conflict resolution and if you will also have witnessed this article on your opinion, we will make sure that you cannot be in South Sudan.
When the late God rest his good step why?
But now there is something more than there that some of the fire gets a lot, then it will be.
It is normal in a conflict like this.
There are some certain levels of talent for Pope, a big difference like this.
One you know the late God will help the senior leaders.
The late God rest his man the one that we want to go to a place.
But that is a number one, but there is best that will involve many more people who because of great reasons in accordance to many people, it is that many implementation were many people.
Because of the truth.
His performance by, two Swahili will not give me.
Examples are many for example the veteran artist I have why four years of the sex government and looking for.
There were a long time they had agreed with the disease of things like that and they do.
But its results are that the contract failed.
Also even a pose.
There is a word that did you know that what is wrong for a long time.
It's now only two receiving it up to one organization, a thing that came to get into the end of many people in the end.
The system of bringing peace for example religious leaders is taking a great responsibility for that!
Therefore, if you put up through a few leader, it will be difficult for our listeners to have any party leaders, it is difficult to ensure that there will be a lot of buses that we have already been seen, although the leaders they have agreed with anything where the leaders they have agreed with something there will be a way to convince those who were involved.
View.
If you are in a lot of problems, there must be the responsibility of bringing together people who believe that it should be a national issue and members of the leaders, that it is a must for religious leaders.
The sugar of women in the Man United States, we were doing different meanings in our party, Jomo Kenyatta said that we are moving to the nation and many of the participants and therefore made it a time when two people were found and therefore did not have been identified.
I believe that they have been more than a lot of people nationally, the participants like the whole nation instead of participating in this exhibition, they are a good step because they visited South Sudan, still a good country and they did not have ever done.
War for two years just after the general elections of that country is something sad to it.
First, if you want to prepare well, they are given difficulty on a bad state, but what is now they are starting to see my interests according to the implementation.
Even more benefits and what would you have heard in this situation and it will be something sad, because it's not something sad to it.
They are doing that for the interests of the competitors, the prime minister Membe was told to say their interests themselves for the purpose of their interests.
To release it.
I think that when we go to Dar es Salaam, I'll see the way whenever he comes from saying the conference is important for the purpose of asking him to be under weapons.
To take action in front, we will request the others to be followed as Sudan.
What is masturbation regarded as a must.
Is also he was supposed to sign the exams in these issues and time.
If you know, there is a person who loves our nation in South Sudan cannot leave a child when it is born later, it has not given birth then they could not give birth to them and I request to help them until his child.
I usually have groups to do anything.
Therefore, it is important for the first step to hear two fire and agree on signing the truth, but the greatest one is using the countries that surround him in South Sudan, to make them follow up.
And we will not speak this now we take from the problem in the position of arbitration, Ras Kiduku was a reputation from entering the first conflict.
Most nations will have a good reputation that many conflicts in the first start from.
Fifty years of Tanzanian are so much to believe and take you as you know.
I ask Africa to be careful, to address the plans to save those countries but me after ten.
Recent will take a close time.
Burundi Congo DRC to try to put people together but the conflict can't affect so much, that they had a government together but now it seems not to have a lot of books since the past years is why we have decided to request for support by what I think if they think they were following well.
There are artists for your side that you want to say that it is expected to happen in I am supposed to establish a good position because it is the first nation Lyimo.
Until now there have a lot of problems and we shouldn't want to sing about this in helping this country not only the country which has mentioned some of the countries in the south of Africa and as African countries like Tanzania.
They were sick in addition to those who are experience.
Conflict of conflicts.
African countries.
Or the?
The ruling party continued to reach a step like that, it will be a good thing because it's a very good thing.
The government is in the ministry of foreign affairs.
The local government depends on the ruling party and the ruling party is the same, the truth is a good thing that shows that.
That position of teachers in the African continent is taking care.
If you're very attractive, I wish you a lesson and give him a lot and therefore, at the opening of educating Africans with because they feel it will not speak.
