The District Medical Officer is expected to buy health services.
APR the year 2013.

The activities of medical services at the Ngarenanyuki village which is in Arumeru district, Arusha province have emerged as a result of the controversy of the use of modern machines for testing various diseases which is professionally known as they will leave.
That clinic has been built in the year 2007 in Oldonyo Sambu village, with a donation of a non-governmental organization of Africa Rebecca Malope from Australia and was opened and started providing services in the year 2007.
After the village's government offering land area.
Since it started providing services, that clinic has been a savior in the health services to the citizens of more than five villages that involve Mount Meru in the east side whose citizens were having themselves to follow the long distance service, the West Meru Hospital that is in Singapore.
The villages that are being served by that clinic is together with Oldonyo Sambu village, Kisimiri Chini Village, Ngapa Ward and Uwiro Ward together with residents who are estimated to reach their views and also the neighboring districts.
Hai and Kibamba, in Kilimanjaro Province.
In addition, that clinic has also been giving services to patients.
The neighboring districts arising from the presence of two specialist doctors who are studying from outside the country and the existence of modern machines for testing for various diseases.
It has been explained that after the completion of the construction of that clinic, one of the sponsors who are also Correa scored by Divine Kweka, got donations of getting a machine that will be used to test various types of diseases in the human body.
In line with the machines, the sponsors are among other equipment.
Modern together with medicine and making the clinic to provide better health services to the citizens of those areas.
After getting the sponsorship of those machines from countries of the community.
Europe together with drugs for various human diseases, sponsors.
Those involved the cost of short courses to two nurses.
Those who were using those machines.
According to one of the graduates, the machine that joined the computer network and therefore, it has the ability to identify themselves because she has been found in the involved patient.
"The treatment of that type is very modern and the patients that had been suffering in different hospitals even those of appeal.
To get a draw of their problems, they got a lesson after getting money.
That machine, "explains one of the workers of that hospital.
That nurse was noted that even so for a long time, that organization has found themselves in the HIV infection, under the office of the chief physician of the district, it wants those equipment in place.
The district and being under the management and checkup.
"After arriving in the country 2011 from outside the country, the office of the chief physician ordered the equipment for the drugs to be submitted to the first district but some of the leaders of the district and the office of the chief physician.
The province they refused, "said the nurse.
He said the government leaders especially the head of Arumeru district at that time.
Merci Clouds FM, he refused and put effort to be even the residents of the villages who were given donations of that health center had a right to get treatment and that donation was brought by sponsors for their purpose and not otherwise.
"Since the time the office of DMO Blog has been giving any cooperation in this clinic as well as sponsors, the situation has caused it.
Poor relations between those involved, "added that nurse.
The deterioration of the service.
However, together with the previous success of the project, the state of medical services have been restored due to what is explained as a step by the senior health officer of Arumeru District (DMO), transferred.
Two of that clinic who had the expertise to use breast cancer will be released and another type of Senate.
It has been reported that the servants were killed since January.
This, a situation that has caused the end of the use of breast cancer will be produced by Senate, thus, affecting the treatment of treatment to patients.
"Many patients from within and outside the district have arrived here in large numbers to follow this service but it has been revealed that many are forced to go back to their homes," says one of the workers of that clinic who also spoke with condition of not being mentioned in the newspaper.
Citizens vote for them.

From that scandal, the residents of the villages of Ngarenanyuki have planned to demonstrate to the end of last week to the head of Arusha Province, Magesa Mulongo opposing the decision of the chief physician of the district.
However, before the start of those protests.
The District Council under its chairperson, Godwin Majano, did a journey to go to ask and talk to them.
