RC with Benedict Liwenga.

It has been written by John Ndonga, Morogoro.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Morogoro Provincial Commissioner, Doctor Stephen Kebwe has thrown out his reputation of the netball team of Tanzania (Life Orphanage), Anna Msonsa, for his heart of patriotism in encouraging the game in the country and to make it take place in the first level of this year in Morogoro Province.

Doctor Kebwe said that chairperson has been doing well in the game, despite facing various challenges including lack of funds and sponsorship of developing the game, Doctor Kebwe said that when he officially launched the tournament that began on August 27 with 11 teams.
I am very happy to see the chairman of the National Park, Mama Anna Msonsa, has claimed that netball team is in your blood is because he didn't know how to use that opportunity to join with the players of various netball teams, "he said.
"This act has shown a lot of patriotism in sports especially this netball team, I will use this opportunity to communicate with the Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, so as to make sure the importance of this game should be informed as it is for soccer and others to give opportunities for employment to the girl," he said.
Doctor Kebwe said the participation of the different games including the netball team do not see any exciting stuff because the system that enables players to have a lot of mental disabilities, but my child is good for people to do exercises and participate in sports, "he said.
On his part, the chairperson of Life Magic Bongo, thanked God for being tired quickly by the athletes in the country including netball teams in the country including netball games for a long time now that chairman has been suffering from diseases.
"I have been very happy to see family members have prepared himself quickly and I am happy to thank God for their prayers and today I am happy here in Morogoro to witness this competition, I have seen me in the competition, I have seen me in the past," said Kibira.
