
"Know how children love science subjects?

It has been written by our correspondent, Morogoro.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

Parents and guardians in the country have been urged to encourage children to love science subjects so as to build a stable foundation of development in the country.

Speaking during the handover ceremony of the former primary and primary schools in Morogoro town at the end of the week, the Director of Education Education, Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Sarah Mlaki, said science subjects are very important in this period which is the competition in science and technology in the world.
These are the era of science and technology, it is a must for students to put more effort in those studies, "he said, while explaining that the aim will succeed in partnership between the students, teachers and parents. He told the students to stop doing science subjects are difficult, but they continue to learn and work hard in order to succeed.
He added that science and technology in a big way that will enable Tanzania to have industries and to reach the middle economy.
He said the government will continue to implement the education policy to use books of equipment for all the schools as a way to improve and bring equality to the provision of education in all provinces in the country, he explained that the issue is important in building the country with the best primary education for its youths and the development of the country's economy.
"This policies will help reduce the state of every province to use his book," said Mlaki and who represented the deputy secretary general, Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Simon Msenduki.
He said the contribution of private schools in improving education in the country is important and the government will continue to cooperate with private schools in solving their challenges so as to improve the level of education in the country.
Director and the owner of that school, Professor Josephat Itonya said that the goals of that school is to make sure that a student divided into that school is the good professional, discipline, sports and work.
"Our aim is to build a good professional and patriotic youth in their country," said Professor Itonya, said the plan that is now is to start secondary schools so that youths can continue to enhance security and profession to the university level.
One of the students who graduated from the class seven, peace, Musa said the education and the training he did not want to know that he has been successful and also discipline.
"I thank the leadership of this school to have good teachers with love for students," said Musa said a total of 14 students graduated in that graduation.
