
Kikwete being attended by CCM, they are being involved in all Muslims.
Mpozi from 1st, 2013.

Parole.
A small problem of doing so as stew into the country, has changed to the end of suddenly and caused the blood pressure, the blood is taking the clothes to our nation and stop the hearts of the animal.
In mind, bad luck, a big percentage are seen to be transparent and even the truth of the leadership of the country seems to be clear that the foundation of our house (nation) collapsed since I will speak.
A union of two countries or two religious?
Light of that was caused by bad luck, in a place it has been used by the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union, to show their differences on words of Creativity Projects in Tanzania Islands, it is a sign that a union seems to have two religious leaders and not two countries.
Because now the religion is believed to be similar to each other, then the coalition has been allowed to be an illustration of "they sell" here in Zanzibar and that they have killed illegal immigrants.

These feelings are similar to senior leaders and senior officials of CCM and the government of Zanzibar and the blood of CCM that the policies of the United Republic of CCM should stop stuttering on this issue and should stop stuttering on this issue and also involve the religious leaders in the islands of Zanzibar.
What is the religion of the president?
In this column, two weeks ago I met with someone who will live a time when a person is a leader of the country to get his religion in order to recognize that his religion is not a criterion for representing us because of many people and even the senior officials in the government are doing their work by requesting him from the religion of the country's leader.
The situation is very bad, if the leader with his official statement and not officially, he has developed the directors, the thoughts of having a lot of religion or he is a lot of accidents in his decisions.
That comes from, two can be able to come out and first, the religious leaders can be done as religion, "without an official agreement in our country, the president is a criterion to be elected and when getting into power, his religion is the official religion in the country.

When I speak to senior officials of the current government, I have a confirmation of what I wrote here and that the executive when he is sent in solving religious conflicts in any place, and the fear of competing in religious leaders which are religious leaders.
Some of the directors have reached an opportunity to evade them and end up with their skills so that they can't be able to be the offense of the president or religious leaders, but the offense of executives who do not understand or are also led by the will of their religious leaders.
