
Doctor Shein remember the presidential candidate of Zanzibar on May 22, 2012.

While President Jakaya Kikwete seems to be the only candidate in the presidential position of the union through the Revolutionary Party (CCM), a big war is in looking for the candidate of the party to the presidency of Zanzibar after getting into the position from the vice president, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, who was also expected to vie for that position from the top position he has now.
Getting to Doctor Shein used to vote for the former prime minister of Zanzibar, Doctor.
Mohamed Gharib Bilal, who in the year 2000 believed that he was the name of the people of Zanzibar before emerging the peace of Karume and then in 2005 to give his name to sign him again in Karume.
Doctor Bilal who until now seems to have a huge challenge, together with the great strength that is used to prevent him, has explained that he is one of the politicians who enches to vie for a long time to vie for that position from the year 2000, and the step of stealing this year is same as switching off his dream of being the leader of the islands.
In a session of the special committee of CCM Zanzibar that was officiated by parliamentary sessions with ethics committee, the leaders of CCM in Zanzibar have explained to hear Doctor Bilal was appointed to be the candidate of that party and their opposition party leaders (CUF).
In the session of the NEC parliamentary committee of CCM, Zanzibar, Bilal used a long time to explain it's because she deserves to be the CCM candidate before the delegates using a long time faced with the questions that were directed further and what was explained as a violation of ethics by taking forms for the year 2005 and this year to cooperate with the special groups that have been giving directions by the leaders of CCM abort.

One of the questions that he was asked, is together with the incident that forced him to give information about why he said that he will not wait until when he becomes the president and he explained that he had not satisfied that he didn't have any answers that he didn't know how to evade them.
On his part, the news reports indicate that Doctor Sheke was asked one question about controversy in his register but the chairman of the sitting, Karume explained an explanation and said that there is no legal problem with politics due to his position that forced him to live in Africa, an opportunity that forced him to live in Africa, a position that does not want to live in Tanzania.
The chief minister, two-thirds have been asked about his statement that his position is same as a lot of buses that have ever been removed and said that he used that example as a way of paying off the language and he didn't have an intention of controlling his position.
Another candidate who was asked questions that followed him is Mohamed Aboud who was explained that he has shown to study at Mchaga Secondary School in Pemba Island, in a period when that school did not have secondary schools, an issue that has already explained up.
It has been explained that Mohamed Aboud has talked with the Ministry of Education and all the teachers who voted for him and now has been explained to study in that school and therefore give me an obstacle to them.
After those candidates asked questions, they came out and all of them to be discussed and given 13 criteria for running the CCM contestants as well as the candidate having a great ability to lead the country by using the experience in achieving the public and institutions, wisdom and integrity in strengthening the union.
In addition to the other qualifications, they have been questioned by that candidate having at least the university education or education that took place with that order to strengthen and promote unity, solidarity and stability of nation, to see the ability to make enough decisions in good issues and good for the purpose of the nation.
According to the criteria, the candidate is supposed to have a great ability and it does not be afraid about the international issues so as to connect with great and strong winds to be able to unite the development of all citizens in the country and to prevent them from accessing their property.
The candidate will also be on the front line to cooperate and strengthen the policies and the election manifesto of his party should be the right, the courage to fight and uses all the evil deeds in the country.
The person who is followed by all citizens is among the qualifications to be made by the party to get the presidential candidate and also the candidate should be careful when the leaders and the leaders he didn't affect the laziness of the implementation of their responsibilities that he was handed to strengthen the discipline and the keenness of bringing development.
Those reputation are candidates for the presidential position of Zanzibar and the United Republic of Tanzania which every candidate will be required to have before his name was taken to the party's sessions to be released on his name to be the presidential candidate.
In that sitting, those candidates were seen that they will return the front line with Doctor Shein, Ali Juma Shamenda, a person, Haroun Ali, and two-fielder.
Doctor Bilal and Mohammed Aboud has said their points had a problem together with being one that he can be in the third position that will be voted in at the National Executive Council of the party (NEC).
Other delegates who want to vie for the presidency of Zanzibar include Ali Abeid Karume, Bakari Hamad arrives, Mohamed Rutihinda, Mohamed Yusuf Mshani and Omar Sheha.
