
The government depends on the management of leadership.
In doing so, we will be able to look for the resolutions of the new year 2015 and also we should stop how to reach those resolutions.
In this, I understand our request to put aside the resolutions of getting good nation with affordable energy, better education, social services with productivity, employment opportunities for the youth and the nation that is involved in eating bribery, tribalism and poverty of income.
However, to my expectation the mother and that carrying all those involved is to protect the administration of the democratic administration is being led by lack of leadership.
And Kihara, a good administration is supposed to respect the division of power between the three capital city of state that is parliament, administration and court.
When I vote on the past, I didn't understand the statement saying that the Diamond's government had given his plans to lead the country by checking if the importance of lack of leadership and administration.
This government by passing the police force set up his thirst for advice to offenders, not, it is not with a motion but through a strong desire to be dealt with by Zubeida Malick.
Therefore, it does not mean that the opposition party should be forced to give an appeal that happened to the British rule.
By doing so that we will be able to make the criminals the disease of Ebola. "
However, the current opposition is to be a lot, something that brings me my fear that maybe the lorry broke down, corruption, tribalism and poverty of income we were promoted to the last general elections, he succeeded to score against them "Masau boasted.
The voice of opposition has been poor, dough nuts, it doesn't have any worries at all, this is why my call for Kenyans are saying that this government needs to be returned to the same level where this government needs to be returned to the same time when it comes from.
We must know that even the gifts it started as Mchaga.
The reputation of any Democratic Republic of Mbagala, Ukonga, Masaki, 93949, is claimed that it begins with poor symptoms of not knowing their wives, claiming that these are still opposition, media and public organizations.
In recent days the government of Diamond has shown not to be patient with those three groups.
And this being therefore, the statement by his senior leaders that have been able to address the development of our country, community and politics is a promise of exciting news.
