A youth imprisonment for 30 years for fear.

It has been written by Samson Chacha, Tarime.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

A lot of words (20), a resident of Rouge, Tarime, Mara Province, has been sentenced to 30 years and lost six months after being found guilty of the two-year student in Saba Saba school.

An entrepreneur who is a bullet in a class six student whose name withheld, has caused her severe pain while asking mosquitoes with severe pain.
The arrest of that judgment on September 19 this year by the resident magistrate of Tarime District, Amon Mkomagu, the judge said that he is proud of being with any doubt and the evidence made by the charges made by six witnesses including the student.
In addition to his grandfather's grandfather, Surely,, the form of the third hospital, the physician who plays for himself, has condemned the murder of that case, whereby on the accused he did not bring another evidence to support him, more that he is in him.
Previously, Executive Director of Police, Mwanri, claimed that the suspect Mashaka, on the 12th of March, this year, at 9 o'clock in the afternoon, a female student name withheld, who lives in Radhiyallahu An area, he went to a house in Rondo area, after their dog fell sick.
While he told them he had been attacked by the left behind by the suspect, Mashaka, who the officer shot him well and bought it, he wanted to sign him killing him for burning a month.
Before yesterday, he started the old student who had made noise from asking for support without success, that suspect ran away after doing that brutal act.
The soldier of the police force claimed that after the student asked, he went to his grandfather's friend and explained that they will be accompanied by him until his home and found the maize ban at the time of getting the vehicle.
Her husband told his grandson until the police station and given a three medical form and to be accompanied by female soldiers to the district hospital where the student underwent investigation and he was found guilty, he started getting treatment.
A suspect accused on himself and claimed that he has been seen as a result of land conflicts and plots between the grandfather's grandfather's house, Snowden?
The prosecutor of police, Mwanri asked the court to give a stern warning since he has destroyed the student and suffering from a sexually transmitted disease where Judge Damiani claimed that the main bus will be to the court the evidence that shows that there is land conflicts.
By bad luck, even his mother did not come to the court not to give a rumor that the situation that he wanted to sell in using the excuse of land conflicts.
Therefore, he advised the judgment to go to 30 years and lost six months and day coming from the prison to pay a compensation of four million shillings to be a lesson to others.
