If you are in this morning, the reader said that soon there is very close to where you had decided we go down today morning to welcome ten o'clock.
I have been able to come a revolution in Zanzibar today and maybe there is a lot that will have a lot of things that you will have many other things while the president of us.
If you know more than live as a nation do not meet today about what is going on in the morning in this morning, the surprising fact is that there is more than fifty people in Mozambique following drinking alcohol what has been spread in the international station but in part of the activities here.
Let me look for this one day today, other news do not see the late God is not good but it is a news that we were able to know religion here in the police station where most of the deceased will be able to know what you are going on or even so that the police force is going on.
Let now talk about this morning I thank God happy for a year.
However, if I have started to see I see what to close an accident, I think about the permits for this kind is to understand that we have here.
We met.
Market.
It is not true but it is not a problem if you say.
Something that is a continuation of many events that are not there.
But blame are not going on directly to the police force.
Thank you very much, it is true he is an incident that I am followed up and occurred and we have agreed in the police force.
I have been given, I have been given the blame from that because it is not a lot because it is a lot of events and even when there was a time when I decided to make improvements in the police force by building a way to live through security and also to stand if someone being buried and also in hand with points.
And in that case, it was a time of the budget.
Remember that position remember that we start living in peace.
But surprisingly they are recommendations at all Tanzanians concerning the performance of the police force, there are some big police who are affecting the establishment of the police force.
You have tried to follow up on the purpose of preventing the police force for instance, in having twenty-two years, it shows that it is a defender of citizens and property of the party.
When it comes out of those who pay yourself you know and their property in this education is where the problem is.
And girls and when we are coming seven in the country, they are saying that we are very happy to cooperate with citizens in ensuring security and security but to go to the insurance, it's still a must to protect citizens and their father's property, then it is good to see what is better to see him in the report of the health sector of the center.
That was brought to one of his human being human rights and good administration that it was speaking to the problems of the violation of the police programs in a group photo among our first lady who had been big in criminal offenses where they are making us problems.
Using great strength.
How do I vote?
When they want to reach the suspect, we are expecting a suspect to move on such actions, it was a mistake by a mosquito, the second step is not your own and therefore they are doing relationship with them.
They have been using more strength in getting evidence that basically we are going against the law, I will talk about the action of living with the police force, they believe by putting up Town, their results are required to investigate and get many injured.
.
I cannot talk all this or so that he can be able to get.
A foreign thing, but the reports indicate that she's no one who's not a god.
To give birth on things like that, it is very important that if the law is that, you have been thrown out and I want to finish this issue like crime that even if you like the party of journalists to fight the use it is there.
The constitution of the United Republic of the United Kingdom has done article ten and three in a period of bodily shape where it protects you from any use.
We have all creatures that we have said to go to the law to interview the number six that will talk about it that he doesn't mention someone so as to get a mistake, but I can't jump and explained what they were given to you, therefore, the effects should be given to him.
It is opening a case of claims against the republic.
But at the time.
Another law on iTunes has not explained that the voters will vote for him and the responsibility is to talk about this is your habit not to need three judges.
These vehicles will continue to tell me that what we look at this Chelsea, therefore, Napoli, sports or your brother are why together like these people of Serengeti, those who are in the country, follow up with the violation of the rights of a human being.
I will come back and friends that you can get a chance, it did not get a chance, he will get the chance which if it is, the ones who were affected by the disabled are also the death of the deceased.
They don't know where it was' Imebaki Story.'
I am taking care about us with one-year-year-old years.
Repeat the gun to be silent or but also more something if he was saying.
If you go to Grind.
The late God is a convoy for the vehicles with some of the brothers of the deceased, Samson Majwala to seventies, who died in Bugando District Referral Hospital.
They have been getting treatment after giving an appeal that they could cause them that they would like to be defeated in the police force on allegations of being found together with being involved in acts of crimes.
Those brothers were found in the body of the police force.
I will come to come after claiming that the late until his death were found in the hands of that army but they have been forced to know this so as to know the source of the death of her brother.
It is not know that even when he was not seen, that she has lost, Mister has lost consciousness and she has lost consciousness because I am not something that is supposed to come.
We request that those who always do?
Therefore, the government is not short so that others do not lose their support.
Therefore, the police up to many people have been announced by December, but they are saying that once a lot of people are playing in police but there are no longer a lot of people who were not aware if the elephants are annoyed if we're going to in Serengeti, why do we identify, we are depending on taxes or from taxes.
We cooperate to have a problem of people who die because we can follow up things like.
To see if there is no reason that does not lie!
Following that situation, the police force will be forced to receive during how they can be able to sit on the district and look for talks between the family with the aim of looking for a solution.
The talks that are taking place under the officer for the time has been taken by the lawyer of the family called the family that finally agreed to be taken against those who were found involved in the incident.
Primary issues that will happen the five are to work together.
We are not there.
I have given the responsibility he continued with that.
What does it mean?
It's stand.
This issue will participate.
The late Marijani Rajabu.
I hope much like we will do?
The good results even if you use the person's news or what do you do?
According to the law.
And after doing.
Unfortunately, our leader of the province of investigation is seen to come yesterday night.
We have been and since the morning until ten o'clock.
And there are some primary things that have already done?
.
Others we have to do as a story and that you will not know what you will get you.
And because, it is not an award that will be the procedure of law and regulations.
It is a must the law to follow me.
And this we are not ready to put an eye on this reason that I have been shocked as he is called in Serengeti.
And it has been a matter that you missed the new time after time.
In this logic, and so we are using it again that we will not accept this issue to move back immediately after the agreement that the family takes the body of their brother and discuss the other secretary of the funeral.
The burial of the late which had a very difficult time, will be beaten two consecutive years in the past two and four of the deceased were accused of being found with five skin of a house of elephants' marijuana that was found in accordance with the instructions of the deceased, he confessed to own that weapon.
He wants to do.
The grave of the water is what in the second part in the country, the most important here in the country, I have read it and maybe I would have talked about what I was appointed by the police force as a result of a beating from a police force as a result of a bomb that is called "we have given education to the market.
We should expect the late?
The late?
Just after the agreement between the police and the brothers of the late we are supposed to do not forget.
Thank you so much my brothers.
One thing, we get a lot of message to Swahili I think it is an event that wanted the police force at an appropriate time for the police force at an appropriate time for the police force at an appropriate time for the police force at an appropriate time for the police force at an appropriate time for the police force.
