
What does it mean?
By Peter Jiang.

The late Raila Odinga, a son of Aston Villa, Raila Odinga, who was died yesterday, he won when she was enjoying his friends until Sunday morning.
CCM Chairman, John Mbughuni said that the conference was visited their parents in their home in Karen, Saturday this afternoon and left shortly before food, saying he had planned to meet with friends.
The officer of the Football Federation in the country, Tom Allo, said the conference that accompanied him in one tree with Ruby, in the area of Mercy in Nairobi, Nairobi, where he was taking food at the afternoon by friends.
"He came through, I went through to when I got food at the same time at eight o'clock and said that he was running close to the Somalia embassy, then he left," said Mister Allo.
Later he met with friends including Robert Geffi,, the son of the former executive director of the electricity company (KPLC), Samuel Gmwaijonga, in one acre of Art Innovation and when they got food at the afternoon.
After the food led to the Capital Club that is in OSal Center in the northern road, where they got drinks before heading to Sankara that is in Ubungo.
According to the spider plant, that officer joined his phone, Gunnar Garbo passed the son of the former president of South Sudan, John Fisher, who joined them later.
But before refusing to arrive in the city he spoke with his in-law who was not recognized by a hotel.
Dilesh Solank when he arrived, he urged his friends to meet with excitement in the place of that hotel.
They left the hotel in the city a short time after the night was run by a driver of the modern company, it is not "Smart City, so as he was not recognized by running the car while in accordance to Mister Goshashy.
When he arrived at home he was in the difference of what his wife was born and a child. It is said that his wife came into ten o'clock in the morning and went on it when she had lost consciousness.
His wife was so shocked and asked his parents who attacked him from their home which was a distance of four kilometers when he arrived, Mister Odinga told the doctor to serve them.
It was not just immediately when he was born before the doctor will arrive or he was born before his parents arrived.
Politicians that come out to come out in large houses waiting for his family.
Some of them are Mister Mbembela, the former Governor of Cord Kalunga, the governor of Nairobi Evans Meadrad Kiliberali has appointed the journalists after considering the body, Mister Musaizi says, he mentioned the death in line as a blow after his family, Correa scored and the country in general.
"Many of us are asking questions.
You remember Mutabaleta was arrested, the day before yesterday was Kajege and now it is not a politician, "he said.
"Mniko said that police are doing investigations and I have met with the director of the investigation that was set aside, I told him he has a hard work to do so, we want investigation of writing the death of this death," added Mister Musomba.
He said Mister Odinga who died on the body of her child, was saddened by the death of her husband, Mister Mbughuni said the burial will be done at home for Mister Odinga, in Karen.
The head teacher of the body of the government, Doctor Obrey Chirwa, visited the family with the body of the body of Mister Odinga, who was not recognized.
