
We can teach our children saying no to sex?

It has been written by I heard.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

We must inform each other that, when you reached to female children and male children to look for people's children to look at the same time, the parents should not understand what they have decided to fulfill.

Again, for this period that parents, guardians, relatives and your relatives, "virgin" is difficult to start doing well economically, it's difficult to start with the children, maybe if there are special people those employed for the purpose of that work.
As a result of that fact, I urge parents and guardians to see our children the way to avoid sexual abuse, including explaining the danger that can get to prevent skin disorders.
It does not have any meaning to inform our children that the AIDS virus still live in this world of Tanzania, while they shouldn't jump and she does not tolerate any children that AIDS disease is still there and it is a threat to lack of treatment until today.
On that meaning, children are supposed to be remembered that so that they evade from any actions that can destroy the infection, I would like to talk about sex with her colleagues that we are supposed to talk about those issues and we are supposed to talk to children without seeing the shame for being our responsibility.
If you talk about who will take them with love without getting married do not know what you get in front and you do not know more about the sex effects that are not allowed to say no even when you are followed by men or women and to be requested for sex participants without the body.
It is our responsibility, parents, guardians and other community to protect our children by explaining how to protect themselves from protecting themselves from protecting themselves without the body.
I urge you to remind parents and guardians to stop children without giving them an important education about AIDS to enable them to get married by not knowing the effects of being involved in romantic relations without the body.
To see a shame or the fear to marry off in a matter is to investigate and be remembered that, your biological changes are inside a girl and a boy can make him look at a hole.
You know that you have seen the desire to go through smoke or apart, you can marry off in front or asking them to run away from the fire and then explained why he has done it.
If it is not enough, a parent and a member of the community with a problem with the female children and the male children, can be close to me and I told me how he can continue enjoying this life '"they intend' so as to give birth to each other.
When it comes up that he has participated with sex, a female child can get pregnant, and lost her opportunity to study in education is the foundation of life, when he is a child with the child and his basic right lost, so they get married before his time.
The arrest of a child against sex with the friends that sell their female children because of wanting to participate with sex with her do, that is also for women to consider the male children and use them with sex.
The joy of women who do not have faith to the male children and the men who do not lie to their female children get tired to our children, because the time the time she gets stranded.
Further, we can be able to say no with sex with you, we will see there is no other way to unite with the act of sex without the body, due to the difficulty of changes in the age or the effects brought in them by home or at home or at home or at home.
Likewise, parents should be friends of our female children and male children so that they can make them explain their problems before taking them to people who will help them and make payments through sex.
