He has explained at another time I'm visiting him in his church.
Because of this article, we are not things to urge you.
Issues of God and faith.
I say let me know a person their lives and not.
In Africa, but what we have.
Is the danger of itself?
I have said Azam has improved compared to six years since the past six years and stakeholders while they are coming to the European Champions League after checking the real number of Simba and Yanga, the late Marijani said the improvement in that squad in Kigali.
The teacher want the Swahili language to strengthen the mother's health that had a reason like the best of Juba first, they can get a win in the last minute when they defeated the world without a lot of people who are from the program without a lot of person seen, but we have people.
Good because all the commission but it has begun to be bullied.
If he has not completed the opportunity, then our doctors were able to come and have an explanation that you talk to me.
University of Dar es Salaam through the reception of God give the last word to you students of Tanzanian students and households of Tanzanian shillings.
Similarly, you know that education is not the class that is available in class and also a discussion that I will start to help them by supporting them, therefore we can help them to buy some of various researches which he will help them to make sure that our students can be able to help them in the fight because after realizing that she is wrong.
Also my call on students.
Teachers because of the teachers' teachers.
He mentioned that students should form the habit of love you.
You do not be afraid.
There is a problem in country?
I think I think.
I think it is today or tomorrow.
In addition to have announced that including Dodoma, there were only one journey in the morning, let us read the date before an abort.
Give them close to our country.
Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has urged all the nations in the country to follow the law and procedures that are there so as to avoid the audience can happen between them and the citizens, while speaking at the second meeting of the local government's business people in investment, and the prime minister, Pinda wanted the leaders of provinces and districts to supervise the use of information.
The grave of the national unity, good leadership and know people and their property is among the responsibilities of the local governments to ensure that it has continued to achieve its goals, and involving the community service in the country and the aim is to help Tanzanians to use the gifts from the country and to market themselves as the prime minister, Mizengo Pinda.
Who has given games to eat the provinces and all the districts for a short time wanting ten things.
If you want it to live.
I did not know the resolutions of the old man on behalf of the government, a member of the prime minister gave a call for you but all Tanzanians at the moment are at least make sure that everyone who visit in land is a must for it to go after it is in the law.
We don't have a deal with you in you and even God, about the creation of human resources.
Which is it?
Many years in the world.
More than development.
Even one day for one day and to do its activities like it means that it can invest in agriculture that is known as a place where an entrepreneur can work in work.
To partner.
The government of the teachers to form more commission are forced some of the areas that we have put in the city like that I can Katunga.
The capital of capital that use the first meeting are partnering on the way the front line was done again until Monday I was chosen by the council of districts.
