
Who are continuing to be dealt with in VPL today?

October 12th, 2016.

Yahaya Ali of the Vodacom Premier League is going on again today with seven matches to be played in various stadiums.
The leaders of that league Simba will be visitors at the Sokoine stadium in Mbeya when he was welcoming Mbeya City who have been able to send their condolences to their home ground.
At the champions league last season, Yanga soccer club will play against Mtibwa Sugar while Majimaji of Songea was the host of Kagera Sugar.
Stand United will be at home against the rich of the city, Azam FC and the officers of JKT Ruvu will face Prisons, African Lyon have arrived up to Shinyanga to play against Mwadui FC.
In the Simba's game, it has said that it will not allow me to go down in the league and make a good environment to win the championship this season, the assistant coach of that team, Jackson Mayanja told the newspaper that the game have given great weight as it is the first from the start of the league.
"We did not tell you for any way to lose this game because the aim is to continue fighting the top of the premier league until the end of the season, while having an intention of not losing any game," said Mayanja.
A i, a man Her, who is i-i-i-i-i Ji, told this newspaper that they will ensure that they are improving their homes in that stadium as it was in the last season.
He said that he is ready for the defense and attack of Al-i Ji P-Pickup, and to make sure you get the animal.
By getting their brother in Stand United it is like they want to leave Simba so that they can be able to sit on the top of that league if they will win today's game against Azam FC.
And Azam through his spokesperson, Jaffar Idd Maganga said that they are sure of winning that game as a result of the preparations that they made before landing in Shinyanga.
He said that their players have a game of the game while wanting the victory so as to go into a good position in the premier league of Yanga with 11 points, welcoming Mtibwa Sugar which is third with 14 points.
The coach of that team Hans Van Der Westhuizen has said that his team came into that game being full after not doing well in several games ago including that of their old rivals.
He said that the victory is everything in that game and he will ensure that his players are happy about all that they are doing exercises for that game. "He said for now he cannot talk about the allegations of him being left with that club and what he depends on as the head coach of Yanga is the games that is in front.
