
Magufuli will sign him that he went to the airport in Dar es Salaam.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today May 6th, 2016.

President John Magufuli has done a surprise visit to the area of inspecting goods and passengers at the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam city the International Container Terminal (JNIA), in Dar es Salaam on the International Container Terminal (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam city, to be taken against them in May this year.

May this year, President Magufuli made a surprise tour just after arriving at the stadium from Kampala in Uganda, where he visited the swearing-in ceremony of the president of the United Republic of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni, visited a surprise visit and discovered that the inspection machines (ESRF) were not working.
But yesterday after welcoming President Joseph Kabila of the Democratic Republic of Congo who was leaving in the country after a three-day tour, he decided to do again a surprise visit, and this time he has signed that those machines were doing work, after seeing him the reality of their cargo is complete.
However, he has instructed the director of Julius Nyerere International Airport, Paul Rider to take action against two officers who gave false reports on the first time.
"Today's true that the machines were working with me I have seen, but those who had gone to themselves for the first time when I come up, the director ensure they take action," insisted Doctor Magufuli, according to the State House press conference yesterday.
President Magufuli ordered the officers, who in accordance with the director, is Lilian Minja and November Madega who are the JNIA officers who are unable to participate.
When he made a surprise visit for the first time on May 13 this year, President Magufuli advised the Ministry of Works, Communication and Transport in conjunction with the state agencies to take action immediately against mistakes of inspection that are there in the inspection of cargo and solar eclipse.
He released that order after realizing that the inspection machines for the arrival of the passengers and goods are not working for a long time.
The officers of the stadium who were giving explanations about the state of inspection of cargo and passengers at the stadium, were giving different reports that are due to performance of inspection machines, a situation that caused President Magufuli to decide and urge the concerned ministry in collaboration with media stations to take action immediately.
"You know I am not getting confused, it is good to learn the truth, why I started here, you cannot see you?
O'clock, now you are not getting confused, and why I will get them now, you have been able to realize that this is bad and this is the whole, I told me that this is bad for two months, "President Magufuli warned the officers of JNIA at that time.
