
What does not lie on how to be taught.
The Tottenham coach, Mauricio Perals also has a dream of success as he used to be the former Manchester United coach, Sir Alex Ferguson.
London City, England, the Tottenham coach, Mauricio Macri who has signed a new contract to continue training the club entertaining the club showing a big success of the Manchester United Club, Sir Alex Ferguson.
That coach who may leave the great success of the White Stars club in the next season, has a dream of living a long time in the club and following the footsteps of Ferguson.
Ferguson started and worked with Manchester United for 27 years, where he made a new generation to be remembered in the Old Trafford club.
The current music contract will enable a coach to Spurs that has paid a huge salary of 5 million pounds per year, an agreement between the coach of Argentina and his club will be signed on Tuesday.
Parrish has reported the day before yesterday that he had agreed with the club's chairperson, Daniel Chongolo to increase the contract for two years to 2021.
Tottenham will go into the field tomorrow night to meet Chelsea at the same time faced with the fate of the championship after his opponent, Leicester City played today afternoon by Manchester United at the Old Trafford stadium, where the victory will sign his first crown after KIA 132.
However, that coach gave out various donations, although it is known to be used by Manchester United after his success with Spurs, also the Paris Saint Germain has been following his movements with the aim of wanting him.
The basketball coach who is 44 years said, "it is a easy decision when he is happy and to be happy with the people.
"By what changes, it's why do not continue here? I think that we can get success and do big things in the coming days."
Perhaps, that coach had a difficult time to continue giving success to his club next season, especially when he succeeded to remain with his current squad.
He said Mrs Sir Alex Ferguson for me is a special person when he was given security, he made a victory squad with Manchester United and I believe that even we can reach its success by building together with the club is the first thing. "
