
A modem is controlling it against them.

It has been written by Lucy Fauzia Kullane.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

Despite the presence of various challenges in provision of high-speed buses in Dar es Salaam (DART), the company that runs the project, UDART) has banned free transport for different groups including the police, disabled, religious leaders and even teachers.

It has said that the certificates that were using it is great and every one when a red card has given that report in a document was written in every station at the end of the week and explaining that there has been an increase in those groups without paying and also receiving phones from different groups, continuing to be given that service.
That has been said in an agreement that was signed by the executive director of UDART), David Mgeleja and they have won to go to the secretary general of the office of the president, regional administration and local government (TAMISEMI), the executive director of NMB Bank, registrar of treasury at the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA).
In that report, Mgalula, wanted that document to change all servants of that transport and action should be taken quickly, he said the servants who are in stations are supposed to ensure the certificates are closed down and there is no one that is allowed to get without paying.
Those groups have been awaited without paying the fare in that project that will work in Morogoro and the one of Morocco in Dar es Salaam city.
Another challenge, additionally, moreover, it has shown the presence of several challenges that are seen to be dangerous for now in the project that started early this year, which is being used to arrive at the stations for more than a half hours, an issue that causes passengers to get a lot of time and others are not at the stations.
Another challenge is for the passengers that use the cards they have contributed money, is used for a few days, as compared to the amount of money that was set.
As a result of that situation, its users have complained of that project up to day that since it started a difference with the expectations of passengers according to the day how they are going, because it has been a solution to him 'passengers instead of marrying them.
Apart from that, the machines to inspect the tickets and the cards that are used in the transport sector have had different problems, the other being unable and others put up, an issue that causes the presence of a series of entering to passengers and from.
The chief executive officer of that project, Wilfred Lwakatare confessed the existence of those challenges and explained that when they get complaints they will also give a solution as soon as possible.
Lwakatare said that the delay of vehicles at the stations is because drivers are asked, they are saying that the problem is the presence of road safety police who are leading vehicles, an issue that does not allow those vehicles, an issue that has changed the whole system of transport.
"It is true that this project has started early this year, but up to now it has not been restored after vehicles are required to arrive at that station after five minutes of that area is a problem," said Lwakatare and added that the road system also contributes to the buses being unable to arrive at the station.
He clarified that vehicles are not supposed to arrive at more than five at the time and the situation is caused by the police who are leading vehicles or the presence of any kind, they said they have been cooperating with the police to ensure those vehicles have been given priority so as to be given priority so as to be good for users as seen.
Lwakatare emphasized that the vehicles that are 120 minutes and that it is not all the vehicles for the journey to one day, on what he explained that there should be each other for the purpose of being operated by as required.
Likewise, he added that there are times the vehicles have been standing in the stations, without going to the place because his drivers are going, or eating.
"The aim of doing those vehicles do not go to the station every time after five minutes it is to make transportation, but passengers wait for more than half hours without getting that service," explained Lwakatare, and explanation that those vehicles starts from 12 o'clock in the morning.
He explained that some of the ways including Kivukoni and Kariakoo of Kariakoo, has been given priority to have many vehicles more than Morocco.
He emphasized that the morning in the morning and in the evening are different from the afternoon that they are providing many vehicles to take people at work and in the afternoon to reduce vehicles without a period as compared to day.
Speaking about the vehicles that started in Mbezi, Lwakatare said there are 26 vehicles for the purpose of removing the passengers that are outside Dar es Salaam to Kimara where it is the main station and procedures that use the queue.
In addition, he said that they are determined by the transport users by being a big percentage of buses that are going to Kariakoo to Tanzania through Morogoro road has reduced, "we will work with all the challenges that came up with the aim of improving this transport and we are urging the passengers to work on these challenges," he insisted.
On his part, the CCM's spokesman, Deus Kibamba, said approximately 30 percent of those buses are reduced in providing services especially during the afternoon due to that time being seen to have many passengers compared to the morning or in the evening when many go to homes.
Furthermore, he said those vehicles have divided into different steps in the time of providing services which starts from the morning at 11 o'clock in the morning at eight o'clock in the afternoon up to three o'clock in the afternoon up to three o'clock at night.
Even so, the other time the vehicles continue to provide services to six o'clock at night and in a five minutes, and on Saturday, the vehicles are reduced so as to provide time for maintenance, "he said and added that the major renovations takes place from five o'clock at night until morning.
He confessed that it is true that the challenges in that service are involved with one thing, but they are continuing to work on day until day, the aim being to make the service to be better and to make the thirst for users.
