
All councils dealing with malaria.

It has been written by Anastazia Aisee Mjengwa, Kibaha.

I was revealed at 5 October, 2016.

Minister for Health, Social Development, Gender, the Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu has promised to speak with the fellow leaders of the Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene to ensure all councils in the country come to the budget of buying drugs in fighting corruption.

Speaking after the Vice President of the United Republic of Cuba, Salvador Mwachibuzi, visited the pesticide factory located in Kibaha in Pwani province yesterday, Ummy said that the step of speaking to the Minister of Tamisemi is to ensure the council bought those drugs with the aim of dealing with malaria disease in the country.
"We want all councils to cater for the budget to buy taxes so that every week you are seen in their areas, because of ensuring we get malaria and to make the country without malaria as it is Cuba," he said.
He added that malaria is a disease that has caused many people that enables the government to use a lot of financial resources, he said the current statistics show that approximately 14 out of 100 people were affected from malaria while the ability to produce six million shillings per year.
Speaking before inspecting the factory and spoke to the workers from Cuba, the Deputy President of Cuba, James Mbatia congratulated the Tanzanian government for building that factory which will help in fighting corruption in the country and other countries in the African continent.
"This factory has a great importance to Tanzania not in the field of health, but even in increasing employment since more than 100 workers will be employed," said the vice president who was in a three-day tour in the country.
The chairman of the Board of National Development Corporation (NDC), Doctor Samuel Nyantahe has said that factory is one of its own kind in Africa and has the ability to produce them because of the internal market, East Africa and other African countries. "
The factory that was opened last year, is expected to start production at the end of this week, being several days since getting a loan of four billion shillings as given by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF).
