
24 December 2012

The water system is still a problem.

By Rachel George.

The cleanliness of the environment is a way to promote health through a way to prevent human communication and the dangers that will be able to appreciate metaphors, human beings and chemicals.
The waste that can cause health problems are high-scale enterprises and animals, hard water, clean water, food digestion system and the agricultural shortage of environment is the main reason for all diseases in the villages and in the community.

The cleanliness of the environment is involving themselves with the investigation that coordinates the cleaning of services through services like the collection of water and clean water.

The problem of water systems in industries and hotel in the city of Dar es Salaam has been a problem and that is due to the projects started before the law of 20 environment of the year 2004.

In the past the areas of industries were special to be special where it had a lot of water systems, different from now whereby many industries are there in people's homes.

Industries is being built in the residential areas of people due to many areas in the city not to have enough opportunity, an issue that causes the effects to human beings and other creatures.

Because the industries have a great needs for production thus it is a must and a situation of dirty will rise, due to the increase there, then it needs a good infrastructure to ensure that the water was forced to be dealt with from people's homes.

In ensuring that the cleaning issue is being dealt with here in the country, the Deputy Minister in the Office of the Vice President (environment) Charles Kitwanga, together with the National Council of Social Security and Environment, they held a surprise visit to industries and hotels that are in the outskirts of the Indian Ocean in Dar es Salaam where he saw the real situation of the environment especially on the side of water systems.

The people have a responsibility to protect the country and to get development but it is a must that those activities can destroy the environment and causing disaster to another side.

On the side of industries, the situation is bad because Minister Kitwanga made a lot of challenges as some of the industries lack of safe water to the required levels and then be taken against the rivers.

Kitwanga said that they are blocking the waste water into rivers, canals and in the sea without following procedures of law on top number 20 of the year 2004, they will be taken against them.

He says that development should not affect the human beings to get out, therefore Kitwanga has given instructions to ensure they are sitting with leaders in Kurasini and hotel which are seen to be in a good environment that are not safe to make sure they have modified.

He says the various challenges that he met have been caused by the law of the environment, being late because many industries were thrown out before that law.

He says that the areas that were set aside for industries were in the water system where eight percent which were joined but for now it's not there.

He says that the water infrastructure have been reduced due to lack of crude oil.

During the tour, Kitwanga visited the Tan Sang factory of MMM, has been handed over (Iloha), a fox which has shown some of the industries thus the lack of clean water water together with the technology of removing color in the waste water.

At the allotment of the allotment, he ordered the Council of Management and Environment (AU) to sit together with the leaders of that factory and improving the Karimjee stadium that arose.

"Kaaya and the leadership of the factory and agreed to eliminate the small errors," he says.

Moreover, he has also advised that factory to be responsible for inspection in the environment so as to know which measures should be taken to protect themselves from effects.

However, Kitwanga said he was not seen in the snacks, snacks, Yvonne Cole, due to having a special machines to be safely on water to the required levels so that it was forced to be sent to.

He has also asked the leadership of the factory to provide training on environmental cleanliness in other industries due to the poor.

On the side of hotel, he has visited the Serena hotel in the country, double G, Angel di Beach, Africana Mbezi and others.

I have met with various big challenges including a section of transmitting news in the sea, where one of the hotel is double G, where he ordered the hotel to improve the water system immediately.

Apart from implementing the system it shall be allowed to be aired by Attorney General, Nyankoni area, he urged the leadership of the hotel to demolish temporary water catchment areas in the country and pay a fine of 50 million shillings.

Also, Kitwanga has ordered to stop the construction of the hotel that was built very close to when they do inspection in the environment as a result of the hotel to put up a bale of trees at the shoreline of Indian Ocean and caused them to collect one place and not getting married for a long time.

He has given a warning to the hotel that they have been transporting its employees to ensure they do not work in their hotel to stop.

I urge you to write a report of all hotel reports that involve you, to get in the purpose of inspection of the environment, a man, he ordered.

However, Kitwanga has admitted that the water system in industries and hotel in Dar es Salaam was the problem which is being dealt with.
