

There are people who have shown his appreciation to the intention of President Doctor John Magufuli to reduce the salaries of some of the executives of the public institutions.
Their joy is as a result of what is explained that those people are paid a lot of money compared to other servants in the area, the people feel it is better and their colleagues are the ones who are paid by reducing them so that you can be able to reduce them.
All the days I will continue believing that Tanzanian deserves to be paid a lot of money because of the work he is doing, all the days I will continue to believe that one of the major ways of fighting the poverty of income is to pay taxes which will enable them to sustain their cost of life.
All the days I will continue to believe that they pay small salaries being ideas which came out to confirm that the source is, a result of thinking and how to improve the institution's income so that they can pay good salaries.
The effects of that is to have a community that its income can be able to sustain their lives of life, something that is witnessing right now.
Last year, there was a scandal that was called a scandal against the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (ACTL) that they had planned to set aside big salaries.
If it is very true that many people were seen to see that every day of May first we have been witnessing the claims by the increase of salaries they wanted and take a big part of the chief message in those celebrations.
Every time a cry for stem cell phone has been claiming that the increase of salaries claimed that the salaries that they were paid is currently not involved with the cost of life.
But in the middle of those allegations, still people involved the intention of President Magufuli to reduce the salaries of some of the public servants.
However, the money that will be reduced in that salaries will be channeled in increasing salaries for those who are not little, still it will not help so much because there will be no additional criterion to claim that all servants will be paid little.
Currently, more than the cost of life, another criterion used by claims that the salaries of salaries is to grow from the gap between those who are paid more and those who are not little.
I insisted that one of the best ways to reduce this gap is to stop increasing the ones that are not better and to increase those who are paid little so that at least make them get the high level so that they sell them.
I don't see if the reducing the ones that are paid more is the right way because they are not allowed, it is not true after the time they joined the group of those who are claiming the increase of salaries.
If people will agree with the action of reducing the salaries they are paid further, even if those who are paid it, after a short time, they will be able to claim that the increase of income because the ones who are paid it will have been paid for their salaries and downloading easily.
