And return something I believe that if I have found themselves in my condolences and work, if you are changing the little time to vote.
Prisoners in every time to start afresh and or a sister we talk about words, said there are signs of getting new constitution and this topic I think that there are people living in Parliament while the sea will never see signs of getting a new constitution.
.
There and then.
For the purpose of this issue in the coming years.
From 5 kilometers, the ones that socialism is crossing to them as it started.
What is it?
The father is a resident.
Arusha I urge each other.
It is a thing.
After the new constitution.
Private to my view I don't see if the constitutional parliament in Dodoma.
It's because there have been conflicts and all of them are available and they think it.
I have seen me when he left her rearing of age.
The constitution seemed more than touching the foundation stone and not knowing that behind it.
More.
Lady Lady has been trying to follow up the special parliament of the constitution.
Wash your eyes too.
For you to know where I got into the newspaper where I got reasons for today, it will be careful not to use this constitution and how I have passed it is the first time when I saw it, I did not see why I've heard this act and how I will not see it, I could not see you and to control actions.
For a lady, if you want this one and there I think it will be there because there will be no union I think that we do not have justice and I don't think this date it will be because of a division that seems to be able to help in the special parliament of the constitution.
President of the United Republic of Congo want to be given information and feelings are its hope that so that we can get the constitution against corruption and a panel that takes part in one partnership and to listen to the summary of people who have been appointed.
But for a day.
But also in the new article with 66 candies and I stopped me, it has been dominated by conflicts from the beginning and at the end of the right because I heard a love to go to the words because I stopped him in order for the constitution to want you to do so.
Here you will go.
The thing that has a value and a five punishment is to leave until they were sitting on a fast rate.
The drugs have come at a period that is affecting them completely.
Religious leaders in social media, there are our father at the end, let me say God is hard to see our money, but I believe that there is a day I love our colleagues, but I believe that there is no longer a constitution that we have been found even if they get the constitution of including those who want the constitution like it.
It identified himself the new parties.
And other citizens in the mind that doesn't be done, I saw us by using a high level and it has been one thing that for one day it takes three hundred thousand councilors in one day, one day is not a little, but they get inside.
On stage that Ukawa had not noticed, you thought that it was a basketball for him to talk about that he had died without that.
You will give you a threat to I, I have not talked about the Jahazi Concert because you know the place a lot of pain and my income so that we can have time to use it.
Its better, you know you are saying that he is doing.
In the scene.
For the reason what is needed is a constitution, to know if I get married, there are two or three people you want a discussion of five children.
You want to ask that those who come from those who come from those who remain or those who come from the ones who come from the ones who come to you have been unable to try to be there.
There are many looking for anything?
It brings you anything.
For a certain thing, why do their pregnancy have written about your country, I would like to use yourself when you go from the opinion, it should make sure that you represent in, is because it has shown the effects that are not a long time.
What you know that I will be with a student who is getting in the examination when it comes from.
At the same way you are seven million shillings they get five thousand shillings, you will also be introduced to them.
