Close to him.
The listener is in our discussions.
Listen to me Messi and followed up with the youth.
Where today's topic is saying that there is a need to give a girl child getting back, instead of wanting to be able to do or position.
And we are in Iringa province, we are talking to the youth from the University of we to sign here in Iringa town.
The road has said that in the second year or I see it is good like a female child who doesn't have the ability to vie for because of the child he knows how the child knows the way I will give priority by giving him a person to be a person.
You mean that you have heard the campaign on his position that he had not tolerate any pictures, I will make sure you see here is better so as to pay a good example, I will play a good example, I will play a small one I will be like, I will remain at a small time and called me.
It is difficult to have talks with the most Chinese unit to know where you know that a woman is priority because I would like to pray for him because I will be careful but I am very difficult to say that I will be careful, "I am very difficult to say that I will be careful, then I will continue to be careful, then I will continue to be good for men even a day.
Only I have read it as, because we know the cup today alcohol, I have gone to work hard to know why it is a woman but not because we will not know more than our life but if we will be, if we will be done, we will be like if we are used.
Our children, everyone joined me, I say we have signed University of Iringa on my part, it has said that the issue of a woman gives priority to their two legs but it's not a long time because they can be given a lot of time because they can also be given a lot of priority to support the economy.
I would say I should request that together with that it gives a good priority and yet they are given priority to a girl, you do not know anything that is not true but you don't have a chance to deal with me if the young people who still have a chance to continue to support me, I don't see a woman.
It is similar to I see that we give his brother we give you.
The ability and a chance to read or a friend and there is himself personally and I use her mind to use the equipment they received as summoning demons.
There is a good example even here in Iringa, we have soldiers who passed it was men.
When you walk quickly quickly, my life has already been done?
Her husband do not have short periods that we start using women in accordance with the good faith, the women I request that you are unable to understand what we have gone to, we see me, it was not a country every person to be given, every person's first to be given.
And we look at who will be six who will be at the end of how many are using bad luck.
What trials shall come?
We are not known as a rich child in the university even when they saw it, I will try you know there before waiting for a certain company.
If you are a woman who dies with your father, but from work when you are waiting for you by a man and when I get her work, you can't know more, but you have enough education.
It is a must that until now the internet has a lesson to a lesson because it is not Quality Center, you are required to listen to all two stadiums for all the two days and we are expecting to listen to all the two sides now we are going to listen to the director of the Huria university in Iringa province, Mister Timothy Kapama we are supposed to hear the views on our topic.
Blog is going on.
Coast is there to continue to rage.
Especially in upbringing.
The reason for the first reason?
Saba Saba are seen to see if history is history.
History of the community.
Kurwijila (center).
So, it was born.
They look for a family.
A sign.
So as to do.
Or to go.
In a very vehicle above.
They were given.
Many by Benedict Liwenga.
I remember that I would like you want to don't like women.
Ten o'clock in this morning.
Therefore, the quality.
Education.
Mister.
It benefit from BADEA.
He has your responsibility to buy.
Thank you but as a result of the behavior because we are accused of continuing giving her a girl to see that he needs to have any sales of different sales, you can't make the girl?
He gave me that he cannot get him and he can just wait for him.
How does it mean that you can happen?
It does not have strategies that you want.
How to visit this woman?
To give him second from favoring any person who ran away.
Your so that it can be able to be things in a way that is making sure that you are.
For example, it is going to the school on the reason being loved.
If we feel that there are credit are credit, where a girl wants to contest for maybe that it is easy for you.
I will be remembered but the lot of problems between men.
He said.
This is preparations for their lives after the late God like we not less than Messi that women can't succeed.
But if you are.
So towns can we have.
And in our discussions today, I don't know that we are talking to the topic that says there is a need to give a girl child to position itself or priority instead of wanting to listen to the youths themselves but I have to listen to the girls they feel that there is no need to get a priority.
The position of reviewing instead of being supported by other people have said that those positions have reduced, they are given opportunities to abandon their positions.
And priority, even the others see if it is continuing to fulfill the female child seen, he cannot make sure there is good for a female child.
