
I have been asked if you see this Saturday, "is seven o'clock.

September 28, 2016.

Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has announced the entry fee to witness the Vodacom Premier League in the premier league of rivals Simba and Yanga, that will be played on October first this year at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the spokesperson of the federation, Alfred Lucas said that they have decided to announce early the entry fees so as to give an opportunity to the citizens to prepare early before the incident.
"The entrance fee for our match will be shillings 50,000 and the VIP is paid 20,000 shillings to the VIP B and C with the normal seats that are blue copper and Orange will be a blue copper," said Lucas.
He said citizens will they buy tickets through their electronic cards that are being spread by Selcom Company which are available to various agents here in the country.
He added that the National Stadium for National Stadium will be open from ten o'clock in the morning so as to give an opportunity to the citizens to enter the field and to reduce violence together with the congestion of people in the entrance fee.
On his side, Projects Manager of Selcom Company said those cards will start to be available today, therefore citizens should come out early to buy so as to avoid disruptions that doesn't have a must.
He said that they have removed the cost of procurement of those cards which were being used to pay 3,000 shillings so as to encourage many soccer fans to get those cards, which will be used for every game that will take place at the National Stadium.
"We have more than 1000 agents, thus the citizens will win for free cards by buying tickets from the Simba and Yanga soccer club and started doing those cards to be sustainable for all the games that will take place at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
"Therefore, do not be afraid of taking these cards because it will be used in this only match, but will be used in all national and international matches which will be played in the same stadium," said Ranaldo.
