It was the madness of what his wife?
Dec 5, 2013.

While reading the judgment, Judge Mrema made a result of that case and said that what was found was surprised by the defense of the madness that has been involved in the suspect.
Judge Mrema said that when he was born, "when I was doing the summary of this case to the elders of the council, I explained to them that, something that is proud of here is the defense of the madness that has been unblocked by the suspect.
"The way I said on the defense and the defense have agreed on that evaluation, article 192 of the Cromer, the person who died is an appropriate truth that, a person who died is very disturbing, the person who died is normal."
Judge Mrema continued to say that which he told the elders of the council is to decide according to the claims that he had a disease that caused the disease that caused him that he is doing.
The judge did not want to involved other information that were given out in court as defense, that the suspect did not know what he is doing is the legal action and he continued to say the suspect did not give the analysis and claiming that he had not seen the late.
Judge Mrema continued to say that, according to the regulations of the law, the 12 and 13 sections have explained open about the suspects that are preventing the madness of.
According to article 12, the law is taking any person to be a sober mind and when I will be decided otherwise.
Article 13, any person cannot be taken because he has failed to do him or not to do him and in time to do or not getting married and therefore made them not knowing what he is doing.
Judge Mrema said that if it is possible for malaria or fever that the suspect was sent in that day on July 17, 1984, the one that made him were affected and not knowing the act of killing what he has done?
Judge Mrema also spoke about the defense of the suspect, Kamugisha Kazaura, who in his defense made the opinion polls, that the accused had a sober mind when he is implementing those killings.
And presented his explanation, that the suspect was affected by his brain due to suffering from suffering when she killed his wife.
That lawyer noted that the evidence of Doctor Kulwa Juma that he released when in court you do not be careful because you cannot be careful, also the lawyer noted that the evidence of the doctor was a total.
That lawyer asked the court to look for the evidence of the father of the deceased and the accused of the accused he made in court, that the suspect was sent to malaria by being forced to do normal acts and sometimes threatened.
The disease that has planned for the suspect was for a short time since he also happened between July 17, 1984, on August first, 1984. The lawyer asked the court to be questioned, a suspect asked to be in a normal state and his answers was that if he was asked.
Lawyer Kamugisha continued to say that even the report that was released at Jihadist hospital, Dodoma (Isakweza village, Dodoma (Isakamatwa kwa Wakala, that was taken as a decrease in six months because the suspect was taken to that hospital four years since the occurrence of that incident.
Therefore, the report cannot have correct answers about the situation of the suspect because the situation was improved and he had not been sent again to the disease that supports him were arrested.
Also, that lawyer noted that until now the court had not yet confirmed that the court has not shown an intention to implement the killings and he continued to say that she was believed to be a suspect and the deceased was living as a wife and a husband, in joy and peace.
There was no fear of the couple, therefore, it's not possible for the suspect to forgive him only and killing his wife who have lived for all and give three children in their marriage.
On that reason, lawyer Kamugisha said there is no argument that allows him to confirm the amount of money, that the suspect was with a sober mind, therefore he requested the other court that he is not guilty and asked a free court.
Responding to the issues of his lawyer, they will be Sengelema province, the charges of the government emphasized that the suspect did the killing with a sober mind and he knew that he is doing it is legal.
He asked the court to follow the evidence of the doctor who impressed me when they were in his report, that doctor claimed that she is suffering from malaria that had gone up to the head because it's impossible to do such acts or endanger the security.
