Soccer that protects the "elderly" has no benefit.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

Last week, I was following up on various statements after Nigeria failed to participate in the African Football League (AFCON). The tournament is done in the year Guinea of going through it.

That country got an opportunity to prepare for those competitions after Morocco came out to prepare for the tournament for fear of Ebola.

Nigeria entered the tournament with the defending champions, thus they were working on making sure they sponsor their championship for the meaning of the qualify for the tournament.

These things contrary to had anticipated, as they were required to win their last game against South Africa, what happened in the match, ends with a 2-2 results with Nigeria was appointed to officially win the championship and not being administered in their skins.

In Nigeria, various stakeholders gave their views after the results, while the Football Federation in the country (NFF) failed to organize afresh, but also some of the players were not satisfied with the action and therefore decided to give his heart.

The scorer of two goals in that game, SCE will also be the striker of Hull City of England that is participating in the premier league in that country, he said that all players are confused, because it was against what they want.

The coach of that team as it is with other coaches, Stephen Koga wants players for controlling it in South Africa.

President of NFF, Akitanda, has said that his federation failed to agree on the results but promised to prepare again next season.

The former captain of Nigeria, Segal Oilcom, said that Nigeria entered the field dancing with history than soccer wants them.

But the veteran said that it is time for change, because it was released in the competition is being a lesson to Nigeria due to the weight of the game.

The writer of sports issues from Abuja, Michael Oreo ', said that they failed to qualify for 74 is a sign of having changes that now should be done inside that squad.

He said that someone can't know his weaknesses until when he will have won the place.

He said that Nigeria has now needs to have new players who don't lose their dreams, with self-employed and the new generation with talents known as normal, while saying that even the current coach is supposed to know that his days has been called and when your impatience will have a new skills to fight the soccer of the century.

I have heard Nigeria as a example, after seeing here, there is still a habit of controlling the old players on the excuse of experience this situation it has been noted recently after the Taifa Stars coach, Mart Nooij, congratulated Sheikh Abubakar Mtiro of Kagera Sugar in the team's squad.

I don't have sure that, Mart did not see other youth players that they used to be better than Mtiro and they won the national team for a long time.

When we start when we start to take advantage of the players who are used but they don't have the real process of being in the process for a long time.

This situation has affected even some of the teams of the first level here in the country which have decided to do registration of veterans who have been reported that the premier league on the thoughts that they have a donation of reducing those teams from their experience.

He knew that some of the elderly in the team because they have their contribution to a certain amount, but the issue of doing registration where some of the players in one team are those who passed the premier league, is very dangerous to the development of the team in the coming days.

I was very happy one day after hearing one of the leaders of Stand United of Shinyanga, saying that they had no plan to register a veteran player in their squad.

One of the reasons that they made is that they don't have a lot of money to pay but they also insisted that they want youths who will later come to be better even to reach a step of playing for the national team.

Recently, I heard Simba and Yanga did not want to get again in the conflicts of Juma Kaseja to now, Simba have not seen him that they have a young man with the ability who he will later can do well more than what he has gone to now.

You're going back to the country by stopping the elderly as we see the elderly as if we get talents to the youth, this procedure is what we want to have a better national team because the small youths are forced to be cultivated in every corner.
