
Her sister is happy but you do not mean?
In recent days, there have been an increase in cases of her daughters coming out from every corner of the country receiving money from his colleagues who are claiming to give birth to them.
This situation especially caused some of the politicians where it has been a big style in coming out and claimed that, Tunda Man has given these people with their intention especially to follow the law (which is depending on the law).
The recent incident concerns the girl who came out to calling the money to meet the needs of her child from Mister one who claimed that she is engaged to her.
In these days where their daughters showed up and given independent energy, I am surprised to see that there are those who take care of whether to use the economy.
If there is no important thing that they can be able to use the mental disabilities, they can be able to get money, and to make sure that your life and a child was forced to leave that life and the child was forced to leave that life and the child was forced to leave that life from many schools due to the shortage of money.
It is same as an act of one person that came out with the media to release his relationship with one type, for what he claimed was to cause life.
Fear of life.
That girl decided to kill a girl, by forcing him to be forced to leave his wife.
Some of the cases have shown how if their daughters shouldn't be proud to get into the old thoughts that it is a must that you get money from brother especially after entertainment.
It is the concept that continues with every time comes when it comes at the end of the morning, faced with different ways to attract more eyes, because they know after falling on the night, the patient will leave and at least several hours in the pocket.
Most of them have not seen if those who do his work or not, and they are ready to do anything even if they are participating in sex without the body, thus the results are diseases and those who are unable to care.
Remember there is no day where a sober mind will stop his wife and went up to you where it was ready to sign any check of the money.
