
The wealth of Masanja-Mkomagu was a stern warning to the Diamond Platnumz and Jide.

The wealth of the popular fashion model in the country Emmanuel Mgaya, Masanja-Mkandamizi "is surprising me for now, it is possible and now seems to be among the artists who own money and many of Bongo, shot, while they give you more.

News.

Previously, the news about the wealth of Masanja won the table of this newspaper as a result of this newspaper as a result of us, there is our reporter to go and start working on their property being at that artist and discovered that it is between the stars that saw Bongo.

"Masanja has said that he is not the one again.

We have added that "first is the floor of Tabata, that is when we live in.

"It is a artist who has a big company like Masanja has said that most of them want to claim that they organized that film which even the fruits are not seen."

Our investigation know that the truth of the property of that artist and many other things are affecting its income.

Two vehicles.

It was noted that, Masanja has bought six vehicles, including luxurious houses, some of those vehicles are Toyota in IHI (IJA), Nissan, Vernon Fernandes of Verbania Italy.

Three houses in Tanzania.

Also, the star of breaking the mud which owns three houses in the city of Dar es Salaam, one is the floor in Tabata, another in Kigamboni and others are not covered by the scene.

However, it has been revealed that apart from heavy accusations that are in Dar es Salaam city, in their home in Mbarali, Mbeya has a good building.

Farms are found.

The artist (not behind in agriculture, has several farms in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam city, but an error in the center which is in Mbarali with the size of 50 megawatts which is self-rice.

Is musician, artists do not use more pictures?

In that wealth, there is rumors that, that star can have a high number of music artists with a long time.

Others, the one being mentioned in the list of actors in Bongo Five that it involves coughing "Dumu" and Doctor Cheni said, Doctor Cheni said.

Rich Bana.

In Bongo Fleva music, artists that are trusted people have great wealth, Judith Wambura 'Lady Jaydee', "Nasibu Abdul Diamond, and Joseph Haule 'Professor Jay."

Those artists love that heavy decisions, do not follow up for luxurious houses and several projects.

Questions about.

The wealth of Masanja has been forced to emerge victorious with his sources of removing him of income as known as acting, music and social services.

So, for acting in the group Orijino Comedy "OK" where he got the money and started that big projects?

If yes, why is the other and his colleagues in that group do not have great progress like him?

Another job of Masanja is a gospel music where for now his album is still a new modern shop in the market.

But also, Masanja is a pastor who is attending to the Eliamin Tenga of God Tanzania (EAGI) "the rivers that resulted in Bishop Bruno Depot (EABC)" the rivers could put up because that service can be the source of its income?

Shot, it did not destroy the head, the day before yesterday featured Masanja-Masanja in a phone and questioned him about his property, but the first confirmed that it had bought those property and others which he did not want it to say.

"It is true that I have three houses here in the city, the defense and the rice bran at home in Mbarali, Mbeya Region, about vehicles also are very true. I am a servant who can't understand what is true," said Masanja.
