
Werema, get IPTL, money.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

The attorney general (AG) Judge Frederick Werema, explained that the Independent Power Tanzania (IPTL) given money that had been involved in the Escrow account to attain that which are the devil of, "has been known.

These news have emerged during the period in which the Parliament of Tanzania is officially started to discuss the report of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) about the way that money has an amount of 200 billion shillings, that has warned them from that account.

Mke Mwema should understand that by using his position, Werema, to him by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance Doctor Servacius Likwelile, October last year, if a teacher had not yet known IPTL, which already was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), which was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll company (PAP), that was owned by the Pan African Power Poll

In his letter of reference.

"Any decision to give money from the Escrow account has no problem, that you're being taken by the decision by the High Court of Tanzania through the judgment of Judge John Pombe Magufuli.

"This decision by the High Court has given it now an opportunity to ensure this issue of IPTL is ending, this is possible for us to end this issue and we are supposed to take action now instead of being the devil of lovers," wrote Werema.

Werema, he entered into problems inside the parliament due to a difference with the member of parliament of Kigoma South, David Kafulila, to reach a step of calling the member of parliament so that he himself was called a penalty.

Werema, by the secretary general of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Elichilia Khamis, is the leaders that said that the leaders being mentioned to help the support of those funds from that account.

Its Werema, and Maswi was the leaders of the attacks against members of parliament who were on the front line wanting that issue to be reduced, and the secretary general once seen the evidence of members of parliament to be due to charges of cooking oil.

According to the previous reports, due to the investigation that was done by the CAG, the funds in the Escrow account were supposed to be paid by TANESCO as a payment of high level of the services to use IPTL and electricity production.
