
Do a look for yourself to know our enemies.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Every person should do his work! Well, Kenya will defend his tourism sector for violence, and the western countries are advised without stopping his colleagues in Kenya against America, England, Australia and other nations that have already advised their citizens to remove those citizens that have been understood.
We advise President Uhuru Kenyatta to protect our interests and therefore, it is a must he give enough reasons that he will not be free of free but that is how the government of western countries passed the responsibilities of protecting the interests of every citizen.
It is because this reason why I did not feel any difficulty of England because there will cause its citizens who were in Kenya last month, bombs were allocated to one day later.
That government is very disturbing to the British that the tax to prevent it is well in the intelligence activities. I will discover the government of Kenya to take our money so that we can be able to get safe use instead of putting business advertisements in media stations while urging Kenyans to look at dangerous areas.
If you want to know your taxes, if you remember the criminal activities that are headed to the bar as well as the immigration officers who are at the streets getting bribes from the terrorists of Al Shabaab so as to allow them to enter the country to prevent it.
For now, when you look for those cases, it is true that a Kenyan person is more than the western countries and the government is like Kenya did not increase the lives of its citizens, he accused the nations that do every effort to inform its security.
The plans of the use of government money this year shows the retired presidents Daniel MOI and Mwaura who were set aside a lot of money more than the police unit to fight terrorism.
In short, it is happy to MOI and Mwaura to live entertainment, while more than 40 million Kenyans are out the lives of terrorists.
The country doesn't say the lives of his people cannot accept to be known as Mister Itonya and every way to bring him.
The other day before yesterday, America did a decision to be satisfied with many musicians who were abducted by the rebels who were abducted by the rebel group from Afghanistan.
If I'm born in Kenya, it will be pregnant in Kenya is the host and immigrants from Somalia who have a plot against us! Pickup, and again are Muslims, but Al-Shabaab have never happened in implementing the killings.
The problem of terrorism is in Kenya and Kenya itself is the ones that will try to stay.
In order to make sure, annamatinde @ gmail, I will release a Kenyan artist, I will play in the hands of those who attacked him because of forgetting it is among the main behavior that are committed by Kenya.
