If you go to Grind.
I asked me the things like if it is not fast.
There is no longer more than another.
There is no better than all the others that's the way to do in the country I don't know the truth I was coming from the truth and to end the truth when we are saying that there is a bad condition because we are saying that there is a bad behavior.
We had already said, we saw that there is a series of cement in the government, where it is good on Sunday together with the general secretary, but there are another team that are politicians together with people who we put the opportunity to present in parliament and they serve the child.
Other things among others tell ourselves that they will be able to find another one that we are doing so as to leave each other.
To look for instance, it is not a certain time for now, that one will take this one we are required to go to Edenvale, he will not close up on the same time I went to succeed.
For all the procedures that they sell Mtwara Province, I know the behavior and love you like here, I want them to make sure I know abusive language, all the reason why all others were unable to improve it, so as to watch the body of the body that is not at the end of people to view our fellows.
We have written the tour we said that we are going to do when we are going on.
You should be responsible for the two sides of sin?
I was coming?
Here in the country.
There is a problem.
How many Swahili speakers are making sure that there is things that you should inform you.
I think I would say it is not true that we are not supposed to do you from the news that I have passed from.
The room for the news to lose our money?
They were poor, says it has reached an indication that there are no doubt.
You want you to fulfill your dreams of investigation about Escrow account, I was told the market that the Bible is full of time you will know whether true that the foundation of something that will lead in we want to reduce anything like that the foundation of something that will lead we should talk to you.
The police is given.
For caring about the truth about Chris Brown is reduced by the energy that is about our resources that are leading without what you love.
Without not knowing the person without what you are saying, this one, for someone to get the truth about it was different from the news, I said that there is no reason why people have been able to ask ourselves how many people do not understand what they started.
The late?
Little hard to say.
When journalists went for us again, but because the news reporter of investigation is understood.
To look for the truth wherever we are, where we are in Dar es Salaam, there should be a big investment in this environment which is worth each person, he says that when the writer is happy, so as to talk like you say that those news reporter must go.
At a cost of cost.
You lead you, except to the right now because of the need of the bank?
The theft.
