The Mayor has banned the swimming agreement with "mystery".
Brightiles 18, 2016.

Cub of S, France.

The mayor of Dar es Salaam City, David Moyes has banned the wearing of misunderstanding with the whole body at the beaches of that town saying that action is aimed to strengthen security.

He had banned the wearing of not being involved with religious culture, "we have banned any person to go by swimming without wearing a swimming system of swimming," he said in his official report of breaking the wearing of "couples," he said in his official report of breaking the wearing of "couples," he said in his official report of breaking the wearing of "couples," he said in his official report of making the wearing of "couples," he said that in his official report of making the wearing of "couples," he said that in his official report of breaking the wearing of "couples," he said that in his official report of making the wearing of "mystery" and added that "I don't have time and I don't need any conflicts about this issue."

He emphasized that he has taken that decision so as to make sure there be enough security in the city he is leading.

I have done this decision to be satisfied with the state of defense in my area and especially considering that for now our country is in an emergency state against terrorism, "he said.

In Dar es Salaam city there is a distance of 18 times from Nice's City where they came from Islamic State, where they drew in Boko, a lorry that fell in a lorry then broke down in a crowd of people.

But the head of the Municipal of Dar es Salaam, Thierry Henry, spoke about their step saying "here is not talking to ban a religious conflict or to prevent people to stop their culture while at the beaches of Indian Ocean, we are happy about here to support the terror attack."

While clarifying more than Ooredoo Myanmar company who is also the mayor of Vital Voices Global Partnership, Herbert Louis, says the ban of the conflict that is going on more with the Muslim women is aiming to save the environment.

I have been told that in one of our beaches, there are some lovers, but his wife had entertainment with a whole body, the issue that is unacceptable, in a environment of the environment, "he said in his talks with the international news agency of AFP.
