Members of parliament want laws to be right to change.

It has been written by Eric Anthony, Dodoma.

It has been published in 15th of September.

The government has presented to the parliament the two bills, for the law of the agricultural research institution of the year 2016 and another of the law of the Fisheries Research Institute of the year 2016, which continues with the making of the law that will supervise the development of those sectors.

The bills was presented yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Drug Administration, Doctor Charles Tizeba, while some of the members of parliament received and asked the laws that were unable to remove many problems especially in agriculture where despite research, farmers have not been successful and make them several times when they receive them.
Those statements by members of parliament emerged with the Member of Parliament for Maswa District, Aisha Bui, (CCM) and Salum Mwinyi, where the nominated member of parliament for CCM ticket who is the only that contributed just after being presented to the bill before the parliamentary activities was postponed until evening.
While presenting the bill of law of agricultural research, Doctor Tizeba said the bill aims to put a research system that aims at improving the agricultural research activities in general according to the current needs, so as to increase the availability and distribution of correct technology in the country, agriculture in the country.
He added that if the bill will be convened by that law, it will help to strengthen the correct use of research resources by aim at the priorities in the sector and to remove the condition of more than one institution to make that research projects that goes up.
That bill has been recommended by the agricultural research institution for the purpose of doing research, to supervise and to coordinate all research activities in the country, in addition, the law will put restrictions on services that will supervise the financial issues so as to ensure the correct use and institutions of the institution.
Other recommendations are to identify the scope of financial sources for the research of the Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (DPP), to start a fund of developing research, to put the opportunity of developing agricultural stakeholders through the National Housing Sector Investments Platform.
Also it aims at identifying legal stations for agricultural research that will be supervised by voting together with its responsibilities, the stations that are in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, for now is Dojo Janja, Upendo Kilahiro, Kibaha, Upendo Singinika Solo, Msasani, Uku and Uyole,.
He said that the proposed law was prepared, it will help the increase in importation, availability of correct technology in agriculture, will increase efficiency in agricultural research activities, to strengthen the cooperation between the institutions, organizations and agricultural stakeholders inside and outside the country.
He added that the law which was prepared will help to strengthen the whole amount of value due to research that will be done according to the needs of their daily needs so as to increase productivity and income of farmers and therefore increasing the contribution to the agricultural sector in the economy and reliable energy.
The Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Water also presented his views to support the opposition camp in parliament involved in the ministry of agriculture, livestock, and fisheries.
While presenting on the report of the bill of the Fisheries Research Institute (MARI), Doctor Tizeba said that it intends to bring recommendations of the new law that will supervise the fishing research and will help in promoting water in water.
He added that the bill will look for the law that is under the Research Institute of Fisheries, Tanzania, 6 of the year 1980, which was started under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the Fisheries Department.
Important things in the bill has been mentioned as it is to give an institution's authority to address water sources, considering the changes in science and technology, to recognize the presence of research centers for fishing in Dar es Salaam, Kigoma, Kyela and Mwanza and other things that will be started.
