The political fight will stimulate development.
Jide 31, 2014 by Almighty God, elections.

While the fight to look for political popularity as the government is mentioned to remove the implementation of the development projects of citizens in some areas in the country, the situation is different in Busega County, Simiyu Province.
The fight has been a catalyst to the development of the citizens in that province and empowerment of projects and important issues of the community development continues to be fast.
But you cannot talk about the progress without seeing two popular cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Busega County, these are Doctor Titus Kamani and Doctor Raphael Chegeni.
At the moment, Doctor Kamani was the member of parliament for Busega and the minister of livestock and fisheries, while Doctor Chegeni is a member of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM.
The cause of the big political fight between those cadres of CCM are the results of the opinion polls that brought to Doctor Kamani to be appointed as the party's flag in the parliamentary race, in the year 2010.
Doctor Kamani got that appointment after winning Doctor Chegeni, who had been nominated for Busega member of parliament for a period of nine years that ended in the year 2009.
Reports indicate that Doctor Chegeni was not satisfied by the results of that election with the commitment of heart, a situation that started the step of building political tensions among them and Doctor Kamani.
Therefore, for now, it is not something to be afraid that Doctor Chegeni and Doctor Kamani are big political rivals inside CCM in Busega County.
The hostility started on the pace after Doctor Kamani emerged as the winner of Busega member of parliament through a total of a total of citizens' votes, that is where each one started itself and put strategies to build in politics in front of the citizens in that region.
An issue of honor is that the fight has continued to be productive to Busega residents, various social services are continuing to be improved because of the competition to look for political popularity.
Those leaders of CCM every one what happens in front of the citizens in that province that he is the head to enable their development.
While Doctor Chegeni says that he is the organizers of many development projects that are in that region, Doctor Kamani says that his end is the ones who has been able to make it successful.
The implementation of various social and economic projects including health, education, water, roads and electricity is still ongoing in Busega region.
There are projects of poultry farming, goats, chicken, fish and bees, also the agricultural projects of food production and business is continuing to be improved due to the political competition that is placed by those cadres of CCM.
Youth, women and elders have been encouraged to start their groups and use the opportunities available and to run the projects of our production so as to improve economically and life, Doctor Kamani and Doctor Chegeni every one for his position has been supporting the efforts of those groups, by giving them donations to those groups.
Symptoms show that the political competition will continue to put inspiration and enable the implementation of many more projects that will help to reduce poverty and improve the economy of Busega residents.
Doctor Chegeni believes that the residents of Busega can't understand its efforts in state and property to bring development before and after leaving the parliamentary position in that province.
Close to all the projects including education and water which is being implemented and opened in Busega County during this period, it was paid 13949 with the leadership of Doctor Kamani.
"I feared is a lesson to the current member of parliament of Busega County, Doctor Kamani. And the others that they were given power they don't know where the citizens who registered themselves in power."
On his part, Doctor Kamani says when he gets the consent of the citizens to lead the Busega region, social services were available at a low level, different from now, he says he has put a great importance of improving the actions.
"They have said, but Kamani is committing that I am a member of parliament for these actions, right now continuing to encourage and enable the implementation of big projects that will have great benefits to the citizens of Busega," says Doctor Kamani.
