
Aaron Nanyaro, the spread of the use of your security.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo, Bagamoyo.

It has been published in October 2016.

The Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF) has completed the commemoration of 52 years of the establishment of the army, by showing the exercise of the sector.
"Aaron Nanyaro," took place in Bagamoyo, Coast.

The incident that had an attraction of its kind was done recently in the village of Mpunga Relini, while they witness with President John Magufuli, the president of Zanzibar, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi, the Chief Secretary, Ambassador John Kijazi and the chief secretary general of Zanzibar, Doctor John Kijazi and the chief secretary general of Zanzibar, Doctor John Kijazi.
In that exercise of two weeks, the army explained the reality and how it can save the area that was abducted.
During the exercise, Major Patrick Somba was explaining the flow of events to President Magufuli and after the forces finishing the work of bringing up the area that was abducted by the Head of Defense, General, Davis Elisa said that he was proud to be the leader of that agency.
"I feel extremely honored by the leader of this instrument, because I have good officers who are committed so much, professionalism, patriotic and you are ready to protect Tanzanians and do so for the interests of their country, and even outside the country are proud of our reputation for discipline and our stability," said Mwamunyange.
Issango told President Magufuli that those military equipment are wealth of Tanzanians, has been bought by Tanzanians and all of them are run by Tanzanians with ethics and professionalism and discipline in their country.
In those exercise, the army used the love that he has called, then they have the ability to sit in the sea and leave that land, the aim is not known, a fast rate.
Speaking about the aim of the training and the exercise that included the use of land, water, land, land, and the National Housing Corporation (JKT), Mwamunyange said that it is strengthening the cooperation and performance of the squads, President Magufuli who urged the police force, he could not affect the crime after the completion of the exercise, he said he is faced with the ability of the army.
"Let me say the truth, I have launched him, there is no one who is able to serve me, we have a stable army I don't know it's safe and your Tanzanians are safe," said President Magufuli.
Apart from bringing up the army for a good work that is doing, he also promised to solve the various challenges facing the agency and said that the non-communicable diseases (OC) in all security and security agencies will be added.
