
Corruption you want to study in the Social Security Funds, 2012.

The parliament that ended in Dodoma recently has witnessed for permission to members of parliament by putting it on the government on the new law of the Social Security Funds, which will enable members to take advantage of the benefits when they left his retirement age of 55 years by retiring from voluntary and 60 years to leave.

Before that, a member was allowed to take his contributions and the one that he was contributed by the employer together with the interest, when he left work hard, set aside, sacked from work because these benefits were noticed if the benefits of not being employed.
That law did not support to the members of parliament only, but it has also been transferred to members of political parties in the country saying that it does not recognize the country's constitution and it encourages employees who leave or lack of employment.

They have been questioning, how will be a member who died before his retirement age, let it be able to take a habit, he can be able to sustain his life during the lack of another income?
See that law has an aim of observing the rights of workers for a long time so as to build big capital of the fund by preventing the benefits, and the big business people, politicians and investors for benefit.
Following that conflict, speaker Anne Makinda, finally he placed a lot of joy and agreed to be presented to the Marist bill of that law in the next parliament meeting.
What is supposed to accompany him here is that, members of parliament who are opposing that law are the ones who benefited from without reading?
For all that, Chrizostom Thadeo, and especially the members of that fund, they have every reason to ask ourselves why and with the aim of the repressive system was presented to parliament because it has resulted from the foundations of the Social Security which is leading and being identified.

I urge you to clear that earlier here, that, the step of preventing the benefits of the membership or to stop the workers has been taken so that this step has been taken so as to meet the Social Security Fund (Social Security Fund (Social Security Fund), the truth is that the insurance system did not from work.
The idea comes up so that this service has started praising money from bad investment and embezzlement, right that the only way is to stop those benefits so as to evade a shame and the violence from members and see their bags are believed to be bankrupt.
Social media or the benefits to workers?
By considering that various contracts that had already been approved by the World Health Organization (TNBC), and especially proposed the 67 and 67th minute, the concept of the community service can be known as required by the community through its government, it did not take legal action against them.
The services to those disasters include health and treatment to all, to compensate the income from problems such as disease (EFD), a death of families, family and clean themselves (dye), the death of the family's wife (FGM), and the increase in the family responsibilities.

For this reason, all the community development plans are started and supervised by the government through the parliamentary law, because it is responsible for its citizens they have a capacity to run life due to those disasters and others.
And as he was explained to parliament the Minister of Labor while presenting the law of the Workers Compensation Fund (NRF) in the year 2011, "the Social Security Fund (NRF) in the year 1995," the National Social Security Fund is supposed to expand the benefits at different times, since she was born until when he comes back. "
He said Mrs Asha said that plan will help the development of the nation but more will help their employees to them as a sign of development because it is an indication that (the local government) it cares for them and protect the nation and their employers have a debt for the whole period of their service "(National Parks.

Hayatou, even so, still you have already been affected by the appropriate way of the word "Social Security Fund," said Mrs Asha of Social Security "(U3) of 1949) that can be used in all African countries (calculated risks).
Permission is not given, but for the purpose of this article, it's good to agree with the foundation of Vladimir Putin to be a procedure of managing income (party) to be able to run life because of lack of employment, old disease, death, death, death, death and marriage.
Because one of the criteria for the Social Security Fund is the service in the whole community, our National Social Security Fund is not "National Social Security Fund is not" a full list of the community because it is with the only employees, while groups of farmers, breeders and others have been released outside the program.
In this way, our community service "is the one that was told by Ihenga town and the rules to the" Ambassador of Social Security and Social Services (Iiwa).
1962, United 5-6) of "to give cash money to the beneficiaries of a certain sector, only with the family, so as to cater for the disasters (they would have been special) under special conditions."
Normally, the community development plans are of two types of kind, it is the one that is known as "Landscrona" - a plan that continues to protect all people like the community without caring about the status, a person or without work in the community.
The plan of this kind used more in the countries that entertain the English language and Australia, and is being attacked by the Central government, is also known as "Social Security Fund, (William Boukadida, Miss Social Security and Allied Sciences, WHUSM. 13).
For the first time this program was implemented in Germany in Germany the year 1883 and caused many countries in Europe.
The second kind is "a system of contributing" which includes employees through membership ways to contribute to the fund's fund, this is also known in view.
"October, you are not known," and the contributions for an employee and the employer is not recognized as' salaries that are directed "(thoughtful narratives), to take a income position when he does not have the ability to work or get work.
Under the community insurance plan, a member cannot get the benefits until when he gets a disaster in order to make him have a capacity to work, including old when he gets to return.
But under the plan of contributing in October, you have been able to write a high court and lack of employment (center), a member seems to have a lot of benefits because the government reaches the benefits of lack of work (SMS) while waiting to get or solutions for other jobs.
Therefore, under this section and the others that were done we see first, the benefits of a result of lack of employment is been identified as part of the Social Security Fund.
It is difficult for the poor country like our country, where the average of living is 45 years since the young man will be forced to reach 55 years or 60 years of pension funds, while he would have died 10 years ago.
If it is true that the government has a good intention to prevent a lot of benefits, then you will be able to change the benefits of employment (in the picture) so that the employee gets work, to be paid the benefits until when they get another job, like in the use of the Social Security Fund.
Or if the government will be holding the position of that law, then at least a member can be allowed to take part of the money in his account while looking for work, and others should be allowed to save the level of life, business and other activities that will not be allowed to pay as old.
The state of our nation's economy is still needed to make sure that we fly the Social Security Fund. There is a great problem of lack of employment because it is a big challenge, there is a big problem of lack of money and to make the benefits of a member (second-shirt) and others.
All these things tell you that we join the headquarters and the only way is to go to the procedures, including running all two plans together with non-communicable diseases, (October, (October,), should give the benefits of a person who missed the work.
Investment does not care for corruption.

There are every sign of showing that our Social Security Fund has been tested for a reason to reduce the funds of the members, and now it has given this bad law to prevent members to be paid the benefits of money that it cannot be.
Normally, the funds of the Social Security Fund are supposed to be used through three main ways, one is to pay the second benefits, the cost of the administration and the third, putting you (right) and invest.
These are the last use, that is "invest," we have taken this bags to an extent of failing to provide better benefits to the members.
Investment of the funds of those funds all over the world depend on four foundations (SYDP) that is known and dowry, "the first foundation is" safety "(the picture), because the safety of money is made to be made.
To meet this foundation, TKU is insisting that investment on public economy and the main government by buying national documents (government BTC) so as to have a great importance of going back safe.

The second foundation is good income (Yellow F), because the investment is used to increase the fund's income through business and safe water so as to improve the benefits of a member.
The third foundation is a good state in the economy (without their concern), so as to have a lot of money to return.

We have written the condition of ethics, where in the one who is with it "he wants to prevent them even a little time of" who doesn't have faith, "they don't leave democracy when they have already started paying for the community service of employees who have also been seen as a prayer for chicken that does not want to get you."
And if he was asked, William Ole Sendeka, in his book, the Ambassador of Huria University.
"Conflicts in the Social Security Fund are not economic conflicts like many, we would like to believe but this is political conflicts, conflicts and conflicts between the social media and how the community is blocking each other."
It is an indication that when we go to each other, when we be able to put in many years of the pension funds, when they will be carrying the grave?

For us to have the Social Security Fund that cares for the concerned parties, who are the targeted themselves, the questions of Paul Fisher, in his book, "Social Security and Development Goals (now), has changed the field of violence and bad luck in the community.
