The bill of information has spoken.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

It has been released on 09 / 2016.

The bill of the law to control the registration of passengers has been passed through one statement by members of parliament from both sides, despite the presence of 20 amendments to the government and some of the members of parliament from all the two sides.

Those members of parliament raised the bill and claimed that it has come at the right time, especially because right now there are some people that do not have ethics and they should not affect land, property and compensation.
The bill will be responsible for the ordinary people, the climate, and you came out as it was noted by the deputy minister in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development, Angela Mabula, while answering the issues of parliament that contributed to the time of passing the bill.
He said if they are not yet confirmed, that board will be the agency for those who follow their performance in accordance with the law, as well as they affect the buildings, lack of land and property.
At the same time, the Minister of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development William Lukuvi answering a point, gave an explanation on the qualifications to be identified because it was one of the areas where the contributes to them and especially the ones that were prepared to have three years experience as required to work under the leadership of the person.
While clarifying he said, the bill will be allowed, in the district there will have three people together with one person who will be given a chance to be the prime minister and being called to become the appointed assistant.
Lukuvi explained that, the main sponsor of the appointed government will have the ability to approve the assessment documents within the district, he will be given a cap that is involved and said in the land department there are land officers, even if they are five in that district, there is a nominated member of parliament, that is still not allowed the documents and to be represented by commissioner.
He said that he is the one who will destroy the evaluation before going to the attorney general, even if you are many of the current experience, the evaluation of the whole country should make private individuals or governments, who is a must to confirm or to approve any evaluation of the whole country.
Lukuvi said that as a result of that environment, that is why we believe in line with the attorney general, because the ones that will go down in the northern region, the Southern Highlands, Tabora and Mwanza provinces, there are all reasons that had been taken to Dar es Salaam.
