Bishop Sedrick Ndonde, a prey in a group.
On the 20th of 20th, 2014.

I tell you about this article to congratulate all pastors and bishops under the leadership of Bishop Doctor Benson Bottling Company, for their action of moving to the Police Station, Karagwe and ensuring his colleague was left on bail.

I don't have the aim of supporting demonstrations or wanting to show when the pastor is on the law, not because our aim is to explain the lawyer and he is proud of the law and he is unable to make sure believers who used the service of the pastor.
It's a lot of time people are forced him on bail here in Tanzania, and many times it becomes a political reason or to limit each other and without considering it is the right of every citizen, maybe if the event was done to prevent the loopholes of bribery in all the two sides, will be heard.
But also we want to move forward the whole world that Bishop Doctor Merkel, has started doing! He has been a strong desire to intervene in a long time, now he has shown this one to intervene in a long time, because the government did not allow him to oppress people, it is a must for religious leaders to sit down.
It's a fox which does it mean to believe that he has the ability to deal with religious leaders who behind their days, all the believers who are ready to verify their faith and their primary rights including what is happening in East Africa, are leaders who were in power to recognize the contribution of these foreign faith in our African communities.
What is happening in the moment is to defend his faith in protecting and defending the life of the citizens of their country, therefore, if we want to have no wisdom in the whole issue of these foreign faith, we will make our nation in chaos of religious faith.
The day before yesterday, the Pastor of KKKT Karagwe, was put in the dock of breaking the businessman Joseph Glawogger who is owned by the prosecutor general, Major Juma Duni Haji to decide the letter of sponsors until the end of February 26th.
However, the Pastor who was released on bail was released on bail and other leaders of the church who were on the body of giving birth to their body and demonstrations to the Kayla Police Station, Karagwe, requesting the pastor to get a bond before February 26th.

Apart from Bishop Doctor Silencer Mapuranga, retired bishops who are Bishop Josephat Gwajima participated in the demonstrations and preparing a statement that they gave to the police commander of Kagera province.

Speaking to the press, Bishop of Bagdad said "corruption has risen up to a very difficult place and there are young people in our courts, they say that they are receiving bribes because they want to return the loans they were given by the government while reading.
Speaking about the source of that conflict, Bishop Bagashe said businessman Glawogger who had a land case and the church since the years of 1980, the court ordered the land to be touched until the case was finalized.
He continued to explain that last year the businessman entered the area and started putting up trees, but believers saw that situation they saw the pastor Jackson Lyanivana.
On the explanation of Bishop Doctor Bagashe, after that incident, the businessman went to open a case to be shot dead without the church to know how the day before yesterday, Pastor Jackson Lyanivana.
The whole issue is land problems, which have a chronic problem among them, but there are also symptoms of bribery that are seen in this issue because someone can be given bonds or here is that Bishop Doctor Merkel, has gotten her eyes without fear the results of the other pastors and bishops to inspect them so as to make sure that his son can intervene.
Because today, Bishop Doctor Bagashe, has led these protests of wanting the pastor to be given bonds is a must for instance the rights can't make corrections, they will enter the streets and even our religious leaders must make sure that they get rid of religion as a must to bring great disaster.
