
"Bribery have put the crops.
Minister Mwigulu Nchemba has said that there are crops that have not been affected by the board and they have no complaints.
Sharon SCE will not recognize the Citizen Who Lives Matandiko and Yuksekdag.
Dodoma.
Nchemba said that yesterday while answering the issues of various parliamentarians that contributed to the budget of his ministry for the financial year 2016 / 17.
"There is a lot of board up to now on the agricultural produce, I don't take advantage of names until now because of only one reason and those of the board know I want to be satisfied with the presence of those board," said Nchemba.
He urged the ones that are in those board to save and be two goals that are of the board of the mixture and business board.
He said there are crops that have not been discovered, the board does not have complaints on researching, theft, they are exploited or any debts of loans and use well including rice.
He said that it is their last opportunity and that the government cannot have an institution that is used as required to sucking citizens on the fishing licenses and other taxes of the crops, Mwigulu said they had reduced all areas of violating the licenses and all crops.
"We are looking at now, we have already worked a decision as required by the ministry in all areas on Wednesday, we are doing communication with the government towards the budgets of the budget so as to see that what are we stopped," said Nchemba.
He said that it's true that the fishermen have been sitting on a lot of licenses and other things that he had already received and the aim is to ensure they are wanted.
Some of the members of parliament while contributing to the speech, they wanted the government to look at the procedure that wants the fishermen to get licenses in every council that they do.
The operation involving the attorney general, George Masaju has said the commission that was formed by the president to investigate the operation, being required to take its report to the president and not to parliament.
"The commission has already completed his work and confirmed by President Doctor Magufuli and the law gives the authority if the report should be open for the public or not," he said.
He said what he has done is to give instructions to the ministry, work and urged parliamentarians to release the government to implement the recommendations of that commission.
