
Majaliwa wanted the teachers to be demolished quickly.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

I was published today 27th September 2016.

The Prime Minister, Kassim Majaliwa has given one week to the regional education officer of Pwani province to take the teachers of form five and six studies in Rufiji district, while explaining his disappointment with the shortage of teachers in some of the areas though others in their disposal.

That step has come after the member of parliament for Rufiji, Mohammed Mchallo told the prime minister that the district has form five and six schools but they have no teachers.
While giving those instructions yesterday it will bring back to Rufiji district for his work tour, the prime minister wanted the Coast Education Officer to provide the teachers in Kibaha and bringing together the teachers.
We cannot be able to have schools that do not have teachers, I have heard this one when they teach them is the head of schools and only one teachers, while in Kibaha, there are teachers for the teachers, now do work on 4th October and make sure the teachers have arrived in Rufiji, "said the Prime Minister.
Speaking about the issue of shortage of public servants in various sectors, the Prime Minister said that after the verification of the ghost workers was completed, the government will look at areas with shortage and thus announcing employment.
"Right now the government has completed issues of verification of servants, when they completed and know the number of servants and areas with shortage we will start again to employ, we get to pave way for this work," said Majaliwa.
Regarding the conflicts between farmers and pastoralists, the prime minister said the executives of the council and villages are supposed to set aside areas of farmers and farmers and urged the livestock to be included in areas that have not been allowed.
He said the chairpersons of the villages are supposed to supervise its implementation in the plan of better use of land and that it is increasing the big number of livestock to enter into the village more than that which he will be avoided, including being sacked from work and other legal action.
We cannot continue having servants that do not have discipline, all those who will help in livestock more than the ability of the village to be expelled and taken action, but the farmers are banned from livestock in the produce of farmers, "said the Prime Minister.
Regarding the construction of tarmac roads going to the headquarters of Rufiji district, Matopeni Ward, the Prime Minister promised to take the request and said the next budget will be set aside for the purpose of making preparations to mention the government to see the cost of construction.
Speaking about the making of desks, the Prime Minister said that by October 30 this year, every district in the country is supposed to complete the manufacturing of those desks in the school.
In addition, he said there are many projects that are run for private interests including the reserve area of Rufiji, Rukwa Province, which have noted that there was a huge conflict, therefore they have taken a team of experts to verify those who play before being taken against them.
