Baragumu.'
Jide 24, 2013.

In addition to the private efforts of President Jakaya Kikwete, called on both sides that are concerned to end the conflicts of some of the workers of the international film company of Baray Gold Mine (BGM), but there is still a mistake about the fate of those conflicts.
In that conflicts, there is a group of's employees of Baray to fight for their benefits after being sacked from that company, and there is also a group that can be able to get treatment after suffering from a bomb attack and claimed that they have lost by their employer.
News that was found in Dar es Salaam city and from the gold mine in Shinyanga province, has revealed that approximately 75 workers were sacked from Baray's leadership in the year 2007 after the misunderstanding between those workers and the employer is said that those workers were sacked from work after being alleged to be able to be given more interests.
In addition, it has been explained that approximately 60 million workers of Baray, some of at work still have others being among the those who were sacked, for a long time they have been getting treatment in different hospitals in the city of Dar es Salaam, while they were planned for sleep at one hotel in the northern region.
All the two groups have been in the conflict by their employer for a long time now, while the authorities involved, including Barkley scored, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Ministry of Labor and Employment, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (Tamisemi) continuing to inform the ball.
Already some of the workers of Barsheba I have been able to fight for their copyrights are allocated to court, to the employer, the current report shows that the referral hospital and those workers are claiming their rights but they are still continuing to be heard.
Investigation that was done by Good Citizen for several weeks now, has revealed that February 27 this year, President Jakaya Kikwete met with all the stakeholders who are involved with that conflict and instructed them to ensure they are ending in accordance with the employment laws and especially of that restaurant.
However, together with the sitting claimed to give instructions to the stakeholders and those authorities, including testing their employees who are facing various diseases that are in the city of Dar es Salaam, but up to now, there is no need even one that was done, a situation that endangers the life of those patients.
In the incident, April 14, Wash your password of Fransico Kimanumanu members (264 / 08 / 62) to remind of, together with other things, the implementation of a health test at their employees of Baray.
According to the decision of President Jakaya Kikwete and leaders of political parties on 27th / 2 / 2013, concerning the workers of Baragumu.'
"After the session with the employer Baray Gold on 4 / 4 / 2013, the employer said that because he had banned the medical equipment, it's good to tell ourselves about what he has paid the costs when we get to you, a step that the party has reached in addressing this."
Symptoms of that letter congratulating the Secretary General of Tamfi, signed by his chief executive secretary, Doctor Mengi, Kayumba, had been taken to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Labor and Employment.
However, the Secretary General of Tamfi, Hassan Ameir, when he was asked about the implementation of what is in that letter addressing at the State House under President Kikwete, "said Mrs Asha" who has heard anything because this case is in court, let's wait, to be released in doubt. "
On his part, the Chief Executive Officer Florian Philippot has said when he was asked about the implementation of the resolutions reached in the State House, together with the results of his letter by Tamfi, we don't have the right to write anything related to the workers of that restaurant, and it is a ban on how to write anything related to the staff of bananas, let me. "
