Recently, the constitution of the constitution is being left vacant by bottles?
Autoworks and 21, 2014 by Raia Mwema, a new constitution.

Now there is no doubt that the big number of democracy will not have faith in the parliament of the constitution, that is continuing with his session in Dodoma town, and would like to be taught.
But also there is no doubt that the parliament had already been called despite many citizens wanting those issues that we are told (and the State House), the attorney general (the government) is that the Marusu.
"I have told President Kikwete that he does not have the authority to stop, he does not have the authority to hold that authority because the law did not give those authorities," that is the attorney general of the government, Judge Frederick Werema, as he told the journalists last week.
Judge Werema, was just associated with what was explained by the Director of Communication of the State House in his report to the media that the law does not allow President Magufuli to break the constitution of the constitution.
I think in the beginning of that, I have not been read in details by that law, and I don't have enough professionalism of legal issues to be good.
But my answer is that, even so, it is that if the intention to stop or leave the parliament we have already been there, the way that was found by Bob Marley when singing after where there is a will there is a way.
Therefore, it's my view that Mrisho Kikwete and her to me are just behind that law (which we have already said, the first to be bad and no one who cared about the parliament.
I am saying that because there is no law in the world that you will not play, then you will not allow him again! Because the law of the Marsa of Constitution is, and it is like the intention or intention of doing that would have been there.
But the leaders, because now they have recognized that they have recognized that the parliament can be taken to them, they are using the excuse of that law to make us believe that they are not able to stop the parliament.
If you want to make us believe that the constitution of the constitution is like it's not in the area of the constitution, that is if you set aside, you cannot cater for him by its bottles if I think these institutions are killing our ability to thinking.
The attorney general says that the law of Marsa of Constitution does not allow President Kikwete that beating them or postponed that parliament that it is true, but the law cannot be satisfied and give the president the authority so that he could destroy the parliament so that he can destroy the constitution that we want?
It should be dealt with under an emergency certificate, and you were prepared quickly to convene the session of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania so as to change that law so that our president can be the honor to the parliament or even stop completely.
I see it is not difficult for a long time to complete that process, and or its cost is not great and especially considering that all the members of parliament of the United Republic are the delegates of the Parliament of the United Republic, and already all of them are now in Dodoma at the constitutional session.
But because the leaders don't want to be stopped, and they are also supposed to agree with the requirements of UKAWA (and for sure of many citizens), they don't want to start the constitutional process of reviewing the law.
This will be said, they are not involved in accidents or not using billions of cash, the taxpayer identification of this country is used to pay members of that parliament for all the 60 days that they will go in Dodoma.
In addition, all of us are used while all of us know that the constitution that will be available is derived from a discussion of one side (CCM) cannot succeed, because any person who does not identify, be the new constitution of approximately 50 million!
I went back to what that Werema, he told the journalists that he told President Kikwete that he does not have the authority to hold that parliament and asked him several questions.
So, Werema, asked himself to inform President Kikwete that she's not involved in that parliament because he does not have the authority or President Kikwete called him and requested him to request his advice if he can hold that parliament.
If the second is correct, do we believe that President Kikwete had intentions and plans to break the parliament after many citizens complained but he was unable to do that because the law does not allow him?
