England now as Tanganyika.
October 5th, 2014.

Lack of lack of political issues have written about their analysis about the referendum polls of Scotland, England and many have condemned the political situation of England and the United Republic of Tanzania and the others wanting the opportunity they were given to taxes and also to be released in the country.
However, some of the analysis, do not know whether you are benefiting from Tanganyika and therefore they want Tanganyika to be given a chance to decide whether to protect the coalition. Some of them want to continue with its current union and Tanzania mainland.
A huge discussion about the union in Tanzania is very far from all levels, different from the discussion that is in England for the great debate here in Tanzania is the structure of the union, or one government, tribe or third.
In England, before the opinion polls, the debate was like a nation of taxes to continue being inside the union or no the United Kingdom is made up with three nations from the United Kingdom (United Kingdom); therefore, the opinion polls come from the United Republic of England (United States).
The results of the opinion polls now have attained the British debate on the Tanzanian standards, the United Republic of England has begun to take a very big debate about raising the feelings of patriotism in English, different from Tanzania where many senior leaders of the United Republic of United Republic of the United Kingdom is expected to open a debate of the England position in giving out power from within and later Wales and Ireland.
While addressing his country a few hours after the opinion polls, the Prime Minister said that the issue of more authority to be taxed is supposed to be done in the England Parliament and that deals with members of parliament from England.
When I heard the Prime Minister Cameron, speaking so, I believe that if I saw John Ndugai, who is the deputy speaker of parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Ndugai is a supporter of that even if we were affected by one parliament of the union, then members of parliament from Zanzibar should be allowed to vote on Tanganyika matters, this issue has caused a big conflict to the parliamentary committee of the Constitution (SCA) that is going in Dodoma city right now.
Now England has discussing such as Tanganyika and that how can they have no parliament?
England has set aside 84 percent of all the British people and which is a big area than other nations that make the union be worried about the great state of issues of issues is that if England will be sustainable.
This is the opinion polls that you want to have three governments here in Tanzania too.
Cameron will have to do a tour in Tanzania, I will partner with his fellow President Jakaya Kikwete, maybe he will be able to learn Doctor Kikwete who will learn from Cameron to follow the opinion polls of all the two sides of the union and not in Zanzibar alone, in America, it will start to take them.
England has a big challenge of political parties, therefore the political parties produce their interest 'to protect their political interests, this is also a lot of work, some of the members of parliament who form the group of UKAWA which also attacked the commission and its members to an extent, but why the budget of the commission has a chance to prevent AIDS. "
This resulted from the reasons that these members of parliament were worried that the report of the commission and the draft constitution will partner with the CCM's stand after the draft from the commission and the ones who defend the commission because the interests have been touched.
