
The women league in November.

It has been written by Raqqa, Pallidum.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

The Tanzania Women's League is expected to start on November first, and is expected to involve 12 teams that will fall into two groups.
Previously, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has organized that league to start on October 5th but now it has extended the front until next month.

Speaking to journalists, the TFF information officer, Alfred Lucas, said the league's development committee and the federation has said that the league will involve 12 teams that will play at home and away matches and later the third team will end up the league at the Chamazi Stadium.
"Teams divided into two groups with six teams and will be played at home and away matches and later three teams have been involved in the final stages of search for the specialist, which will be played in one station which is at the Chamazi Stadium," he said.
He also said that the club had been informed that the end of the registration was yesterday, thus the government had been directed to consider the number of players who have been registered.
"Together with being 12 teams that are expected to participate in that league up to October 5.
2016, the only six teams been completed the registration, which is affecting the headquarters of Dodoma, Mlandizi District, Coast, Majengo Ward, Singida Town, Marusu.
Lucas said that the club has no reason to announce the type of color to the jerseys which will enable them to travel and go down in home and away matches and will be able to travel and pest for both teams so as to avoid the players who will be called for the national team (Twiga Stars).
The provinces in the provinces have been directed to help the team in their budget because the funds are coming, will not be treated together with preparations for sports as preparing the stadium but referees will be donated by TFF.
Lucas said there will be no gift of more than a medal for the team participating, therefore there will be no gift for a good player, the best scorer, a good goalkeeper, although there will be a panel of electing him.
On October 8, it will be a day of receiving registration forms during October 10, the names of registration will be announced as the club will be used through the identity card and October 11-12, it's time for the club to bring restrictions that will be heard on October 15.
