
The journey of Gor Mahia from CAF is in danger of having 3077 shillings.
By Thomas V.
Maybe the champions of soccer in the country Gor Mahia will not participate in the African Champions League (CAF next season due to a long-term service.
Khajida Kopa, it needs a budget of more than 30 million shillings to prepare for competition next season where it will be participating in the match as well as the league as well as top 8.
Gor Mahia is continuing through a long period of financial since his sponsor of the award that was to pay 24 million shillings for the year stopping the contract with them early this year.
After getting in the award, Gor Mahia were depending on the money that they had collected from the sales of tickets as well as donations from his fans but currently, things have continued to stop after the next season.
Despite President Uhuru Kenyatta promised to help them to look for another sponsor of that team when they visited several weeks ago, then it hasn't been presented with them.
According to his general secretary Chris Brown has said that there is big enthusiasm that they will be able to attend the campaign in the next season if they will not succeed to get another sponsor early.
"Yes, we need sure to inform us, but I see you were unable to participate in the champion club next season and to also give a good competition in the league, we have been successful and these things are not good for now," Odax said.
We need more than 30 million shillings for the purpose of registering new players and also in participating in the first round of the champion club. It is not only because we are following a good amount of money in the league but currently we have no amount of money, "he added.
That situation has enabled players to leave as it is expected to participate in the registration of new players.
Already there has been able to register two players that had been sent by Geoffrey Kataka and Charles Otolo, who had joined Preston Rangers who had gone into the bridge.
