
How the farmers have witnessed.
Autoworks and 25, 2016 by Felix Mwakyembe.

In two parts of the previous years, we were talking about the borders of Kapunga Village, Mbarali District, today our reporter Felix Mwakyembe is continuing with a series of articles for the conflict by checking the way the bad heart system works inside the community that follows the politics of socialism and self-reliance.

The rice farmers of Somanga area in Kapunga Village, now have found itself being sold at the same way with an investor through the film system that Diamond has been known.

The reports from some of the farmers show that there are two types of contracts that they had been given to farmers get to take care of the farm, one is very different from the real situation where you meet and it's not in accordance with the procedure where his contract is in accordance to the procedure.

However, some of the disabled farmers on the farm, explained that the investor has made another procedure that has caused the farmer to rise up to a large area by using a contract with an agreement of being involved in accordance with the constitution, themselves use the English word.

Mke Mwema should be explained that the procedure of partnership between a farmer that is looking for a plot and the investor is the ones with difficult conditions to benefit more, an investor and warned the farmer.

"This is true, if you are not open, it does not be open, it's a great secret," says a farmer who is back on the farm last season and who has apologized to the name for his security.

More farmers are said.

News sources among those farmers have noted that in the last season of 2015 / 2016, there are one of the ones that are required to cooperate with the investor to be sold at 7 million shillings.

In that system, the investor is the one with the responsibility to grow and pass after the farmer is forced to restore those costs, payments which usually be made in the produce.

The investor also gives the seedlings and those services are put into the cost of the farmer at the cost of costs that have been planned for the investor.

"We have put the invention of all the explosions inside you and everyone will be put in books as the previous payments and all the costs will be paid by foreign farmer in the income," explains the part of the contract, the season of the year 2012.

According to the contract of the season 2012, the farmer is supposed to produce 65 tons of every corner, if the farmer will get 39 tons of one acre of six hectares, therefore the farmer will get 39 tons of one acre of six hectares, therefore the farmer will get 39 tons of one acre of six hectares.

However, the rice level which the farmer provides a cost of costs that is not open, there are those who pay 24 tons of rice bran in each one and there are some who wanted 22 tons by touching the plot.

It is reported that, the use of the good season and for the farm that is served well by hundred percent, are usually out of 40 tons and 50 tons by touching the plot, again in a good season and at least 90 percent.

40 tons is same as the cost of 400 kilograms of 100 kilograms of each one, whereby on the scandal of an investor to take approximately 5 tons, it means that they will take 2,300 tons in each bus and the farmer can be exploited in each other, something that is explained to be exploited in a high level.

In addition to an investor to make sure that, if a problem will receive the poor and the farmer to get a total of TZS 22m 5 or 24 that will enable you, then the farmer can be transferred to another season for agriculture.

"A loss does not make an investor and if the virus will not be completed, it's a debt, he is alleged to claim," says a youth who is in charge of touching the plot for a foreign farmer.

The substitute referee of Kapunga Village, James Maliki was not ready to talk about the issue of leases of leases of crude farmers in the country and to question the reasons for the writer to follow the contracts of switching off the plot on the farm, things that he said are with the writer of this news.

The second procedure of hydroelectric power, a farmer created 35 million shillings by touching the one goal and it was not tough and conditions of share experiences on the system, the farmer will not pay for the money they have had an investor.

However, there is one thing that affects the farmer, where in addition to planting trees at the procedure, he will be forced to get to them in the district procedure as well as an investor.

There are some who won't take over two hundred thousand shillings in the system of 35 million shillings by touching the plot, but they were forced to pick up other four explosions which are partnering with the investor.

Those farmers get clear that in the two systems of leases, an investor is expected to continue more in collaboration but the farmer is faced with them when he gets (5 million shillings by touching the plot which is in a trap.

"If you're looking for a fine of 35 million shillings, we must take these percent of the disease which he shared with, takes 24 percent of the one that was touched," says one of the supervisors of the vehicle that was recorded.

Farmers and poverty.

Kapunga Village and Chimala, today are very different from those of the year 2006, before being sold to that farm, the farmers of today have gotten tired, agriculture for rice has remained as a lot of money.

Some of the supervisors of the farms for physically challenged people, have reached an opportunity to make sure that they don't sell themselves again, that was their main pillar for approximately ten years ago, they are saying that the farm is owned by lack of money from outside their villages.

"At the moment the farm is owned by the rich from outside, that is the ability to rise up and use the hosts, Mbarali economy has reduced," says a resident of Kapunga, Hezron.

However, those citizens have been proud to fear, they fear about what is happening so as to prevent big farmers related to stem cells in the farm.

I'll talk about the truth that was done by the rich farmers, "says another person asking for not being mentioned in the newspaper.

Low-scale farmers at the farm as well as the villagers of Kapunga, there are believers who believe in some of their colleagues, the traitors for taking each other, they discussed with the investor and those fears from the incident that occurred in the past.

