
Coach Jose Yanga played with training with goals of 25th October.

The coach of Yanga, Ishaq Khalid, has said that he told his youths to play by using a lot of power in the day before yesterday against the quarter-finals of the East African Champions League to contest for the Kagame Cup.
He said that he gave those instructions because he knew that they will have another difficult match after one day in the finals.
Speaking after the quarter-finals against the Zanzibar Training Authority the day before yesterday, Tom said that his youth have played for following his instructions of playing for-crimes.
However, she is happy to get to his goalkeeper number one, MONDE is not in that game because he does not affect his team.
"Players are using much because there are very close back, there is no way to continue dealing with this situation," he said.
In addition, Tom said that he didn't like to meet again with APR in the semi-finals because he has been made with them in his group, C more than expected the new challenge from URA of Uganda.
"But as we are in the competition, we will face any team.
I urge them to respect APR, it is a good team and we did not sell it easily in the first match, it will be a very difficult game, "said Tom.
Yanga succeeded in Tuesday to enter the semi-finals of the Kagame Cup, after scoring 1-3 against 5-3, following a 1-1 draw in 90 minutes in the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam.
The representatives of Zanzibar training were the first to get a goal scored by Ali Othman Kasanga, in the 34 minute, when he scored every corner of Juma Othman Mwaluka, and Yanga carried out in the 46 minute, the scorer and Bahama Spencer also.
Yanga will now will battle against APR of Rwanda, which is in the first semi-finals, had URA of Uganda by scoring 2-1 goals, his goals were scored by Jean Marie Stopes in the 90th minute, was scored by Robert Sussex at the 57 minute.
Yanga's keeper who got injured in the 67th minute was scored for three minutes, before being released outside the 72 minutes, his position was taken by Ally Mustapha Barthez and Said Mussa Shaaban and the training was unable to join Yanga when he went to Yanga victory.
The training star, Juma Othman Mwaluka has lost consciousness and leaving his fellow players and fans, he was given out because he could not be given because he could not continue with the game.
