The name of Ukawa.
Brightiles 20, 2015.

Job Koyi (55), has been selected to be the speaker of parliament of the United Republic of the United Republic with special criteria under the blood of change, citizens, Mwema, has been told.
Apart from the pressure to change, BBC Mwema should also be criticized for its head competitors, Samuel Sitta and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, among the list of three names adopted at the executive committee of the Revolutionary Party (CCM).
Ndugai could have a difficult time to win as Sitta and Nchimbi would have been met with him in the executive committee.
The executive committee of CCM was the responsibility to filter names and to select three delegates that were taken to CCM members and be voted for on Tuesday this week, where President Ndugai emerged the winner by others in the third list of Doctor Tulia Ackson, and Abdullah Mwinyi.
The criteria brought down.
First, Good Citizen, has been directed to ensure the performance of Ndugai in the position he did in the parliament, from the deputy chairperson of parliament on the ninth parliament and the deputy speaker of parliament in the ninth parliament and the deputy speaker of parliament in the ninth parliament and the deputy speaker of parliament for the previous newspaper said that he was not a person to increase the shoulder, "he is not a person to increase the truth.
Although the reason is said that in that area, Sitta was in front of Ndugai, but he saw the pressure to change that was made by President Doctor John Magufuli during the general election campaign of this year.
Sitta has been named as a result of climate change from the public, due to several reasons including its appearance inside the government where sitting for more than 40 years and therefore he has also been campaigning for the slogan of "speed and standards."
Sitta was born on December 18th, 1942, who was the fifth speaker of parliament got the authority on December 26th to July 16, in the year 2005 to July 16, in 2010, he was held by Pius Msekwa.
Between the positions he won in the government apart from the deputy minister and a minister for several years, together with the executive director of Tanzania Investment Center (TIC), in 2005 to 2005, the parliamentary journey started since 1995 and later in 2005.
Another second reason for Ndugai, against those fellow colleagues was expected to give a great competition if they could have risen from a tough stand like CCM and the government, in another way it was not satisfied that the Parliament that happened in the Court of United Republic of Tanzania, Augustino Ramadhani said he was surprised the record that the parliament passed on the courts, under Sitta.
Ndugai has not in the competition and even in the special constitutional parliament (SCA), Ndugai, as he joined his party for running the proposed constitution, in collaboration with local authorities, by partnering with the opposition authorities in BMK able to boycott the parliament.
The third criterion is the age of Ndugai, Sitta is very great to Ndugai while on the age of approximately 73 years, this situation has reduced in the criterion of making a wall to the groups of changes in the country, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi who was born on December 24th, in 1971.
