Continue in Europe.
Using abusive language.
He is the district commissioner of Magomeni and David Ntibenda, who is the head of Karatu district, Kigoma province, where these district commissioners are explaining how their districts are not knowing how their efforts to bring change in rural areas, the late God bless the pitch and make corrections on their daily lives.
Why is it a normal citizen.
When you look and be able to promote agriculture in success or livestock has a meaning that even the leaders that we have in different areas have the remains.
He knows different plans of development.
I have the meaning that if they are using various things, the government we will help them live in one side with the government so as to ensure that we give him a lot of good performance and the father also did a lot of work hard to see themselves living in these groups.
How is when you are.
There should be a school going to when they sell it.
They live in groups that are seen in the farm.
After their one year.
Who have graduated in the field of Dar es Salaam, the ones that were living more than two hundred shillings.
Then we were that one we had to face.
Days that are supposed to be handed over is the questions they made.
Almighty God rest the food organized when drinks and songs play and go to the farms you feel that they are not accepted by the Ambassador Seif saying that it is a very good project for citizens to help people with low income.
For the first time I went to, I found a place there are people who joined groups.
I would say SACCOs because of a Swahili because many people are self-employed and I request.
And a very big farms of banana?
Now, it is to be on this matter to see what they use what made it was to make sure that you sell the citizens in the villages.
And I don't know what you make it better that I can be able to pray for Mbowe, we will know what?
Until I issued one of the words of bananas, I took it to my home early, they have reached a whole week, it has a person who gets a lot of time for a period of seven days because it is a bunch of sin.
The late Mchwaa will be given out by his boss, it will be a cow even to investigate because they have been a savior to the citizens in Karatu town because these groups that we have been employed and given training that they have been employed.
