It has been a rash on the field of Dar es Salaam, when I am talking about the system of parties to prepare candidates like the youth to prepare themselves in leadership positions but there were examples of events that people feel.
Maybe there is a time they usually do.
To say that there is a youth there should be his music inside?
I was trying to look for some of the examples here in the world.
Two this year, earlier this year in Kenya, during the opposition party, we did not want this time to start the party but even when we're going to contest, but we should remember them so that we can be able to vie for the party but we're continuing to contest for so I should start with the child.
Normally, it has given an example.
Until it was.
Why is the teachers.
He was forced to sleep at what I said, if you want to be a leader, it's just a lawyer and she joins you will bring him.
It is not in the burial, he is not yet known.
It is unacceptable, and you can try that he was payments.
Why do you come to have their honor and you are unable to do because there have been infected with bad luck.
Now it is a must that you get products on you will be able to sign a lesson because today they would have been the right to have.
Here we were with that, but the secretary to listen to what they have said do not know the Almighty God?
I love this word.
Today in town, the spokesperson of the revolutionary party themselves, they are saying that they have been brought so as to at least they have managed to pose with while the guest of honor the word that he did, I have seen him to make sure they give a great opportunity.
I am saying it is a big way to you him and it has them him and his preparations have raised me when she was married, she had been taken to him when he was born with me when I met me where there will be poverty.
I am surprised today people should talk about.
Because it is not good luck in our country if they recover.
There is a problem?
While the voice has been able to build in the session if they meet so that God wants to join David America.
Outside the picture.
Now is being transported.
That real time if you get in the main bus of the nation, you know that there is one of you, it gives you and I walk on Monday his children and every province that are going to sell the child.
You are seen for you and the citizens in general so many.
The late God has said that Nape has paid himself and yet he would like he wants.
The preparations have you know for this sister today?
He was forced to have been questioned, he was removed from a union, he will be taken to America to go to go.
It is looking for someone I don't know the ball but they showed that it has taken place yesterday, he has said that here is true that here seems to have discipline and you want the youth with discipline and you want the youth to meet those youths when they brought together youths when they went to travel inside.
The late?
The truth is that you're very disturbing.
Any political party has its own procedures in addition to work and procedures have been put in accordance with the constitution and he didn't expect it.
The company has been successful to eradicate football.
Live is a very young man used to be?
I will see.
