
Unyago.
There are two that concern girls and Unyago, in several steps, as a lot, he allowed me, to witness the period they want to get married.
Unyago, despite being done in the coastal region of East Africa and involved more involved in the area, there are also areas of the continent which do the culture again for the importance of only.
Some of the regions where his race are doing an issue because the only importance is together with Kigoma, Tabora, Ruvuma and Mwanza where this is due to the existence of culture that arise from the Coastal Region.
According to the most popular news reporter in Dar es Salaam, Zena Athumani, the aim of the traditional child is to build a girl or a woman to live in the community without informing the people that had gone into the community without a result of some such as usual.
He says another aim is to build honor in the marriage and a good relationship between the daughter and the family when they were made for wedding.
Despite the good intention in Manyara Province or the old elders of the country to come up with the idea, which in accordance to Zena Chande. the person who came through a modem.
Because it has changed from the coming of science and technology and removing the secret of the subject, doughing and bake.
The worst is that if it deserves, it has changed the meaning and bringing opinions that make the culture be seen as a good intention instead of a good intention earlier.
The misleading reports are in something that is called or they do not pass through, it involves itself from section of the woman to have three awards because the real meaning of the word is called on Unyago this here.
Popularly known as' Hindu 'says it is not good to talk about internal affairs, but from the availability of this problem, he has no need to explain the real meaning of the word.
Hindu religion who is also small pieces of the white house, stem cells, broadcaster and actress, says that the three awards will have been changed from teachings of internal auditors.
He says that this is very important that they are given them to pray together and be taught how other things are told how to maintain their houses / marriage.
He is explaining that yes, it was given a three major word that has brought controversy.
When he was told the three awards, you will use the farm that you have not been allowed, with Ditopile, and stop stuttering according to the area, they have used that word.
He says that the meaning of this words which a thing is translated in is to look for money that is using him to put it.
"For example, a wife has been forced to make sure that you are able to purchase the water that is inside an emergency, so when they can be obtained or end inside, they get difficulty, because the responsibility of a woman was explained is to give her husband," he says.
He is saying that there is an use by getting a lesson so that they used them once for food, "you missed the rice of rice, and issues that he gave out, so that there is no rice, not to kill again, instead of switching off them.
Therefore, at least, it was the real meaning that when he is made of doing things while having a voter, this is expected to be sold to be a lot of men who are accusing her, "says by deception.
He is saying that a woman / a girl who passed on Unyago, is supposed to do a lot of honor, to carry out a lot of words, doughing and asking questions, to talk about the procedures, to choose and be silent.
He explains that they are not like many of them, those are those who get married, together with difficulty of their bodies, they have answers of the questions that they do and not knowing the judgment.
Miss Hindu insists that there is a importance and there is an issue that is looking for money and it's not wrong, "if there are those who make sure, otherwise they have their reasons, but it is not true that Unyago was launched for things.
