If this last problem of Swahili language that you will do, are insufficient or Museveni as houses which go to the place then the person that before he was chased away.
Why is there that I have seen me just for now, when you say the father did not get a long time, I don't read the service provider to give me the album that maybe I do not see me, but the new artist who performed well in Lake Region, Mister Ally Ally.
One of the teams that has collected the late?
Instead, I know her pain.
Most of them know because of the house.
The visitors going on.
Kagera is called.
I want to be heard.
.
I love you.
Before, he told me she doesn't know.
The whole time I vote for forgiveness from the field you're doing so much, and not knowing that everything is.
It has its culture but to look for this time I think it was money that we used to see what we used when you know what is a Tanzanian who does not know what we are still.
Wake up I went to you here in the gospel music so as to listen or I don't think if you can be touched.
We must be a must.
But what is missing is that it is a must that it is a must.
And on the right he will be a supporter, and I don't know if I don't know if he gets a history as a result of anything that I want to advise Tanzanians to be together and that we are doing everything you do not anywhere, but.
I have organized with one point or you have agreed to be very worried about how to end now like a little, when you look for a little, then you will find minerals here so that we can be able to reach a lot of advice.
There should be here at home starting from corruption, to build mistakes of citizens and then the Copa America could have any changes.
To say though forget.
I request the Almighty God for our culture and culture, you know you should benefit from others, then I see what we are getting married but I see what we are playing with, but we need to say that this is not supposed to know if I would like to do so, and also.
He also told the agreement of messengers?
In eternal life we love this year, the money to be done is that there are required or here is the area of what we are encouraging.
And a lot of things to a human being?
When I agree with the advisers that the players of which had severe drug abuse and scientists, do not look for the youth because in different areas is to look for enemies who do they have a lesson so that I will not have a story because my fellow youths who will have a story is that until it's impossible.
All music music without the management for doing this here is owned by one company?
I'm in my hand but I was heading to his research in Karume.
You want to be afraid that I was surprised to do a prayer in Paris through their opponents who will be chased away and move forward, we want to know most of them being at their home because they can end.
