
The government should stop stuttering on iTunes.

While the cotton price in the world market continues to complete, the government has not accepted or refused a request to the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCA) of wanting to intervene in order to save the ship in order to save their product in the country.
Recently, TCLurged the government to make all the cotton industries that was affected by the reserve until the price will increase in the world or the cotton industries and they sell it at a current price in the world market by carrying a loss of losses.
The cotton price in the world market has dropped from 70 million American dollars to pounds (Pukey), one of the cotton 7 to reach 40 billion shillings to the day before yesterday.
According to the director general of the Pamba board in the country, Doctor Joe Kabudi, up to December last year, more than 1608 students were not registered to be transported due to the collapsed building in the world market.
Minister of Agriculture Food, Stephen Wassira has admitted receiving those recommendations from CC up to now, but the government has not yet confirmed the decision on those applications.
Speaking on the phone at the end of the week, Minister Wassira said that the issue is big thus it's not an issue of talking about road.
I'm in the way to Dodoma on the cotton issues are heavy, I cannot talk with the road, "said Minister Wassira when he was asked to participate in helping that product.
However, when he was asked about the recommendations of TCA said, "it is true that you have brought up and I saw them, but the government has not given a decision when we are still in the process because it is a big issue."

One of the Pamba board who did not want his name to be remembered, he has said that the issue is difficult because there are other businesses that have also been affected by the growth of the economy and the money in the world.
"This issue is very difficult, there is a lot of time, but because I am not the government's spokesperson, I cannot talk about that, but not the cotton only has been affected.
Even other business produce has reduced, therefore the problem is big, "he said.
A series of financial that led the world now may be Ukawa and bad effects to the cotton industries in the country if the government and other stakeholders will not take an important step and at the right time.
Now the price of that business market especially in the lake region has dropped from the world market by more than 20 percent between January, 2008 and February this year.

As a result of a fast rate in that price, both buyers have been unable to have the transport outside by reducing the huge loss they got.
The chairman of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TELC), Lazaro Nduta, says that the effects of one of the collapsed building at the cotton price in the world market is the drop in production of that product from next season.
He says that due to both buyers to be unable to sell the cotton, they won't buy this season, then it will cost them and increase.
There is a result of both buyers from the fact that apart from getting losses due to the price, many buyers have taken loans to the bank, therefore there will be another load of interest.

"
He added that Nduta, "the drop in price in the country (not give up) farmers so the next season will not be sold in large numbers and this season will not affect one of the efforts of the government to improve agricultural agriculture in the country," Nduta that added that in order to save the cotton farming, the government through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is supposed to sit with other stakeholders so as to check the way to find solutions to the problem.
In addition, he says that the bank should meet both buyers to discuss the problem because many buyers have paid the bank.
That statement by the chairperson of Parkal Randall Company is being supported by the chairman of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TCA), Christopher Mwita Gachuma, who is ready to take their recommendations at the government about that problem.
He explains that TCA has asked the government through the Pamba board to intervene in that issue as the government of other countries are.
"We have already changed to our recommendations that we see in order to save this situation because it is outside our ability, we can't know," says Gwao.
However, Gachuma says that it is early to say that if the collapsed building, there will affect the cotton production in the country.
"The price of the world market, will not hesitate to rise and get any time thus it's early to say the effects of them and because the farmers have already harvested.
Therefore the effects will start to come out in the next season of agriculture because if prices will go to many farmers when they put up. "
The price of buying seedlings to farmers in this season that ended was 400 million shillings for one kilogram but it went up to 500 shillings.
But many farmers complained about the prices being small according to the real cost of production.

The cotton production which due to its great contribution in the economy of the Lake Region and the nation in the past years, an amount of being called gold, has dropped from the 1990s.
New record for the cotton production in the country had a plan to reach 53400 desks in the year 1992 / 1993 before the establishment of the solar market system.
However, after the wave of that amount of 90 years in the year 2005 / 2006, the production has reduced up until now there is 470 billion shillings in the year 2007 / 2008.
First of April last year, stakeholders in the small industries sector have launched the plan of developing the small sector of Pamba and sports which is for five years (2009-2015).
The plan has aligned different strategies of developing the cotton industries so as to achieve the aim of generating electricity to reach 5 million shillings to the year 2010.
However, lack of enough rains and now under the cotton price in the world market may be able to reach those goals to produce a program to produce 1 million shillings to the year.
