
Ali Kiba is one of the good musician who doesn't have the Management that has failed to be the music market?

It is true that is very clear that Ali Kiba is one of the musicians, very best musicians and with talent of its kind especially singing.

It is clear that the music market has changed so much and has had a high level competition and maybe the ability of an artist you do not give you with his talent but its ability to deal with the market and at the implementation of a music market!
There are people who will arrive in Ruvuma province.

Here I believe this market especially for now has a plan and control of high level contrary to the market it will win!

Ali Kiba is one of the artists who have a great ability and with great reputation in the market but I believe it is one of the artists with a lot of Management and it has gotten lost my thinking!
Management of AlAli Kiba has not disappointed the Ali Kiba and made him Ali Kiba the great artist as the expectations of people!

While he has said that I will be back, I'll go back and he has prepared himself to change the music market which currently has a lot of challenges and it doesn't depend on foot.

Recently, Management and Ali Kiba did not know that for now the video has for an artist than their husbands?
Recently, Management Ali Kiba has been unable to put the value of Ali Kiba?
Currently, Ali Kiba has said up to now he has exploited me in that show that are not productive especially those that are not seen?
Since he said, Ali Kiba has not yet seen the one of its own kind that has returned to his home and be able to fight with the music market and the truth is that Ali Kiba did not plan or is a big problem in his Management!

To say the truth is clear that he is supposed to look at afresh and maybe be very high because it does not have income, and it has a very fast rate!
Recently, Ali Kiba and Management have been unable to know that the video is doing a new song?

Maybe it is not a sin and I don't know that she is a sin to follow up for others when they go through the value of a show and put up to an artist and without doubt, Ali Kiba has claimed to be a great artist not just came up but even the eyes of the people.

We shall continue with the problems present and when it comes to the issue of using money to the entertainment, they are usually ready to use our artists and they are unable to take advantage of money which Tanzanians are already using his talent.

I have decided to explain this because I have discovered that there are Ali Kiba and Management and his Management did not depend on and without doubt, they will be looking at afresh if this is the value of Ali Kiba that she didn't know every today.

Recently, they have been getting married!
