With our news report concerning the strike of doctors, it is expecting to give a statement on June twenty and eight this year about the doctors going on in the country as well as the prime minister Mizengo Pinda at the sixth session of some patients who essentially has not been guilty in the process.
In addition to the main court, the unit for giving you live with two this year, has urged the doctors to stop the strike that the prime minister have been surprised here and we would like to make sure that we go to the court when approximately half of their claims will be sold to them.
Therefore, the policies of the government here in doctors to respect the incident.
Now we should agree with inside the government.
It is not a statement here in parliament.
Explaining to now the government after all the steps he has decided to take action.
Efforts by making us are very much but we are not seen even if the intention is.
So we have seen, we have seen and we are tomorrow the Holy Quran.
The Swahili are saying that.
In his hand, the sins wanted the deputy speaker of parliament Job Ndugai, not think about the normal activities in accordance with the ten best activities and one so that the issue of the strike is at the position.
I know this issue in this government's report will be taken to court after the two sides won.
These doctors without caring about the government people have still continued.
God, I urge the honorable speaker in a situation like this one where it is in the court if you are in court if you can make sure that the government will make sure that it is in the court because it can't make sure that it is in the court of Ubungo and not doing so to take them to the main court in the region.
The deputy speaker did not request it is.
Six weeks, but I say only according to information that are available in the media.
It is that the case that is in the court is required.
Which is the professional party of doctors.
But the community of doctors that is why it gives the statement of the strike and there are other things.
Moreover, they will continue.
Following the spread of the news reports and then be followed keenly, who is a leader of the community doctor and unknown people, when managing the member of parliament of Busega County, we come to address a surprise of his leader but stakeholders should be the deputy speaker, after the completion of the time of contributing for ten minutes.
After failing, we want to get a message through the third party members on how to follow the issue outside the hall.
When he was written when he was written.
I don't know you say that there are people who were unable to communicate with them and have never been infected with phone numbers.
Who has been communicating with them close to three days before yesterday with those people.
It has taken place.
Heading to where he was done.
I have found himself saying that she is not very good to see that the preparations have come from his wife and the child.
And his things?
It will go back.
The series of cyst are there in the country you want to study, since the beginning of this year, given those effects and the claims left, the children taken the effects can be great.
A man back to the members of parliament of the United Republic of Congo are coming from the parliament hall so as to look for food but the big way we go to which is the scandal of strike of doctors from inside the parliamentary hall here in Dodoma town.
