CCM and the name of 2010.
Jide 15, 2015.

While members of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mbeya town led the head on how to cater for the constituency in his territory for the last general elections, and it has begun the benefit.
There are two events that are believed to have that party right now, especially after some of the names be heard in that region, those events include the one of losing that constituency through CHADEMA, in the environment that they believe was evidence of inside their party.
The second event is supposed to destroy the party in its activities of contesting for the parliamentary seat in Mbeya Town, it is a step of the former candidate of CHADEMA in Mbeya Town constituency, Lukas Sambayamoto, held by CCM.
Shangwe who is currently a member of the executive council of CCM has been reported to prepare for the contest for that constituency for being given the consent of the party to marry him in his strategy to oppose the region in his board.
Five members of CCM have announced their intention to ask for the consent of the party to vie for the parliamentary position in that important region in the province of Mbeya and the nation.
Normally, the decision of a member to contest is one thing and easy, but winning is another thing and difficult for his candidate.
Mbeya politics analysis of Mbeya have noted that it will not be easy for that party to fight for the region that occurred in the CHADEMA ticket in the last general elections.
They are saying that we do not have an opportunity to the voters of that province, and the first elections after going back to the system of democracy of many parties that clarified that after visiting that region they did not have the NCCR-Mageuzi Party.
Daimon has denied the foundation stone in the election of this year that it is capital of the voters for it to be careful, and not the ability or power of his party, that is required to have an additional reputation for him.
"CCM have a heavy job and he announced their intention to get a person who already has a capital city, a candidate that is together with all social groups, all of them, with a habit who mingled with people, otherwise they should wait for pain again," says Mwasamiru.
The talks in various areas of the city are being built by his colleagues who are capable of having their colleague, they identify that even the last member of parliament of CCM, Benson Bena has had the strength of capital to voters and not the strength of money.
The analyst gives an example that, the candidate who comes from Ihanga village, where in that town there is a great desire to win as a result of the ward having a lot of votes compared to other wards, he says that he had already been successful, therefore the reputation of education and money is extra, but not the strength of the province of Mbeya.
Among the members of CCM who have been officially announced their intention is together with two journalists, who was the president of the union of journalists of the provinces (UTPC), carrying Benjamin Sawe, so as to meet the writer of information, Business Times magazine, Charles Mwakipesile.
Others are Thom Mwaniki who will be back in that province for the third time to try to try him, and all the two times, the step that brought two camp to the political rivals.
Mwandemani talking with the name of the year 2010.
Thom Mwanacht is among those members who have shown their intention officially, comes back for the third time to vie for that constituency for the two times he was unable to join the former member of parliament of that constituency up to 2010, Benson Bena.
The coming of Mwanachoma in the elections of this year, has raised his rivals who have talked about to make sure they have already lost.
Those rivals are heard that when he gets only in the race for this year, they are supposed to run the campaign against him.
The action of those members is due to their faith that Mwanazuo's Palace is the one that brought a plot to bring down their party after their candidate failed to vote in opinion polls and my colleagues.
The faith of those members about the failure of CCM in that province of Mbeya town, is also for leaders of the party in the province, province and even the nation.
Several national leaders have been time for time to identify that they lost the province due to the anger of who failed in the opinion polls.
"He encouraged the party that made him to vote in the opinion polls in the year 2010, some of them have not identified himself, he sees vegetables," says one leader of the party in that town asking him to be mentioned in the newspaper.
