
Witnessing is the first explosion and 2009 to parliament on May 31, 2012.

January 30th, this year, the Member of Parliament for Kunzugu Ward, Doctor Egid Mubofu, presented a private motion to parliament, so that parliament is supposed to prove that the decision to intervene in power and rights of the parliament of our writer, Godfrey Simbeye, who was in parliament, he described her.

In his 11 meeting, this special parliament spoke about the issue concerning the allocation of illegal immigrants in possession of its prices and therefore the implementation of the ownership had already been completed this year.
In that 11 meeting, the parliament after discussing that argument was decided to enable the government to increase revenue and to set aside the ratio, transparency and harmony in the allocation and misuse of tourism in the country, the government to start the process of distributing them in large numbers in the country.
In that meeting the parliament agreed that by considering the time of owning the roads it was growing, and that by considering the importance of the sector of resources and misuse of the national income, the government should set a special strategies to complete the implementation of the stadium of parliament during the time that remain in the ownership of those fights.
That declaration of parliament aimed at all sectors in the country to be careful so that the new owners start using them by the year 2010, after the previous day before yesterday night, it is expected to enable the nation to get more revenue due to four bridges that were divided into two stadiums.
In that meeting, the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, promised that the government would focus in implementing an agreement that was passed by the parliament, including organizing a new law for defense, that will supervise all activities of importation of criminal activities in danger.
But the situation was not therefore, it has been revealed that the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism led by the Minister Shamsa Ford, has decided to increase the time of ownership of Tanzania for three years (not again 2009) by considering the old procedure that is mentioned by a loss of the nation.
The loss is expected to be 48,000 thousand American Dollars in America for the year 2015 and by concentrating on the three-year ban, a loss to 12,330,000 dollars in America.
That act of Minister Mwangira and his team added three years by using the old procedures what is mentioned to intervene in parliament and parliamentary rights especially by going back to the field of parliament to raise funds to take place in new procedures and ownership of the past, to read this year.
It is because that, January 29, this year, Minister Mwangi, gave the government's statement saying that the government has done so because it has a contract with the Revolutionary Party to open in the country.
It is the environment that made him to the member of parliament for Kunzugu Ward, Doctor Egid Mubofu, to give a private argument, saying the explanation of Minister Mwangi, "emphasizing that the agreement that took place in 10 years ago is not a contract.
Doctor Mzindakaya, in his private issue, he is insisting that he does not implement the Parliament that the parliament followed with the requirements of the ministry of natural resources and tourism, which made their responsibility to increase the time they have accepted.
And that day, Doctor Mzindakaya presented that point, he said.
"The ministry has organized a bill that was presented today (January 30th) in parliament, an act of increasing the period of three years, something that is affecting the Parliament of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism in a period of three years until the year 2012 is abolished immediately.

Reasons for these requirements number one in the argument of Mzindakaya, it is that the decision in that letter is going against the previous court of parliament that was held in the 11th meeting of the parliament.
The second issue that he wants Mzindakaya, in his motion is the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Shamsa Ford, has been impressed by the parliament at the end of the week because it did not pay a good guide and that its effects include parliament and administration.
Third, Doctor Mzindakaya, he wanted the parliament to know that they are forced to make sure that all the government ministry to consider communication and good partnership that is being assaulted by the Parliament of Kigoma North constituency, but he insisted that together with using a lot of words against parliament and the government, he went to parliament because he had gone to parliament with the parliamentary committee, ethics, and authority of parliament, we have promised to suspend him.
However, before the debate to take place, the speaker of parliament on his wisdom revealed that the primary problem in the ministry is a decision to increase the amount of contracts that were supposed to be completed this year, by the minister of natural resources and tourism, Shamsa Ford, to explain the position of the government concerning that section, that the government does not have a stand of increasing time contrary to the previous court of parliament or not.
Minister Modi, has put more time to ask for parliament while leaving a controversy about the transparency in order to answer the question of speaker, Samuel Sitta.
As a result of that situation, the speaker called for the ball to the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, who was silent for all listening to his minister.
Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, who asked the ball who reached in his home from the speaker, said that Minister Mwangunga was explained well in this issue but at the end of his explanation he has been facing and he put into a short time to the owners of nuclear weapons in order to join the decision of the parliament.
And as a result of that statement, the Prime Minister Mizengo speaking to the decision by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda to apologize for each time, the speaker wanted the issue to come up with parliament and requested the parliament to advise the parliament to agree with the member of parliament.
However, after that debate, they still involved various opinions related to the issue of shillings.
For example, in his opinion, Zitto appeared to have doubt in the parliamentary committee of land, natural resources and environment, led by the member of parliament of Kongwa, Job Ndugai.
Zitto emphasized that the committee stopped the responsibility of together to listen to the line of accountability because it explains the decision by the ministry of natural resources and tourism without stopping the decision inside the parliament as regulations and law laws when he wanted them and he was surprised when the committee should be taken against them.
The topic of Zitto Kabwe, made Job Ndugai, the time of the contribution is proud to take a check to rebuke inciters of his committee saying that my committee is careful and it was made up with other delegates as soon as the Parliamentary Committee (Kabwe).
