CCM will not be no sufficient space in the lake region.
Sei 23, 2015.

These are up the campaigns of the general elections have continued to hold the speed in the Lake Region where-finals seems to be between CCM and parliament, thus building a picture of the possibility of the party and they have some of the regions on October 25, this year.
-finals between the parties which seems to be used in Ilemela, Nyamagana, Ukerewe, (Mwanza), Musoma Town, Bunda Town, Tarime Town, Tarime Town, Tarime District (Mara), whereby each one has stopped candidates with great candidates to the citizens.
However, CCM is needed to get a victory of cassava when they are not in Busega County, Misungwi, Kwimba, Buchosa County (Mwanza), Serengeti, Mufindi, Butiama, Butiama, Butiama, Butiama, Butiama, Butiama, Butiama, Butiama, and Musoma Villages (Mara).
On the other side, the ACT Wazalendo party has emerged with the power of its kind in Nyamagana, Tarime and Ukerewe Town, to reduce the parliamentary attacks against CCM in the parliamentary race.
ACT-Wazalendo has been able to build the name in those regions as a result of supporting candidates with great experience and experience of political leadership for several years before joining that party which is led by a famous politician in the country, Zitto Kabwe.
The investigation that was done by Mke Mwema, this week has revealed that CCM members will continue to attract many residents of Ilemela province different from the party of CUF, ACT-Wazalendo, ADC, Jahazi Concert, UDP party, among other leaders that have nominated their candidates.
The parliamentary candidate for Ilemela on a CCM ticket, the district commissioner of Iringa town, William Vangimembe Lukuvi has continued to put a big opposition that is not expected against parliamentary candidate, Deodatha Makani who plays for that position through the strength of his political parties.
Before yesterday, he told Mabula in the race, he has the courage and ability to move on stage and policies which is used to enable them to root itself since the opposition party was the stronghold of CCM in that region in the year 2010.
"Here Ilemela, a music will not accept to participate in this year's elections or mother Mabula (Kiwia) until now-finals shows that those candidates are the great opportunity to win the region, because the riddle is difficult," said Simon Mapunda, a resident of Parliament in that region.
In the neighboring region of Nyamagana, high competition is between the mayor of Mwanza City, Philemoni Ndesamburo (CCM) and Ezekia Wenje (CCM) and Ezekia Wenje (CHADEMA) who seek to be given the second half.
Wenje was popular while in the youth group, especially small entrepreneurs including 'Machinga' and Mabula who is being supported by a small group of human people.
However, the candidate on the ticket of ACT-Wazalendo, Chacha Gong'o, has emerged with a fast rate of switching off the power and Mabula in the race, where his priority to improve the state of small entrepreneurs has contributed to persuading some members of CCM and parliament to join his party.
FAR Rabat, who is also the chairperson of ACT-Wazalendo in Mwanza province, is a huge boy of political parties who plays for him in the parliamentary opinion polls in Nyamagana District, in 2010, but he has been dismissed from high sessions of that party.
Mnyikulu of the small member of parliament and CCM is continuing to hold the speed in Ukerewe Town, although the ACT Patriots Party that is near the competition that would be able to select the voters' stand in that region heading to the general elections on October 25th, this year.
The secretary of CCM of Ukerewe District, Abubakar Karsan, says that until now it has not been taxed is the candidate of the party who will emerge the winner in that region "the struggle continues, but it is difficult to know how it will be," he says.
The political campaign analysis of Ukerewe Town, Mister Salvatory Mkonga who plays for the presidential seat this time through ACT-Wazalendo, is the third position behind Christopher Brian Umony.
The mid-fielder who identified himself by a landslide in Getrude Clement (CCM) in the 2010 general elections, had fled for ACT-Wazalendo where he was appointed to contest for a few days after being unable to be Mkundi river as he was unable to vie for the parliamentary opinion polls of parliament.
The political star appears to be vying for CCM members and members of parliament in Tarime Town, Tarime District, where violence erupted recently and caused the death and injured among the members and the fans of those parties.
Michael Kadala (CCM) being playing with the nominated member of parliament, Esther Matiko (CCM), Tarime Town, Dar es Salaam District Commissioner, Christopher Kangeni (CCM), greeting the retired chairperson of the National Youth Council (BAVICHA), John Heche, in Tarime Rural constituency.
