
Protect children is the responsibility of the community.
Today children of Tanzania join their colleagues in Africa to commemorate the child's day with an aim of knowing the value, Facebook and their importance to the community.
Those commemorations will be made every year in June 16 since it was announced to be officially announced in the year 1990 and the African Union.
Despite that for a long time, there are still a lot of challenges that are facing children especially because many of them are continuing to undergo acts of violence again.
Most of the children did not depend on, they did not depend on, they are not involved in the different issues concerning them.
It has been common to hear of children's information that have a permanent disabled and others even lost their lives because of violence.
The worst is that some of the children are getting these actions and close people including parents, guardians, brothers and neighbors.
For sure that children are still continuing with each day, we go to listen and listen to the news of children about it, being stabbed with a few months old child, that is not only a break to human rights but it's not lack of life and honor.
It is difficult to get into the case to be in the 21st century where the world has also witnessed economic development because of human rights, still there are people with bad mental disabilities to think that the action of the same child include someone else.
The motorcycle that could be used for children are very much, there are some who are used to go and protect yourself in homes, mines, and others in great farms.
There are some who come out their studies and is forced to get married when they were in a small age, there are also used for severe pain.
Experts of community issues are saying that many problems of the children are usually caused by the breakup of their parents, therefore, children are lack of upbringing and that is the biggest reason for children spread in the estates and to be disabled.
In the estates many children do a lot of evil to each other, those who are taught to sell marijuana, are among them being affected in sex issues and some of them are taught the theft, robbery and others to be given terrorism training.
For countries that are war, children are involved in war to be bent, that is a huge loss of children's rights.
Tanzania is celebrating the African Child's day when statistics of the police force showed that for a period of three months (January up to March), that this year, there have erupted more than 1,500 bags of children born and being raped.
The worst is that in some of the children's events, there are some parents who want to deal in the streets after being given money for the interests of child health and friends without caring about the interests of the child being discriminated, but these are very bad luck.
For a fact, it is a shame to continue to carry posters, to put on a draw and demonstrations to celebrate this day while the society is not able to protect children.
In addition to that there are many laws to protect the child, but the truth is that the implementation of the law is a citizen and the process of violating the law is him and he is the one who went for different ways to protect and join the law.
