
13 December 2012

Judge denied the appeal of Zito!

By Rehema Nchimbi.

The referral hospital of Dar es Salaam yesterday has been unable to start listening to the appeal by the government to oppose the judgment of the former head of criminal Investigation, Dar es Salaam Province, Assistant Commissioner of Police, ACP) Abdallah Zombe and his colleagues due to one of the judges who were planned to listen to that case.
That appeal has been planned to be heard by three judges who are Semka na Rogasian Kaijage, who is valued at Kimaro and Kathmandu.

One of the judges who listen to that case, Judge Kimaro has explained that the court that, Judge Mutungi was sent, therefore he has postponed that case until the registrar of that court, will give them information.

The government lawyers who yesterday were there in the court is' Neonatal Sepsis', Edwin Kakolaki Mutahaba, what is a source of shivered and Peter Njam.

Some of the lawyers of the ministry, Richard Lazarus Nyalandu, Mister Majogoo village, Mister Dar es Salaam and Mister Onesimus Laizer.

Other than Mister Zombe, other accused who were present are ASP Masoko, ASP Masoko, ASP Masoko, Virgil Hustler Dancers from Geofrey Mwashiuya.

Others are a nurse, Michael Shonza, to bid farewell to Mbeyela Secondary School, Captain Rajabu Bakari and Deogratius Festus Mengele, who did not have a lot of peace is Captain Rashid Lema (who died before defending himself).

All those accused yesterday came to the court ready for starting to listen to this case, Mister Zombe and his colleagues were facing charges of murder to three businessmen of minerals from Mahenge, in Morogoro Province and a modern driver not, a resident of Manzese Dar es Salaam and they were left free in August 2009 with the high court in Dar es Salaam city.

The business people that were killed is MSabatama, popularly known as' Jichunge.'

Those suspects have come back again in the court, being three years and three months since it to be free from the judgment that was given by Judge Salum Massao.

In his judgment, Judge Masser said that the charges of the charges failed to confirm the charges against those accused without stopping.

He said brave, revealed that the real killers have not been taken before the court so that the charges against those who were in court didn't be for the beginning of the country not for the purpose of looking for them and to get them in court the real process.

Issue of the government in that appeal number + 4 / 2009, was opened in October 6th, 2009, it has noted 11 reasons that have done by that judgment and claimed that, according to the evidence made in court, all accused were not guilty.

In those topics, the government through the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) was noted that there was a shortage in that judgment in every suspect.

DPP claims that, Judge Masser claimed that since he was unable to explain the laws and various regulations that concern criminal acts and that they feel extremely well in that judgment.

He claimed that he was surprised by Judge Masser for failing to send all the accused despite that there was obvious that there was obvious that there was a clear possibility of people who were present at the court so as to check the issue of issues of government lawyers and the accused.
