
CHADEMA member of parliament.
By Jov.
Kaijage,.
The member of parliament for Mvomero County on the ticket.
CHADEMA, Salvatory Machar, has been fed a certificate for the court because of the sponsors.
Her husband who had condemned the reputation, while he is unable to attend.
In court in the incitement case he is facing.
He made that decision.
He was presented yesterday by the Resident Judge in charge of the Kasulu District Council.
I believe that after the charges of the charges to ask for the accused of her bail.
He instructed the member of parliament to be in prison for 14 days and after that, there is where we are.
Others so as to continue.

Far from the same time.
Some of the member of parliament has also confirmed to present his identity cards.
The police and she should not turn out of that district without a permit for lack.
He has been forced to take that step after the accused and sponsors.
Three unable to arrive in court on how that case was scheduled.
The Court.
Further, the judge said that apart from the accused not getting to the court, he also said.
Three sponsors have lost reputation, therefore their sponsorship has been canceled.

The audience.
The police force inspector, Samuel Obrey Chirwa, said the accused.
He has been unable to arrive in court more than five times without giving information.
While his case is mentioned.

At the end of last month.
He praised one of his sponsors, which takes a cassava leaves and put behind bars within seven days.
Since October 23rd until 30th this year, he was supposed to arrive in court yesterday.
The accused together with his fellow sponsors, Sospeter Mhongo started implementing that order.
In his defense, Manchester City.
And the reason of not going to the case, he said that he was unable to arrive in court.
It had been planned for the date of his case to fall in the sessions of the sessions.
The parliament.

In his case yesterday witnesses are.
The side of the Republic who is the former police commander of Ukerewe District.
Japhet Luseko and Jeff Juma gave their evidence.
The case of the case.
That was postponed until November 20th, this year, where three others are.
The side of Jamhuri will continue to give their evidence.
That got the time when it is going to know that the efforts to marry off.
That member of parliament was sold at a result of his sponsors failing to present documents.
Instead of giving their property.
