It's no one and it's also a man and it's also 'Imebaki Story.'
It's no longer.
The late God rest his first time, I'm getting the same time, I get the first time you get that, but you talk about this, but you have talked about what I heard this, what I have talked about what I heard.
If you go to Grind.
It is nothing.
It's an end, it is in the moment it does not end it.
I have heard when I refused and I don't know well among those who missed him, I succeeded and can hear them while speaking when I got it, but there is no one who can get married but there is no one who is able to hear and listen.
The Lord Jesus Christ is not pleased with you so that we are also waiting for?
We are continuing to speak about your call and they will continue to talk up until when they continue to talk to them.
It doesn't come again to speak to the Almighty God to continue talking until when you stop, claim that the money should not be sold at the end until when you know that my friend does work in time.
It's no longer.
When I was with you, I will not continue to talk about things I have talked and to listen to Ongea will also be able to learn how Swahili does not hesitate to hear them completely.
Bible on the Bible.
Scale farmers.
It is very happy and I would like to hear and hear a chance, we continue to help him.
I sat for now.
It doesn't be able to buy, I would like to think, and I am not happy, I don't look just to speak, there is no problem that you have talked about here is like no Network do not loose the work hard to end up.
However, the Almighty God continue to inform us what they are seen.
I'm good, the late God rest me when I want me to tell you the late God is not good, the Almighty God started.
Almighty God started praising himself and she was walking, because he started falling for me.
.
I did not see the late God to continue talking about it is same, I don't know what I don't know if you don't know whether you are doing so that they do not know or no 'that is how to do or no work is what does it do.
You came to the Almighty God is the residents that I will look for me, there is also the late God bless you like the late God bless us, they are seeing the late God bless you.
If you don't know what we are here and therefore, I don't know or you don't know what you do not get married do not loose hope, do not loose hope, they do not know what they feel like and they are asked.
However, Ongea did not give you like this?
The late God bless you so that we can't know that, "Masau boasted. I want to do a few cents, the late Ras Kiduku was hurt by us that it doesn't show them.
Clean, I will talk to me what?
