
Human resource director of breaking-shirts.

It has been written by our correspondent, Geita.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

Geita Regional Commissioner, Ezekiel Kyuga, has urged business people to resolve their businesses to the Business Registration and Licensing Agency (BRELA) in order to be presented in accordance with the law.

While speaking during the launch of the guiding seminar about the introduction of the breaking news and importance of stealing the business and its opportunities, Kyuga explained to business people concerning the business since there are its benefits.
He mentioned the benefits that it is being satisfied by the business or the company, to be able to be assisted by the law, to pay taxes so as to build the nation's economy and improve the lives of citizens, to eliminate the poor concept of doing activities in mind.
He said that the business sector has a great opportunity in the implementation of the government's intention to reach the middle economy by the year 2025.
"So as to reach that economy, it is important to select every business so that they can be done in accordance with the law," said Kyuga.
The chief executive officer of Jambo Tanzania, Frank Nyabudenge said the signing of the registration has made many improvements in registration services and the existence of the region for one week is to provide education on the business and the company and requested the residents of that province to use that opportunity.
He explained that the registration of business names are done on the internet thus the business person has no reason to travel up to Dar es Salaam and the breaking of is fighting for all the registration of business people, the company and the business people to be found through the internet by March 2017.
The secretary of the union of business people of industry and agriculture (TCCIA) in the province of Geita, Mariam Mkonga, has thanked the killing of opening the regional office and promised that business people will stop their businesses.
