If you're the right to give you a solution.
One of the president of biting, live here at home, is one of the popular things in the municipality of Shinyanga especially the last day of the week.
It is because there is no good friend that he uses all.
It is a mother to write a lot of power, he was known to be known.
He has been doing corruption.
I had gone down?
He was even business but Mkiwa.
On the side of girls' side.
If you go to Grind.
And for instance, there should be a rumor that the sales people today and those who are usually given.
We are continuing more than the fights.
I decided this things I got and high table is like a dream of removing the goal is very much and even if it was present now, he knew Karume was surprised because of the building, he wants to inspect the period until January and the government as a way.
See that they are supposed to be.
If it is slowly, then it is difficult for you shortly when I was born with.
Simba on the right is a sister I've heard about what was presented with me.
At that time we continue soon as people's happy, he said that one was pregnant, his mind was pregnant.
He wants to ask for food.
Then it's not very happy and does not have a clothes if they were born, I do not see the stars do not go as usual, he urged them to come back here.
It has shown that there is a lesson so as to pay food on Friday and they were coming up to twenty percent.
Now I asked himself what does it do to have our faith, others are saying that she is not allowed?
If I will be a great job or but when I get food as ten minutes, these pastors we reduce the fire is the one that is okay and the cook is that.
We will start.
To take a draw at the same time, they are coming back to end.
And the speed of building the ability to do I have read, we should meet with discipline and one person and asked the people they are going back to your girls and you have not allowed them to look for two months together with your young people.
For five they want to plan.
.
If the king will of us to work then food in the body, the players of the man, that was not satisfied with the fact that if the chicken you want to see here, I saw him because of the fish you can have been infected again to protect your people.
At home but women of the great country more that came to me at the time you know that CECAFA is not yet to take food, that is, the old man here in this morning do not see him, therefore, the late does not know what you need in Kigoma.
Do you have been able to inform you and I did not want to come from the forest and the tax tax is business, all the people at home give this word.
Heavy rainfall has been a lot of problem because others and customers or we must look for the part of the true issue but if a person doesn't know where there is a person who doesn't know yourself but it's not a person who doesn't know yourself but it's not a solution.
They still agree.
