The statistics of the commission must be resolved.
December 17, 2014.

There is a big debate about the statistics of the commission on constitutional changes and the truth, the special constitutional parliament opposed the keenness in the area, the process of a new constitution can be avoided.

If we look at the commission of commission, we will agree that we are supposed to inform you and I'll answer you as required.
Lack of strength.

The truth is that the law of constitutional changes did not allow the commission to run opinion polls for opinion polls they were carried out of public changes so as to get legal statistics that would have been used for how to be used now.

In addition to that, the commission did not have resources, infrastructure and professionalism to work in collecting opinions on the professional foundations of the commission using abusive statistics.

A bad process of getting data.

First we look at the part of the speech of Judge Warioba, the resignation from a gift of a speech said, "the commission prepared citizens to make efforts to get opinions on the constitution and even so, the commission decided to help citizens to be free and say anything they are followed by the commission to get views of citizens in all areas, including the issue of the union."

With that sign, the commission made 74 matches in the decision not to use data and legal instructions they had already had an opportunity to collect data on the best way they had decided to collect opinions through the way they had given priority for a short time and given them are involved in opinion polls.

Citizens were free to talk about the union, water, inheritance and other issues inside the planned time.

The defending champions of the third government system is wrong to achieve this statistics and presidential votes but the president has been selected to have 45 million people, but he has leading 45 million people.

The commission takes opinion polls later confirmed the results "so as to give their views to the president, there was no correct way to elect the president, but the presidential results are supposed to elect the member of parliament and later on the basis of selling statistics but later on the foundation of selling statistics but later on the basis of selling the decision by the commission.

The third government is the research of the commission?

In the speech of Warioba where he did research, it is difficult to understand why they did not give the citizens the first research before taking their views and eventually completing their views, therefore the commission was independent, therefore, a big part of the structure of the commission was very difficult, therefore, a big part of the structure of the commission and not the public.
