This is a sister in the period of minutes we should go back in the second part as part of the training we got from the topic because they are doing so that they do not have good understanding and be able to enjoy this life and be able to enjoy this life and be able to enjoy this life.
At their homes very close to this section here in the second here, after a veteran has come in partnership with the issue of phone use as well as mix up and work.
His brother would give him the guide in that area because you can't jump the Times magazine.
If you play for another time again, we are meeting some of them to continue giving out a lesson to the workers of home but together with them.
You should look at today, the second use of the second use.
?
Misuse of phones.
Same to let me see the misuse of tax so that we can be able to identify and be able to make corrections so that we can have good use of phones.
There is everything he has.
By using God bless you, everyone wanted to use Same.
And or not the objection and not spongers to work in which way?
However, what we want to know what we are doing is that the use of the phone the preparations should come out is that when a person gets a lot of time on phone instead of work.
The time of the late God rest.
He is supposed to say he is in the field so that he is a member of parliament that he is a very big problem by switching off the fees of their work.
You know I have no one is happy to hear of the small things, you ask you to take long, he believes that every sister was going in inside here is the activities.
His preparations are very happy, the commission Story.'
The time he is supposed to go with the person they are using.
Because the phone has, you have its own work.
How is it?
You shouldn't know the effects of truly that phone will help you sell yourself.
And if you have gone down by switching off their fees, it has also been a problem.
Because if you have a phone that has been using a good Swahili language, it has been a Fukeni Mighty One, as he has got a thing that he does not know if you will not lie!
Now and he does not know how to be able to use well that at these times I use the whole time I read it.
When a period of fake phones is using it, it will not have a bad use of phone that is true there is a time.
Maybe if the Konongo was at work, he seems to have forgotten in the head.
He is using her sister to say anything which does not forget about one thing, he does not make sure, she is doing well but also wrong things when he uses.
If you are.
True.
That is where there is a reason why people fear maybe the day I don't want to see you there is no time when I use this phone, then I have loved the team is far!
And then it is so far or that is a teaser?
Because you want to take a phone there, there is no better time to return to his boss, or there is something you want to invest in public he is to come up in public, where this city has already made a room and his fellow employee.
To be able to get a true time but people talk about it.
For example.
When a sister is doing?
He went to his location.
His phone is inside you.
When he dies or shivered and his phone is there.
The late God bless Tanzania (not pictured) when he told him yesterday when he was asked if he told me that I've seen him, I have seen it is speaking about all the eyes present.
I remember this phone when I think I think there is like a person who doesn't know if they are still unknown.
What is a terrorist?
Our will not be able to finish the bad use, I do not show that phone can be close but s' is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone when he is speaking with the phone
He is doing something in eternal peace, even so, it's why his boss, she is calling you a phone to put him and I will decide you will continue with its activities but caring for a long time on phone instead.
The work of work.
With the same way, maybe even if you don't know that Facebook has faith, but a person feels a lot to you click here at three hours he had gone to a message come from any reason and his work is still doing well because of his work he also did well.
All the mind, after another time when he is a stronghold where you want to put in a trap because his mind was.
Same has shown the effects that now I have when you eat with my mind, my house has started in my food but I think it is not a member including her stomach, but I think her sister is using her phone and I am not known but everyone is using his phone.
'Imebaki Story.'
Again you see a good position in life?
Later is the draft.
For the season it is good, I am talking to her boyfriend.
When it comes to work he cannot do his work well because all his mind was to her husband and she does not supposed to have a phone because even if you are not supposed to have a phone because even your friends after getting your lover.
Use your long time on your phone, but there is no surprise, so when you go back and not the mouth, the existence of the food was buried and it's good for her close friend.
Work.
Therefore, it gives the fees to be careful in using their phones, we look for misuse of fake phones and they do not have a very long time for a phone to do my work because I am very happy and then I'm in work and then I'm in work and even this problem will help each other.
Like someone who like even a person in the south, he loves but he is not ready to listen to her mental client.
How do you buy or agree.
About the news of town, it was self-fees like you said.
Most of the hospitals in your ten days, there are all the whole issue on Instagram the internet for your photos, that is for OMR, the success was only a person, because it is' Imebaki Story.'
But have any faith that I am pleased to see.
And a little will be help in a large extent I think even employers.
Most of the companies did not love the time you will end in the internet more than the production?
Promote the company.
Therefore, he has no great faith in this subject even so that he didn't know whether they were passing by offices and different areas because it was very delicious with the workers of homes.
That is, most of the people also have scholars and scholars and scholars which have been abducted by this video.
That is by thinking that I will go around after beating Maccabi Tel Aviv, which it does not use it because if you do not use it, you need me to go into those networks and you can't know what you want to go to, when I am using me.
The late?
But you are losing a time you're welcome him so much, we have refused to break the step in the dangerous subject I am giving a lot to the topic because he cannot help them.
It will help us.
Now he is a home employee but many people from BoT benefit from giving thanks.
In football, I know that we do not have your friend on today, you do not know our health and good health without evil deeds, there should be happy that I would have lost your life and you will know your life and the way you will live in life.
Also.
An amount of?
But on the second side, the phone has caused him to do our work well and to fail to produce.
When he went to his home workers, it did not expect to see the phone a stakeholder is not so that we can have a phone but the things we want.
However, we need to give you a lot or not only, but this phone has already been found, but it's being a slave.
It's not a love for our teams but not so that we can be able to fill what is there?
Their hands so that I am happy.
You mean he has got married to give any thing.
I request that you need to read the word that you will make sure that you get into that position, you want to do you or in that period then you will do one six seven days but remember we give training to employees in homes those who don't know if they are not knowing.
Apart from their homes in homes, we will help them to see if he is supposed to know what is home for his preparations.
Mchaga answered Yesuu is expected to do what is needed here in our country.
Therefore, it is taking us to you like that you want to entertain the procedure, I wish you a word that you have forgotten your work, as it is able to make sure that you get pregnant, that we will continue to send my work hard and when you're close to us to meet next week and when you're coming here at the moment.
