The decision to build the Somanga Fungu station of Somanga Fungu that resulted from the intention of the government to give electricity to citizens living around the natural gas pipeline that is from the Junction.
This center is also taking services to the residents that is not from the threats of Rufiji, Pwani province.
We are producing electricity by using natural gas from Songosongo.
And we are making two districts that I don't know with the truth.
On the side of Rufiji district, we are spreading electricity from Somanga Fungu, start.
Then we are happy about what we're going to go to where it is the headquarters of the district.
The late Jesus Christ, until now.
On the side of Kilwa road is producing electricity from a pond.
The late God rest.
We're going to your customer care network and it's not going to go every day after Memoria, it will also care of electricity, we're going to address them and go to another whole country until the university.
.
They help bring electricity to bring electricity to the citizens.
The late church of that network is something that electricity had not been presented to electricity, but now they are preparing and put it on my network Sinza up with a certain level, today they will help to be taken to electricity to citizens and also they are getting electricity to the citizens.
The Almighty God bless you there is a way in the veins.
The ability to be released to provide information here, we are contracts the meetings but it is unacceptable, where I have come from Kitanzini ward, this is why electricity is enough for instance, I saw Talent, and let me feel very much because I saw us that is no longer.
Shame, the citizens that live in private areas have a lot of gas pipeline to a certain extent have a solution due to the sponsorship they enabled the electricity distribution from Somanga Fungu station.
Viewers until now we believe that I have benefited from the reports of the government's efforts to take advantage of better energy in the villages.
Future generations will continue to talk about the development of electricity distribution in those provinces.
