
Patriotism and ways of contraception is under Article 5, 2012.

Last week I mentioned the lack of patriotic feelings among the ones that were left in Africa is one of the biggest reasons that got into the African Continent, making it to be.
Every time you use the use of us have shown that our continent is behind in development, it has been filled with diseases and ailments, lack of poverty, drought, and lack of electricity through their health and education services as well as other social media services.
Instead of having personal interests, our leaders are faced with personal feelings of those congratulations are the ones that make them continue to have administration systems that will enable them to resolve the rights of their fellow citizens from public and human rights.
Africa started improving economically and administrative where its leaders when they feel you should not forget yourself, most of them were told you to make sure that they are forced to see their countries as their private sector.
He said on the rights of their fellow citizens, they made their hands to be careful, the introduction of their government's property, they got into one acre of land for their benefit or their relatives, in general, they believe that having the power is to have a bond.
It is good time to time we should inform us that in the year 2008 and Nigeria, for example, those have continued to be very much and rich winning Malaysia though this today Malaysia has taken a big step in front and leaving behind the African countries.
Let me know that, we are important when we see we think and ask ourselves why in Asia, there is a place of China, Malaysia and Indonesia, Tanzania mainland, but most of the countries in that continent have no longer.
Another question we are supposed to ask ourselves what many African countries have died in war against them and more than the people who died in the fight to fight for freedom from the colonialist.
According to Antwerpen.
Amyas Mortuation, the one that took place in Cape Town, has ever said that our elders who live in the colonial history, "our leaders were fighting for their lives and to make sure that their children continue to live in the whole African continent.
The evidence of the incident is open and we will not see every time when we look at the economy of the economy of the East African Community (EPOCA), East African Community and East African Community (SADC).
The political union has faith, and there is still involved in fighting trade and immigration which is the meaning that today will see that they are businessmen in smuggling and not our presidents who do not know the borders of the African countries that is found by the colonialist.
So, ideology or faith in our Africa (Pan African Community) has any meaning in the 21st century where my answer is yes, but the existence of its efforts is to be the hub of its efforts.
The Revolutionary Party is to be a mental revolution, a revolution in the way what we look and see themselves as a revolution in how to change the way we get to identify the problems that are needed then it is a revolution in view.
That revolution is important in making it the new generation of the leaders, that deals with the heart of a heart and she knows in Africa. Without doubt that the only thing is not enough to produce a new generation for leaders with integrity.
There are actions that can be taken so as to make administration be better and lack of ethics and among the thinking is to recognize that leaders will be able to know their property and it will increase so much to explain that their property have increased so that those property have increased so as to inform them that they get rid of property.
Another thing that can be done is to put up the presidential positions.
If it was not accepted, that the president cannot be the president after some time then the regulations should not be satisfied and there should not be no doubt if you should be used if it is free of seeing the president at least make it hopes.
Another step that can contribute towards their patience and good governance is to make the government's activities and to make it to the provinces and not to finish it, it will be done by the main government.
The new constitution of Kenya, for example, it made sure that although the cost of its structure, the one that causes the administration to stop, "may be very big.

There is also need for military police to be approved in every African countries should not be touched by any political party.

Likewise, politics will protect politics that are committed and not to stop the death.
Politics here in order for those phones will enable, for example, the government of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Tanzania have been accused of ministers from other political parties showing those ministers to be treated with the reputation of those ministers.

So as to enable the African continent to be able to improve it from the problems that it used and so far, the efforts in the whole country to develop themselves from political and economically economically between the African countries and later between the countries of the whole African continent.

Africa cannot say that it is striving itself and it is looking for justice by itself while it depends on the legal institution to provide rights like the International Criminal Court (ICC). Africa is a must to have its legal institutions with legal ability as required by ICC.

It is also important that it is growing, and the openness in all activities of administration and economic activities in the entire African continent.

Those are just some of the steps that will enable them to bring revolution in African countries and to make sure that the coming days leaders will not be used in this continent as the ones that did not mention the leaders who had kidnapped them.

The heavy rains recently, Charles Taylor, the former president of Liberia, and Hosea Ndagala and former president of Egypt, is big training for their fellow leaders who had already been suffering from tea time and to kill them.
There is a time Taylor Swift and Kanye have been suffering from their country and even those who are outside the borders of their countries, but now we know that all of them, and there are many others like them in Africa, not anything but "said a big loss of papers in the African continent.

Their bodies are the ones that enabled the African continent here that the African continent did not want it to be identified, by leaders who do not care about the interests of African countries, those leaders have been unable to identify themselves, saying they are happy and they think about how they are partnering with the citizens in Africa.

And even if the African continent has been advised then it is impossible so that it is a new generation for leaders that will investigate and follow the regulations of the South Africa will be able to meet the needs of the 21 century.
One of the different leaders used to thank Caballal will be able to register with anything for their people.
