
Today Honorable Jakaya Kikwete is the guest of honor to the State House and handed him a journalist, Doctor John Magufuli, in the funeral of the elder of industry.

Finally, Tanzania expects to start a new journey of true change in few hours giving him after the appointed President Doctor John Magufuli was sworn in in Dar es Salaam city, the exercise will have completed the leadership of President Jakaya Kikwete.

In the swearing in of Doctor Magufuli to look at the new constitution of the Tanzania industry, he promised in every platform that he had asked the Tanzanians in different areas, "Tanzania of Magufuli, will be the industries."

The promise that if it will be implemented will help to increase employment, to improve the economy of the country by increasing production of products instead that will be sold inside and outside the country at a good price instead of selling natural resources as it is now.

Hope is the hope of Tanzanians.
At the completion of the counting, to receive Doctor Magufuli, Tanzanians need to get better health services, to get better and free education up to form four, 50 million shillings in every estate that had been promised, the introduction of the court on corruption, and the improvement of agriculture and livestock.

In addition, Tanzanians are expecting to start a journey of "work" with the speed of development, good performance and integrity in all the public sectors.

The swearing-in ceremony of Doctor Magufuli that will be held today at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, are expected to be historical that will be attended by government officials and political parties from different countries, with the popular leader of the church of Syville Smith area yesterday met with Ukawa leaders after meeting with Doctor Magufuli, President Kikwete and Edward Lowassa.

The Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Said Meck Sadik, has urged Tanzanians to attend in large numbers and urged them to start getting into the field starting from 12 in the morning due to a large number of people expected to attend.

"The visitor is big, it's not great, not here in the country but from outside the country, we request that they have Dar es Salaam to be really appropriate to our visitors who will come to attend this activity of giving the president of the fifth term," said the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam.

"But we will also witness the president who is in doubt now (President Kikwete), leave the country's power to our culture, we are building Tanzanians to hand over power in peace and calmness," he added.

Those celebrations will go adorned with entertainment from different art groups together with special parade of defense and security forces.
