
RC is a prey in Swahili.

It has been written by Frank Kibiki.

It has been published in September 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Njombe, Doctor Rehema Nchimbi has called on Swahili and said that there are those who believe without being used in the previous primary schools until the University.

He said that at the Institute of Literature in Swahili and Literature in Swahili (APTA) that took place at the Iringa University hall, Iringa town.
Doctor Nchimbi has said it's surprising to see those who give those statements are small, which are in performance of their daily responsibilities, they have been using the language as well as the big percentage of the language they used in England.
I don't know the English but I have loved the Swahili that I believe and do my duties well, "he said.
He said the use of "Kishiwa and the English language, so much to the people that know the language well is wrong and it's why it has been a problem even in some of the contracts that he got in with different groups inside and outside the country.
He has said that when he was a student at the University of Dar es Salaam, years of 1980, he mentioned the books of learning that were written in Swahili language and gave him a reason of books that have been used until now.
He said there is need for expanding their language of Swahili so that they can have a understanding of together, and they go and arrive together in their development journey.
The head of Iringa University, Professor Joshua Madoido, said at the conference that we will make sure they know in England, are able to learn and if they want to know that they can use the books that were written by Shabani Robert.
In the language of Swahili, the Deputy Minister of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Anastazia Wambura said the government continues with various efforts to grow and promote the use of Swahili language.
I am happy to inform that the government has officially started the process of organizing a Swahili policy which will give direction to the nation about all the issues of Swahili language, traditional language, an points, second and foreign languages, "he said.
Wambura said the East African Community has completed the start of the Swahili language of that community, which its headquarters are in Zanzibar Islands.
"The aim of starting that show is to promote and promote the use of the language in this community and the world as a whole," he said and added that for now the Swahili language is an official language in that community and the African Union.
