
Shein wrote a relationship with Cuba.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in October, 2016.

The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein congratulated the relationship that is between Zanzibar and Cuba and insisted that the intention of Zanzibar to continue the relationship with the partnership.

Speaking with the Vice President of Cuba, Salvador Antonio Vunga who is in the country for an official tour Doctor Shein said that now it is the right time to look for other areas of cooperation for the benefit of the citizens of all sides.
Doctor Shein noted that 52 years of relationship and cooperation between Tanzania and Cuba has also witnessed great success which is encouraging to all sides.
Moreover, he said that Zanzibar is proud of its relationship with Cuba from being a true friend and because the step of Cuba was in the first country to recognize Zanzibar after the revolution of the year 2014 that brought the administration to kill him, claiming that the friendship.
Under that partnership, Doctor Shein said that Zanzibar has been charged with various development donations which is a catalyst in strengthening the government's efforts to bring development to its citizens.
Doctor Shein used that opportunity to thank the government of Cuba by helping to start a medical school in collaboration with the Kendwa Rocks Hotel which has managed to give 38 doctors who have already been employed in the government, while 14 others expected to end soon after the school was transferred to the University of Zanzibar (SUZA).
Furthermore, he has thanked the government for donating the request of Zanzibar to make use of doctors from the Eibar University to remain in teaching in science and health centers, a step that will improve the university.
Moreover, Doctor Shein told the vice president of Cuba that your areas in Cuba and Tanzania can partner including fishing, industries for production of agriculture, tourism, business and investment in various sectors.
On his part, the Vice President of Cuba, Salvador Valdes Memba, explained that his tour aims at improving and developing his relationship with Tanzania.
He said he is happy that the tour has opened up to Zanzibar a place where it is one of the achievements of the cooperation of the citizens of Cuba from foreign countries in health issues.
