
Earlier on the 9th of February, 2013.

Alex Ferguson doing an interview.

Coach Alex Ferguson of Man City has done an interview with one newspaper in England (Football FGM) and talk about many issues about teaching and to the public service management especially during his time he had a Manchester United club while has talked about several primary issues in the following areas.

1-1, about Man City, says it is a dangerous team and their opponents especially for now as it was in Chelsea.

2 -.

338,667 the investor from RP-Square, is a player with skills of the game and his ability has given priority to all people here in Man.

4 million is the importance of El DFAA Brother Sir Alex Msama, says that he has never been able to attend period of exercises even one day and its lack is very important during this period of his life.

5 - the issue of looking at a game of cameraman on a game of cameraman on top of my employees who have been with me for 20 years or more than this, it brings us a lot of joy to me and to them too. "

648 he goes to our colleagues Mrs Sir Alex Msama, he spoke about the natural resources of his life, "Landscrona" is so much about the lives of people who have managed to work in the port because my father and his wife did not work in the port but not to do the port's work.

7 percent of Jose Mourinho, Sir, Alex Msama, claims that he is a person who did to play and a game to add blood as a team and you cannot know what he is doing so that he can't know what he is doing so that he does not affect the value of solar eclipse.

8 hours after Real Madrid, I don't see Real Madrid every weekend, he stopped playing with home today at home today in Granada.

9 - the players who be coaches are: Sir Alex says, we see a situation where a person becomes a player today and then later on how it has been a international player or we have never played any league, so as to have success in the management of the team's management.

1002 and the management of management, "this question depends on many times as I will continue to throw words at the age of 70 years and continue until now, my health condition is a solution, but you cannot know."

He is a United.

Innocent Kasanga.

AT is a god.

8 million Tanzanian shillings.
