
The District Council in the country should be Shafii Dauda, 2012.

The main aim of all my condolences to this section of the article of this column is to say and insisted that we have to do everything that is possible to make sure that our citizens, citizens of this country, are committed by the meaning of having the freedom to decide their things themselves.
To say the truth, this was the aim of fighting for Uhuru against the colonialist.
It is not true that the citizens were unable to support the process of claiming that they are against the leaders from outside the country to leave and come out of internal affairs that they will run their things like it's going into the first ones.
The aim of fighting for Uhuru was not from the colonialist because he was the guest of honor but also that his administration had a great rule, but it would have been possible for citizens to fight for their issues, maybe there would be no reason to fight for Uhuru, because even the concept of Uhuru could not have a great meaning.
On that logic, if the leaders who entered into the position left by the colonization did not make efforts to hold Uhuru as it is the freedom of citizens to decide their things themselves, then that Uhuru has been completed, we can even say that the Uhuru was abducted.

What is needed now is to make a revolution to make sure that Uhuru's freedom are getting tired of it through the freedom of its citizens, and this can be able to take it if we will expand the local governments with status, energy, the ability, and the ability like to meet the needs of making decisions on behalf of the citizens in the concerned areas.
This we met with him here at least, I used the word "revolution" which, I know it is a word that has been used for many times without being given its real meaning, which is the process of making great changes in the past, which is the process of making great changes in the past, which is the process of making great changes in the past.
If there is something that makes up the name of "revolution" but it does not succeed in that issue that it has done its own name and here I don't know that something can be a government which is in power in Zanzibar Islands or the ruling party of this country.
In my issue to discuss now, the issue of local governments, I have no doubt that we need a great revolution in because of uprooting and addressing the law, regulations and procedures that we were used to build our citizens in a short period as soon as possible.

These changes are needed now, without the delay of reasons, we have already been forced to be enough, and the delay of us can be the source of great problems in the country, even those of us have continued to ask ourselves, and our leaders have begun to ask ourselves.
The situation is not well even a little, and those who use this disease are a rumor and those who have been taxed are such as we see Uhuru but when we go to our country, the leaders are supposed to know that this is not true even if we are in danger.
If for a half, the procedure that we have been forced to give them fruits that was expected, maybe it is the right time to interview the procedure and when it is evident, they should not hesitate to change, and to change it, not by giving them well, not by giving them completely.
I believe that until now we are performing well about the local government but since in the year 1972, we have written the whole issue with an aim of improving them so as to give them the citizens' freedom as they have been promised when fighting for the freedom of their country.
Now we should leave you a lot and we do not want to look for your opinion about how to prepare themselves with the specific aim of giving citizens the wider economy.
In my opinion, the main area of strengthening the local government is the district councils, which are the ones that would be able to join power about every activities that are taking place in the district, in wards and villages, because that all the directors of the district councils and villages are forced to be supported by the authority of the district council.
The district council cannot have all the strength of managing development in the district if the district commissioners in all levels are appointed by the main government, who is the executive director in the district, is appointed by the main government in the district.
At least they had decided to be the executive director of the council to be a person who has been employed by the council so that he can be responsible for employment because the main government can advise the director of the council and decide it to be that the director will be responsible for the council.
Bad condition is being done to be bad in the executive office (director) and the head of dollars (head of the district) and all the two were held by people who did not be accountable before the council but accountability to the president.
Then, if you had started at least this one, the director who is supposed to do his work inside the council and is the executive director general, therefore we should not wait by saying that we have increased the government of local governments, but at least they could be the beginning.
However, according to we saw, and we are continuing with the process of looking for the president of the United Republic to select people who have never even heard of their names, that we believe that he had the ability to leave.
If I will explain more in the next article, in this period we did not go back all over the country, but that will take place is to use such opportunities (and many others) to achieve the goals of corruption they have no relationship with the development of citizens but by making sure that they are not involved in the desert.
In the next article I will discuss together with the position of the director that I used in the country, the head of district commissioner who is also a person to be appointed by the president of the Republic, and I will give my recommendations about the two offices with the great importance in the district.
