12 November 2013.

Van Persie, exchanging ideas.
Al Ahly being started.

Manchester, England.
The Dutch Robin van Persie, recently died.
His former club, Arsenal played for the only goal of victory.
United and started to be sent to them the hopes of defending champions of the England Premier League.
Van Persie, scored a goal.
Very delicious with the head, with every corner where is professionally known by Wayne Rooney.
27 at the Old Trafford stadium.

Manchester United's squad was under De Gea, Pallidum and 4580s.
Evans, Evra divisive words, Jones, sche Carrera GT, Kagoli / Giggs, 78 positions, Wayne Rooney and Van Persie.
Put your sim card to 85.

Arsenal from Sinyati Enterprises, Guebuza, Sagna, Koscielny and Verbania Italy.
My dear reader, Yellow FPickup, and 82 were the 82 were 61 years, Ramsey Nouah.
Cazorla's Baboons in the 78th minute by 13,409 votes.

Cairo, Egypt.

Al Ahly team of Egypt has been denied the title of clubs.
Africa after launching it in Orlando America.
South Africa 2-0 in the second final match that was played the day before yesterday.
The National Stadium in Cairo with Al Ahly, have affected the cup for the seventh time.

However, there was reports of violence erupted between hundreds of people.
Followers of Al Ahly and police in Egypt, before the match started.

After violence, the veteran player, Mohamed Abed.
He was scored the first goal in the 57th minute, Ahmed Abdul Wakil.
He got Al Ahly in the second goal.

However, those champions of Egypt got a blow after the defender.
Her husband, Sherif Abdel Fadhiri has been given by the referee for a red card as a result of a red card.
A big surprise, the player of Orlando America, Dollaso together.

The headlines, which are the champions of 1995, played with strength.
All, that missed the strength after Al Ahly got the second goal in the match.
That had numerous fans.

However, the South African champions missed a lot of opportunity.
Closing the match.

After Al Ahly in the cup they were awarded a certificate of shillings.
15 million in the United States, will also represent Africa in the World Cup.
The world champions league will be held in Morocco next month.

Before that match hundreds of fans of Al Ahly were out.
Police who were forced to use the bombs in removing them by fans.
They were given stones as they used to enter the field on strength.

It is the first match, where fans are.
Allardyce will be allowed to enter the field since the fans of Al Ahly, they were shot.
The match that was affected by violence last year.
