
Members of parliament who passed the second.
This year 1980, there witnessed two small elections where some of the politicians were found after he made a goal that was done on their political life.
On April, the member of parliament of OthmanMapara, Miss Mary Kazaula says there was a small court that had been planned to be done, after the Court of Appeal decided to accept the request to Mister Peter Gallas.
That appeal case has shared a stern legal action against the president of that court, Doctor Willy Mutta, Deputy President Kalambarauni Darajani, Mohammed Ibrahim, Njoku has been nominated to be the Court of Nyansalwa Primary School, Mohammed Ibrahim, Njekela said that the court of Nyamilima primary school had to be informed.
During the appeal of Mrs. Swahumu was presented by his lawyer, a court that was swept away by the member of parliament for being judges of the judges of the judges of Al Furqaan Islamic Center, Martha Kobello and Otieno.
The court is requesting them to change that decision by Othuman Hassan and put the law so that it could not mislead the time a day in the near future.
The lawyers and Peter's lawyers in the election commission and borders (IEBC) have told the judges without hesitation that the appeal court failed, in the evidence instead of considering the law.
Those seven judges were requested to treat that decision that was announced by OthmanMapara.
Also according to article 35 of the constitution, that court has been asked to stop when the seat are usually announced to be open.
Although the free election commission and the boundaries for the IEBC) was prepared for that small elections, finally he closed down the plans.
In that election of June 23, Mister Akitanda, gave birth to seven others when they got 10,947 votes.
His main competitor, Mister John Mngondo (ODM), got 949 points compared to Mister Charles Obrey Chirwa has had 5,371 votes.
The victory of Mister Otolo, showed weaknesses by division within the United Republic of Geology, by having their votes in general, made the union to have a win by voting for a lot of votes, but the winner had Ford, which is a party that is being supported by the Jubilee Hall.
That win has also been allowed to be a blow for ODM Party which is led by Raila Odinga.
The area is known as his stronghold Mister Odinga, because the big number of leaders who are dain, governors and women who won through his party.
Mister Otolo, who was the member of parliament, Godfrey Maseru (Muguma town), Henry Tandau (KMU), Walter Nyabudenge and the group of Otolo, have hope that the party has started to return his popularity.
