
Doctor Slaa comes back in the claims that it was going on July 1st, 2012.

In my article this week I was trying to talk about "that you will work together" because in the next few days we will vote in the general elections which maybe it is more important than all the past elections, then we have to ask for difficult questions and maybe be able to ask ourselves.
Few days ago, the presidential candidate on CHADEMA ticket, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, claimed that he has information showing the CCM government under President Jakaya Kikwete, has implemented the national security officers in the whole country so as to help Kikwete to win the elections.
This article has tried to take care of questions that can get answers if those allegations of Doctor Slaa is only one or the truth.
So as to get the answer on the truth about those accusations, are forced to discuss the department of safety of the nation, an issue that you know you cannot get involved in those involved.
The goal here is not to urge the security officers but the same way I said earlier, to look for the truth about the allegations of Doctor Slaa's fact, it is possible for the government to use the department of security for the general elections?
Personal and I have enough understanding about the issues of national safety or not, in an effort to promote professional professionalism, I have managed to study in details about the field of international security (International organization).
Likewise, I love you well in our department of national safety.
Professional and professionally is it is possible for the strength of any nation in the world, it depends on the efficiency of private institutions in the country, so as to make corrections on issues in the country can be a sign of unknown people in the concerned countries.
It is believed that for several years the department of national security was among the best security department in the world it is difficult for many to understand about it because it is your place in the world, the issues of the nation are not to be a big secret.
The privacy of the privacy is very important in the implementation of the responsibilities of those institutions, and that is why in other areas it is known as "the secret department" (Nakheel).
The privacy of us are very important and it is a must in the collection of information that can be used for the interests of the nation or very few people in the country with good governance, knowledge of the departments not affected and not intelligent.
In a country like the United States or here in England, leaders of private institutions called on the parliament committee to answer the questions "public" or giving explanations about different issues related to security of those nations.
Also, a few times he was invited in the professional profession and professional to give a speech or present a topic, especially in government institutions, Itofali Emmanuel.
Many of us remember about the "Tanzania Commission on September 11" that was set up by United States law to analysts because that caused the terror attacks in that country in the year 2001.
We saw the former director of the United Republic of America (CIA) George Tembela, while giving his evidence this year is accountability to the public and it does not affect the activities that are not involved.
Likewise, these colleagues have the procedures of removing the privacy of some reports are needed for public interests. That action was called "otherwise, but I have no correct word of Swahili.
Likewise, in some of the countries, for example the United States and here in England, the parliamentary committee that deals with security issues have great strength and the authority to ask the leaders of our committee for safety of the nation, but I don't know the problem she gets or not knowing their responsibilities.
Procedures of our colleagues have enabled their security institutions not to use the privacy of their profession to be approved as well as the interests of the nation so that those procedures are required to avoid those institutions to be used for political groups in the community or as well as political parties.
When you go back on the accusations of Doctor Slaa and a question like there is a probability that our department of national security would be used by CCM to identify elections, it is important to look at the whole safety of our nation at the moment.
This is not a judgment to our departments that are important on the security of every Tanzanian, but the aim here is to get the taproot and I believe that there is no security officer who was very happy with the allegations of Doctor Slaa if it is revealed that false accusations.
Likewise, let us have to have fear if those allegations are true.
If I have narrated that, the strength of the country is a sign of one of the strength and success of the security institution in the concerned country, and if we agree with that issue, the increase in corruption in our country will not be interpreted as required as a problem of performance of our department of national safety?
For example, the department had where the department was where a robbery yesterday occurred?
So, the influx of the contracts of corruption that are not reported to our nation in the day when the day of the day you reach you, though the institution has the responsibility to protect him there?
While asking questions of that kind can be able to bring about hostility "among those who ask questions from that department, but corruption not the national secret, and every Tanzanian has a right to interview challenges that affect the development and development of our nation.
Constitutional, the president of the United Republic of Tanzania is as the real name "of the Department of National Security Doctor by bad luck, that President is the chairperson of the Revolutionary Party.
Up to there, there is no problem of the best administration, if we are supposed to avoid politics, but all of us believe in our country well as the registrar of political parties, whose activities are not aware about the responsibilities of the National Electoral Commission, how the situation is in the institution whose performance is high.
Or we should be done soon, if the corrupt people were able to destroy CCM funds, and fraudsters has not allowed to make corrections from their company's headquarters in the country, and all that came out in the relevant state, a situation that does her work on the privacy of the institution.
Let's go very far, it is obvious that our department of safety of the nation is telling the owner of Kagoli Company, whose President Kikwete and his executives have refused to confirm it publicly or not a step.
Professionally, the department could be required to ensure the action against the owner of inspecting the order, especially because the security institutions all over the world have an official way and not to ensure issues with interests to the nation.
For example, it is said that the killing of the former prime minister of Israel, Yellow FEST has been supported by the security institution of that country because it is seen to endanger the security of that country by favoring any time and learn.
No I did not show our department of security and it will take it to someone "as a way to ensure that the owner of inspect, order should be dealt with.
Another important thing is the truth that many national security institutions in the world are half-finals by the army's heads and heads of those institutions usually like the army officers inside the army.
Their instructions didn't be questioned by their followers, because our president has great authority to get to an extent, including electing leaders of the department of national safety, it's not difficult to believe that the top leadership can lead that department for the private requirements of the president in power.
And as part of their instructions to those who will not be self-employed, then it is not true that using their power "to pay the benefit of the person appointed.
I believe until here my dear reader will have an answer about the allegations of Doctor Slaa is just a story or it is something that is possible and it may be done this time.
What is the question?
