13 November 2013.

A share of the payment of fees is being shown.
Frank Kibiki and Daniel Chongolo.
The Deputy Secretary General of the office of the prime minister, regional administration and government.
The Local Government (TAMISEMI), Zuberi Kabwe, has urged the teachers of primary schools.
To build a culture of looking for books in order to increase the understanding.
Their studies.

He said.
In the launch of the website, follow up on a share of books for their spending.
That was held yesterday in Dar es Salaam City.

The aim is.
The company's website has been forced to sell the sun and is to give a report to the stakeholders of education and education.
Students about books are distributed to primary schools.
Their spending.

He said.
The government of England commanded money used in the purchase.
That fee is to be allowed to be allowed to be used in procurement of books.
Desks in primary schools.

"Money is money.
The value of the 72 billion shillings that passed away were put in a plan.
Procurement of books and desks in primary and 75 percent have been used.
To purchase the books of students and guidelines of the teachers.
In teaching, "said Samoa Island.
On his side, the data manager of the company.
Technical data, William Kihinga said the office of the Prime Minister.
Through the United Nations Development Corporation (DFIT) gave the responsibility.
To build a website following the availability of books for their fees, so as to enable them to be able to do.
The involvement of stakeholders in education and citizens in monitoring and distribution.
Books in school.
He said this step will enable the government.
Continuing to visit his areas and having transparency.
Because they have built this system in a way that will be used by the ministry.
After that project of lack of books for their fees to end.

"The website.
That is the only way you put in all the names of schools here in the district.
The provinces that are in this province will give light weight from the follow of development.
One student, "said Kihinga.
He added that there is the existence of efforts in the ministry.
Education and technical training to start using the new system of testing the success.
Students being involved "a modem is coughing," by starting with school.
Secondary.
"In this.
So as we are in the last steps of making a system of technology.
That will enable the availability of caring about the development of the student in school.
On time, "said Kihinga.
