
That is no one with Shilole.

Let me listen to Nuh Mziwanda who for now is good, with his new song 'Bilame', has opened up and said that for now he is not present by Shilole, Nuhu has said that today when he was talking to fans through Facebook page of EATV.
I feel extremely honored.

Since the meeting will begin in Ramadhan there was a rumor that artist Nuhu has left her from Shilole and now their lives with him have been confirmed as Nuhu while answering a question about why until now he continues to live with Shilole in the house which Shilole has planned.
"No that I am no one with Shilole, for now I am happy to me.
However, Nuhu has no meaning that their love has died but he has given his colleague in the same period for Ramadhan, due to the basis of faith in his lover and claimed that despite that, he himself is with him and he sees himself.
Many questions that the fans of EATV were asked where it was about the life of the love between him and Shilole, therefore they had a need to know different issues that maybe be aired by a woman like a child and that is Nuhu Mziwanda when he stopped him on that issue of being given by Shilole.
There's no problem with all the days if you want to permanent up with the other day you want to get your friend or even if it was played with a woman cannot stay, therefore it is good for a man to forgive him. "
Apart from that of the hit song, Billy condemned the issue of him being brought up by Shilole and said that he has his life with his lover she has also revealed that some people believe in the streets that he is proud of and taken care of Shilole.
"It is not true that I have been given why I have my life and live in life, so we do not meet your life but people are living in different life, but they should know that I have my own life and it's just one thing.

The use of SPC.
That artist has admitted openly that he said in English language is not his language, therefore, the mistakes that he is doing in the use of the language is normal because it does not learn more so that he can have good results in using the world's language, therefore he refused to learn more so that he does not get married but all is the reason to do the language in details.
"

Faith too.
Some of the fans have been saying that, that artist is involving themselves with faith of the devil of 666 of using 666 points in the past couple, but he has emphasized that he does not believe that, those number are used by people who love peace.
"I don't have faith that and I did not believe that, number one is pregnant, it is okay and another if you believe that, number one is yours, then you will understand you, but I am not saying God only.
In his journey of life Nuhu has said he will not accept any day that they traveled with outside the country and he was left out in the train and its host, claims that if he is expecting to get married with Shilole and that's why they are still together for the second year in his relationship.
