The Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA) has announced new prices of air transport services in urban transport sector of huge shortage, then in the provinces and transport through the central railway together with the port's services start to be used for ten o'clock in this year, Beatrice Singano a report.
New levels are required to give advice from owners of transport stations where they have given the buses in order to increase the fare at one hundred and nine percent while the transporters' tusks worth 23 percent to five percent and who has not registered.
However, after getting out of those applications, he will increase the fare costs by twenty-four percent per bus and twenty percent and three more than three major buses.
While giving an example, an increase in those percent acting director of SUMATRA has been sentenced to buses in close areas here in the city, where we had received the fare for three hundred shillings now, it will be four hundred shillings while insisting that the price of a student will be two hundred shillings even if the bus goes against the shortage.
Moreover, he urged the owners of the transport agencies and the effects of using the bus to inherit the female selling.
Owners of the buses.
Not using data.
Look for selling tickets of journey.
Not using data.
Speaking about the transport of the central railway which there is farming has said that SUMATRA has received an increase in fifty percent in the third and five percent in the first class and five hundred percent like that I have been asked for the first class and five percent.
He has urged the railway company to improve its services so that we can be able to deal with the costs that concern them.
On the port's side, it has noted that the increase of ten percent and three more than three hundred percent after four hundred percent of the port are among more than one hundred thousand services among more than one hundred services and being offered by that port because it is a must that every passengers do not have a book.
That can that I want to get into the tournament he will be told you cannot get his book.
This is not a problem.
This is because of the collection of revenue.
But it is because.
Well.
The instrument.
I got from looking at Tambi a bone in the head.
There is no need.
