
Maalim Seif, Shein does not lie on the front of May 23, 2012.

During the vote of votes (standing) in the next general elections being expected to be brought in this week from South Africa where they were defeated, the presidential candidates of Zanzibar through the Civic United Front (CUF), Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein, has started trying to get victory.
In addition to the cause of chaos, it's accused of conflicts in the use of campaign fields, all the two candidates showing the sure of victory, everyone knows it in the history of political leadership and accepted them to the citizens in the islands.
While Maalim Seif saying that in Zanzibar, it needs great changes in getting the true development, Doctor Shein has quoted claiming that the leadership do not depend on his leadership under President Benjamin Mkapa and now under Jakaya Kikwete, saying he has got enough experience.
At the same time, the political intention of Zanzibar and the Zanzibar Electoral Commission (ZEC) has got the first challenge in reviewing the election.

The challenges have taken place after emerging with a tension between CUF and the government officials and the commission on using the field of Donge County.
That one-day tension caused a stern warning to the followers, but later before the meeting on October 16 this year, CUF wanted to break their meeting.

But before continuing with the topic of those news, it is good that ZEC is continuing with the preparation of the elections and information that were given by the director of ZEC, Salum Kassim Ali in a recently meeting with the elections stakeholders is that approximately 7,356 people were expected to vote in their 291 stations.

The reports of the voting process is an indication that the preparations for the election of elections is expected to be released while the commission is prepared to supervise the elections that was free, rights and open.
In starting to implement those promises, ZEC has given out a copy of the vote of voters for political parties that put for a presidential position in Zanzibar Islands, every party being given one billion with a report of voters.

The chairperson of that commission, Khatib Makame, said during the launching of the book, his commission has given a list of parties to improve democracy in the country and show transparency (VAT) during the elections.

The elections stakeholders, and especially the CUF party (CUF) for a long time has been complaining that there are several errors in the exercise, and it wants ZEC to give vote of voters for the purpose of verification, so as to remove the fears of the existence of ghost voters together with the voters who registered themselves twice and more.

The political parties among the political parties have been given a prestigious award for the voters' book (CUF) CUF, NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-Evolution and NCCR-NCCR - CUF, has started using its experts to verify the book, while some of the parties present to support Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein.

"Masau boasted.

ZEC was criticized for a lot of success in the previous elections, but after the political intention between President peace of Karume and Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad, now the commission had promised to supervise the rights of the general elections this year, that will be viewed or followed by more than 2000 local and outside Tanzania.
