
These new members "that he cleaned it or will be finished CCM?
Brightiles 29, 2012

The new season of elections has started in the African continent for the previous season started in the beginning of the year until October, to the elections of the presidents or presidents or the presidents of this new season that started in November, it will continue until next year.

In the previous election elections were done in Algeria, Angola, Cameroon, Congo, Kinshasa, Egypt, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, the general elections of the constitution (EAC), Mauritius have, Senegal and Somalia.

As a result of the Somalia state of elections that were done there were a kind of its own kind, the citizens did not elect members of parliament or not to elect the president, members of parliament were appointed by the throat, "the representatives," the representatives, "the representatives.

Several elections that were not necessary for this year have been postponed for Guinea-Bissau, for example, he did a special election to elect the president after falling, President Malcom Turner, but it has postponed that parliamentary elections until next year.

Guinea-Conchesta Ngaiza receiving the elections of the parliament to be cleaned this year and is not known when they will be discussed.

Libya's side, although there are a parliamentary elections to make constitution, has postponed the new parliament elections until May 8, next year to Sitalike county and be surprised by violence that will be done in that election.

Madagascar.

The elections of the Parliament that was to be cleaned on October 2013.

The new season of elections started on November 3 in Swaziland, the elections of the towns councils made by November 13 and the general elections and presidential elections in Sierra Leone.

December 2, 2012 Burkina Faso will inspect members of parliament on December 7 this year, it will go into the field for the parliamentary and presidential elections this presidential election will get aroused because-finals between President John Pombe Magufuli and his great opponent, Amahoro Stadium.

Maybe the elections that are being waited for desire and sexual excitement are those that will be done in Kenya, March next year, the Kenyans will return to president, members of parliament, governors of the local government and representatives of women in the Social Security Council.

It is difficult to confirm that the wind will you use what would you get to the question that goes with someone who will participate as the winner in the presidential election but it's like that if the political unions have not been made up of everyone who are collaborating with who is collaborating with.

The next elections of Kenya has a huge lesson to the 2015 general elections and especially in Zanzibar because of incitement statements about some of the leaders of CCM of that province.

Statements that the CCM will not accept to be able to leave Zanzibar even at the Easter festivals which shows the preparations for a plot to hold on the end of the election.

Incitement statements are bad signs and it knows all what happened in Kenya after the year 2007, a case that his fate is expected to be arraigned in Uhuru Kenyatta, and William Ruto, vibrant politicians, and great ability, in front of International Criminal Court (ICC) in Dar es Salaam city.

It is clear that CCM will have a hard work in the next general elections, although, in the recent changes, we have changed the image of the leadership inside that party and I don't think that the leadership will be able to deal with the challenges facing the party.

First, there are several leaders in the platform of those who are called "new leaders" who in the past or their ones that were accused of fighting corruption, they were involved with major corrupt people in the country, a question that will have the courage to arrest their colleagues or they will be able to do so and they will continue competing?

Maybe the members of CCM would have been good hope that he would have been given the leaders that are truly the new, those in the youth, physically challenged, Uo and Jo'clock in the country and if those leaders don't know if such leaders are not in the party.

Secondly, I do not just think about CCM, it will be able to register it if it will not be able to move forward so that those of the era of Nyerere especially concerning the leadership for example, it should expect it to have a habit of misconduct like to address the public by using words of misconduct.

I have been able to end in African Continent, there are two important things present at the first time on how the presidential candidates and the presidential candidates are using money, and a lot of money will be a lot of money.

Secondly, I don't know your differences in politics among the political parties, maybe it is in a country like Tunisia, Libya, or Egypt where there is a tension between the ones with the ruling party to be able to follow through the foundation of Islam and those who do not pollute the system.

Likewise, it has been a different types of rivals about the economy between the preston's economy and as socialists, and we have decided to accept the economic system as a free market despite witnessing how it affects the lives of people in several countries in the world.

There are a lot that our government and we the citizens are going to change how the elections are run in Africa where it is important to make our politicians to abandon the habit of using the elections to be able to investigate it instead of expanding the nation.
