
Telela battling it to Post Bank.
By Francis Dande.
The Voluntary Program of Telela Mboto (SCA) has condemned the intention of winning again the party's property that is owned by the Tanzania Post Bank in Nairobi.
This step may be conflicts between the Tanzania Post Bank and the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party, when he gets a difficult time due to the shortage of funds, after thousands of its members who were responsible for the Tanzania Post Bank (PMK).
This period of Thatcher famous at the same time was owned by more than 20,000 members but today has emerged with 2,295 members at the end of the month of April.
As a result of a shortage of members, Taib, at the same time was being counted as one of the little political party and loans in the country contrary to it was in the 80 and 90 years.
During the annual meeting of the party members of that party, that took place in the rainy season, Bonaventure Baya said on Wednesday, more than 100 delegates from the 747 students that they decided to get one statement that the party's property that is owned by Postal Bank will be able to get to them.
Led by the chairperson of the party, Mister Richard Mwaikenda while, those delegates asked the Tanzania Post Bank's executive committee to make sure that their property and palaces, luxurious houses that are owned by Post in the hands of Tetemesha Entertainment.
"108 members of Telela Hoya said they have decided to have one statement that coughing, other buildings and shares of millions of money collected and Postal Bank in a period of the next three months," said Mister.
Some of the houses that I got into the field is back to return to their hands is together with the residential houses that are in Eastleigh neighborhood in Nairobi.
In addition, Mister Toba said that Taib, will pay compensation to the Post Bank, its own 2767 percent of the shares in that company.
"We expect to have talks with the Post Bank under the chairperson of the representatives of the government to make sure that we are taking our property to security and without a tension," he added Mister Tena.
The Tanzania Post Bank was formed in the year 1998 and the Telela Hoya, as one way of increasing the money of running that party and to give them more income.
But by Eastleigh neighborhood, it was owning several hours in Mombasa before paying for a few years ago.
