
There is an issue of importance in the opinion of the parliament, January 17, 2013.

The commission on constitutional changes led by the former prime minister, Judge Joseph Warioba and his vice chairman in the commission, retired Chief Justice Augustino Ramadhani, continues to collect the views of various institutions in the country about the new constitution that is expected to be ready for April next year.
After listening to the opinions of religious institutions, political parties together with Nronga group, earlier this week, the commission got opinions from the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania through the speaker of parliament, Doctor Thomas Kashimba.
We are supporting some of the opinion that were given by parliament and especially the recommendations that the speaker of parliament will be free from "the whole issue of his political party so as to serve the pillar.
It is not wise to have a speaker who is a member of parliament and therefore, according to those recommendations, the speaker will be chosen to be the speaker while having a parliamentary seat, and more than that, the speaker was supposed to continue responsible for his party's position and especially when he depends on parliament.
For us, our citizens of Mwema, we are supporting these recommendations, as we believe that, it is a good step to improve the parliament's status as an independent body and to allow the speaker to fulfill its obligations by caring about the interests of his political party.
Even so, the speaker can have love for his party, but in the big part he will not be able to face the attempt to be stripped off parliament because he was running to parliament to protect the interests of his party.
It should be remembered that this recommendations will be made during a time that the country has been made to witness the threat of speaker wanting to marry off his party's card and therefore forced him to vie for a debate on the scandal of a special mobile phone company, without caring about the interests of his party.
He was a member of parliament of the nine parliament, Samuel Sitta, who is the executive sitting of his party's executive council (CCM) in an environment that was mentioned to be led by corruption and the internet of corruption, wanted to stop off the membership so that they can get out of parliament.
Therefore, we believe that those recommendations of the parliament and others that it is difficult to have listed here, together with those found guilty, different stakeholders is with a good intention of this nation and therefore it reaches the new constitution.
