We are not allowed to do things to be cleaned.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

This week I will complete (for a short time) a debate about events that facing the education sector recently, but all of us know that the education issues will be able to emerge with this column because they are not living with the way we are continuing to come out and get more stories.
It is true that the recent scandal is one of the administration to announce that the school children have failed badly and the other part decided to change the procedures of testing the results so that others get the symptoms of the disease and not the disease themselves.
Our disease is big more than what we are seen and we are happy to talk with each other and a bad voice, and this is a disease that wants to prevent it keenly, it will be education, or industries, or even sports, we have been people to look for answers in a difficult state.
By doing changes in the procedure of testing the results, our leaders want to believe (and they think they believe) that our education doesn't have a problem, it is very good education, and therefore we have no reason to be keen and take any emergency action.
All of us know, even if our some would like to fail, that different researches have shown that our children in many schools do not be dealt with and they have been found behind in five or six years of class.
Now we were surprised when we were told that the children of that kind are when they reached the appropriate time involved, they did not know if we had never seen those children don't know what those children don't know what they don't know what they don't know anything.
We have been told several times that someone who comes from pain, but we decided to be champions of hiding our diseases, there are dangerous diseases, but we know you (or then you will be able to know you) that "Nuzulack Dausen" since it did not want them.
We have been these people that we have a good future, because each one of us built its future, he and his family as it was heading to all we understand the importance of better education for our children, and that is why we are improving the importance of better education for our children, and that is why we are able to talk about it more than their parents and our parents.
The problem is that most of us can be able to maintain the high cost, and many children are continuing to study in schools that they don't learn, even to read, write and to stop, write and to stop at a primary level.
I had been made, but I will go back, but I will go back, while these speakers were forced to help them here when their colleagues get married, and we will follow the war.
It is true that many of the leaders are when they take appropriate decision to change the examinations that they take their children to study in school where ordinary parents do not want them to study in schools that they do not have a problem with the school they are studying.
We wait until now, there is no important thing to our children like the best education in ensuring that them being better and good citizens, those of them don't have positions in government, that concern them and they got similar education.
That was a time when parents who were in government toured the public schools to educate public schools that will educate the education that was possible, and their children came out in those schools.
This was a time when parents with ability, or positions in government have removed their children from private schools and get them in public schools because they had faith in public schools more than private schools.
