
Misappropriations, the ones who had been stolen has been stolen from a phone.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published yesterday / 03 / 2016.

If you go to Pickup, when they receive a mobile phone message, I request you to work hard to anyone, even if you will see that message has been sent in number of a very close person, consider my advice, should be heard before sending.

If it is a message to be asked for money and a person who is looking for you (through his number), before sending, being satisfied that by campaigning for him, he told him and be satisfied that the phone was not present.
In addition, when they receive a message of words or even to be assisted by a person (you don't know you), if you want you to get into the issue due to the fact that there are people who have been stolen from different ways through phone communication.
There are many cases of this way, there are some who has been found not to give an indication, but remain in pain so as to resolve it.
But there are some who have narrated it and therefore giving a lesson to many recently, during the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Infrastructure, that met with the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA), the size of the theft problems including those who were affected.
Some of the members of parliament explained the way they have found themselves having a lot of money that they love the brothers, and yet it is with conmen.
These honorable ambassadors who were treated through a way for these boys have been looking on a person's network for several minutes and using a phone number of a person who attacked them, to use other people and one member of parliament witnessing how they send 800,000 American Dollars after receiving a message from the phone number of his brother.
So he was not his brother, but fraudsters has exposed his network on the other and explained his employee how they send 1 million shillings after receiving a message that showed the phone of his boss.
There are many examples of theft and corruption that are taking place in mobile phones and every day, these scientists have been fulfilling different ways.
Let me listen to you another incident that my eye has ever witnessed, when I arrived at home, I arrived at home and found a girl Mawazo (not the real name) with great thoughts that her sister has got a bad accident.
"Who did you tell you," it was a first question to this girl, he has decided to say he is a person who had them using her sister's phone (he is alleged to get an accident).
That person told her that her sister has got an accident with swimming with motorbikes in Mwanza town.
He told him that when he arrived at the accident area, he decided to volunteer to participate in the hospital because it is not good, "he wanted what to get 20,000 shillings for the phone to compensate some of the patient's payment and also bought a lot of money and put off the phone.
-shirt, Mawazo would know that the person who sent money is not very attractive, but it is a penalty.
After asking for her sister Mawazo, he decided to look for a different number reserved during the phone and started voting for them by thanking the reports of accidents within a short time, he put aside more than four people that were given money and later on phone.
Another reason for those thieves, it's a person to be remembered and to be told that he won a certain competition / luck (more using the names of mobile phone companies).
The one who is called a phone is usually told to give his various information to the purpose of fulfilling the process of getting enough money, the reports have been done by conmen from those reports or their brothers, all of them have given the challenge to be careful with the theft through mobile phones.
These events do not tire us with mental disabilities, never you cannot send money without speaking and be satisfied with a person that is determined to use the money before doing that.
You don't leave a question and see anyone who is using a message or calling you asking for money or wanting to get any business agreement / money.
Remember people should wait, he can't ask for money but it should not be touched on the trap of giving information on various issues that can use them in later or to remove your close person.
In general, we are not the right of those who had been conned and being stolen from phones, the ones that are supposed to find good citizens to be careful, because of meditation and be satisfied with any information that is used on the phone.
