
To see the passengers of death, Sheikh Yahya got the arrest, his victory is Juwes Wang.

The news that Mnishi, Sheikh Yahya has blamed her to be the son of any CCM who will come out to take the form to vie for the presidency in power, Jakaya Kikwete in the next elections, he will die with different feelings among the communities of Zanzibar Islands.
Many feel that your phone is not only that he is used to see President Kikwete by using threats, but also the nation is put in a shame of the shame of a shame of our culture, especially when the government continues to kill him, and maybe be supported through that attack.
Most of us have every reason of rhaging into that culture of preventing and breaking the future of the nation and the leadership of the country in general, they believe that superstition has no problem but we cannot destroy the community and that many of the elderly and the country's leadership?
King Sawazisha ', who passed away between 1000 - 1 trillion shillings, which was ending up when he decided to involve any religious faith in witchcraft and make sure anyone can't understand or get married but the advice to "the judge said.
According to the Bible, 1 Samuel 15, of 10, 16, 16, June 11th, said that, by depending on a person, one with the rights and love for people, Sauko has denied the vision and love for people, Sawazisha 'and even when he asked the vision and advice to people, when she didn't destroy the vision or advice to people, when she didn't destroy the vision or advice.
Same way, any nation that will be led by touching the type of 'Sawazisha', Mobutu, popularly known as Hasheem Mkabakuli.
These things are not involved in these days of freedom, democracy, and development, science and technology that had been inserted into the thoughts and sex of a human being.
And the national leaders should not worry about this and give an eye on it.
Every national leader has her religious leaders to marry off God and that is why the senior leaders do not recognize the constitution of their religion in order to defend the constitution of the country at the courts, so as to defend the constitution of the country the police force led by the murder of women Sheikh Yahya.
The constitution of the country whose leaders do not allow them to defend it is the constitution that was approved by citizens to run the future of their national community, political, economy and culture.
And because people and the nation are people and the nation of God, should do the leader that will lead God in accordance with his faith that made him not to use the mid-fielder of that faith, so that he can be using a vision and correct advice to lead, otherwise the oath doesn't have a problem in the whole issue of leadership.
And if the truth of these diseases have meaning in leadership and not hypocrisy when any action is involved in superstitions in the leadership of any level that can be interpreted as well as an indication of the oath (surf) and the constitution of the country.
The recent attack, Sheikh Yahya Hussein has been seen many people have asked many questions, including Sheikh Yahya being sent or are used as normal weapons, as one way to build fear among the public and to increase the good leadership that is supposed to develop themselves from its problems.
It appears to say that the government would be able to condemn that act of Sheikh Yahya of wanting to make faith in witchcraft in the course of administration and politics of the country.
Contrary many people have died from the state house, through its communications director, Salva Rweyemamu, that "the opinions of Sheikh Yahya should be careful" without doubt because they have the logic or the level of the spokesperson and those intended to the Tanzanian community.
The state of the State House to talk about the style of serving that torch will not be interpreted as well as the implementation of the State House and if the government will continue to maintain peace, then the Tanzanian public will believe that the nation has changed from his phone.
He understood the Sheikh Yahya that superstition is clear that you need the "superstitions"?
"Ndonga," by pretending to be the strength of the "port '- if you put it a great shape or a strong man in the other language.
The translation of the "superstitions" is for many hours and shivered, including things (by using the real way), like the name 'Fulfill Your Goals and "the second one" or the second one "or the second name" or the second one "or the other.
According to the second section of the law of witchcraft (Ambassador Witselfor), number 18, of the year 1974, if you missed him, a word "witchcraft" (Aisha Yesufu) called me, to deal with any action as they echoed the existence of strength.
"
That section will be responsible, "knowledge (equipment) of witchcraft" with a meaning to include anything that is used, or what is intended to do legal action or not to be afraid, or cause death, effects or diseases to any person or property.
Those recommendations at the field will be careful, the meaning of anything that is used or can be used to arrest one person or get married or later we will explain that the drugs are used to implement the purpose mentioned above.
Under section five of this law, it's an offense of criminal offenses that has been sentenced to seven years, for anyone who is capable of causing death, disease, injured, or causing conflicts in any community.
The same way, section seven makes it clear that, it is dangerous for any person to use or convince any person to decide whether to use or be able to help them or to use methods of witchcraft with any purpose.
By posting those passengers the death of any candidate or the presidential candidates in the country, who will come out in the race against President Kikwete, Sheikh Yahya, is using the strength of "("
And if he will succeed in that issue (something that is not easy), it does not make it or that we don't do not use abusive language (EFD) or not to be able to use the "signifies.
Sheikh Yahya Hussein is a person who doesn't know her to introduce himself as Mnonga and cold drinks, by reading the star and the use of herbal medicines or wisdom, that were written by reading through the internet (as to promote sports) on claims of knowing the other things.
The truth, they do women Sheikh Yahya Hussein, does not have different from what the coach Mangungu as the popular book of writer Mohamed Said Abdallah, of Gikombaa is a lot of time and what he did is, Miss Kiango, who had been known in witchcraft, pour out of vegetables, color, and which were known in witchcraft.
Other than you know and know the strength of "here in the world, if I have explained there, first, evil deeds that the Sheikh Yahya was together with Manufacturing Company of Abu Dhabi, Lakshit Pandya, and Alike Gwao.

Other are Kekeletse Phoofolo, Asmara, Alais Morindat.
Therefore, these are the reputation of these types of books as compared to example, Shameor "solar eclipse.
Mujahideen, "a confirmation of things," we are based more on drugs, the farm and drugs for the love 'Fulfill Your Goals (SELF), because of the air transportation in all the high level, they don't know themselves in the areas.
All the books are of the Arab language, and many times they buy the different types of diseases by considering the place and environment.
In which way they can be together with taking each blood on the night, what has been done in the Indian Ocean or dye at the grave of the eyes, one politician and politicians who were set aside for that bus.
These are all acts of witchcraft and superstition that are committed under the law of witchcraft being mentioned above and the one with their involvement in the country that comply with good governance and the administration of the law.
Further, it is good for the big part of the politicians in these days to enable them to register or get involved in actions that symbolize the collapsed building and leadership ethics for leaders to believe in power and hope that you will place in power.
What should one being touched on this issue should look for instance, as the general elections of the year 2010 when I read the way the culture of wearing a ring, add to the Holy Quran and maybe a very big ring, and maybe a big ring, and maybe a big ring, and maybe a big ring on their marriage.
The Holy Quran, humble when they got into the neck and the ones that were displayed including an error in the sun or beauty, all of them were displayed through an ancient attack on the Holy Quran and make sure it may be connected to them in accordance to political lines.
How do not expect to do so, in a period where the nation is faced with heavy issues, including corruption, lack of ethics, integrity and accountability, if we will continue to elect religious leaders, integrity and accountability, if we will continue to choose good leaders, but they shouldn't care about their responsibilities, but they shouldn't care about their responsibilities, but they shouldn't hesitate to power through the strength of darkness.
What's the ignorance of this year, that when the world is making the race for the development of science and technology, drinking alcohol and believe in us, we have come back in the previous days, by directed by our faith, an extent of getting those faith in the course of the government and politics of the country?
Our country is the fourth in the world in the production of gold and diamonds together but it is the second from 23 million countries in the world.
To fight these evil deeds, we need vision and vision, and have found themselves in basis of the rights and truth, instead of depending on a lot of human rights, or advice from Samuel Sitta are forced to inform you there.
But we want to understand that, if the leadership of the country will ensure that they continued to do and protect themselves, the nation will be self-ignorance, as Ranaldo and Sawazisha 'has been directed to ghost workers.
