
"The draft of the constitution is continuing to be a good thing, not a union.
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

The debate about the draft of the new constitution is seen to take a lot of political direction, some of the scholars have started to take precaution, and those who are in universities are supposed to understand the commission of constitutional changes.
Doubt of those scholars is being built in seven things that have been affected in that draft, the existence of the union of the union, believing that they are not involved in the government.
The president of the students of the students, the University of Mzumbe, Morogoro Province, Agnes Lukaya, speaking about the issue saying that the commission of Judge Warioba had an intention of breaking the union but it has not been unable to break the coalition.
Lukaya gave the statement in the conference hall of Mzumbe University, Mbeya Campus at the debate of the draft constitution that was run by the Federation of the students of the students in Tanzania (TAHLISO), and that day he was welcomed by the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe.
Those scholars be noted that according to that draft, the one that is being built here is to be a good example and not a union, and in the environment of those kind they need to be used for international agreement (International Agency) instead of the eyes of a union that will not be in it.
While those scholars, the side of Tanzania Mainland who identified that draft on the view of the absence of a union, their colleagues in Zanzibar are discovered that they need their full authority, inside and outside Tanzania.
The student Rajab Mbarouk, who was there in that conference, says that when he was released, "now Zanzibar is a country in the books."
Speaking at that debate, Doctor Mwakyembe noted that the issue of coalition is the biggest thing more than all, thus it has ordered the universities to sit like the scholars and lead the debate about the issue of the union.
"The issue of a lot of tension in the draft of the constitution is a union, he resorted to the analysis of the union," says Doctor Mwakyembe and added that "taste salt on political parties, put a lot of change, make sure that you get a lesson so that the youth can be very delicious.
Doctor Mwakyembe noted that for preparing a special debate, a scholar, every one will be required to talk about the issues according to the questions that were asked by the youth and not making politics only.
In that debate there was a need to discover themselves and avoid being used by political parties that send to them as activists, an issue that is making them be resolved when they are the strength of the nation.
The issue of the new constitution came in a time that Tanzania has started getting popularity in the world due to it was claimed to have a lot of natural resources that have been harvested for the biggest needs in Europe and America.
