
Yanga emerges with TFF.
Charles Kimei, The Citizen Director @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam was a few days after the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) against the elders of Yanga Club, to move forward the elections, the board of directors of that club has come out and fighting with the process to start after the league season ended.
Instead, the leadership of that club has also called a special meeting of members for the purpose of planning the election process.
At the end of last week, Yanga elders led by the secretary general, Ibrahim Akilimali has requested TFF to talk to citizens to move forward so that they do not affect the team's development in that competition.
"We are going to respect all media houses, we would like to cooperate with them for the benefit of Yanga and sports in general, therefore the BMT and TFF will move forward the process of starting the form and its procedures and it started after the completion of the league," said Akilimali.
However, TFF through his information officer, Alfred Lucas said it cannot work the request of those elders because it is not members of participating that order.
"First, so as to ask for the moving towards elections process, we have spoken to party members and we the TFF are doing work with our members and among them is the club including Yanga," said Lucas.
The board of sponsors of that club gave that call yesterday while they were forced to be surprised by the step by TFF to force people to do elections while the authorities of doing so are themselves.
"The responsibility of TFF is to have only one supervisors, but those who are supposed to supervise the whole election exercise is a player who will be careful, we wanted to do elections since last year, but the government stopped the reasons for the general elections.
The board of sponsors of the club of Yanga is proud of the leadership called a special meeting of members to plan the election process, which are required to take place after the end of the premier league, Confederation Cup (CAF) and the board of that board, Francis Khibhisa.
In another step, the board of sponsors of that club has given an order to be prepared for the general plan of the construction of Yanga's stadium in the Jangwani area, which the club will lead to sponsor.
"The exercise of preparation of the construction plan should be under the management of the National Social Security Council (AU), together with the City Council," said Mgungusi.
That board of sponsors has also thank the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam who passed, Mecky Maxime, together with the leadership of Ilala District Council last week, for their efforts to ensure that project is successful.
