
The freedom of information heading to 2015 have buy players, but the teams get to be sold to Dec, 2012.

Don't know that, "the housing of hunger did not look for noise," even our nation has been faced with noise from a lot of poverty that was condemned by the authorities.

When the general elections is ready, preparations for the following elections are beginning there and there because a reason that is wanted is not to bring development but to be in hunger.

The day before yesterday at the 51 years conference that took place at the Nkurumah estate in the University of Dar es Salaam, a scholar, while comparing the situation that is same as summoning demons.

I'm told when he was asked, when he was asked, he said that words do not be heard on this column, but he said, "voters" do not have patience due to each other because I have heard a big situation of the political situation in the country.

Unfortunately, when we came to the year 2015, it is not that this will not get enough opportunity to be discussed while they should be dealt with because basically the nation has no media freedom as required by the leaders.

I would like a lot of people to talk about him about freedom of the media instead of the leaders themselves not praising him and claimed that we do not wait, therefore, the influx of newspapers and radio stations have not been sold to stop the University of showing the existence of freedom of the news.

At other times, the action of not arrested and educate them in some of the journalists that tried to remove the leaders and the system, it has been called to become a media freedom.

Different from other people they claimed, I believe that freedom of news here in the country when we came to the year 2015, it is needed by the media industry itself with its news, something that is very big and to be heard.

In the year 2005, politicians and information formed the network of corruption that have been used to destroy the media here in the country after succeeding to include it this government that is in power, politicians with dirty funds, put him that there is no longer a member of information that there is no longer.

Therefore, they thank you the news to give a person and to be able to see if you agree in front of the citizens as well as creating a person, they will make sure that he is following our game seven years since the elections to end.

Since the year 2015, the seat will be open, the efforts to arrest the journalists have already started a special camp to urge the citizens have already set aside a huge conflict to arrest the journalists for the work of creating and removing what is heading to the year 2015.

News who are self-employed to believe that they have the ability to support our president and the news that they have been sold to have products or talents in music and the players of football, pens, has been equal to the ball or football.

Already the aim of registering new newspapers in the new newspapers have been filled with a table with the registrar of government newspapers for the purpose of registering new newspapers in order to register and arrest the journalists from another camp in order to join their camp for the purpose of creating and killing politicians.

By bad luck, we have also said that some of the presidential candidates also use media houses, therefore it's a dream believe that they have their information forever will be independent in the interests of politicians.

The government's media stations are in the pockets of the presidential candidates and to defend the government as a foundation stone on their union because of fulfilling the citizens, the forum has been a bridge of politicians who want the presidency in the whole media industry.

This forum has been built in the foundation of joining voluntary, but it has also plans of destruction of members and those who are not members.

When it started its activities, showed up, quills, discovered the government and politicians, even threatened to marry off the claims that it was not registered.
What was an issue that made the government to recognize that platform and use it for the interests of the politicians.

If it is not on the platform of media crime, it will be possible that until now the laws of controlling the newspapers like the year 1976 and continue to be used to download the newspapers change, because the media decided to deliver social media such as a step of being inclined.

Our news and our news have been brutally murdered by police on the law of corruption, but the platform of editors ended up with a statement by the editors and even before writing news from the news that is owned by the press themselves at the price of soda and fever.

Now we start to witness a new culture in the media industry so that political parties are done to see a politician, the political party moved to the opposition and touched me in all the issues that we expect "Mister" the new song "we did not see this behavior in the news sector.

Since the year 2005, we have witnessed some of the news members "when he left the camp there is a view and started singing songs of praising God what she cursed for many years.
If they arrested some political parties that we have not registered, they changed and started singing a song that he is very happy and sometimes the changes were taken, the party that was the devil of the party, is that the party was the devil.

Changes in this way didn't stop the media industry and it is safe for the whole time, this act is same as selling a player and the whole team because they are not a must to sell the whole team, that is the media industry in which they have been caught in Dudu Baya, causing integrity of the press.

At the moment the news industry continues with bribery same as other sectors in the country and the news are leading in the same way it gives the gifts to create and kill people as a way of getting income.

Analysts of issues have started understanding to this evidence that for this newspaper continue to be sworn in, it is a must for the secret agreement that we are doing between journalists and politicians so as to be availed to overturn the toes.

Likewise, they have news to live through a benefit of printing or not a certain news, but when I decided to look for a long time, not the author's ethics, but it is not a journalist, but another one doesn't know how to write even each other.
