
Salaries in government to consider skills, difficulty of work.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The public servants from February 2018 will start selling salaries and allowances in accordance with the skills and difficulty of their work.

The Minister of State, Office of the President, Public Service Management and Good Governance, Angella Kairuki said that the government recognizes the servants not to get salaries and motivation in accordance with the condition and their profession in different regions in the country.
He said that yesterday while responding to a question about the increase of the member of parliament of Tarime, Esther Matiko (CCM), who wanted to know when the government will see the importance of paying for the prison officers in the country according to their skills so as to give them the motivation as it is to other officers.
Kairuki said the procedure will be held for all servants including prisons.
He has said at the moment his office has started doing an evaluation of payments for all leaders and the procedure will be completed every servant will be able for payments including the income and allowances in accordance with the skills and difficulty of his work.
In a primary question that was asked by the member of parliament for Chumbuni, Ussi Salum Pondeza AMJADI (CUF), wanted to know the government has a plan to help the servants to get their rights of their positions as it is to their colleagues who were tested.
Responding to the primary question, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Mwigulu Nchemba, said the servants of Immigration Department in the year 1999-2000 had different levels of education such as form six, diploma and diploma for all servants, there is no assistant commissioner as the member of parliament.
Nchemba said that those servants have now come out due to various reasons including being employed in different positions according to their education at the time they are employed and joining the Immigration Department.
