
Employees of TBL Group are celebrating the environmental day.

Nationally.
By Zainul Mzige.
June 5, 2016.
Employees of TBL Group Company has participated in commemorating the world environmental day by actions where they have participated in the exercise of cleaning the environment in Ilala Municipality, when he arrived in collaboration with employees of Ilala Municipality in Dar es Salaam city where some of them have made a donation of cleaning equipment valued at 6 million shillings in that ward.
Employees of other industries that are in the country under the company have also participated in the cleaning exercise in areas of their industries and the neighboring areas by partnering with the citizens living in those areas.
Speaking about those commemorations, the Manager of TBL factory of Ilala, Calvin Martin, has said that they are participating with the employees of TBL Group Company, wherever they are participating in celebrating the day and the environment is one of the company which is aimed at making production that does not affect the environment.
There is a big offence of the goals of the company, it is a clean, and the world that is clean, which have aimed to get natural resources of enough water which is used quickly to protect and maintain the water sources and ensure the water being found is beneficial to the community of citizens that are using them, "said Calvin.

Calvin added that the slogan of the environmental day in the world this year, says that when he was awarded the water catchment areas for the life of the nation, we are also a strategy to educate the community to improve water sources and help promote water projects in the country.
He said in implementing the environment of environmental cleanliness in TBL Group, it has started production of controlling the rice bran and rice bran at his factory of Mwanza and is making a strategy to ensure that it is making production that doesn't have the effects of the environment in its industries.
As a result of a mother company of SABMiller, it has set up goals up to the year 2020 and to make sure that it is making production in its industries that doesn't affect the environment especially air crafts because up to 35 percent of the implementation of this strategy on the 200825 percent and start of this strategy on the 200811 percent.
