
On Nyerere how it has barred Yonga Mrema not to be the presidency.
Sep 18, 2014.

The chairman of the Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), Augustine Mrema has explained the way the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, as he advised the presidential candidate of the United Republic of Tanzania during the general elections of 1995, instead he visited the parliamentary seat in Moshi Rural.

In his talks with Good Citizen this week, Mrema said that basically the teacher had promised that if he would not vie for a parliamentary seat, he was ready to vote for him to be in that position.

"I met with a teacher in his village in Butiama in the year 1995, he told me, for what you want to contest for the presidency if you will see the council of the ministers because I will give them a campaign to win," even so I did not follow his advice.

"Boznia was vying for presidency if I could get out of millions of Tanzanians who want Mrema to be the president of Tanzania. There was a famous song when the one that was saying," Uand Mrema. "

"Now I would be able to kill my colleagues because I'm talking to Teacher I talked to him but I told him Teacher and respect them but on this, we will have them listen to them," said the member of parliament of Vunjo constituency.

He said the meeting between him and the teacher was followed by Charles Makongoro Nyerere, a Nyerere child who at the time already had joined the party that he had joined Mrema (NCCR-Revolution).

In his talks with this newspaper, Mrema explained that for a long time about how he left out from the party and joined NCCR, although they left the and joining the party that is currently Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP).

Mrema said that the only shock he has did in his political life is the way he left in CCM without leaving with other big leaders though five, something he said that he identified himself.

"Siwema who is going on the same time as if it's like CCM and going to NCCR, I could make sure to leave and veteran players at the party, maybe by the leaders of the party and even ambassadors.

"I say I met with me alone. I saw the crowd of people who live in my public meetings and women have written, every time when I pass, I believe it has ended in work.

"Let me think about me, I got 1 million votes on 8 / 8 in the year 1995, and she got the votes like those in their election in Zambia and got the presidency.

"I would have heard by people when CCM does I think how many votes are in CCM, they would have heard my music in my politics but it is true then I think he did a mistake.

"It is possible that citizens were asked, well, Mrema continued to be the president but also the prime minister will be among the foreign affairs if I would not have people who are known as leaders as if I would be able to enter the state," says Mrema.

About the kind of leaders of the opposition parties that are currently compared to him, Mrema said the problem in now is that most of them have no any experience in the leadership of that party in their parties.

"Many opposition parties here in the country have people who have not allowed their ability and now someone has never been even the secretary general or the district commissioner at least then they should come out and let it should come as Mrema?

"I am talking to Maalim Seif, we have the strength because our citizens did not see when we were in power, they know they should get what to other opponents are only names.

This happens part of these talks and Mrema in the 17 page of this newspaper.
