President Kikwete has been silent.
Kristen 14, 2014.

Anything that I will agree in this article is the silence, when we say President Jakaya Kikwete is silent we have not said anything or to do anything.
If there is a person he knows all about us, then you don't know the subject where we are not seen all, but the standing is a must to be careful, but we are looking for both sides to realize that we are and given priority.
We are doing good intentions and a person who loves you are the one who decides to show your problems, that one who is complaining, even if she is wrong, "our president has been explaining inside and out of many countries that have happened during the fourth phase, where we see all when they see all.

Our president does not change light so as to know that he is a lot, they have been uninvolved in corruption, but we do not see a step being taken.
It has been said much about the theft, and he told the nation that he knows these people but up to today we have never seen any action was taken.
The day before yesterday in America, prevent us living in there they asked me about the rumors that his child was arrested with drugs in China and the president decided to give them our gas to enable her child to be treated.
Why is the ignorance of such as you get a chance to spread in our nation without any explanation that we believed that there were many that were involved in Mtwara and those rumors.
We are coming here because of the silence by our president's silence, whoever would have been silent and he went with things because we get to there until today, there is no sure that our president is leaving, but why is our president, he feels it is wrong!
In front of EPA, we were told that six months for now six months have passed without getting any light.
Why to all the ones that, those mentioned are still supposed to be good in a luxurious houses because if the deaths have been arrested, assets have been arrested, these people are getting married and in a normal state, so that the punishment is a must to cause a person.
I think to mention them, it is a great punishment more than all, why our president is silent about this because she is capable of stealing money from the government, but they have forgotten the theft, even if it is of the chicken you need to be read.
The love of our president is understood. I am happy to fear about people but the corruption they don't have us and the nation, like it is therefore for what they are being affected?
The aunt of the revolutionary party as he is our president, it is a must for you to have a stand not to be shaken, then it is needed, but if cleaning is going and wisdom and wisdom is also important.

In the speech of President Magufuli, he has warned people who cause incitement actions in the community, he has warned the journalists and politicians. He has warned the journalists and politicians. It is not a good thing, it should support our president and congratulating them.
But we would like to have to know that what has brought incitement in our community is the biggest thing that happened between the rich and the ones that wanted to arrest the fact that this is the biggest challenge than the news reporters.
Currently, the state of life is to support the children when they collided with the fare of 100 million shillings, it's not that they had a problem with someone.
For the first time in the history of Tanzania, students of primary and secondary schools in Dar es Salaam city were struggling to oppose the new fare for buses.
It is an example of Soweto, a thing that gave birth to African Child's day in South Africa they wanted to be taught in their language here in our children, and I have faith tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, students who surrendered to secondary schools) which have many teachers or two teachers.
If you love you, without our president to stop the silence, we will decide to do a great fight between children and police of Swahili who loves you, a patient that doesn't have a bad hole, and this one has won't read it.
