
Religious leaders asking schools to be demolished.

It has been written by Angela Kizigha, Bukoba.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

Religious leaders have requested the government to send people to get losses and effects that they got on some of the religious institutions getting into the earthquake and asked the government to help them to return the damaged infrastructure.

As a result of that earthquake, some of the Catholic Church of the Catholic church who are teachers of alternative girls' school in Kashimba, they are forced to sleep outside their houses and the pupils of that school were destroyed badly.
They said that since the earthquake it has never seen any expert in which they have never seen any expert in their secondary schools especially primary school secondary schools and of Melela Kololo, that is in the Catholic Church.
The Director of Motorcycles Riders in Tanzania, father David Kamugisha said it is good for the government to inspect those schools on claims that those institutions have capacity, but they will also be given small experts and also be given the first support as they continue looking for sponsors so as to return the infrastructure for their schools.
The senior of the profession in wisdom of wisdom of wisdom, VASHARI has said that the school has been charged with the dormitories, sleeping houses, which are the teachers and the one going to sleep outside and others found a big loss.
At the same time, Olle Tanzania Limited that gets a yellow card which is in Mikocheni Ward, Missouri, in Kagera province has given a donation of more than 157 million shillings which have been used to buy health equipment, food for the purpose of helping victims of the earthquake in this province.
While handing over the donation, the Manager of the factory, Joshua Nantulya, mentioned the equipment that were discovered to have fuel worth 200 megawatts, rice tons of 5 kilograms of cement, 2 kilograms of cement, 40 kilograms of cement, 40 kilograms of maize and 300 kilograms of maize flour, 300 kilograms of maize and 300 kilograms of maize.
