
Yanga is now meeting with an emergency in October 23rd.

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

It has been witnessed, 10th October, 2016.

Yanga Club has announced the existence of a special general meeting on October 23rd this year.

The meeting took place as a few days after the government refused to buy the team from a famous businessman in America, Yusuf Manji who is also the chairman of that club.
The club the day before yesterday in the other day before being attacked by the businessman, being his day after the handing over the club area of the construction of the airport in Kigamboni.
At the moment the leadership of the club will meet members while the agenda of that meeting were not acceptable and it doesn't know where according to the report given by Yanga's leadership said that party members will be informed about the agenda of the session as the days will continue to move forward.
But also, the report said that party members will be informed later about the place where the meeting will take place, because for now the day before yesterday through the acting secretary general of the National Sports Council (BMT) Mohamed Kiganja, the government announced the fear of being involved with Yanga by Manji through his Yanga soccer company.
Kiganja said that Yanga were at that club without following the procedures that are prepared by BMT together with the registrar of clubs and sports clubs in the country and that is why the exercise is very disturbing so that Yanga has paid the club to Manji for a period of 10 years, whereby it will be a rich one who will be treated well in accordance with the agreement.
Earlier yesterday, the council of Yanga won the answer that before the decision of the leasing team of the Yanga Shule Yetu 'team, that got the legal donation from the old legends of law in the country.
It was explained that after preparing the bill of leasing the team together with the victims, they received it to their members including the old legends of laws in the country for legal assistance, who gave advice.
In general, the council of Yanga is insisted that the process of the purchase of Yanga from Manji was following all the procedures different from the one that he has said that Yanga is leading the league with 17 points, Simba is leading the league with 17 points while Stand United having 16 points.
