One hundred students from various areas in the country have benefited from getting loans in secondary schools through the competition of competition that was run by a citizen of Ilemi ward on the red carpet, known as a modem.
While being given the sponsorship to the students in Dar es Salaam city, the Deputy Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Stephano Cosmas congratulated the plan to see that the government will continue to support the efforts of stakeholders to improve education here in the country as well as preparing for information.
Two months which finally have reached the end of the executive director of a citizen Company Limited, Tido Mhando to announce one hundred winners of the competition.
Then it protects you.
History?
Later we are rewarding them to the leaders of the citizen of Tanzania Limited to be able to make their expectations through this competition where they never arrived at least they will have a total of grade four students who will enable citizens to pay for fees and all the needs of the school in general.
They have finished their main government schools and do well in the final exams they were quoted this.
And we are communicating with their colleagues who have shaken the country, we will start here that I will be.
Then the deputy minister of education and technical training, Stephano Cosmas explained the importance of the competition to prevent it as a lot of challenges that will be used to help the community through twenty challenges that will give them on water and would be able to give them on how you can be in anything.
What are the expectations of students who participated in that competition.
I thank you so much.
The white factory took an offer or enable the citizens to be one of the students.
In education.
For sure this plan for parents and children who live in a environment that they do?
It is a very good program for me I thank God to be elected in this competition because this is a bad luck and a mother from one point is many.
Then it is true that Dar es Salaam.
