The death of the employee that seen the religion.
Brightiles 5, 2014.

The leadership of the gold mine of gold mine in the scandal for allowing soldiers to continue with a worker that was going on under the land, a situation that is explained has contributed to endanger their lives.
That mine that is owned by the African Baragarno which is in that scandal after his employee within 19, this year, was found on the night of May 19, this year, at the end of the night under the land (not pictured) and was found up until his body was found on Sunday, first June this year.
The reports of inside that mine are saying that it will be productive since it was the second day since he was transferred to the construction unit (construction) where his work was into the construction of crude oil (MSG) which are used to fill the rocks.
It was reported that the night of May 19 was the first day for his new work and came out of land for the end of night, around 2 o'clock at night with three fellow colleagues, he added one person to help their work they were doing.
As they continue with the work it was stated that Fmust be demolished quickly to rest.
After that turn came out and started from the land under land at 12 o'clock in the morning, they did not see their colleague, even his identity is still in the sun (time when they are still unknown.
According to the procedures and regulations of security at the place of work, without our fellow employee, it does not get a team to save a team to look for him, and we don't know what happened, "explained our source.

Later at five o'clock in the morning of that day, the statement was given to all employees who had come out and there was a tension to the administration of the administration about the fate of what it continues and later the workers were directed to return to work.
Reports indicate that the next day employees met with the leadership of the mine and explained how they have not been satisfied by the break of the work law about their fellow employee who until the time he was not found.
After that sitting, the employees ordered to go back to work and work they continued as usual and there should be a tension among the leaders of that mine as they continue to conduct looting and rocks.
That tension came up on May 25th after the leadership of that mine decided to start without caring about the fate of an employee who had not been found.
"At 12 o'clock in the morning of May 25th, it ordered it to be accountable because they are getting a loss, these people do not use gold than a person, because that action is like you are not seen," explained our responsibility because of the mine.
That act of deciding to oppose the repairs of rocks of rocks, while there are accidents that have taken place is against the law of safety at the place of work (October), Health and Cultural Organization, number 5 of the year 2003.
According to the law on article 51, section of the first half by the Chief Justice and security is a place of the job that allows the employer to continue with the work if doing that can endanger the lives of any person.
In ensuring that appropriate measures are being taken by the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo Party (RCO) has forced the secretary general of the Ministry of Labor and Employment who complained to the laziness that was done by the Ministry of Labor and Employment who complained to the laziness of the mining activities so as to save the lives of employee who has not been found.
"Chief Executive Officer Florian Philippot who is the chief executive officer in accordance with section 3 (not) of security law at the place of work, caused the safety of an employee who was not found," said part of the letter made by the secretary of Bomang'ombe region, Benjamin Dotto.
