Fauzia Kullane and our coaches.
FDL against 1st, 2013.

Last week, the soccer club soccer club in Spain, Barcelona, told Gervinho.

In a week which the former coach of Aniva band, Guus Hiddink, announced his resignation from his team and while the coach who won the European championship last season, Bayern Munich, Jichunge.'

Barcelona is called a resident of Dar es Salaaam city, (more than two clubs) because of the appointment, the Matemu.

Matuzya, is the coach to promote the culture of Barcelona, is still continuing to play the stomach and he saw it because there is no coach who is able to continue with that culture more than 6-Argentina.

Like Dotto Mwaibale, he would like to be a coach and two wives, Jorendal has been given a chance but all of them have been given a chance but all of them were not given a chance but they should not be given the chance.

This is different from our soccer clubs and our nation's soccer team, the appointment of coaches that is taking place many times (or all) you are not involved with the needs of the team for example, who should be noted that our nation's coach?

Who is understand the difference of teaching to teaching between that amount of El Bromwich, for Yanga, it is a cultural reason to made Simba soccer clubs to boycott the NBA league and eventually, Abdallah Kibadeni has said.

Tanzania's soccer stakeholders are saying that Simba is a team that is going to play soccer (Kibadeni is a good friend of Barcelona soccer club but Yanga on all the days he plays football, with the aim of looking for victory without a lot of time.

If that's the philosophy of Yanga, why Haruna Niyonzima is the first lady of that team though his type of soccer did not have a culture of that club to play a non-attractive soccer.

If Simba has a culture of playing good soccer, if they were forced to play for a good soccer, it will be a believer in that soccer and we will relocate its soccer to be self-sufficient and that does not care for the private ability for players?

I believe that it has come at a time now soccer clubs here in the country have decided to make a decision on the kind of system that he wants to use the system if you get it, it's easy to make a national team.

Spain's national team is good because the Barcelona club of Germany is good because Bayern Munich of England is not good because the nation has been unable to make a team's true system.

While the clubs are taught with coaches of high-level coaches as Jose Mourinho, Arsene Wenger and Andre Villas Boas, the coach of England Roy Hogson and has no new song.

Kim Kardashian, the head coach of Taifa Stars, is using a different system of soccer and that is when the case of clubs that offer players in that team is why it is not true that our team occurred every day.

It has come at a time now soccer clubs sing the procedure as Barcelona and that any coach who comes in line with the procedure there and it will not promote them and not every coach to come and sell it at it.
