
Iran's ship are leading in Zanzibar with Jide 16, 2012.

The scandal of Iran's ship to be signed and then fly the Tanzania flag with the aim of removing international restrictions that put him through the United Nations (UN) has come in a new chapter, but previously they involve some of the leaders of the national union of Zanzibar.
Those leaders are alleged to have a relationship with the Philadelphia city which is in Dubai, a situation that is expected to register a oil company from Iran so as to promote Tanzania's flag with the aim of reducing economic restrictions that have been launched in Iran.
A report from some of the national government officials are saying that some of the government officials have had interests in issues of registration of the international ship in Dubai.
"You know there is a condition of doughnuts, previously in Zanzibar they refused the authority of Water and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (ZTC) but this agent gave the contract to register a company that is located in Dubai (ZTC)."
"Some of the leaders here in Zanzibar did not want to know the criteria made by their colleagues, instead of refusing to reject the intention of giving a contract to the Philadelphia company of Dubai. Currently, there are other factors that are alleged to be involved with that company," explained our news source from the government of Zanzibar.
More information from other media networks are saying that despite Zanzibar to start its agents, the international fees of the ship were being paid by SUMATRA to invest, (IMO) without considering the truth that Zanzibar has also been accepted by the government of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Already the government's reports of Zanzibar explains that it is set aside for 399 percent, being together with the oil Ship, containers, the cargo ship cargo and those of passengers.
But during the registration of the international ship in the islands being a high speed on that amount, the information of SUMATRA shows that the authority up to now is because of a few days to be signed by SUMATRA they results from great control.
Due to those different meanings in the number of vehicles that are registered, some senior officials in the government of the union are clear that the control is caused by some of the leaders in the islands to ensure that SUMATRA has stopped its activities in the islands and to start being sold.
He had been caught up on Ambassador Daily News newspaper has clarified on the means that is used by Iran by giving out many types of oil in the new English names as accused of being held in the current scandal that is involved in Tanzania.
Examples of the ship that have been changed include 'Freedom which was previously known as Harfanti, truth (previously was called Nesa), Baucha (in the previous one and among those countries are Tanzania together with Tuface Idibia.
Those planes are registered other countries as well as names, but it has also been given the registration number as they follow it, B9355,731), Celine Itatiro (Iloha).
97,962) and AIDS love (IAGRI).
Others are popularly known (I93517), Proud (I93689) of Daisy and the Lord.
970,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, Freedom (I93576), (I970,046), Lufunyo Nkinda (IAGRI), Magupa (IMR) and truth (IMR).
According to the website of United Nations, it is the countries of Brazil and Turkey but it is the ones who has led to their involvement in the registration of Muhanga.
"Zanzibar we request for forgiveness from the mistake of looking for him (open registration of that ship), they have affected the picture of Tanzania," says the senior leader of the United Republic.
More information from Zanzibar are saying that the decision is reduced, the registration of the ship may be in Ukawa has got the reputation of some leaders in the islands.
According to those reports, it is alleged that those leaders allowed the registration or due to a small understanding of the issues of diplomacy which is very important because it is part of the strategies of those leaders (some) to weaken the union.
According to the website of the United Nations (UN) in the stadium number 1929, June 949.
2010 was the cause of Iran that was a catalyst to the economic restrictions after a long-term issues concerning the nuclear weapons in that declaration was put after Iran failed to fulfill the previous resolutions of UN that has been supported.
The previous resolutions include 164,586 in all of the year 2006, number 189 in the year 2007 and others are a declaration of 1803 / 1835 of the year 2008 and another declaration is number 1890 and 1835 of the year 2009, due to lack of those resolutions, the UN managed to put those restrictions.
Due to that environment of registration of the ship, Tanzania has land in a big conflict with the international community that is aiming to end the country to increase restrictions and UN as a result of what is claimed to be against the contracts of that union which Tanzania has ratified.
All those planes have been closed down by the official report of the national union of Zanzibar, that was presented to the council of representatives through the minister of infrastructure and communication in the islands, Hamad Masoud Hamad, about that scandal of registration of the ship of Iran.
Other countries that are mentioned to register a ship of Iran that there will be names include 'Siri ya Mtungi', a two ship.
According to the official report of the national union of Zanzibar, the Zanzibar Civil Aviation Authority (Zanzibar), was created by third law of the year 2009, together with other work, it is implementing the implementation of the air transport law in the year 2006.
Our reporter spoke with the Director of Zito, Abdallah Hussein Kombo who came back to his statement ever given by the Zanzibar Government that the Philosophy will not have a ship of Iran.
However, he said that if the Philosophy will give a false information to Zinga, the investigation that is taking place for now, you will inform you and action will be taken.
And the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, played 74 matches speaking about the issue while giving a call to the United States and the European Union to participate in investigations and if it will be revealed that the ship will be identified.
The statement of the national national government of Zanzibar at different times has been made to support Iran despite the country, adding restrictions and UN.
Those reports are together with the ones that was given recently to symbolize the issue of registration of the ship of Iran, to investigate and in a certain way, the message to support Iran.
The part of that report that was given recently will be easily read, "Zanzibar has a great relationship and long-term relationship with many countries including Iran."
"Recently, Zanzibar got visitors (second Vice President of Iran) and our leaders did a conversation with how Iran will continue to help Zanzibar in development projects."
"Zanzibar did not allow the ship of any country because it is one of the business issue and that it is one of our government to increase revenue so as to be able to run, when the registration did not affect the international laws."
"Zanzibar didn't like to be able to be able to put in any details and with any conspiracy in the conflicts that it encourages them."
