
21st December 2012

TAZARA workers live.

By Rehema Nchimbi, the employees of Tanzania Railways Corporation and Zambia (TAZARA), yesterday have started another strike of not doing well until the government will pay the salaries of three months.
The secretary general of the Tanzania Railways Limited (TWU (T), Mister Erasto Mtwele, said this at the staff meeting of that organization.

The meeting intended to discuss the fate of their salaries on October, November and December this year, causing it to be unable to serve their families.

We cannot be able to work in difficult environments, the train that we are directed are still getting the soul of people and cargo that are very high thus we can cause the accident so that the nation can get a huge loss, "said Mister Kihwele.

He said that at the moment the employees of that organization have shaken the teeth where in the past, they don't know that they are not ready to work even when they were requested by the Prime Minister if they are not paid the salaries for three months.

"Make all the TAZARA guidelines which have stopped the work in order to know the fate of salaries including Dar es Salaam, Mbeya and Mria who have met today (yesterday) to talk about this issue," he said.

The chairperson of TWU TWU, Mister Musa Kalala, said it is impossible to see some of the workers do not have the union so as to enable employees to help workers.

"Union is a good thing and it will not give birth to a thing, but the workers are making attacks (by the late), they have enough weaknesses, after being promised a total of 100,000 shillings.

"Up to now, they are continuing with work together with lack of their salaries for three months I don't know how to get them," said Mister Kalala.

However, some of the employees who were present at the meeting said they are not ready to do any job until when they will be paid their money for three months not otherwise.

"This journey we do not want the promise or a salary of one month, we will go to his office in the morning to sign a book of attendance and sit at the meeting hall to discuss our claims, when I will leave until it is understood," said the workers.

On November this year, the Deputy Minister of Transport, Mister Charles Tizeba has made a session to the TAZARA leadership and TWU TWU in order to discuss the salaries of workers.

In that meeting, Mister Tizeba has ordered the TAZARA leadership to pay their employees so as soon as possible but until yesterday the directive has not been implemented.
