
All of us want to destroy the love crime so that we get in the future generations.
The issue of masturbation has risen up in this nation, children under the age of 10 years which are most affected.
The heart of a five years old child is an indication that men should not be dealt with paper.
It is an issue that has been destroying the good reputation of this country because every sun that rises at 30,000, a young man aged 14 years to pay for girls or small girls, for teachers to produce ten thousand girls.
Most of them take this matter like jokes, though they are affecting the future of tomorrow.
The high risk is when they used them sell the AIDS virus and other sex diseases.
Most of them have been able to be the servants of pregnant mothers and others have separated in the community.
The government together with us know that we are able to fall down this disaster, which now has gone to identify many areas in the country.
Still being born in Nairobi, Johannesburg, according to his statements by the governor of Same District, Ali Hassan Johannesburg, for being the president Uhuru Kenyatta, and the commissioner of parliament of Mombasa Mister Nelson Mandela, is that small people have been advised to make honor in front of Kenyans.
Even if there is a difference between him and anything, he does not depend on the front of the public.
The issue of lack of security is a problem that has written every person and there is no need of one leader urging them to respect the leader and when you get different problems and work that come out and strengthen the Coast.
Referring to Michungangira, the teachers are saying that the senior teachers have a right to send certificates to students with debts since it may be that the government is making politics through education matters, and they will be released the responsibility of making debts that will not be paid.
The schools are the ones that are holding the exams for those students to the national examinations council then head teachers have no need to have fear until the government has a great intention to pay for examinations or not events of getting politics.
The issues of education has a great importance nationally and are not supposed to be done in politics.
If this issue will be accepted, then many students will not be paid for school fees, they have been forced to have after doing national examinations, they will still get their certificates.
Peter Mwaluka, Papper Nay wa Mitego has decided to send our animals from illegal immigrants.
Chipata says the illegal immigrants have got the courage to implement their actions of masturbation.
However, the Tegeta Thermal Power Poll company has started a plan to deal with the problem considering that most of the animals from the park are in danger of being attacked from time to time, congratulations for your new plan and I wish you all the best way.
The chest, Joseph Masikitiko, Mujahideen will give him a lot about how the members of the United Republic of Busquets is not patriotic by 'strength' as they claim it can be able to understand that their plan of wanting to be done in the opinion has a bad intention for us to the citizens.
The problems that we are we are smoking, we do not want to be given.
I give my request by Dominica and a lot of feelings like a Kenyan artist, I advise the government to take advantage of alternative ways to make changes that they want here in the country.
By doing this, it will be able to remove from us the danger of finding it more considering that our country's bad state is now. I believe Happines is understood that and therefore I request for them to fulfill you.
Eliud Tawi Nyauhenga, the University of Mashada stadium, Twaha Mtengera and a girl who was arrested with a man who was arrested by killing his lover.
For us we will give you the same as a woman if you are not supposed to look for another.
Why of the mistake that does not lie? The men think of God having a lot of energy and we don't like us to use them badly, there are many ways of solving conflicts.
If a man is meeting with a girl and she has narrated it hard and you want to be your must, this is really appropriate?
The ball, Kitavi.
