
Sumaye, Magufuli has lost the analysis of the car, "flash disk" with sharp teeth.

One day after Doctor John Magufuli receives his name in the parliamentary operation of M4C, the former prime minister, Frederick Sumaye, has explained the presidential candidate of CCM to be a person who has thrown out his motion after losing his vision.

At the time he was given those answers, Doctor Magufuli was continuing with the campaign in Kigoma province, where his main agenda was the construction of the road, while the Ukawa's candidate, Edward Lowassa entertaining in Shinyanga province.

While in Kigoma province yesterday, Doctor Magufuli told the citizens that the long time of the logo of M4C) is Magufuli for Change, instead of Chama cha Mapinduzi ', which has been used by parliament for approximately six years now, meaning it is a movement of change. "

Doctor Magufuli said that he is the right person to lead change and therefore the points is required to have his name.

But yesterday, Sumaye who has arrived in Ukawa without being involved in any party out of four that make up that union yesterday said the statement of Magufuli shows how he and his party will return.

"It is a great shame," said Sumaye who has been the chief spokesperson in the campaign meeting of Lowassa.

"You say it is like a person who died in the sea, then water has begun to marry yourself and fail to loose the CCM is looking at every place like a person that sunk in water."

Sumaye said that yesterday before Lowassa went to the stage at a public meeting that took place at the grounds of Bariadi District, Simiyu Region.

While thanking the presidential candidate of CCM, Sumaye said his statement has shown the way it does not mean it is a shame and has proven how he didn't have direction and without informing him and plans of the opponents.

"We are making changes and if there are drug abuse and cut off their bed and downloading them outside the country," said Sumaye, by using them by citizens.

In that meeting, Lowassa who was received by thousands of citizens who were waiting for, promised to end the water problem in the district by developing the project of using Lake Victoria which is a distance of 30 kilometers.

The former member of parliament of Monduli, arrived at that area at 4 o'clock in the evening and they met with citizens who wanted to work and cause the police to use extra strength to prevent them.
Speaking to the citizens of Bariadi, Lowassa returned to his promise of free education saying from January next year, there is no student who will pay the fees from class one to the university.

He also promised to improve agriculture to be a modern and business center, while insisting that his position that his government will not be patient with someone who will not be able to go with his speed.

That candidate has also done other districts in Maswa district.
