
Its disappearance of people is mistakes of security.
I thought the Kenyans who have been lost without being found is a need for security officers to strengthen their investigation infrastructure so as to reduce those cases.
Many of the people who was reported will be said to be the last time they are communicating with the mobile phone and the truth about the investigation sections, they should get despite being given important news.
A cry for his family members will visit the hospital, police stations together with classes in the body to look for their relatives, are required to be enough challenges for the government to ensure the concerned officers are responsible.
The government departments including the courts should know the weight of this issue and ensure that suspects are facing legal without stopping.
The department of court is supposed to understand the pain of the family that have lost their wives and cease supporting those suspects that are accused of accused of those cases so that those families have faith that their colleagues will be found.
It is clear that we don't have a need to make sure they lack security to inform us that our security options will arise from his work.
Many Kenyans want the president Uhuru Kenyatta to bid farewell to its security agencies and members of parliament who are supposed to support the former member of parliament of the Central Region, Ken Nyauhenga, as the first step of cleaning the security department in the country.
It is a surprising thing for the government to continue seeking, while hundreds of family continue to fight their lives after their brothers lost their disappearance.
The leaders of the main responsibility of any good government in the world is to protect its citizens, the leaders of Diamond have a task to ensure that your Kenyans are safe for making changes in all security departments which have a huge weaknesses.
There are claims that famous people who are responsible for human rights because they are not known.
However, crime is crime that it has been implemented by anyone or any person, that will be required to be shown immediately by arrest the suspects and they should be emphasized.
He asked for each other between the opposition leaders and the government not to help a business but it is seen that leaders do not care for the interests of the citizens but their political benefits.
President Kenyatta said by his assistant, William Ruto, should give it the safety of the nation or the country, or not politics or economy and it must take difficult decisions about the heads of the security department in the country.
Minister Lollipop, the head of police Julius Karangi, the Head of Defense, Michael Kafamu, chief inspector of police David Kimaiao together with the minister of defense, Ephraim Kwesingabo together with officials of defense, Lydia Moyo, who is supposed to realize that their performance is dangerous and therefore be responsible immediately.
Parents and institutions such as schools and colleges are supposed to ensure that children's security has intended to be observed as well, President Uhuru is supposed to ensure that there are enough resources to address changes in the security department.
It is important for every party to realize that the security challenges in the country have reached the dangerous standards and take legal action.
