
I am happy to fulfill 50 years.

Rashid Mkonga.

Asser Alikiba's right is my expectation, I am very safe to see me, I take this opportunity to thank the Almighty God for what he enabled us today's day, without forgetting brothers, relatives and friends who live in one way or others have been successful until today.

I will be pregnant and get thanks if I will leave you to pray for my parents who passed away from their rights because my existence resulted from the existence of their rights due to them and thinking that they get them on small entrepreneurship.

They did so with only one intention of giving me the light of good and bad luck and to help them to get religious education and the world.

I got to know what is good and bad education through religious education, they have changed so I got skills of internal affairs and also to run their lives according to God and I have no one person, with a total of 7 children with their husbands.

One that is good and the good thing to me is the great shape that brought in Usa River, which is the expectations of many to have a lot to live in the world but when it's time to reduce the age of living is very happy and celebrate with joy, joy and bake.

I would have joy and advice if I would have seen that I have not allowed the port of good than the evil things I will go here in the world, I don't know if you are the honorable when I am looking for the age of the first half I have, Almighty God continue to quote it.

It is a lesson that we have very delicious with the habit of increasing many years and some of us have been preparing a big ceremony to celebrate and enjoy a big event in our life but contrary to many of us from great sadness.

There are things that if I do not know, one thing is that as I see many years the age of living is reduced, I think all time for 50 years I have done, what has made it put in safe hands before the Almighty God.

I think you, brothers and friends that I have come out in the world, I will be afraid that I will be afraid that I will be happy with others, these are questions which were written in my head, even when I am not proud of it to this age.
I think about this life that has launched it here in the world like it will have benefits to my generation or those who are annoyed if there are many who tried to forgive me, there are many whom I have not allowed me to forgive me, how many gods are not aware?

I think about many more than this, that I am clean in which I am happy about this age, I do not look at my age, I am a curse from my stomach, what is a place I got or take a person without a consent.

I give their hands and I pray to the Almighty God to enable us to be able to have a lot of life and income which will be difficult and I don't know the fate of these life, if I think I think I would leave each other!

Other times get pregnant in addition, coming out with hands with hands which is dangerous and other times get conflicts from people who have a lot of them, even so there are others with my eyes and even so I don't know their own work but their payments don't know due to those sources.

Still I think this kind of life, there are fear for my work performance, I also thank you for my good work, I don't see me, I don't see him, that you can't see him and that will be able to ask for him.

Today March 12, 2015, has attained 50 years, is a half of the century, I did not send an application to the Almighty God to reach this age, but I don't know it because I don't know how I don't do so that I don't do if I have gone through bad luck.

I hope this age, though there are a group of people and their brother who live in relation to what they were waiting for this age, some of them did not get this year I have, I would like to live and get to the age of this one I have, what I love you, but I love you more.

I am very happy to tears when she lost my brothers to different events that are written by others in an accident and others in different diseases, I don't know the kind of my death and I don't know my kind of death.

When I asked himself I will see how I have written about, I will die with that death, I will fall into the road, or I will die with all diseases what should I be able to get his answers now.

There are some who will be hurt by my death if you think many of them, that they can be able to be with them all the days in the world or they do not get my money and others were only human love, but they will remain in bitterness for the left with their friend.

There are also those who will enjoy my death but they will not understand that they are happy, they want them to have pain, getting married while in my heart, this is the life of a human being and how we want to, our soul.

I hope 50 years as a result of a long history of life and a lot of life, I have learned and not supposed to do my friend because there is a day he can be careful so that he can be my friend.

I will continue to go and appreciate my brothers and friends, I don't have anything that I will be able to pay for good people who have ever been done because it is Almighty God alone, I request for God to enable God to enable them to register their lives.
"" Am 2fifty, Moalimu, has hurt me.

Though I don't see the value, you can enjoy.

I thank God, and my parents too.

Moalimu, has gone down, now it is fifty.

Now if it is fifty, Mchaga answered me.

I have been buried, most of you came through.

Yet I have not allowed me, I am not happy.

Moalimu, has gone down, now it is fifty.

At the end, I have written, thanks and giving them.

Today I have set aside whether fifty is not a hundred.

You have forgotten your age, old among them.

God has hurt me, most of it more than fifty.
