
Tanzanite runs a lost opportunity!
May 22, 2012

A lot of part in the country is a one who did not see the clothes or new or put it into old clothes, is called the tailor, they won't ask him because they were called the tailor?
The ability of those people are non-branding of the clothes and shivered to the tailor, he is the one with skills or expertise to inspect the machines we call.
All new poems will be able to discuss this question well and upcoming poets who don't have great talent in high level, including the ability to ask for a question and to give an opportunity well even though the times they sell to the male circumcision.
For example, you have been able to communicate with me, just like this is a pond?
After that conflict, and register themselves to discuss today's topics that look at the Tanzanite mineral that maybe, for Tanzania, it is a lost opportunity.
Before we have continued, there is need to be together with precaution that concern related to record issues in the country, so many issues do not have record or taken care of and taken care of, where a researcher can be back without a problem.
Many issues of our country we are getting in your dear friend, Mister Majjid, Mjengwa, recently, I wrote in this newspaper of Raia Mwema, "many of us have been shocked and even getting a lot of pain."
A short speech is that even these stories of using a whip, which are many in Tanzania they have narrated it, he has not been written but they are in front of his wife or my grandfather, and that I commend her.
Our education in later if you missed the students to do research and question and to stop the culture of "is the old man" or "is the boss," as it is now, "the generation will agree to perform well.
The issue that you know which doesn't have enough benefits, research is easy to worry about research that be productive is that, when you look for you, what you want to do what you want to you in the issue.
Unfortunately, I think most of us don't know if we have the policy of research.
The country, especially the ones that are developed and that want to continue with the foundation of people in the true country, research is the main policies and use a big part of the National Revenue Authority.
Here in our country, most of you are not aware about how many of the National Revenue is used in the field of research, this argument can be a big debate therefore, we should continue with this topic of Tanzanite.
Tanzanite is minerals of gemstone being found in one place in the world. The part is Mirerani (others) in that area Merkel, in Simanjiro District, Manyara Region.
It is possible that later those minerals will be found in other parts of Tanzania or other parts of the world.
Many minerals in the world, first started being revealed in one area after people knowing the use, its importance and investigation of a human being, research was done well and who were lucky to be noticed if the Tanzanite is being available in Tanzania or elsewhere in the world, it will not be true.
For now, we should be forced to use the word that we started with the tailor.
It is alleged that the stone will later come to be known as minerals of Tanzanite that is discovered in the year 1966 with the breeder of Mirerani in the world known by the name Ali Mtopa.
In addition, it is said that Mister Onesimus Laizer, by being surprised by you with you with a stone of the foundation stone on Saturday, he took the research and the purchase of mineral gemstone which is professionally known as usual.
That tailor was known by the name Mister Manuel D'Sakali and doing his activities of cutting the clothes and buy mineral gemstone from Arusha.
Many documents published yesterday in many places in the world that mentioned the discovery of Tanzanite by involving him to Ali Mtopa.
There's no one who was unable or confirm that relationship as it is not the government of Tanzania or not anything for the research in the country, which gets information or those claims.
Worry about it started there.
Yes, it's true that there are a few like Edward Lowassa don't have Ole Sendeka but the name of Ali Juwes Wang who is worried about a certain amount.
So as to decide the debate on today's topic, the argument of Ali Juwes Wang and the people starts there.
Continuing with the debate is same as a result of lack of argument as it is why some of the other parts of the world show Mount Kilimanjaro is in Kenya!
Let us continue with the argument of having that Tanzanite can be lost.
It is said that Mister ND 'was the one who was taking the stone for the experts of identifying minerals.
Finally, a famous American company called Thatcher famous in America and many places in the world, got those minerals and made them to ensure that they are minerals of what kind?
The company of Tetemesha Entertainment, after working on the investigation, they discovered that those minerals are minerals of mineral which have never happened anywhere in the world and for the honor of the country they had discovered the Tanzanite.
Due to you with a blue color of a blue color that is going on, especially after being faced in a system, the company does not allow its use in intrude in the country in America.
It is reported that those minerals were getting popularity and loved for a short time, than many minerals that are used to get popularity.
There are reports that have not been allowed or was born or was born as we are born, after seeing the great opportunity of getting business by using the new minerals, it was mentioned in Tanzania and wanted to buy or own history in the Tanzanite area which was mentioned at the same time, especially with small miners led by Mister D.
But as we know, years at the end of the weekend, it was 10 years old, which he didn't have the importation of one person or one company which is not for the public to comply with public property.
It is possible that for that reason, they failed to complete their love of bribing the production and distribution of Tanzanite in that time.
We are not supposed to live and depend on us that Tanzanite is enough opportunities and claims by the company of TTS I was unable to cut off or own the production of Tanzanite in the world, a act that could make corrections and have a huge conflict of Tanzanite in the world.
The thoughts that maybe the Tanzanite is an important opportunity we are involved with the strategy which are used to be used especially in the products of mineral gemstone, and later the strategy was used as required in minerals of dairy products in the world.
There are several qualifications that conduct inspections in the international markets, one of the major one is the availability of good deeds that are insufficient.
Tanzanite until when I write this article found and affected one parts of the world, that is in Mirerani in Tanzania.
There is no continent which does not lie!
One of the strategies that will be used by the company that started relying on tuberculosis since the 50 years of 1850 - Pingping from South Africa, is to make sure that those minerals are needed so much.
First, by Chris Brown was involved in owning the mines or buy a lot of cement which were sunk in various countries in the world. Second, by give birth to different levels and a high level, making it's good.
De Beatles, used the strategy to comply with the law and it allows them to enable them to avoid opportunistic infections which could be sold at a high price if they would leave the market to be competition.
That strategy of De Bruve has made work for more than 100 years old and even so, the recent years you have been reduced, especially because of the United States and England Football CoTrust, and all countries used to sell their diamond pink and failed to sell their diamond pink and not accepting to sell their cargo through the film Ackyshine.
My point is that, by concentrating on the theft of Tanzanite, we would have been able to use such strategy of De Bruyne, but by considering that our environment can bring more income.
At the moment the operations of Tanzanite mineral is usually paid without a strategy.
The answer to the haphazard use of this disease is that we are not supposed to intervene in the internal market, you will get the answers of what we are supposed to respect international contracts that are not known as World Health Organization (WWW) that will destroy the business exhibition.
However, others who have resources for oil and fuel have forgotten (an example), despite the presence of Wiwa of China, many times say that you should not hesitate to communicate with other nations about their ways they have to bring development to the country.
Moreover, the Tanzanite also would be able to give employment to the youth more than it is now, especially if the procedure had already used to prevent those minerals being transported without being dealt with in here in the country.
The problem is estimated that there is no Architect Editor of the Asian countries, but it's why they need the Tanzanite that cannot get them and they should be able to invest here in our country here in our country?
Botswana have succeeded in this issue and urged those who need iron sheets to stop the haphazard selling of LuvTouch Majogoo, and planting trees in Botswana. What should we unable to avoid opportunistic infections which are needed is just a decision.
In the budget of the budget of the year 2003 / 2004, the prime minister of the minerals sector announced that the procedure will be used to prevent the Tanzanite (I think of from one hundred thousand shillings) not to be expelled from the country.
Following the report of parliament of parliament, India (one of our friends) where there was a lot of Tanzanite, especially those small businesses that were cut it was informed that their people will lack the work if the decision will be done soon after the implementation of that policy (the minister is not available!
The issue of friends to follow up on our policies and encourage us on us, we would see that during the time of through and discussing the contracts of minerals, so as to discuss the contracts of minerals, we have enabled investment in the mining sector.
Following the monitoring of those leaders (Canada and England) all of us know what was found in the debate on the contracts of minerals because it is not the intention of this article to bring another long debate on how we collect the order of rich countries that make us identify the ones that are not big in the government's budget.
The father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere, has ever said to be big saying (that is a rich country like America) to listen and listen to their condolences.
We did not end here by today, according to the message that Kanali Mwenyembu said the person did not support others, to use well in solving the problems of your people and do not care about it is needed because it is implementing the requirements of the public market.
It depends on.
