Congratulations George Simbachawene, has refused to be Simba Club.
Jide 15, 2015.

Any other things have happened inside the parliament and that they did not see her sign. That some of our members of us are born of this country have reduced, because those who are usually allowed to get out of poverty while the ones who were covered and covered with.
It is very important, to see that there are capable of refusing to carry the every three law, "Musaizi says that the financial law of oil and gas of the year 2015 and Musaizi says of the transparent law and accountability in the Drilling and Drug Administration in the year 2015.
For sure, all the three months is the one that gives a cry for many faithful and for many years now, it is causing a lot of importance in the time we have.
It is surprising that in this period with the interests of those who are meeting with some of the members of parliament who want to resolve it, and maybe it should not be afraid that this is the results of the process of many years that involve members of parliament themselves and other stakeholders.
It is the process that used a lot of money to provide education to the members of parliament including the cost of affordable houses outside the country for the training tour of science, gas and minerals.
Today, those members of parliament want this parliament to begin afresh, including serving the members of parliament to go to the learn of what they learned and now they do not want its results.
For the truth I asked himself, these are the representatives of the truth or the representatives of the few people who are in oil and gas business?
For sure, it was an important thing to see the parliament, Minister Simbachawene, standing on the side of most of the people and showing the importance of fighting until the end of the interests of the ones who are in this country.
He refused to change Simba for stopping the issue, I warned him through this column just after being appointed to hold that position. It is also congratulations to the ministers and all the members of parliament we want them and read their voice in defending this three months of interests to the public.
Something to fear here is that, it is good for us to have this important thing of the law today, which we did not have yesterday, and that they are ready to make corrections tomorrow than not completely.
I have been able to finish up here what I wrote in my article just after Simbachawene was appointed to be the minister, and that when he saw the minister continues to pray for him, I wrote the following.
"I believe that Simbachawene has emphasized on the side of many, George Simbachawene, a member of parliament for Kinondoni and who got to be the deputy minister for energy and minerals, is not only good for the citizens of rural areas, in the country and elsewhere, Professor Sospeter Muhongo was going on to make success.
Simbachawene says that our direction as a country for now is the economic growth and basically it is the direction of the whole world as a result of a big economy which you can release the country quickly from where it will involve minerals including gas and oil.
And our country comes now on the gas economy, it is needed so much in the world. Therefore, suddenly in the world it is growing up in many ways to benefit from the resources we have.
And maybe it should be known, for these musicians during a very important ministry that we get close to our country is of energy and minerals, therefore, the minister is responsible for energy and minerals, the biggest minister in the world, probably it is the very important minister more than all others.
I have an example this evening, when I was in Dar es Salaam, I was invited to a short event to the ambassador of one country of western countries, there was also many people, including rich Sir Andy Chande, who was also Professor Sospeter Muhongo.
Strangeness of the evening, the only person who was introduced with our host, Professor Muhongo, the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Tanzania, something that is on the line I stopped the above.
Therefore, we have been trying to put the energy and minerals, the minister or executives who are greedy for property and power, then it is easy to them to make a curse from resources.
Because, it is easy to confirm that the agents of a few people instead of servants who are planning to manage public interests.
And sure, energy and minerals is like a area that led the bombs of the ground by Israelite missiles that have been directed to Energy and Minerals.
My brothers, Simbachawene is a big possibility that Amaso standing on the side of the ones who are in many, then you should be behind him, even when he could affect it on a few cents.
