
He promised to help vegetables, fruits.

It has been written by our writer, Singida.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The leadership of Ikungi District in Singida province has promised to urge various groups that they will not accept to be involved in vegetables and fruits.

The statement by the government has been issued by the District Commissioner Miraji Mtaturu (Pictured) when closing training to entrepreneurs, farmers and pastoralists that were run by non-governmental organizations of Rhema Trust, at the conference hall in the Ikungi secondary school.
In the training that involved 115 people from 24 wards out of 28 wards, together with 39 groups, they have been urged to leave farming for a long season instead of controlling it with irrigation farming, which uses a long time to the ones.
He said that the province has many times been mentioned as the poor region between 10 provinces in the country that is last in the economic development because of the citizens themselves with creativity in agriculture, an issue that causes the production of low income while preparations for the farms are big.
The facilitator of that training, who is also the director of a non-governmental organization of Statistics has urged youths who do not have employment to start agriculture, livestock, fishing and environment, Engineer Ayubu Kalor, said citizens are supposed to change and stop selling their crops with albinism instead they sell directly from the user to increase the income.
The coordinator Agnieszka Radwan, Singida Region, Moses Msuha has said that farmers are supposed to recognize that the only sector has the ability to employ many people and remove the threats of poverty as agriculture, therefore it is good to do modern farming because it will benefit citizens.
An entrepreneur and a farmer who held the first position in the central region in the agricultural sector, Hassan Tati urged farmers who were given training as success in agriculture is big if they will follow the agriculture procedures and to listen to the experts.
