
We will not expect Mbao FC to be the winner.
Ibrahim Lipumba.
Recently, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has announced Mbao FC of Mwanza to rise in the premier league next season from group C in the First Division League.
TFF announced Mbao FC as a result of the decision by the TFF disciplinary committee that were released on April 2016 after being found guilty of setting the results.
Mbao FC has taken the first position in group C by having 12 points after the dismissal of the results of Geita Gold team, Police Tabora, JKT Oljoro and JKT Kanembwa which were affected by the scandal of setting the results.
Mbao FC team is competing in the premier league next season, along with African Lyon in Dar es Salaam and Ruvu Shooting of the Coast.
That is the decision made by TFF what it has done, but there was explained that the Disciplinary Appeal Committee of TFF was meeting to discuss different appeal that have been cut and due to the decision by TFF disciplinary committee even if the TFF president, Jamal Malinzi said there is no problem in that.
I don't want you to say that, here I will watch Azam FC as the guest of honor of the premier league.
Mbao has climbed to the league together with the hosts of the hosts, "Ruvu Shooting and African Lyon which they ever played this league before a drop.
I believe those teams that are estimated to know the cries of the premier league, therefore they will plan early.
But on Mbao FC's side, together with the ones, the locals of the host, we should never tell you they will be wrong and do the league to be a sharp object.
To go to their home, because it is a new constitution that she was sent away, it is required to sing the end if it was in Mbeya City in the 2014 / 15 season.
We will not expect to see everything he is forced to see each person to come up with him and to carry out the timber and because of poverty being harvested in the valley and the disabled have been unable to avoid sexual excitement.
Still, I am saying that I love me, in Mbeya City, which was made a step even the champions of the league, Simba, Yanga, Azam, Mtibwa went to Mbeya but they have asked, they will get out and that is what is needed now by Mbao FC, the team asked him.
Ndanda FC started with that situation that the teams from Mtwara is expecting the government but now it has been revealed that the team goes on how it takes place in Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium.
Mwadui soccer is one of the among them that they have been able to pay that which they did not show our weakness as it is the African Sports of Tanga.
Mbao FC has risen up to now players, leaders and the technical bench to know that the premier league is not to arrive in the premier league not to participate in the premier league that they believe in, is supposed to be successful especially for every one.
This is not a long time to sleep, it is required to do exercises for themselves to go back and bring competition to all teams because it has been the norm for some team, I will see them be treated easily and then they played with Yanga or Simba that are believed to be true.
I am happy that if it is if it is for Yanga or Simba, why other matches are not supposed to do so if they are doing so that it's not a lot to our teams.
It's not possible for two matches or three matches to play in mature and others have been supported and even African Sports and others which are in the front line, although soccer usually die.
Basically, we do not want to see Mbao FC will be the second player, we should expect to see Mbao FC will be played at soccer and is doing well, it can reach far even even in the African Champions League, it's only plans.
The year February 6th, Tukuyu, Mbeya Region led the Premier League to win the championship, now the problem was unable to win the United Nations, since the champion of the union was the one who represented Tanzania.
But the issue is that they won the Premier League to win the championship, now in that style if it would have been current, one is the representatives of Tanzania in the African Champions League.
However, Mbao FC will be able to buy the Premier League and they can win the championship of what I want to ask it is not to be the anger of the referees.
Many referees have a great decision that you can be shaken.
Players should know the environment of different stadiums, if they are used for one stadium, they will take place from Mwanza up to Mtwara and all over the premier league teams and that is why I said Mbao FC will know that the Premier League is not today.
The players should know that playing in the premier league are different from the lower league and it is also a way to represent Tanzania at the international competition of the club.
If it is a child, it is that he has already started on Friday and started his new life in eternal peace and leave a foolish thing.
I believe players, leaders and the technical bench of Mbao FC will have the discipline and it will not be able to reach the step seen as the team of the doctor and I commend the league not to come to them.
