
He invited investments to Michungwani Market.

It has been written by Pickup,.

I was published today May 11, 2016.

Rukwa Regional Commissioner, Zelothe Steven has invited foreign investors and abroad to invest in River Kalala district, Kalala district in the province that is holding Tanzania with Zambia.

He said that Rukwa province has been blessed with the wealth of numerous resources and various attractions including waterfalls in River Kalunga which is aired live in the world, lack of distributing up to two countries.
Zelothe Steven was welcoming those investors to invest in that province after arriving from landslides with a total of 235 bed sheets, landslides in Kunzugu Ward, Kalege, in that province.
The residents of that village located in different times explained the newspaper that the name of the village is due to the faith that has been destroyed in the community in the past, that the host and the neighbors in that area was the host and the neighbors in that village.
"By bad luck, it's not supposed to be announced by the announcement of more strength that there are Zambia, thus removing Tanzania to be among the countries that are landslides in the world," said one of the residents of that village, Samuel I am not seen.
The councilor of the Ward's councilor, Paul Kasese district has believes that they are still unknown and has not been announced not to be announced enough and that even if the existence of many did not know.
Antiquities lovers are complaining of River Kalege to be a area of its own kind in Africa and that it is a big possibility of its kind in Africa and that it is a big possibility that was done by a human being in that area more than 200 years ago.
Apart from the good film of landslides in Kalala, there are also the remains of different old equipment that were faced with stones which was believed to be used by human beings.
Those remains were revealed in that area more than 300 hundred thousand shillings before Christ, was claimed to be used for the first time by giving a solution to 200 kilometers, before getting to Lake Tanganyika in Kiparang'anda village, Kalunga.
