Malinzi is enough to leave you.
Sep 1st, 2016 by our correspondent.

One of the people who agree to be the president of Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), Jamal Malinzi, one is called Juma Matemu.

This is how it gives something to Malinzi and Malinzi to be engaged to and she is not allowed.

My colleague has made Malinzi to give him up to his office, he wrote in the TFF offices.

But now, Malinzi has gone back to TFF and he wrote it again that TFF was surprised to have a voice that are believed to have claimed that the TFF leaders will be heard of the election results of the First Division League last season.

On February 10 this year, in number 444, the 24 page, this newspaper made the article I wrote with a news reporter what can be easily ("there is no way, Malinzi to when he resigned).

The first phone was released after the newspaper went to the streets which he wrote.

We want to talk a lot, but the first time I received his phone and put him, he told me, "my father can't write this" that is what he started with and opening our talks.

Our talks were for one hour and we want to talk about the many things of the ball and I am happy about that talks is that today I would like my friend, "we are meeting our place and give birth outside here and there.

Since he wrote from TFF on the scandal of being involved and planning those results were present at the moment with the Institute for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU), I don't know his relationship with Malinzi for several months ago.

This person who has decided to see Malinzi has been written in the goal of being criticized and the real time what he sees it is when he sees them and you cannot get her with him.

What he has done to me that was the work of TFF's work, it is common to see when he is in the middle of a big group of people doing with them on the integrity of Malinzi and the Tanzanian soccer.

But the type of running soccer in the TFF, Jamal Malinzi, have wrote a lot with bad luck and to enable them to defend him and to make sure what he did in every day?

TFF of Malinzi has contributed to Tanzania soccer to come out here, despite the government having to have their blame as a big agent in the country.

His TFF is stuck on a lot of areas where it is not seen to invest this period as the only thing heading to the TFF general elections.

There are many problems that have happened to TFF and Malinzi to be the president, to solve and show his maturity in leadership and good positions as it is.

The leader of this way needs to pave way for other leaders that know the issues of leadership.

When the soccer parties of other nations have been running on a high speed towards the peak of success, Malinzi is the first that led by a high speed with her mind has not completed in the 2017 financial elections.

As a result of a leader who comes tomorrow without the implementation, it is clear that you are losing a long time because you are not happy about as a nation.

His TFF is expected to be part of the leadership conflict that is going on in the Stand United soccer club in Shinyanga.

I don't believe that Malinzi has not know, leadership and short leadership is not correct for the main leadership of this conflict, there is an issue of interests.

Stand United, which had gone into the bridge of 2014 / 8 / 15, had come up with the leadership of its chairperson of peace, Vicent Tiganya, Yaredi, "by the technical director Emmanuel Massawe, Athuman Bilal" Bambucha and don't know how many people.

But suddenly they got into the sponsorship of the mining of minerals of Acacia Land, have been changed and.

The team came to get new leaders from Nigeria and came to sell it, while Malinzi has been silent.

What's the responsibilities of the leader in charge of the country's soccer?

Before Malinzi to think the life of wanting to go back to TFF in the general elections to come back again and other things are the one that he started holding the sessions to ask for votes.

This is what happened to women Vicent Kigosi, putting up on the edge and from that, who were involved in the team is a mistake, each one was understand who is the right leader of Stand United.

Before the sponsorship of Joy, Matechi, Malinzi and other colleagues were where to come up to now?

I think they were required to make this question first, which we continue with our obligations, we are using great mental disabilities to understand that we can involve the small businesses and we agreed well.

Despite that, if Malinzi has failed to recognize the legality of the right leaders of that team is open that it is not supposed to be our leader.
