
The new appointment of CCM is supporting him by Lawyer Kelley Mwitasi.

Some of the members of parliament of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), have great shape as a result of great changes that were done by their party in a procedure to select candidates that can destroy their positions.
Among those members of parliament are together with some of the ministers who are now seen in those changes, that if they love their votes, because many of them have not been able to return home and giving thanks for the elected president.
Those changes have committed the former procedure of casting their opinion polls in getting parliamentary candidates, member of parliament and councilors' procedure that gave the opportunity to a few members, different from now where candidates will be voted for by all party members from the branch level.
In making that procedure, all the candidates for the concerned position will do a work tour to use transport that was organized by the cost of that party, the aim being to ensure that every candidate gets the right.
The investigation reports indicate that some of the members of parliament, despite attaining approximately three years of parliament during this fourth term government, they have not visited all areas of their regions and even in the areas they were visiting their close relationship with the party leaders than normal members.
For now, CCM has a member of parliament of 205 constituencies, but the reports from those regions were read some of the leaders of that party and some members of the party show that the situation is bad to some members of parliament.
On the other side, those reports indicate that the new procedure of opinion polls will help them very much some of the members of parliament especially in the regions where leaders of the district level (province) were voters but a large number of ordinary members have shown their love to them.
It is said that close to every province of Tanzania Mainland, some of the members of parliament of CCM will be hurt by that new procedure.
Last month, the chairperson of CCM, President Jakaya Kikwete, warned members of parliament that they come back to their homes and maybe as a result of knowing that some of them were given their constituencies after the referendum in the year 2005.
Kikwete gave the warning when he was addressing during the 32 year celebrations of CCM at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga town.
"Although it has maintained the two years before the general elections, it's now time for parliamentarians who have shown their constituencies to visit the citizens, before those citizens are not decided not to vote," said Kikwete and added.
"Visit the region it is important to ensure that you as a member of parliament continues to remain in power in the next general elections," it is alleged that many members of parliament have not registered, they have been giving a reason to be held up with the standing committee of the parliamentary committee.
However, President Kikwete said, "do not use reasons that he had been caught up with committee activities that could help you in the next general elections," but some of the members of parliament have been caught up with a new procedure as well as leaders and members of the concerned meeting, especially during the voting process.
It is said that as a result of this procedure, they will give a chance to members to vote to select the candidate, some of the new candidates or former candidates, they will be forced to bring new members in large numbers to increase the number of voters.
The danger that is in that step is being mentioned as a result of that party to get aroused, who do not have goals to serve that party, with the aim of meeting the private interests of the concerned candidate and their country.
It is also said that under this procedure, the leaders will be forced to fight to open new branches of the party and buy a lot of cards so as to send new party members, the situation that can move the national division of that party to the level of branches.
The great benefits of these changes are mentioned as to reduce what which could be called to provide bribery, that he has contributed to the highest bribery, he is the winner.
However, this benefits is being viewed as a great deal with some of the political issues, saying the procedure cannot have income or to reach the goals expected if its management will not consider the basis of justice and instead be used to achieve private goals.
Mke Mwema should talk with some of the ordinary members of that party who many are happy about the procedure for what they had explained that during the leaders and the delegates of the party who had a meeting to select the candidates that have been given money (bribery) a huge portion has come one day.
And others went aside more saying the time of the candidates to capture the delegates of the meeting and agree with a hotel in order to stop the votes is over and that they believe that they will not get a difficult time to bid the candidates because the candidates found it will be followed by a big part of the members and the citizens of the concerned area.
CCM passed the new procedure in his meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) that took place in Dodoma town at the end of last week.
