
You missed him, something that can reduce production at work.
Dar es Salaam, since he came to power, President John Magufuli has been insisting that we should work hard.
In one of his speech, President Magufuli said "we should work with if they want to work hard, they should be remembered,"
By bad luck, employees will celebrate May first, at the research that was done by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).
It has revealed that we are using 71 percent of all the time to check up, sleep and do activities that have no benefit in development.
Among entertainment that are mentioned to be done during the time of work is drinking alcohol, sports, especially in round table, "use of phone and many others.
The lecturer of the University of Mzumbe, Dar es Salaam, says that you suffering from big enemies who protect the nation at the moment.
"We give me this day everyone wanted to have worked for his nation but he depends on or did his responsibilities," he says.
He says that receiving payments without fulfilling their responsibilities is to use the nation when they are determined to reach the middle economy.
The acting manager of the department of statistics, employment and prices, Ruth Minja says that it is dangerous to have a large number of people who depend on others to work.
He claims that every one will attain his responsibility at work, it will be easy to reach goals which we have taken to as a nation.
The minister of the office of the Prime Minister (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labor, Employment, Youth and People with Disabilities), Jenista Mhagama says it is a shame to have a nation of people who do not work.
He says that in order to succeed as an aim of getting into the central economy, it is a must that everyone to fulfill his responsibilities instead of continuing having people she called "cargo."
"I urge you to ask your neighbor if it is a burden to the nation or he is fulfilling his responsibility as the government we saw this and that is the fifth term, decided to get into power and the slogan of" mystery, "he says.
The director of NBS, Doctor Albina Chuwa said the correct use of time to work is the biggest challenge that required to be done quickly.
The system of policy and budget from the Institute of Health Promotion Tanzania (HDT), James Mlali is saying that the big cargo that Tanzanian workers are meeting them are dependence.
He says statistics show that one employee is faced with a load of looking for nine people up to 11 underway.
He says that despite efforts in work, they must employees and other leaders to discuss how to reduce the number of people, so as to go hand in hand with the real situation in the country.
Mhagama says that the servants and federations they should not implement their responsibilities is a burden to the nation and that is why the salaries cannot meet all the needs, while the big group is dependent.
"The BX 'work is a big burden to the nation and that is why even the few who use their time well, still salaries are not allowed to be treated because of a large group being dependent," he says.
Director of Tanzania Gender Network (TGNP), Lilian Liundi, says there is need for ministries to make policies that will enable them to fulfill their responsibilities.
He says statistics for a long time has been directed by not doing work is big while insisting that the government continues to prepare a good working environment.
"We have seen many women don't have employment, this is a problem and so that everyone can be able to fulfill its responsibilities then the government has a great responsibility of helping in preparing a good working environment," he says.
Executive officer for Isimani Constituency, Iringa Region, Thomas Kilale says that the commemoration of May first will be able to start afresh the implementation of the responsibilities of every one in the working area.
However, he wants employers to fulfill their responsibilities in paying their employees instead of going against them and they can work without income.
"What is the only thing that has raised the habit of doing work is the good payment of salaries so as to remove flaws in the private sector," he says.
