The Minister of transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has said they will need more information from the TAZARA leadership because the employees do not make corrections on goods that will be used in the train stations in the city of the city where the government went to know the progress of renovation of those attacks that will be resolved since the month of October this year, including Eliona. He has prepared a statement.
At the time the parliament is going on with its budget sessions in Dodoma town, the minister for transport Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has been killed in the city of Dar es Salaam together with other things to follow the renovation of the train engines that are being waited for desire by the residents of the city so as to avoid the congestion of accidents that are facing them.
His first station is at the workshop of the railway company in the country.
And after inspecting him he would ask you to be cleaned.
But I want to make sure that I have written it.
That will take place here.
After seeing that he was also today, Doctor, Mwakyembe has announced that starting from now, we should be remembered especially when the night if you see them, they should work even so that night.
To pay our children last night and in the afternoon we should do the work is.
In the sea heading to the workshop.
Where he was a job for renovation.
And after groups to see yourself the stars coming from.
The second station of an impromptu visit to Minister Mwakyembe was a place here at the TAZARA workshop.
The advice he had since they are not knowing they have came from very different like you met.
We were given out up to his life because the father gave birth to the doctor, we do not work hard so we are able to open the campaign meetings and to be a terrorist person, but it's not ready to open those campaigns.
Therefore he will not accept it started.
Still friends are still praising?
We have promised that the nation we have more than ten years now, these youths have already started working and we're going to study for us the money is very fast, very very much like each other and the equipment are approved by living.
He knew my authority open and I will go?
Minister Mwakyembe after all shows that here TAZARA has employed to arrive this Monday so as to be given a lot about your issues without any time, the government has given money for making sure this month to the residents of Dar es Salaam city, they are talking about another issue and not getting to the bus.
Surprise visit, I met with a car, "he said.
I will not lie!
We will play.
