
Members of parliament, citizens are required to respect the law.

It has been written by Angela Semwenda, Dodoma.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The members of parliament and citizens have been urged to respect the law and will be discussed about the violation of the minerals contracts that he got in between the government and the mining of minerals here in the country to avoid conflicts.

Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo has given that statement in parliament in Dodoma town. He said the government has signed contracts of minerals and there is the law of minerals of the year 2010, therefore, it is required to avoid the government being sentenced.
He was responding to a question by the member of parliament for Geita, Muskat Maliya (CCM) who wanted to know the government will give them an issue when Drake has been requested by the citizens through all sessions up to the provinces and when the Mining Organization (Monbusho Scholarship) that will make a small-scale miners.
Minister Muhongo answering the question, he confessed the existence of a huge conflict in that area and the case is in court, thus the citizens should be calm, because the area cannot be given up to the case they cannot be given until the case they cannot be given until the case to change.
"We have signed contracts, if we play charged with maybe the parliamentarians should agree on me, the government has been accused of paying compensation or the trend of the case," he said.
He said that Tanzanians should be given education on how to respect the contracts of mining minerals so as to avoid getting conflicts with the big mineral companies in the country.
About the grant of small miners, Muhongo said they found in the first phase and the second phase of the equipment that was given to those miners did not reach the mines.
"We are doing an evaluation now before giving a third term grant, why I was surprised to inspect, I found the equipment that will be presented in the concerned areas, therefore, there is an increase in the use of that grant," he said.
Previously responding to the question, the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Medard Kalemani, said that Samira and Nyamkazi Primary School, but the government continues with talks with the mine so that the company can release some of the areas that the company is required to release some of the areas that it was required to achieve small miners.
He said that area of KULEA Childcare area which is owned by Melisa, has a research license that is owned by 45 percent of 55 percent of Plasmodium falciparum and Vodacom Company 2000, will take its time on July 11, 2018.
