He was surprised by scoring in the year, Doctor Kigoda whenever he emerged with a lot of motorbikes.
Dec 27, 2012

"EX Africa, popularly known," a "meaning," every time he got "every day will go with another day in Africa" (Para), philosopher Rene Descartes.
For sure, that was written on the first page of this newspaper, the previous edition, may be the first half to score for this year 2012. The previous edition of Citizen newspaper, followed by prime minister, Marco Chali had his wife.
"Minister of Industry and Trade, Doctor Abdallah Kigoda, is accused of stealing and eventually making it be given a work of making vehicles outside the country, the company of Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) refused because of not meeting the conditions and criteria of tenders.
As a result of that situation, the board of TBS has ordered the management of that organization to make up the minister in business court, so as to deal with other things, the court allowed the decision to get the company that will do that job performance in the country from outside the country.
According to the news that we have done, the company, Doctor Kigoda claimed to destroy the TBS board to collect the inspection of vehicles outside the country, has been mentioned by the name of Wolf-M in August this year, was suspended by the TBS Board to continue with its inspection responsibilities.
"Among those reasons, the company continued with its duties as well as the allegations of the former director of TBS, Charles Nkondola, for the suspension of work and also lack success in implementation and management of its responsibilities.
"Said the reliable news from TBS are saying that the leadership of the board of that organization is not connected to the internet, Minister Doctor Kigoda and giving it the company outside the process of tenders, a situation that has forced the board to advise the management of TBS to resolve the charges of the minister.
In my opinion, this is not new, because they were forced to be open and there are some that we wrote on this article it will be remembered that the parliamentary committee on public organizations (POAC) are believed to have severe pain.
In this organization that is responsible for control of the products that are produced in the country and those that are imported from outside the country.
This scandal led the former managing director of the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS), Charles Nkondola, for the time what was revealed is the theft and huge embezzlement suspects, being faced with evidence of revenue collection by delegates, those of the parliamentary committee arrived up to Bangayegya and Singapore.
There when they saw a lot of things that they saw in, they don't know the ones of TBS recently were spread until in other parts of the world, there are local contractors of this country who helped to be noted this truth.
"Mister Mjengwa, here in the UK, there is one company, I am saying it is the real meaning for their benefit and their youth who live here in the United Kingdom, are saying they want to sell its quality, but there is no wonder there is no inspection that is taking place.
The "you has called a phone (you tell you) you have a car, then it gets a car for a car to pay for a car, then you will meet with them in the areas of" East Africa that they meet with them! "
