In this period, pride in Kinana is what?
May 08, 2014.

Many times we prepare us to inform us the ordinary citizens are usually given a long time when our actions enable us to be similar to you, how we see our leaders, especially those with rule.
Those leaders have been contributing to the danger of us the ordinary citizens who try to cheer and even read the songs of praising God, what we want to get to heaven.
The leaders are pleased with difficulty, saying it is false or not announcing the words of looking for and hands with difficulty because they have played 74 matches for all of us that it is wrong, black patches.
A good example of recently is a speech by the secretary general of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdulrahman Kinana when he was addressing a rally held at the Old Gombani grounds in Pemba Island when those statements were informed and it was a two way.
There are those who were married and others that made them to be the truth, among the rumors that were shocked and that he is told the deputy secretary general of the Citizens Party (CUF), who is also the first vice president of Zanzibar.
Kinana claimed that Maalim Seif was asked for Maalim Seif that was asked recently by President Kikwete, "why at the public meetings in Pemba, there is another thing that" said Maalim Seif gave him that he could not get married. "
Any person who has talked about how things came up and how the president of the United Republic of Tanzania did not know that the first vice president of Zanzibar will know what he said while Kinana is a great desire to be the secretary general of CUF and his followers.
Kinana also said that the opposition leaders with alleged to claim the union of three governments who are greedy for power and they provide guidelines of threats from the words is that until now they are able to give opinions of threats from the leaders of CCM from Mainland and Zanzibar.
The question that comes here is this is why the status of the status like Kinana had no difficulty on night and in the afternoon to return night?
I think one reason for that is a lot, because, the leaders of that kind are capable of preventing citizens, especially those of their followers, they believe that they believe their followers do not have their thing, they believe that they should not tell them because they believe their supporters.
Another one we were seen in the speech of Kinana at an ancient attack, Maalim Seif instead of reviewing his arguments of wanting the union's system for three governments.
The attacks from Kinana explains that one thing, that he and his colleagues have gone into politics and on the other side, up to now their opponents for the Union of Citizens Constitution (UKAWA) did not see any person, but they used the motion to address the defending issues of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Then Kinana tried to thank Maalim Seif for saying that he did not bring back their development in Pemba, where they believe that even the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere who did not bring development to Butiama.
Maybe it is difficult for us to get various leaders of Kinana to mistakes that we do not have any big offence is that sometimes we do not see our leaders but they do not know how to suction with our leaders but how do you talk about our problem that is not aware of our leaders.
Our offense is this behavior of calling you "veteran leaders' leaders, I think that we are doing so that some of them were forced to have that maybe the truth is big leaders that have been unable to withstand the conflict and were not for them to go down.
Others have not seen that they have the strength and ability to do when they will give him a permit.
In this period where Tanzania has tried to build for a democratic elections, citizens should be able to make sure that their politicians have taken the steps to strengthen the legal rule.
