
Bags of reserve to build factories.

It has been written by Shadrack Sagna, Arusha.

I was heard (22 October, 2016

22 industries are expected to be built in the country and the Social Security Fund, being the implementation of the government's plan to make sure the community development to invest and participate in the construction of the economy of industries in the country.

In the implementation of that order, bags which have already started the implementation are NSSF, PPF, PSLE, LAPF, at the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) party, have already started implementing data for the purpose of investing in different areas, with the aim of strengthening the availability of drugs in the hospital.
The secretary general of the National Social Security Fund (Tembela), Meshack Bandawe, said yesterday here in the city that the action of the Social Security Fund is to focus on investment of industries, it will help 40 percent of increase in employment in the country.
He was speaking at the sixth meeting of the stakeholders of the NSSF fund that is taking place in this town.
In that investment, PPF has started the process of construction of the production building because of the clothes company Totoo died and that factory is being built on a free economic area of Benjamin Mkapa in Dar es Salaam city.
That fund will also expand the Tanzania sports factory that is in Land in Kilimanjaro Province by partnering with the prisons force and they will also do a partnership with NSSF at building the sugar industry, Mkulazi region, Morogoro Province.
Bandawe, he said the fund of PSPF will build a special area of economic in Kurasini, where it will be a center of products from China and it will build a factory for making Agnetta.
The LAPF fund will open up the Majani ya Chai station of Lushoto, Tanga and will build a factory for making hospital products and responsibilities, therefore, the GEPF Fund will make the project of construction and cancellation of the factory for taking place in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Province.
The fund will also build modern slaughterhouses in collaboration with the National Housing Company (Monbusho Scholarship) and the Investment Bank (TIB) in Tandahimba in Mtwara province and build a factory for livestock and pit latrines in Mtwara province.
National Social Security Fund (Tembela) of them have continued to revive and continue to start new industries in the clothes and livestock sector, to protect themselves and promote new industries for the skin and skin products and the start of new modern industries that have been affected.
The Executive Director of NSSF, Professor Godius Kahyarara has said that his fund has intended to invest more in industries to maintain ranches.
He added that investment in those areas, do not need big capital, "said the sugar industry which makes up the partnership with PPF, will have the ability to produce 200,000 tons annually and it will give employment to about 100,000 people.
Professor Godius Kahyarara has said the NSSF is prepared to expand the cereals processing of sexually transmitted infections which are in Iringa, Dodoma and Arusha provinces, they will open up the Arusha gemology station and also completing production of trials in the pesticide factory located in Kibaha, Coast Province.
NHIF Fund for starting is making a project of medicine and products in the hospital, production of water and production of gas for treatment.
As a result of looking at those areas, the fund has been able to revive the industries that are in different hospitals for the purpose of making water water.
It will also build a factory for production of hospitals in partnership with the Muhimbili National Hospital, will build a factory for generating electricity in partnership with the High Court of Drugs (MSD), will build a factory for production of natural gas, who is not in the Muhimbili National Institute (MOI).
Bandawe said that fund will also make investment in collaboration with the National Housing Corporation (JKT) to revive the production of drugs at the drugs factory that is owned by the National Housing Corporation, by building a big modern factory for producing medicine together with different products of the hospital in Ruvu Camp.
He said the fund's fund Issa Juma has organized to enter into fishing in the main market and processing of fish and added that the fund is ready to participate in the together projects that will be implemented by Issa Michuzi.
"All the projects we cooperate with the Bank of Azania in which all bags are partners and we want to make this bank to be in industries, and we will partner with JKT in the implementation of those projects," said Bandawe.
Members are saying that the funds of bags are going to invest in industries, the members of NSSF is saying that the investment will be productive before their money.
They wanted the presence of short explanations, because the fund is in bringing to invest in the country while there is lack of investing in buildings.
The chairman of the association of independent political parties (TUCTA), Gratian Mukhongo gave that action that it is returning to now public organizations and Serge to do investment different from the previous years, the government built themselves in business.
Samuel Magula from TUGHE, he said it is a good thing to invest but he put up that fund, that is going to invest in industries while some of them have been unable to pay the benefits of their members on claims that it does not have money.
Geofrey Kemm said stakeholders who are complaining about investment in industries and gave out the money to be released where.
"Our funds will be safe in this investment," he said that SSRA, Professor Samuel Wangwe said that the board which has a bond of investment, the chairman of NSSF, Professor Samuel Wangwe said that the board which has a bail and investment will be able to protect your money, that we want to protect your money, "said Professor Muhongo.
The executive director of the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SSRA), Irene Uwoya, said that bags has freedom to invest in any place so that the project can follow the systems of investment, he added that bags can invest in buying shares, buildings or buying documents.
"If we say that funds are going to invest in industries, it's not that all the funds will be removed there, it is only part of the money that will be directed there," said Irene and added that investment in industries will help students to increase the number of members.
