
Who is usually injected on the eyes and the Quran, he did not see.

It has been written by Sophia Kaduma.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

Cries by cries yesterday at the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, after the answers of the tests from the specialist doctors of Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) to show that, Said Mrisho (35), who are injected on a eyes recently in Buguruni in Dar es Salaam, he cannot see again.

Before those answers, the mother of Mrisho Kikwete, Halima Abdallah was ready to give an answer to the child of the child so as to help him to see Doctor Mrisho before not getting rid of his body being beaten in the stomach and Salum Njoki popularly known as Scorpion, the Buguruni area of Buguruni.
While speaking yesterday, the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda said after getting the report of the event, they decided to take him to Muhimbili Hospital for a lot of tests to see if there is a possibility to see again. He said he had given tests for two days with a panel of specialist doctors, but the answers were taken and said that he will not be able to see again.
"The answers came out and he has touched me what we saw it is bad but we have agreed to agree with it, that our brothers will not be able to see all his life," said Makonda.
He added that after the answers, the government of the province has been able to give a treatment of switching off fake phones that will help to return the appearance of his chapter, to give them an offer of points so that he can be able to deal with the environment as well as getting special needs.
He also said that he has been given a car and the driver for the purpose of helping him for the whole period that will be in treatment and training when it is successful will be allowed to continue with its activities.
"We know before being found with this disasters, there was a good example, because we are in the province, we are looking for a sum of 10 million shillings as part of the capital city therefore he has appointed her younger wife and he will be his boss," added Makonda.
Makonda also urged people not to use the name of Mrisho Mpoto to ask for money that he did is, to stop that behavior because that act was not allowed.
"I have received this answers keenly I believe that one day I will go back, but I don't know if I'll be able to see if I have been able to see again, this event has done my own dream," he said.
Furthermore, he thanked all those who showed him for his support for the whole period including the head of the province, media houses and his family.
I love you so much when I see my mother wants to give me his name so as to see me, but I know today he will use more so much especially when my head of the province, my wife, my brothers and you do not pay them, "he added.
