Six months of Mangula has passed, there is a new CCM party?
FDL against 1st, 2013.

Last week I discussed the issue of some of the leaders of CCM explained to the presence of the sections of the new constitution of the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic of the United Republic and said that they are not involved in those sections because it is corruption, and those sections touching the corruption.
That now they have reached an opportunity to show openly openly by the sections of the new constitution that deals with corruption, it is another sign of how the ruling party is ending.
I got to write back behind that the main problem of this party is that it has been able to do to make any great changes in natural gas, philosophically as well as the challenges of today's challenges.
Because the biggest reason is competing for the private interests and the internet has not allowed to give them an indication that the open mistakes like this one that deals with corruption and the corrupt people to an extent of showing him and put in the sections of the new constitution.
I will not have been saying that CCM has lost its vision and allowed me to be attacked by a group of corrupt people who have separated even in politics and take various positions for leadership of this group which is building a great internet in the party and the government which is aiming to break up.
It is not true that the only thing that would be able to make sure we benefit from this party, it is the cause of the country and the party's source is the cause of the country by the government so as to ensure they get money during the elections of the party and the government so as to ensure they get money during the elections of the party.
It's not good because that the popularity of CHADEMA has increased because of these political mistakes that he knew that, and that is why several times the party could not hesitate to make the wall and to be unable to deal with the corrupt people, but later explained that it was not known as' Follow suit '.
Take it for example the wind that was started by Kikwete himself in the year the day before yesterday to play Magunga together with the wind, was not known as Edward Lowassa, Andrew Chenge, and there was a time he was seen as the head coach Aziz Abood while he did not leave the leadership and not being sacked.
It is clear that the failure of CCM up to now "stop Magala" Lowassa, Chenge, and several others who had been accompanied by major allegations of corruption, has continued to make sure that they get faith in the party and its government, and there is no big veteran in the country since CCM who doesn't jump and Frederick Sumaye who are vying for that presidency.
With this time of CCM to stop corruption, it knows how the vice chairperson of CCM, Philip Mangula, the Lord (Mangula), at the end of last year, just after being elected in that position, he made an interview with this newspaper where he had completed that job within six months since he was in power!
That was the first December last year and today I see this article on July 29, 2013, that is more than six months since Mangula has released that promise, and there is still a big veteran who was being dealt with by using bribery, but I am sure when I ask ourselves!
During the interview of last year, the writer told his doubt in the implementation of the promise to fight against corruption in the CCM elections, Mangula advised that the ability to deal with corruption in the CCM elections, Mangula advised that the ability to deal with corruption in the opinion polls including Yusuf Manji and Thomas Nyari.
If Mangula succeeded in the general elections of 2000 to ensure that Manji and Nyato said their names are needed because of using bribery in opinion polls, it is because the groups of the groups that have not been operated and great strength as it is now.
My brothers, I haven't blamed Mangula for being unable to fight against corruption in CCM and his government (recently), and inside a political meeting that had a few billion shillings, and that is why he cannot succeed in this party.
