
The government gets a donation of private schools.

It has been written by our correspondent, Dodoma.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The government has said that they recognizes and support the contribution of education by the owners of private schools in different areas in the country and has promised to be with them in order to continue improving education.

That statement was issued yesterday by the Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Professor Joyce Ndalichako when speaking at the first general meeting of the year of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TAG) that is taking place for two days in the city.
Professor Ndalichako said the private investors in the education sector as they feel that they have a challenge to be high table with their fellow stakeholders (government) so as to resolve it.
"If there is a problem that is wrong in education we are required to be one without considering our religious ideology or politics so that we can help our children in education," he said.
In addition, he said the government is organizing a special training for teachers' profession to ensure that they sell the interests and quality standards of all teachers in the country without caring about it from the government or in private schools.
The president of that show, Ester Mahawe thanked the government for recognizing the importance of cooperation between the public and private sector in developing education in the country from primary education to higher education.
"We know what we were thanking you by being appointed as a minister, our appointment has come at the right time because we have witnessed your intention of love to see our education is continuing to be of the best standards, and we believe under your guidance the challenges that were made to get the problems," he said.
He said the policy on education and technical training in the year 1995, and the new policy of the year 2014 explained the importance of the concept of the government and the private sector in education thus stakeholders in private sectors to contribute to the government's effort to improve the quality of education.
