
Maximilian Arnold at being shot.

It has been written by Fadhili Abdallah, Kigoma.

I was published (03 / 2016.

A resident of Kalali village, Uvinza district, Kigoma Province, MFI accounts (74) has been killed by being shot dead and later the body was burnt down of killing many citizens of that village.

The head of the District of Buhigwe are located in Uvinza district, Colonel Marco Gola giving a report to the Provincial Commissioner, Emmanuel Maganga said, to see you were faced with his death yesterday during the burial of Stephano Kaombwe who is believed to be the late Adam and his wife had caused his death in witchcraft.
Geffi, said before those killings, the citizens arrived at home for Amos Makalla to attend the funeral of his wife for the late Amos Makalla in collaboration with her mother, (the deceased, who had been paid fire), are the ones that were involved in those killings.
That head of the district said that after those noise, citizens started putting off in the area of a few hours from the burial, he was arrested by some of the youths who started to attack stones as a situation that caused his death and later to reuse wood and lost a fire.
However, another person who was known by the name Juma, died from blood pressure due to witness his big mother while he was burnt down by witchcraft.
The head of Uvinza district, said together with those deaths, also three people including Irene Stephen who is the wife of the late, Lucia Swartz is also the wife of the late, Lucia GJoyce who all the three who were injured in that event and for now, he has been admitted at the Maweni Provincial Hospital.
Police is holding six people out of 13 people that are accused of being involved in that incident while a big part of the people on suspicion of those killing was alleged to run in that village.
Speaking at a campaign meeting of the delegates of the defense and security committee of the province and Uvinza district, Provincial Commissioner, Maganga has issued a warning to the citizens to stop those acts and the government to sponsor those involved.
