Victims of the floods who are in the new town of Mabwepande claimed to have urged the government to look at the possibility of giving them clinic or hospitals in their area as soon as possible following lack of important health services because the clinic has been directed by the leadership of the area, Donatha Mushi and informing them.
It launched the service.
Which are there here in the concept.
It has come on behalf of their government to come up to confirm it on behalf of the government but not me.
What is the incident.
Its and our homes have been due to their homes and it does not give health services as required and it is usually closed early service providers in the clinic where he has been facing a lot of challenges since the increase of poor laboratories and lack of medical equipment.
This has come on behalf of their government, it came to confirm it on behalf of the government but not me.
An incident.
My great goals that is led by our hospital, where some of the late people are there, but we become a lot of drugs that are there about it, therefore the hospital has been taken and had been presented to people without knowing that the hospital has been taken.
It has been taken in Mabumba after the increase of people.
They were faced with floods at different challenges.
If we have a shortage of a laboratories.
It has also been said.
And 18 beds in the country.
I was there.
And the drugs are there.
But you know you are not the news reporter in the hospital, but there is a huge explosion that will be done here where it is now.
All the people in accordance with Kawe and other areas they will meet with Kitambi he knew that he has happened to the party of women who are in the Redd's field, I will not fear of giving a donation of six million shillings to those of his fellow musicians, whose peak will be tomorrow at Karimjee grounds on 20 in the city.
Not, we have decided to come up this area here, today, it is in commemorating the Christmas week?
Together with the political party, we will enable our country's slogan and also this week of medicine is to save the lives of medicine and use of medicine and the use of medicine and the use of drugs in the homes despite the donation they have been given training on the use of medicine for those doctors from Dar es Salaam.
