
The presidency of distorting the Parliament of the constitution.
December 31st, 2014.

Some of the candidates mentioned to vie for presidency in the general elections of the year 2015 is alleged to start building groups to oppose three governments within the constitutional parliament, has been known.

According to the news that this newspaper received, those politicians believe that under the three-government system that was passed by the commission of constitutional changes, the president of Tanzania will not have a power like the wealth of the son, President Jakaya Kikwete.

Our citizens have told that those candidates have organized groups with his great work, it will be persuading the delegates of that parliament to become a three-government structure.

"We see you are two governments as it is now, having a little change for the purpose of Zanzibar and the people want presidency because they want to have the authority that he has said.

"There is benefits that the Tanganyika president at the time is not the commander in the country, what are the benefits of being the president of Tanzania when all the important resources are in the countries?

When this is the president of Tanzania, he changed the beggars and his fellow musicians when they decided to put up "resorted," then he will remain sitting in the State without any meaning.

"We will see in the constitutional parliament but we will continue to ensure that the three-government issue is unable to ensure that the three governments that were improved or no three governments," said one of the aides to the politicians of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), the ones mentioned to vie for the presidency.

This newspaper has been told that this campaign against three governments inside that parliament will go on fire and be public just after the announcement of names of delegates of that Parliament any time from now.

Mke Mwema should be told that those with the intention know that they need less than 310 votes inside that parliament, to ensure that this issue did not be shaken.

President Kikwete has already announced that if the draft of the constitution will not be approved by that parliament, Tanzania will continue to use that which will be received with joy by those candidates.

Speaking about that situation, one of the delegates of the constitutional commission, Professor Rogassian Mahunnah, told this newspaper this week that they did not work by checking the presidential candidates need for, but the interests of the citizens.

"What was proposed by the commission as a result of the opinion polls of many people, if there are other people that we don't know why, we will be able to collect the views of citizens and what is in this report they want," said Baregu.
