
Government listen to the highest price of Sugar.
After showing positive direction in moving the discipline of public service, dealing with corruption actions and cut off of corruption, the fifth term government of President John Magufuli is now facing the sugar examinations.
That product has great use in every human life, it has started that they are measurable, as it is the regulations of business, prices has risen up and the state of business, prices has risen up and a result of a high price of 1,800 villages.
The research that we did in various parts of the country shows that the highest price of sugar for now is 2,400 shillings, but in many areas, it has reached 3,000 shillings.
While Katoma in Manyara Province the day before yesterday, President Magufuli said he has got information that there is one of the business people of Dar es Salaam city, he has bought 3,000 tons of sugar in the story and another he has bought 3,000 tons in the factory and he has ordered the sugar agencies to identify the diseases that have never been found.
He said the problem of the shortage of sugar is a long time and that his government cannot be unable to buy sugar and already he has already directed the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa for the sugar industry to be sorted out in large numbers.
In a business foundation as we have explained earlier, when it comes up for a shortage of services or products, the first effects is the price while the cost of sugar prices will benefit from Tanzania, it is something that is clear as we have noted that President Magufuli had explained.
We thank the government for the steps that it will make to control the problem by the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (BMC) have arrested one businessman of Dar es Salaam for allegations of maintaining more than 600 tons of sugar which has been bought from the Kilombero Sugar Factory and set up in his warehouses without they sell it.
Moreover, that institution has a work squad in the whole country for purposes of making sure that we are claimed to maintain the sugar and causing a shortage.
While those steps are continuing, we advised the government to make two important things to ensure that the products is being distributed in the market as soon as possible so that the citizens, especially low-income income should not continue to buy and stand firm to protect their prices.
For example, yesterday newspaper quoted the resident of Mtwara Region, Mawazo Ally saying that for now, they are forced to sell for salt instead of tea due to the price of sugar, but when he went to buy a total of 700 million shillings, but when he went to buy an amount of Sh.
The second issue, we want to investigate and take action against business people who were found to bring in the sugar industry that has already been sold for normal consumers contrary to the situation which was made thus causing effects to citizens.
We believe that it will do that quickly especially considering that the health of a Tanzanian is an important priority to the nation.
