
The barley farmer whose name is not a new name to gospel music.
All the gospel music producer is swelled by I would like to assure you that she will not be able to avoid his name Jacob Otieno.
For approximately seven years, he has built the front of being one of the identity cards with great influence especially in the gospel music industry, while doing work with some of the leaders in this profession.
The list of artists who have assessed the work is very long, starting from Dakar, Eucharist celebrated by Jimmy Gigabyte and Jimmy Gigabyte and Janet Otieno.
It is an issue that has changed the reputation of different awards as his skill of giving employment to the African Petroleum Development Institute where he gives the issues of recording music.
"For three years I have done a work as a lecturer at this university where those of recording music issues," I explained them in an interview that he spoke with us about his journey like the borders of the year 2012.
I remember the last time to make an interview with you reading if you were at the studio studios in the streets that has been misled.
The answer is the list of artists who I have done to work since that time was very long, but some of the songs that I have heard of him, I've heard a friend with Esther Jichunge.'
For now, own a holy martyr. I need to see more about this label.
The answer Mrs I started this three years ago and our offices are in the area of Kinama area.
I understood that between 15,000 and 30,000 shillings to record music in the label, I have the journalists that with skills not only to pay for example, what I need to use this service that will enable you to support financial artists before starting this activity.
What is what is needed to be the audience.
The answer is a must that you have a fan of music, that is you have the ability to play with one of the music such as well or the guitar, it is also a must that you have gone to school and get bad views so that they consider the popular musicians, the issue that will enable you to have good results.
And so, start the studio?
The first answer is that you have a lot of money to start at least 5 million shillings, money that will help at 15 million shillings, money that will be directed at the purchase of those studios, and if your intention is to open those studios, therefore, it will be heard of 5 million shillings.
Do you prepare to work with some of the artists who clarified this music video in the country?
Finally, I was not worried but after doing work with some of them, I believe that they are normal people despite their success, but the time has continued to see any problem there will affect my work because I will be criticized.
You are some of the bodies that you get the opportunity to work with the gospel artists who are involved and those who are usually involved with all the two sides?
The first answer I don't have discrimination, the issue that comes even at my price to record music, something that may be able to improve their work, an issue that makes more money to strengthen their work, an issue that makes these artists an extent, I have used to arrest those artists.
For a day you can record its spherical guidelines?
The answer is similar to a music industry, if I have explained its ills that do a lot of things like involved the music players and therefore takes a long time but as usual it gets at least three songs every day.
This week touching the news headlines about the incident of your two awards being stolen at your home, where it resorted to gospel artists a finger to the blame to blame to kill them since it will spoil your business?
The answer's answer without doubt that I met and especially considering that some of the media stations were ending things in different context, "I said it is because I feel it is only one person, therefore many believe that when it reached now, you need me.
That is a teaser?
Answer is not surprising! I don't know anyone every day I went to each other and get married and I buy a little, then I will fall of hunger.
