Congratulations to Majaliwa for the coming out of Dodoma.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been published in October 2016.

It was like a dream of President John Magufuli when he answered that the government will move to Dodoma inside a period of four years to come.

He announced that for the first time at the CCM general meeting that took place in Dodoma this year, and then insisted that his statement in the commemoration of the commemoration of the heroes' day that took place in Mashujaa Grounds in that town.
But for now, those words have been implemented following actions after the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa announced the day before yesterday that day he would leave the day before yesterday.
He said that in Dar es Salaam city when he was receiving a donation of 190 million shillings for helping victims of the earthquake in Kagera province, together with thanking all who gave that donation, he insisted that he will arrive in Dar es Salaam for special activities to bid farewell to the residents of the city and welcoming Dodoma.
About the donations of the victims of the earthquake in Kagera, which has been going to be released at his office, Majaliwa said there is a special procedure when they come at the office in Dar es Salaam city, but also for those who will be present at State House, he was received well by leaders and citizens of Dodoma province, joy, spirits, and posters that have a good message to welcome him.
As a result of that example which she has shown the prime minister, they must make sure ministers, assistant ministers and chief secretaries, planning for their journey to Dodoma to support the government in Dodoma, because from now the government is in Dodoma, because from now the government is the executive director of the government.
These achievements are due to the good leadership and stable leadership of the fifth term, John Magufuli, the Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan and the Prime Minister Majaliwa has claimed that it is implementing his promises in such actions, where there was a lot of promises that were not just on.
The residents of Dodoma are required to use well the opportunity of Majaliwa to move to Dodoma by making enough infrastructure, to use modern agriculture that has productivity and honor.
Shime has emphasized that every position for his position is to congratulate the fifth term government due to various efforts that we decided to make actions, because if not the strength of the big leaders, many issues are not been made if how it was planned.
The presence of Majaliwa in Dodoma province, will give a lot of economic opportunities to the city, therefore its residents use well, they will be able to achieve their goals and avoid poverty, it is my faith that various directors and government workers are on the way so as to ensure that the capital city can be used by action.
Pondamali has said that we support the Prime Minister for control which she has done by moving to Dodoma for actions, in this journey of Dodoma, it is my faith that there is no executive director or any government servant who will be given to go there and try to evade them.
