Members of parliament let "vote!"
May 22, 2012

"
It is clear that the musicians of the band, Hamisi Ngapa, "King" Michael Wambura, Juma Hassan, "Town" and others who participated in singing the song did not know that she had decided to know if they had decided to know if they had decided to become young people in Tanzania's parliament more than 35 years later.
The story indicate that Dar Jazz ended and bought that song that was popular as a sharp razor to their opponents Western Jazz (MSabatama) due to the opposition that was there between those band, each one was presenting the best than his colleague.
More than 35 years later, we are witnessing the words of the song that was being used by our members of parliament in the parliamentary meeting in the general meeting in July of July against citizens who announced their intention to vie for a parliamentary seat in the provinces that were set free by our members.
Our honorable members of parliament are not seen on the citizens, who use their constitutional rights to vie for a parliamentary seat in the regions we want to make noise, but everyone thinks or not making noise which does not allow me to get pregnant with her own life.
It is possible that "noise" for citizens who have announced the intention to vie for a parliamentary seat through the provinces of honorable members of parliament, did not accept to go back to their seats in parliament and it does not end up in their seats, to fill in the parliamentary hall to be close to them.
We have witnessed the situation that caused the budget of several ministries to be sold quickly and easily as required by members of parliament under more than three hundred members, others have moved to their homes in their opponents and attacks from their opponents.
It is true that the noise from the crows do not have reduced, but if wrong-shivered by the noise of doors that make our leaders fail to sit in the parliament, because we should not think that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they are supposed to believe that they should not understand what
What is supposed to be identified himself is how our members of parliament were using the ten minutes to contribute to various issues in parliament because of all their strength, "that they made in their constituencies in a period of five years ago.
We have heard about our members of parliament to take votes in their constituencies this project or day time to move with the water well and to build a bridge on what they claim is to implement the clean policies of their party.
When we asked himself, how come, then, when he comes from another member of the party, he asked the consent of the citizens to continue or improve more when the former member of parliament opposed the noise of noise that doesn't like food and to sleep?
If it is just noise about the papers that are supposed to do if they do not have a house to sleep, why the parliament hall is not covered by a result of many members who want to improve the implementation of the party policies in those regions?
There's a secret that deals with one member who is a member of parliament looking for another member that it is possible and the shivered because the member of parliament wants to implement the policies of their party in the way he's better than the previous member of parliament.
When a member of parliament explaining this he becomes an accident with the interests of his voters, or he depends on his personal interests?
Recently, if you are a member of parliament who has done well all that, promised voters for you, if you want them to inspect your past five years, you know what you want to choose another citizen again, because your colleague has come out for your region to be elected by citizens who want them to elect him?
Recently, our members of parliament are using the time of parliament to beating them and find their opponents the roles they have been sent to do so and their votes are doing so for their interests?
Members of parliament are supposed to know that during the time they have a finger to one of their opponents, including four they have been relating to them because they are supposed to leave each other.
For sure, our members of parliament are supposed to know that they are inspiring.
