
Simba, Azam got the winner.
Simba, Yanga needs seven points to defend the championship this season.
Charles Kimei, The Citizen Director @ mkito.
Dar es Salaam, despite not being in the field, the results of the match between Simba and Azam coming from a draw, have caused Yanga an environment to defend the championship this season.
Yesterday's results in front of Azam was going on to hold the second position with 59 points against Simba and left the great gap to reach Yanga with 65 points.
Yanga, tomorrow will be in Shinyanga to play with Stand United there is top of the league standing with six points ahead of Azam after the day before yesterday defeated Toto Africans of Mwanza, Yanga needs seven points in the games that will take place in Shinyanga, Mbeya, Songea and Mtwara provinces to announce the championship.
National Stadium at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam, yesterday, Simba showed a good game in the first half where Hamis Kiiza was blocking the early goal, but his head's goal took place by Azam FC goalkeeper, Aishi Manula has lowered his pockets.
Azam have every reason to send himself due to several positions they were stolen, among its striker leaving with Simba's goalkeeper, Vincent Kigosi, four times and failed to open.
Khamis Mcha 'Vialli' was losing a chance when he was born with a goalkeeper, the position that he got John Bocco will be the second half.
Yesterday's game was seen to have been attacked by both two teams while having a speed and strength when some of the players were seen to be unable to control their anger.
Salum Aboubakar "Sure Boy," Azam and Kiiza said that Simba came up closely after being involved in the field at the stadium and brought about violence which had lasted for more than two minutes before the referee, Matthew Mtigumwe, were removed from Mwanza to listen.
Having a good level yesterday, Bocco was unable to use Sure Boy after falling on the defender of Simba and requested him to win a goalkeeper, but he was played and from outside.
Few minutes later, the Azam captain worked on the extra work to be leading the defenders of Simba from the northern region and entered into the danger zone before taking one shot in the outskirts of the goal.
Brian Salva Rweyemamu, who died in the second half by Simba had a good opportunity to give his team the victory goal, but his poor shot was affected by a goalkeeper has lowered.
Suluhu has been received well by their opponents, Yanga who could have been tested from Azam or Simba as one one would have emerged with the victory, more than Azam, which could have 61 points and increase the pressure to those defending champions.
At the time the game was going on after some of the end, fans and Simba members were forced to blame their leaders as they want them to register themselves by being unable to lead the team even to win the championship.
