
The road board being stopped for payments.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

It has been witnessed, 18th October, 2016.

The roads board board has stopped all the payments arising from funds of the road fund to the Municipal Council of Kinondoni. That step has been taken because of violating the procedures of procurement and trend of implementation and the management of the projects until when the board was satisfied with the system of financial management.

That board also has stopped all the work of all the ones that are coordinated by the road fund that are supervised by the municipality until there, the systems for the management of funds of the fund, will be distributed especially in engineering activities, procurement, and accounting.
The chairman of that board, Joseph Haule said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was giving a technical report on the construction of the construction of the road construction of VocationalTraining with a length of 212,150 kilometers located in Sinza Mori, which was built philosophically.
"The project that is being implemented by Kinondoni Municipality by using money from the roads fund, 33 billion shillings set for the year 2013 / 2014 started to be implemented in March 17, 2015, and it was expected to be completed within three months which is June 16, 2015," he said.
He said until the inspection is taking place in June this year, the project was not complete, where the board did a technical inspection in that project with an aim to identify the quality of work, the whole process of implementation and challenges that are facing that project.
He said the results of technical inspection, show that part of the roads that was built which is 700 million shillings, have shortages in tests, that make sure that the tarmac roads is no great amount of climate, therefore it will cause water and climate change.
In addition, he said that investigation is unacceptable, that the tarmac roads is little and it has not yet reached the level of acceptable levels and also according to drawings which is estimated to be 20 to 11 times, but the part that has been put on a 10-kilometer check.
He also said that, the heavy rains, has been set aside, 32 percent instead of 40 to 40 percent and its effects are to fail to do the work that is expected to prevent water to rise up as planned.
"Some of the top leaders of the road did not be avoided, including environmental issues, using soil tests which are not concerned with the concerned project, not to collect reports of cars that use that road, to use the previous rains," he said.
Haule said the procedures for the purchase of the contractor did not be dealt with because he was given a letter to be given work without doing talks because its price was high than the budget of the year 2011 that enables the employer to make talks and agreed to reduce their work, "he said.
He said that the project has also been completed more than one year and until the inspection is taking place in June 2016, it was completed by 28 percent only and it has already been completed and the contract has been commended.
He said that there was no plan that was organized by the contractor and also a bond of the contractor who had already completed his term since November 17, 2015, but the supervisor of work has not been released since November 17 this year without a bond following the section of 5551 during the contract.
Furthermore, he said that the payments that has been certified by the contractor who didn't be paid by a total of 29 million shillings have been paid and also a total of 29 million shillings (2) of the law on road safety and oil for the year 2016, and those effects are together with the contractor to approve more than 24 million shillings.
Also, Haule said that the municipality has violated the contract by making payments to the contractor of Sh 3,35,3949 years which is under 25 percent which is 8390,536 billion as compared to the contractor who is required to do a great job and complete on time.
"Kinondoni Municipality has been unable to provide documents of the procurement of internal auditors that did the work of taking those tests and therefore the officers failed to see if the procedures of procurement were allocated by law and regulations of procurement," he said.
He said that apart from that project, the municipality was seen to have shortages of performance and unsatisfactory performance in other behind the expenses that were given by the road fund together with the construction project of the Mabatini-police road at an affordable level that cost approximately 4849,143 students.
Another is the construction of a road construction worth 390,67,888 trillion shillings, science roads with a length of 2,283,53,000 shillings that were destroyed early than it was expected and thus causing losses to the government.
Furthermore, he said that Kinondoni Municipality has had a habit of using funds of the fund for work which are not in the work program that was accepted, which are signed by Tamisemi.
He said for the financial year of 2014 / 2015, the board has given one billion shillings so that the municipality can be able to collect holes on its road network which had been destroyed due to the rains and causing many roads to continue getting married and be keen on problems.
As a result of that, the Road Fund board in his 67 session that took place on September 15 and 30th this year organized a different reports including those concerning the municipality and stop taking the funds of the road fund in the municipality.
He also asked the Secretary General of Tamisemi, to take action against all officers who were involved in all the mistakes that were seen in the road projects including ERB), Hoja, (by NBAA) and officers (PSPTB) shall take action against the concerned officers.
In addition, the board has ordered 24,780,000 shillings that were paid more, to be sold to its own account and 3212,282105 used to build himself, instead of buying holes on to be sold to its fund's accounts to work together.
That board also gave all the local government authorities in the country to supervise fully the use of funds of the road fund according to the law and regulations so as to get appropriate measures when there are lack of embezzlement of any kind.
