
Juma Kaseja does not want him to vote?
May 31, 2012

The coach of the Tanzania national soccer team (Taifa Stars), Marcio Maximo, is in trouble after his team drew 5-1 against Egypt at the end of last week.
However, a draw of 1-1 goals from Yemen, in another friendly match in the away friendly match against Utah Jazz in the FA Cup competition of East and Central Africa did not tolerate many fans in the country.
Most of us believe that Stars are supposed to win the match against Yemen because their opponents are very disturbing, more than us according to the position of the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA), we are holding 99 points to the quality in the world, our colleagues is 139.
After the results of those two matches, the fans of Tanzania ask you a lot and a big one is this of our soccer?
It's a soccer that is growing up or if you play a panel of "she is okay, the side that has been standing there?
But let us to be true about the match against the young man of South Africa, although it was a friendly match for now, there are many who believe in that Taifa Stars won the match against them?
Without doubt, there is no one who believe that we will fall in their home, now the problem is where or no, the problem is.
The problem is because many of the truth that most of them have not seen, that the player is used to win a landslide victory against our team, this time at least they expected to deal with Brazil to reduce that big loss.
But it did not happen that is why many fans have shown a shop to recognize that expert she fainted often.
Currently, you can accept that we have been supported because in the recent days Marcio Maximo, he had to fulfill the film activities of "September 11" which he has participated in acting but for sure that it cannot be a reason.
However, among the primary reasons that are offered, one that is being mentioned by the coach who is getting into the bench by the Simba club, Ali Mustafa 'Bartez had never seen the month of Simba, but Marcio Maximo, he could not leave that in his condition of blindness and suspend him from the Taifa Stars goal, its results?
We have heard that the team has been fined a bomb attack.
In continuing to talk about the problem of Marcio Maximo, the goalkeeper who has not played any match of the premier league this season, people have mentioned the goalkeeper Juma Kaseja to be the goalkeeper Juma Kaseja to the Simba.
I am surprised that because Marcio Maximo is going on with his stand of not knowing the quality of that first goalkeeper of Simba despite being impressed by many times that the national team's team.
Most of them know that Marcio Maximo is a coach who is ready to carry the blame from his mistake, he knew what he knew he was doing, he knew he could make it, he knew that he knew he could be given by Kaseja.
In addition to maybe he knew that he knew he is doing about Kaseja to the issue of that goalkeeper, it is not told the truth about what he said in that team and now she does not want him to listen to him.
That has made people to ask you a lot of questions, so if he gets a patient and if he termed it, she does not want to forgive me?
We know that he was the former coach of Brazil national team, Filipe Simeone has thrown out his girlfriend de Bruyne, because he got a lot about the presence of his squad that is participating in the Euro tournament.
He told me himself when he wanted to return and put him in the Brazil squad which is participating in the biggest competitions in the World Cup, was playing for Saint- Germain from the player and asked him.
In addition to showing up the rate of his level by scoring a close goals in every match that he played for his team, Sputanza decided to give him well.
Simeone has accepted even the call by the president of Brazil to send his soul in Brazil.
It is something to give him that President Kikwete, together with his government being involved in collecting rubbish.
There are saying that President he has failed to do that because it's decided to do that because she desires to go with Simba (another reason of getting married), why last season he left Yanga and did not intervene.
Turner to Sinyati Enterprises, at least the world explained, it is why he has been called to the national team, but he had not been called to the national team, Marcio Maximo, all of us are not only because she desires to be in the Stars squad.
In this issue of seeing Bartez had moved out to be compared to many coaches from the European national team who want famous players to ensure that they get the and their teams to make their standards.
By bad luck, this important policy missing from the head of Marcio Maximo, we tell you that because the big way you will not recognize the reasons for all of us.
