
The opposition should go down.
Brightiles 21, 2014.

The ability of the government in preparing to supervise the budget and to create new revenue sources are required, while official opposition camp in parliament, under the opposition party members of parliament, under the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), that was made by members of parliament of the opposition parties, showed the ability to develop those revenue sources.
That situation has noted that in the beginning of this week, after the deputy minister of the opposition camp, James Mbatia, reading an alternative budget of the camp for the financial year 2014 / 2015 that has been postponed by the government's budget done by the Minister of Finance, Saada Mkuya Salum.
Due to the opposition budget, some of the citizens who talked with this newspaper, including some of the students from the universities of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), the College of Business (CBE), the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma, the University of Dodoma.
Through their opinion, the students who have many students are studying in loans for government funds have benefited from the taxes of citizens, they said there is no other way but the government decided to seek advice to the opposition members.
Those students who are a part of the students of the students in those colleges wanted not to be mentioned names of the newspaper, they said that advice were not mentioned in the opposition camp is good and the government is not supposed to make work, although they also did not have faith like that advice will not work.

In reading the opposition budget in parliament, Mbatia, who is the chairperson of the NCCR-Mageuzi Party, noted that between the government's budget and budget he was read in parliament on Monday, this week.
Mbatia said that while the opposition budget does not have business loans and therefore aims at paying for the whole nation-debts, the government's budget has loans with a business conditions of 43 trillion shillings and therefore the budget is increasing the availability of debts.
Likewise, he said the opposition budget is emphasizing on the importance of paying the pension funds in the country with 60 years of age and continued, on the side of the government's budget is silent about the payment of the pension funds to all elders in the country.
"The budget (the opposition) is emphasizing a reduction on the level of revenue collection by employees (PAYE) up to 9 percent of the government's budget, will involve workers by paying 12 percent of tax revenue (PAYE) for workers.
He said that the budget of the opposition has aligned new local revenue sources and that is independent by 843 percent, but the government's budget is unacceptable, by 3648 percent due to borrow at a huge level and therefore increasing the national debt.
He said that in that opposition budget, local income is 3455 percent of the National Revenue Authority but the government, in its budget, local revenue is 23 percent of the national income.
He said that the opposition budget is aiming to reduce tax exemptions to reach out to one percent of the National Revenue Authority so as to increase local revenue but it does not mention it by how many percent of the nation's income does not affect that income.
