We have heard the election of the CCM, we are waiting for other parties.
August 10, 2013.

In the year 2012, it has been a lot of events that have fallen in politics and it's a year that we have witnessed the meetings, demonstrations, parliamentary and councilors seats, and even the political debates to capture the media and various social media networks.
The year 2012
Those elections in CCM were completed at the end of November while carrying out debates, especially after the candidates in various levels taking each other on the use of bribery in getting leadership.
Therefore, groups of scholars and politicians happen about how the CCM elections passed happened, while President Jakaya Kikwete who is also the chairperson of CCM giving a speech to the money to buy votes.
The crows know this against the use of bribery also were made by other various leaders who had received an opportunity to open or closing the election meetings in CCM.
In general, CCM has set aside a journey to get its leaders from the stem cells to the nation, where we have witnessed many challenges during the general elections of CCM, while my big question is, where a big political parties in CCM have received a lesson to learn in these internal elections.
This issue has focused itself on the parties that are growing up by doing its internal elections, while getting the welfare of democracy every day.
I have been said, the first examination of the political party is the control of democracy in its internal elections and even the elections are finalized.
Different counts including most of us get into the moment, it is how to see that we are especially with great debates while after the election inside CCM, and when they reached the end of other parties, they ended up conflicts and conflicts.
The experience of the most political party system in the country for 20 years now, shows that there is no political party that did his internal elections be postponed and continue to remain safe.
Many parties, for 20 years now, have ever been stable in a good system of not playing, but also tries to resolve the multiparty democratic system, but also tries to fall down.
The history is open, the strength of the NCCR-Revolutions in 1995, was founded after being required to expand the democracy of the box for votes to decide who to be a leader and who should not be a leader.
It is true that the opposition parties in the country have been seen in the growth and that it has its cost, and especially when it comes to the issue of democracy, especially in a box, there is a place to test the way to avoid conflicts of tribalism, religion, brotherhood, relatives, family, and every kind of challenges.
However, together with the challenges that arose during the general elections of CCM, the lady has said the truth he will destroy the CCM for the way it is the head to strengthen the economy in its elections.
Therefore, if we get the enthusiasm to know who will be in the CHADEMA elections, CUF, NCCR-Evolution, UDP party, UDP party and other parties which have permanent registration so that they can also get a chance to discuss and look for leadership positions and even a message to the leadership positions within the concerned parties.
Currently, parties have had a number of members of the scholars and their husbands in their husbands and young people have increased, not you are not supposed to see and even the feelings of the rich and other politics continue to grow and our political parties.
The debate that is going on in the social media came to the deputy secretary general of CHADEMA, Zitto Zuberi Kabwe together with the Deputy Chairperson of CHADEMA Youth Council, Juliana Yvonne Cole, which is affecting democracy in this party.
Bad luck in Tanzanian politics, many leaders of the opposition parties that lead the eyes of thoughts, they have been unable to walk on their words, instead every member who will come to have a free idea inside the party was baptized as a name of CCM.
These are the kind of political parties that we have, in our opposition parties, I don't hesitate to hear that there is a party if you want to vie for any position of leadership, parliamentary and presidential candidates 2015, for your name from now.
We have also witnessed ministers and famous people inside CCM when they fell in the CCM elections, we are expecting to see the famous people inside other parties being competing for democratic elections within their elections.
