Farmers has set aside this idea, for more than one month and a half years ago and they have had experience to sell livestock out of the country since one thousand shillings and two efforts have been taking place to help these farmers, the results of those efforts has become a matter of hope being found.
Georgia is a researcher in the production of seedlings and one of the people who do efforts.
We are looking at the diseases that are doing well according to the state of weather.
In here the commission of types of type.
And it is the third season and we are supposed to get the seeds that you will be called?
Which will be done well and in this attempt, we cooperate with the farmers.
Therefore, we are doing research to look at a bad thing or it will do well in the thoughts that we need to be like today to ure us so that many crops is causing a attack.
Pest and bombs are saying that if an albino comes, he went to go or rise up according to the weather conditions on time.
To get enough rains in January we did not get a dog by getting rains in the next three month.
At the end of the best way it is important for the best way to get the much and especially because the income that have been the source of poor quality, but to identify quality seeds if many farmers do not be careful but also the close help to farmers.
These treatments are seeds that you can sell the children on the chest and those children when they get fifty and the referee assessor.
If you are in the first step of the attempt to go in the second stage of trials, even if the attempt failed to go back according to the weather in those trials.
Where is it?
We have trials in the field where there are insects and diseases we have to prevent it and also we are doing well and we are looking at this situation while we are doing well when we get those drugs to our brothers and diseases.
I hope.
In using the best type of medicine it will sell in large numbers to evade a lot of diseases together with drought, the man for success can be able to reach the goals in the next five thousand season and five in the past ten thousand in the morning.
It is happy with the king.
Now.
We are doing the seedlings to different types if you do not have problems, then it does not have a problem.
In those who do not be seven, there are one old man which I have been known, more to one of the people usually have any kind every year and another person that have never happened all the production between them and in those acts we have done research and this right right.
There are one seeds that we have never believe that it can have a good job called it and one of the birth of each one.
Enable you help.
Lack of pest of type?
You have forgotten the arrest of sexually transmitted diseases.
Don't have a lot of living because there is a problem.
I see that sin?
To promote the cotton 7 million different times, it had a gold mother to go a lot and development but it has been stolen but it's up with all that were found and those that were affected by the attempt failed to go up.
When we are we were able to pay, it is ready to decide the time we come back again.
That stern warning is the death is together with his death, while the same position is a difference of a mosquito.
And most of the HIV virus just about that artist will make you get the benefits, the act we started to grow.
