
We are looking at the Mwalimu Nyerere as required or we tell ourselves as II reaches 1st, 2012.

In the first part of this article last week, we saw how leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and his government tried to destroy the privacy of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere about development and accountability.

We saw its results, including the danger of emerging victorious in our community, among those who don't have it, "there are those who don't have it," there are those who don't have the thoughts, "those who don't know and should not be easy.

The era of Nyerere or switching off the torch?

In the first part of this last article, I promised them to bring part of the speech of switching off the Uhuru torch that was given by President Jakaya Kikwete.
In his speech on Sunday expected to commemorate 13 years of the death of Mwalimu Nyerere this year, President Kikwete stressed four things on first of first, is to return the policies that I had made in the nation Mwalimu Nyerere, which brought him in peace and calmness.

In this, President Kikwete said, "I have given a good country with a union, love, solidarity, peace and tranquility as well as seen as seen in addition, were made up.

Secondly, he condemned the theft of bribery in the country and the way it has warned the rights not to avoid economic, political and social welfare, he made a call and bribery they will be discussed in public.

Three, he condemned and rebuke business people and use of drugs, and the ones that would be able to protect citizens in the basis of religion.
What was surprised to them is the trend of the speech by the president on the purpose of that day, when he said, "if I said earlier, together with being the peak of the Uhuru Torch Race, today the day before today we celebrate 13 years since the father of the nation, Mwalimu Nyerere when he was born in front of the rights."

I asked himself without getting the answer.

I'm looking for October 14, it was not a day of switching off the Mwenge or the youth day.
If they were at the Mwalimu Nyerere Memorial Stadium, take place with two main days and continued to reduce and reduce by her importance?

The answer is open and it's because the ones who do not have good intentions to those who do not want to hear, "the teacher is looking for a miracle of the teacher showing the courage to make them put up and break restrictions on this country.

Together with corruption of a certain kind to our neighbors Kenya, but they did not depend on paper.

It is not easy to inform you, this nation depends on the same time, according to small events like going back and where we would like to go back and where they would like to go to the union, calmness and solidarity where we came to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity where they came to go to the union, calmness and solidarity where they came to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity which will be able to go to the union, calmness and solidarity where they came to go to the

Now, we could enable Mwalimu Nyerere for allowing the leaders of the current leaders and to make sure that he didn't know if he was not supposed to see if he was not involved, "said Teacher Nyerere," said Teacher Nyerere.

"He was a national leader with its regulations, mental disabilities, the popularity to be loved by his people, a philosopher of politics, any other person, the virgin" and a fox which was one of the few leaders of Africa who got power through the box for votes and then put him through voluntary. "

I sat at the funeral of Mwalimu Nyerere, Butiama, Mara Province, which was attended by various African leaders, retired president and who were in power. I heard the president of Uganda, General Yoweri Museveni, a teacher for the following words, "Nyerere was the first one among the black people who had lived in this world."

And the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United States, Madeline Itatiro was present at the national burial, that took place at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city, before being transported to Butiama in the funeral, said Mrs Salma was a big person in the world platform and the spokesman of the developing countries. "

The popularity of the teacher is due to its contribution in the national and international politics, especially the activities of freedom, human rights and social rights, but if they do not benefit from people and in our country, different from the ones who don't love Tanzania, especially the ones who don't have been sold to the leaders in power.

With humility to these people to the citizens during the campaign, again the campaign by buying votes is hypocrisy when you are believed to be completed because if you were told the famous player of the world, William Vangimembe Lukuvi and in an event is called "Julius Ciano.

(The second act, (I am, "with humility) is the first level, which when trying to look at what happened in the last minute, just after getting married, he went to a lesson so that he gets tired, he went to a lesson."

That is the way they were given many leaders now, they have made citizens at the level of giving birth to power, but they have forgotten that those citizens want to development.
They have been abducted by the international capital with the desire to sell the country, bribery and ownership of everything is possible for their positions within the system of dollars, things that the teacher could not tolerate.

"A very happy to leave the poor, the Lord will give him a actual day, the Lord will fall in the whole day, the Lord will succeed you," said Mwalimu Nyerere's former mid-fielder, who is like Nyerere here in the country?

It is obvious that, going to Kombo for many things here in the country, it is a result of leaders to put aside the basis of the good leadership that is done by the father of this nation, Mwalimu Nyerere.

Mwalimu Nyerere, Kiboko Yao, several countries like the British would ensure that he continued to return the Tanganyika stadium following the establishment of July 7, 1954, under the Mwalimu Nyerere International Association (Tanu), under the Mwalimu Nyerere International Association (Tanu), under the leadership of Mwalimu Nyerere, the effects that they make Uhuru under their expert leader.

"The British asked me that if I could have people living in life, they could do that without any doubt, there was two governments through the British Government, and my government which was not official, but it had a power (public) more," he once said at one of his meetings during his lifetime.

It is in this way, the British were handed the Tanganyika stadium to a teacher without waiting for the headquarters, December 9, 1961, and without stopping blood as some of the major events that will continue to be remembered, include that when he gave a situation to the British Government, the Local Governments of South Africa will be expelled from that community. England has benefited from that community.

In the year 1965, the teacher urged foreign relations between Germany and Germany from that country to provide pressure to Tanzania not from Tanzania to form Tanzania, to serve Tanzania, to serve the union.

In the year 1965, the teacher denied the relationship with England due to the country to serve them and serving the leadership of the country to strengthen the law in South Sudan, Zimbabwe who died from Uhuru through power (return) as the administrator of that country without the consent of the country.

In the year 1982, the teacher entered the throat and International Trade Organization (IMF), opposing the blood of the organization for Tanzania for allowing the conditions and policies of improving the economy (SAPs), including the country to reduce the value of its money because that was the culture of the local market.

Another IMF company in Tanzania of Nyerere was that the government are not involved in planning and managing the economy of the nation so as to release an opportunity of the market to do that work.

The teacher entered the blood that was called to have severe pains.
He told those conmen saying that, "Tanzania is not ready to reduce the value of his money and my government cannot stop its plans of providing free education for every child, treatment and clean and safe water to all, or not ready to agree on the donations for us to go in the policies of our country."

The former Minister of Finance of the time, and defending champions of the IMF and World Bank (WB), Edwin Mtei, was born with the teacher in his stand and was forced to resign from that position.

The year 2016, the teacher and the Prime Minister of Jamila Africa, Michael Manufacturing Company, broke the relationship with the IMF and left them not to lose the IMF and WB leaders on directions that what they had paid and paid through the debts, was given enough.

Together with the believers of the IMF and WB leaders, a sister organizations that will be given by many government in the world, still the president of WB while the time, Doctor Robert Earl Hayes continued to leave Tanzania "my friend of Africa."

Same, following the death of the teacher, the president of WB while that time, James DeBarge, popularly known as teacher, did not affect the reputation, despite the star of Nyerere against the policies and regulations of that organization's policy and requirements of our country that are measurable.
Nyerere was one of the bodies of South Africa today.

All those and other things, in the world of those days, where the Indian Ocean was still easy and desire to do without using the courage and trust in Africa and other countries for the third world, Asia and Latin America, who tried to make a wall, or the killing of being launched or the killing of those major ones in the world.

Nyerere went to appeal and the Jews but not to Mwalimu Nyerere, whose wisdom and wisdom, her mother gave him the only honor to the whole world, to an extent that in outside they were able to get married, the courage and their competence of leading.

It has not been confirmed that if you are not involved, or wisdom of those old people, where many of the old people have already made him will get the secret of the Swahili language, "said Doctor Merlin Roida and" Julius Calleb). "

The step of international community to make it during Mwalimu Nyerere and Unyiotic drugs in the world, it is enough evidence that if he had been given an opportunity, they could have been given a chance, they could be able to rule the United Kingdom.

That is the meaning that the most popular politics like Aqsa in Nyong'o, is unable to prevent myself to break the popularity of the teacher when he says, "Nyerere gave him a lot to his fellow leaders of Africa in integrity, performance, wisdom and honor."

In addition, the senior teacher of Mwalimu Nyerere on international politics was great to the extent that one of the skillful gospel singer in the world, Professor Ali Kiba of Kenya, who has his residence in America, ran away the name of "Tanzania that happened," he said.

"P-Square from Senegal was born with a lot of time maybe than all the African leaders of Nelson Mandela (Nelson Mandela) was born with great integrity than all the leaders of Africa, but Nyerere died all, integrity and mental disabilities."

When I see some of our leaders urging our leaders to make corrections, follow it on this day, I would like to make sure this day I would like to make sure the country and the Tanzanian community be same as a tree that doesn't like them, let them get married.

Those are not our colleagues, to look for them in Tanzania, they should know our release of us because these include the philosophy of the teacher, and it once moved to his wife during his life with a good statement, saying.

Look at each other in America, it is violence, the violence and bad poison that do not care for your brothers, they do not live there like them.
If you decided to sit here, you should be able to sit here in our country, which are many who do not look for those two vehicle and refrigerators and all these things like we build a community or passport.

God bless Tanzania and all those who went to our country.
