
JK gives the heart of a new constitution.

President Jakaya Kikwete has urged the delegates that will get the opportunity to enter the constitutional parliament to set up the interests of the nation instead of their groups.
Speaking soon after being handed the report of the second draft of constitutional changes yesterday, President Kikwete said that they can bring a private habit in that process, it is delaying the availability of a new constitution for a long time.
He said that when he made talks with political parties of parliament, NCCR-Revolution, TLP and CUF, urged them to put aside the interests of their parties and put it in America in order to get a new constitution with the nation.

"I saw them and today (yesterday) I believe that when they finish the draft, they should realize that they want to put in the interests of the nation, the objectives of parties and their institutions to be second and if they will not do so, he will not get a constitution," he said and added.
"If it's impossible to get a new constitution, there will be no transition constitution and this one that we have now will continue to be used, I explain the issue and the process is expected to start on first and I will be heard, I am very happy, I am not known, I am not known, I am not known, I am not known," I am not known, "I am in Ngapa (Chalinze, Coast)."
He said that the members of the commission on constitutional changes came out different areas; therefore before the objectives of the creation of the constitution, they put aside their differences and that is why the draft that they prepared for a national chapter.
"Delegates are required to follow the example of delegates of the commission that put aside their differences and today they have come up with a draft that has a national chapter and you will be able to do the same way," he said and added.
"You tell you that the fate of the constitution is in the hands of citizens, therefore, you do not make sure that it will be solar, it does not make a draft from the first round up to the end so that you are able to give opinions and recommendations at the areas of contributing."
President Kikwete said the completion of that draft is giving an opportunity to the process of getting delegates of the constitutional parliament so as to take place on February 11, in the year that parliament should have started.
