Do not lie?
On October 07, 2015 by Almighty God, entertainment and games.

The 60 member of parliament of the United States, Nancy Pickup, speaking about the sure of the Democratic Party to get the members of parliament for the year 2014, "he said," she doesn't recognize their opponents, but it does not have the ability that do not have them. "This is a lesson that Ukawa are supposed to learn early.
Two weeks before the time of the campaign ended by citizens getting an opportunity to vote, the parliamentary candidate, Edward Lowassa under the Democratic Republic of Tanzania (Ukawa) has done a few meetings and communicate with the citizens in few areas compared to the CCM candidate, Doctor John Pombe Magufuli.
According to the statistics given by Ukawa officers, up to the end of last week, their candidate had made a campaign in approximately 26 provinces, doing an average of four campaign meetings in every province because that candidate will have an average of 104 votes.
While the Ukawa candidate was in all four regions, he seems to have a few meetings compared to the candidate of CCM, Doctor John Magufuli who until now, he had made a campaign tour in 20 provinces, while he has done an official meetings in 180 provinces.
According to the chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee of Ukawa, Professor Sospeter Baregu said their candidate has been going on approximately 26 provinces because of strengthening the parliamentary policies that are being supported by three parties of Ukawa (CUF, NLD, and NCCR - Revolution) together with requesting them to be supported by their votes in the general elections of October.
"Every day CCM presidential candidate did four meetings together with the one of his running mate, in one day Ukawa are in eight meetings and every time it will know the truth of people and victory to our candidate.
"The presidential candidate together with his running mate have already happened two times, Iringa, Njombe, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Kigoma, Tabora, Tanga, Morogoro, Dodoma and Unguja and Pemba provinces," he said.
Other provinces are Singida, Shinyanga, Geita, Simiyu, Kagera, Manyara, Mwanza, Arusha, Kilimanjaro and other provinces where for now they are doing a repeat of their candidate to promote the policies and ask to be supported in the general elections of October.
Speaking about the official meetings where their candidates have done in this campaign period, Baregu said it is very much and it is not easy to recite because some of the meetings was a surprise because of some people to prevent the contestants for the purpose of explaining their challenges.
According to the trip coordinator of the CCM candidate, Daniel Chongolo, Magufuli up to the beginning of this week he had held a campaign in 118 districts, 102 villages and had flooded a distance of 19,620 kilometers.
"Our candidate has done a campaign in 20 provinces of Katavi, Rukwa, Songwe, Mbeya, Njombe, Ruvuma, Tabora, Geita, Geita, Simiyu, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Geita, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Geita, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Geita, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita, Manyara, Manyara, Tabora, Tabora, Geita
Member of the campaign committee of CCM, Abdallah Bulembo told Good Citizen that through that meeting, they have reached a total of 16 million dollars which is equivalent to 81 percent of votes.
In that time, our candidate has introduced himself to pray for parliamentary votes out of 265 members in the whole country, we have been able to reach 3,721 wards and launched our council candidates, for the campaigns that were done we have been sure and to be a huge victory, "said Bulembo and added that time for two weeks, enough for them have not reached.
Communicate with voters.
The CCM presidential candidate, Magufuli has been using 42 minutes to 1 o'clock in the morning to address his meetings and make an average of 60 minutes to the meeting. On the side of CCM's candidate, Lowassa has been using an average of 5 minutes to address his meetings and to address the meetings with an average of 15 minutes.
Science and political expert from the St Augustine Institute (T) Mwanza (on condition of not being mentioned in the newspaper), told BBC Sport that the ability to communicate with voters is an important part of how to convince them to give them her more.
