
The government supports the law of Ndeki.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

The government has said that the existence of problems in the marriage laws of 1971, has decided to appeal so as to make corrections on the way of talks instead of going through the court.

Minister for Constitution and law, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe has given the statement when he toured the nominated member of parliament, Amina Makandege (CCM), who wanted to know why the government had a good intention to appeal to court about the case that was opened in 1971.
The member of parliament asked the government's strategy to take them to parliament all the oppressive laws that are there against women and children so that they can be able to be discussed.
Responding to the question, Mwakyembe explained that the attorney general made an appeal in the appeal court on behalf of the government, so that they can get ideas from the main court.
Minister Mwakyembe said that the process of working on that law is in his ministry, therefore they felt it is good to use the strategy of talks during the implementation of that law as it is able to kick off.
Minister Mwakyembe explained that, all the countries that are concerned are those who are responsible for the mistakes of women and children including giving birth to students.
Previously in a primary question, that member of parliament wanted to know that when the marriage laws that is oppressive to women and children will be taken to the parliament so as to use them.
Responding to the primary question, Doctor Mwakyembe said that the marriage law of 1971 is a result of a huge debate and participatory through a document of number 1 of the year 1957, with the aim of getting an opportunity about the content of that law that touches the faith, traditional and a shortage of Tanzanians.
After more than 20 years through that law, it will be remembered by the government through the commission of improving the law on the review of the law and identify several areas with weaknesses, so as to make corrections.
He said due to those opinions, the commission in the ministry of internal affairs and law organized a document to the ministers of the year 2008 that had recommendations of the marriage laws in 1971.
