
The charges of Ubungo will return to the kind, "to passengers.

November 10, 2013.

A few days after the Majira newspaper write news about fraud that were allocated to the passengers at the main bus stations in Ubungo (UBT), a situation is not well in that station.
The police force in Kinondoni province, was doing a big work to bring down the network after the news came from the newspaper and brought to the security situation in that station.
The chairman of Ubungo Magu Ward, Aman Solo, said that right now inside that station of Vientiane when his office is not true.
He said those groups that were rumored to be filled by bus agents, they work on stigmatization and others steal their cargo thus the efforts of the police to break the previous network, have not give them fruits.
"Some of the related security guards from these groups have repaired the identity cards that have my phone number but they have no worries in Kinondoni Municipality as it is for the legal guards whose number are 12," he said.
He said that as the leadership of the center and the police force in Kinondoni province, they will not take appropriate measures against those groups, can increase the qualifications of the passengers and the nation.
"Ubungo does not depend on smoke, there will be a big problem where its source is these security guards which we like the county government and the office of Ubungo we are not aware of it.
"The things that are taking place at this center are currently needed, passengers are oppressed and lost their property, we were done to this issue but still continues," said Sakali.
He said that the government offices are educating these guards which were planned to work in that center but it's surprising that they enter inside, it could be expelled from those groups.
"Ubungo station is same as a farm because many passengers who come from and go to different provinces are using this center, this problem is as a result of the buses that I told them to defend his letter so that the security guards are not doing so," he said.
In addition, he said that previously he told those guards (that are not known) to listen to them but they were adamant, instead they are using their daily work while they are not recognized by many of them not live in Ubungo.
Previously Simeone has participated in the launch of the verification of motorbike riders carrying the passengers' Thank "and a Bajaj that was done by the Tanzania Civil Aviation Organization (NIMR), under its chairman Hussen.
In that launch, it was noted that acts of violence and violence that is taking place in Ubungo recently is a day can cause a huge problem with danger to the citizens who are doing their activities in that center.
