
The conference of scientists to discuss 220 topics.

It has been written by us.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Deputy president, Samia Suluhu Hassan, is expected to be the guest of honor at the 30th international conference for scientists which was organized by the National Institute for Human Diseases (NIMR).

Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Executive Director of NIMR Tanzania, Doctor Mwachibuzi, said the conference will involve various African countries, Europe and America where more than 300 participants have confirmed to participate and more than 220 participants will be presented to them.
"A total of 220 topics will be presented to the meeting at this three-day conference which will also involve the (NIMR) which will take place in Dar es Salaam," said Doctor Mwele.
Doctor Mnzava with the conference of this year that is headed by the slogan.
"Investment in research with creativity in order to reach the sustainable goals of the world."
He mentioned the countries that have confirmed to participate in the conference as South Africa, Kenya, Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda, Australia, Denmark, Belgium, England, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Norway.
America, Bangladesh, Thailand, and host Tanzania.
He mentioned some of the topics that will be presented to the discussion in that conference as it is a strategy to improve the health of mother, young children, young men and non-infectious diseases and its challenges used in the fight against AIDS.
Other topics are chest and malaria, the security of water, environmental cleanliness, environmental cleanliness, a health strategy to control these diseases and diseases in tropical that has given priority.
Moreover, Doctor Mwageni said that those topics are required to discuss the need to invest in research systems for service delivery, non-communicable diseases and non-infectious diseases that contribute to diseases.
"NIMR believes that the researchers have a great contribution in bringing development through the results of various research, they are bringing about human diseases.
It is in that foundation then, the institution has explained that everything is a responsibility of helping the society to reach the sustainable goals of the world by avoid diseases, "said Doctor Mwele.
He said the participants will get an opportunity to participate in the exhibition for products that come from research, research reports, publications, research equipment and conditions of providing health services, he added that the awards for scientists will be given and be a good researcher in the country, and a better researcher in the community and a good researcher in the community and a good researcher in the community and a good control.
