Taifa Stars and Tanzania?
Petit 14, 2013.

Most of the people have been asking the reasons for me being seen, I have got into a lot of strength in sports especially in soccer in the past years when I arrived at the competition to contest for the World Cup (Taifa Stars) when I gave them the answers who asked the question and they had not received answers.

In Tanzania, for a long time, we did not have issues of discriminating on religious foundations, race or even a condition of a person, the founders of our nation, they built the foundation of unity and solidarity and encourage us to have one thing for a very long time.

Sufiani said conflicts did not mean that it's not why we get a system of one political party, but it did not have any way that we witnessed under the system of many parties, the political leadership of socialism and maybe a Swahili language is complete and every person is a witness in this.

Now sports is among the things that have been confirmed to bring unity and solidarity in any nation, examples of how the games managed to bring peace in war, solidarity of discrimination and agree in the conflict is very many.

Spain's country is with great division in accordance with their provinces, there are regions like Real Madrid, and I am a big fan of soccer in Spain's national team which is why Spain's great team up to Madrid as the headquarters of Spain.

Barcelona (with numerous fans here in the country) is a team of catch up despite having another team but these are believed to have a big team of Spain at a big competition of Barcelona and Real Madrid which seems to be a big team of Spain at a big competition of Barcelona and Real Madrid seems to be a big team of Hispania.

There is an example of how South Africa will be joined by soccer game through the African Cup Finals which took place in that country where for the first time the White men, black or Indians I will be remembered that at that time the first time South Africa was out from the threats of political parties.

Ivory Coast, the situation was so much therefore, the soccer star of that nation, Didier Drogba and his colleagues registered their soccer match to be played at the Sunni rebels and then it will be found after being played in that match.

I am an economist and these days there is a new concept that has come out which is given to the development of the nation by checking its citizens who have joy so that the country can have a good economy but its citizens have joy.

Different research have shown that crime is very high in times where the big competitions are happening, people are telling their thoughts in the match and forgetting their problems and eventually the economy is going on well and eventually the economy is growing, there's no war or passport.

After the year 2010, I decided to inform you that we need to work for Taifa Stars for the interests of our nation, but this election was not very difficult because it is easy to see football, unfortunately, the stars have not seen themselves so that we are not supposed to see football, therefore we will know the strength of football in developing our country.
