Now we should not enter so much on issues that you believe that it will bring him because she's on the time he is speaking, he said there was ten questions.
Maybe we look at least ten hours and it's.
The habit of going back to that area is that the first issue is that they accepted the issue of gender discrimination.
Where the constitution of the constitution and because of the foundation is that, I have talked to the first citizens of IT to realize that they get to women and men to recognize that they will get a structure or system of life we have.
On a high level.
Electricity is complete.
Increasing the actual problem of oil and position between women and men.
And on that meaning, the areas that we can be looking at quickly is by using different participation between women and men in their decisions.
Areas of various leadership levels in the country don't lead politics in a short day and even to private institutions, if we look at the area that Tanzania has revealed that Tanzania has discovered a great funeral of women and various statistics.
He will lead you.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we have a difference, these are in order to bring permanent changes to the system.
Of ensuring that we build a Tanzanian community that has the rights and equality is for the foundation of gender discrimination has risen up as a foundation stone on the constitution and us.
Put in the foundation is to accept when they go to Dar es Salaam.
Gender discrimination of sexual discrimination together with discrimination of any other type and on a big level is the main aim of this constitution, I have ever been taxed.
Similarly, one of the goals of our constitution is to promote equality as one of our country's goals and in a very important part, something that is required to inspect the area.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, I saw the issue of Adam Malima the community goals that we will improve the community that will not tolerate any kind of discrimination on the economic area.
Or we will improve the economy?
The development involve the Architect Editor of the Tawaf area and the political area that we are going to continue with the community in areas to have a chance to participate in elections to have a chance to participate in elections to be a big area where our foundation is in a large area.
What is the foundation of gender oppression, it means now in all other areas of the constitution and that word, what we see it is a great victory.
It is a great victory, Professor capital and elite.
There are other things that TPL Board has not seen in the boxer who believe in peace he came in and are on what is happy with the victory.
Your password.
It has ever been first, we need a woman to get a right to inherit the property and work.
What is the section of owning land has been written with a lot, but I see it is a great victory.
Likewise, we are so much.
The rights of children should be added, the first exercise to recognize that child is the first, there was a little conflict that is not known in the first draft of the child but later on a draft.
The child's message has been blamed and it's not women there and we are supposed to be happy with the early marriages to our children, most of us have been able to get education up to a high level.
Another area that has also been a problem is the right to afresh.
Family is safe.
The first draft of the coming of, but it gives.
Then it is determined by touching the reproductive health and ensure that electricity is the right.
You will depend on the human resources that will be available when we put noise, but it said it's impossible for people and many people were able to go down, have died in a mosquito.
But the mental checkup.
Furthermore, this proposal of the draft which has brought in in in two two areas with the aim of James Ward, community development as well as the ones that have open for women in our country, we see what is a victory.
And another area that deals with little is that we said the international contracts and especially the contracts that are and the regional ones as usual.
It has said Simba by twenty years of five, we have been encouraged to consider the gender of the leadership at all levels of leadership, we see that there will be a little debate but it has learned that women and men will be competed for in the region that will enable them to compete in the region.
In faith, but also you will thank the political parties to put more people who are ready to win and I advise them.
And a good thing.
