
When CCM is doing the work of the opposition party, who will do work of the ruling party?
Petit 13, 2012

In the system of democracy of many parties, the ruling party of the ruling party and the opposition parties did not happen so that the greatest job of the ruling party is not satisfied with his government to implement the elections that he promised to the citizens during the election manifesto could get in the legal system and policies of the country.
Therefore, in danger of the political party, the ruling party does not want to show that they are realizing that they are going well than before it seems to get in power through that ruling party, after elections are supposed to do because they have an effort to work hard, that is the government.
Through the implementation of various issues that are in the manifesto, the ruling party has continued to show success and build an issue of making the citizens that they elected it to continue being proud of especially to enjoy the problem, at that time they showed that if they would have appointed their opponents with bad luck.
Therefore, the ruling party's work is to manage its implementation and it was sentenced to his government's action against the ruling party when all of them make sure that the opposition parties did not give out the forefront to implement its policies.
The opposition party, on the other side, his great job is to put open the weaknesses of the party that goes up by showing citizens that things are not seen as they have been promised and therefore they are getting confused.
In a short time, is the work of the opposition party to make citizens that you want to choose the party that is in power and to build an understanding, knowledge and courage to find out the ruling party in another elections and even if they would have been selected if they would have been selected if they would have been selected as the current party.
Therefore, the opposition party work is to sell words and it is sentenced to the words they are said, while all of them waiting for another election, the opposition party have not allowed to use while there are policies and better plans to take it to the country ahead of it.
It is the work of the opposition party to make sure that the ruling party is getting out of line and start stopping the fights. The signs of success of the opposition party is when you believe that ruling party is starting with him and defending himself.
If you are the guest of honor in this country and as he was introduced in the country for the first time, where CCM did a meeting in the country (Saturday of June 9, 2012), had believe that this ruling party or the first was to get the consent to be elected.
Ministers agreed with a chronic problem inside CCM to place their promises that they believe will not be heard on President Mwakyembe is making the public that he wants to be given three months so that he can end the problems in the Ministry of Transport.
Mwakyembe wants to believe that despite the difference of the problems in the transport sector, he has only one person who passed in the ministry that they failed to solve the problems apart from now, we did not believe that, Mwakyembe is the ministry and ministry is Mwakyembe.
Mwakyembe is understood well that the construction of the railway in this country has been resolved by the government to fail to invest more funds in this sector, and we have already explained the reports that in the financial year that is under 40 percent of the money that was given by the church.
Now Mwakyembe has a sin to solve the problems of this ministry for the three months he asked to be given by Mwakyembe and other new ministers who are heading to believe that so they want them to work and will be able to work with them.
We are ending again and explained the administrative problems in our country and other African countries is the system that can be taken to dismiss the workers only because our problem is that we have been working hard to strengthen people instead of strengthening the systems and control leaders.
As a result of one leader he would like a good thing, but you will go to time, he will leave the concerned ministry, and bad luck, the ministers of CCM are not supposed to take enough time in one ministry before they did in other ministries.
We thank me Mwakyembe that the three months he requested for the month of nine this year, and we ask members of parliament to stop giving his report at the November Parliament.

Ministers and other leaders of CCM came out to play with other opposition party in the country, CHADEMA and basically many were committed and spreading it and that the difficulty of life is caused by the rise of oil prices in the whole world and that CCM is not supposed to be blamed for that is defense without any meaning.
There is no one who said that it is a must that you will change what is causing it.
Problems are just problems, and when the leader is supposed to know that there is there because of addressing problems, not defending himself.
He blamed CHADEMA for raising the problems that are available and shows a government's weaknesses in order to prevent them to do their work of being the opposition party and it is important to insisted here and also that the opposition party's work is not to help the government being taxed.
The opposition party decided to work on reviewing the government because it is that he has decided to continue being the opposition party in the work of reviewing the government is the work of public institutions (Nida) which have no objectives to rule.
At CCM they are getting words and complaining on the road instead of standing by their government to implement its promises of continuing to lose their direction and basically they are doing the opposition work.
To continue giving his promise when you are in power it is not to understand the work of the ruling party and that is why we ask for CCM when I decided to work with opposition, who will do the party's work?
