Therefore,
The activity is able to sell the hips that have announced it here in the country because of many patients from tuberculosis is the head of Same and his wife who is in Mwanza.
Those will not ask him by the minister of health and development of the community, brother, Hadji Mponda, journalists in Dar es Salaam city and said that those statistics are for ten and seven years until the end of the previous year.
Will last more than ten thousand shillings to end there and the disease is more than more information.
The number of tuberculosis has been increasing every year from two thousand shillings until now.
Due to various reasons including diseases, being late to get treatment related to poor homes as well as a reduction in the immunity in the body.
That situation has caused the number of members of parliament to reach nine million shillings in the world every year while starting from ten and eight countries out of twenty two countries with a large number of patients in the world.
We are announcing Bongo and other countries to commemorate the world diabetes day every month of twenty and four next month.
And that is the reason for the ministry of health and development of the community, Hadji Mponda, for now a meeting with the journalists about the real situation of the disease in the country.
He said the decision of chest is that it is increasing.
If you take a surprise of the two hundred and three years.
Four shows that the ten thousand patients are there.
God is in the morning and and the vice president we have been into the past, why he will be expelled from the stomach, so as to attain it, but the party will be a threat.
Most of the press.
The children and the disease of HIV and such as existence of people and poor environment, a police that does not meet the among the ones.
Most of the Tanzanians, if you're welcome to pass through the patients that are sold to the drug trafficking while they are supposed to be released free.
Yes, you pay you.
Our policies that drug abuse or high level is giving without any payments if there will be taken that this person has got drug abuse by going on well and to identify those who have done again, it is not true that the drugs have done again.
The commemoration of the national diabetes disease will take place in Masasi District, Mtwara Province with the slogan that says, I will get a high table saying the University for the whole period of life.
You should inform me.
