
Machar has planned to fight South Sudan.

27th September, 2016

Former vice president of South Sudan Riek Machar has said the agreement of peace and the government of President Salva Kiir has no benefit, therefore he has urged his followers to start a war afresh.
Machar who is a leader of the rebels and the former vice president in that country said that the day before yesterday in line with giving a report of starting the fight against the government, he insisted that the agreement of the war reached by the international community has no meaning again.
Machar said that while Brenda Kharono, the capital city of Sudan where he had gone into the violence of July this year, Juba the capital city of South Sudan.
In his report, Machar also announced his intention to start the fight against President Salva Kiir because the aim of what he said is to reach peace, democracy and the full freedom of South Sudan.
At the same time, the Vice President of South Sudan, James Winton Mwassa, said that, he has hope that the government of Juba got a support of citizens together with their honesty, so that the government will be able to return the peace and permanent peace in that country especially in Africa.
That leader also urged the citizens of that country to be patient while several months now whereby the war are still in South Sudan.
Despite the signing of peace agreement last year, he brought a hope of going back to peace and calmness in that country, but in that period after the signing of those agreements, there are experts of issues that they stopped in the agreement.
After being implemented the distribution of power, the citizens, nations, leaders and international institutions have hope that, hostility and war will end to the country.
However, the chaos of the blood broke down in July of July between those troops will destroy the president Salva Kiir and could affect the political course of that country.
To leave Ukonga, Machar and even another person to hold the office of the Vice President for another time again give him president Salva Kiir to return to peace in that country to an extent that last week of that United Nations began its activities.
