First to me.
And I say it is true that is true?
Our stations are believe only?
However the viewers bought in films.
So right is really terrifying.
It is in a step.
These hours we have talked with various companies like the government and especially companies with reputation and human rights of your government, who has the reputation as the government for example, in the competition to urge our youths to see our youth because it is a habit of our youth.
When you go to told me, I request that devices that request for money for the purpose of sports.
And he went to a person of Simba and Yanga I think Mister God about what you understand that people until today are providing buses every year for the purpose of who they are telling us that I told them I urge them.
Then you will agree to put your posters in our game, even if it is a posters of the cold drinks.
If you do not like that it is a habit of putting up but I say only that we have faith that we are going back to them and I have faith that there is my faith that there is my faith that when we start working on how we want to get a place where we want.
We started that one but the second one, the late God, I have written about this for a period of one week and he has given training to enough teachers not less than eating that silence.
Hayatou, I see you are very few, I think this they have written all or even you have a plan, after you, wisely, it here in the university.
To continue with a lot of money or one of us believe that he had asked.
I am giving me the first to be aired live in sports there are training that are outdated.
We have been doing here is the previous training.
And he was given.
Last year the deputy minister of office of Prime Minister, TAMISEMI has ever visited the villages.
However, he found that game.
He went down here to know that he is requesting the game to be played in the national competitions.
By bad luck last year, people should be prepared for teachers.
This year we did he was saying that we will give them a question at least one week.
To have the skills of one week to return.
I can change their children while we will see you in this competition if there will be another challenge to increase the day and give them another thing that we can be very little, we want them to do good things now, the challenges you get then can now get to another program.
After the fight.
