
Listen to the delegates of the councilors.

It has been written by John Mhenga, Arusha.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

The residents of Arusha town are happy with the step of the director of the city, Athumani Kihamia to remove some of the allowances that were benefited from the councilors of that town.

One of those residents, Justin Nyari said that decision will be required to be commended and be supported, because the councilors of Arusha City were selling the city to be the farm in order to investigate it.
Nyanga, who is a businessman of minerals, said the council's work is called for the councilors to prepare and bring the citizens of Arusha development and not to increase the allowances that are outside the procedure because they are losing the ability to fight corruption.
He said he believes that the truth of those allowances were heard by the Council of councilors of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) or if it was prepared by them, then they were supposed to enjoy the decision, because it was lack of noise, therefore he insisted that the decision was taken by Kicheere.
The businessman who has ever been the councilor of Mirerani District Simanjiro District, Manyara Region, has said it did not allow the councilor to be paid for 80,000 shillings and it will be paid 100,000 shillings of oil.
He emphasized that the lack of great embezzlement of public funds "the councilors of parliament of Arusha City have lost direction since that is the first they defend corruption and not to fight corruption and they are for the purpose of getting them.
"Time has come for the residents of Arusha to encourage these councilors because they are not supposed to be leaders with wanting to bring development to the city of Arusha," said Nyari.
Another resident of Arusha City, Julius Mollel said that the councilors have shown great weaknesses by starting to bring in the allowances of eating, instead of knowing the development of the residents of that town.
Mollel has urged the councilors to stop bias against them more by increasing their allowances outside the procedure, instead they get madness of development of the residents of Arusha who succeeded.
Samuel aron Nanyaro, has said he sees the way the councilors of parliament came to be open and give up on how to move forward and increase their allowances outside the procedure.
He claimed that they are not supposed to be the leaders in the future term, aron Nanyaro, said the good leader is the one that likes to defend his interests of his citizens and refused the allowances that were outside the procedure and that is the reputation of a leader.
He said the national chairperson of parliament, Freema Mbowe, when he came to Arusha to visit the Nanenane exhibition, he said and requested the councilors of Arusha City to be an example of removing the problems to the citizens, to create revenue sources and to ensure that money are used as required.
Aron Nanyaro, said the statement by their head leader was surrounded by the councilors of Arusha town because it is the first they are doing corruption in the high level and to bring in those allowances outside the procedure.
The Director of Arusha City removed three types of allowances for 80,000 shillings, the allowances for 80,000 shillings for every councilor of 100,000 shillings and payment of 74 mobile phones in every councilor.
He said those allowances have been added against the procedure and the councilors have been urged them to return as soon as possible, otherwise they will be paid their salaries from August, this year.
Kihamia said that more than 100 million shillings have been paid for those councilors and those funds are supposed to return to the City Council of Arusha.
