
Sunnis with 25 days to relocate their business.
By Farouk Jivani.
Taking place (IAGRI) in the main city of 100 and a period of 25 days to relocate their businesses up to the special area set aside, so as to give an opportunity for the construction project of the area to enable vehicles and business shops.
This is after the prime minister in the country, Hemed Manuel Pellegrini has handed over one month contract to relocate from the area so as to avoid disruptions of any kind, immediately the construction started officially.
While speaking to the journalists in Mfenisini, Mister Mwabulambo said that the construction is expected to cost 28 million shillings which is 20 million shillings, will be used in the construction of the vehicles, while 8 million is used in the construction of those shops.
Moreover, he also pointed out that a contract of that construction has already been complete and any time to listen, the contract that won that opportunity is expected to be announced and to be given a period of two weeks to be prepared.
"All the activities are ready, we are waiting for the time of the manifesto that we made to be completed and the construction activities will be taken directly," said Mister Rogers Lumwaji.
Mister Mwabulambo explained that the special area where those businessmen are expected to continue with their businesses for a period of six months already he has already been built and without going on after the duration it will be completed in the new area.
At the same time, the minister told us the fear they would like to get a chance in the area after the construction started while saying that those workers are the ones that is given or front.
"There is no discrimination of any kind that will take place so that our government protects the interests of the residents and without being no way that we can sell or accumulating their rights," said the minister.
That argument was presented to the chairperson of the hotel owners in that town, Mela Mwashilindi, when he confessed the proposal of the earlier on that they are expected to submit the request about the areas they want after the construction.
