
The UN funds to help treat cancer.
You will partner with the government and the development organization (UNDP) here in the country.
Jesse Erasmo, The Citizen, popularly known as BISON.
Mwanza Referral Hospital (BMC) needs 2 million euros (5 billion shillings).
For the purpose of starting to provide full cancer treatment.
BMC started providing cancer treatment since 2009 with a total of 3,500 patients who arrived to get treatment in that hospital every year, they are accused of suffering from that disease.
Due to that situation, the United Nations (UN) through the International Civil Aviation Organization (IEA), has planned to fund the project of the nuclear radiation, laboratory and cancer in conjunction with the strength commission of AGAPE, in that hospital.
Speaking after visiting the hospital the day before yesterday the day before yesterday to check the steps of that project, the resident coordinator of the United Nations and resident representative of Shage Development (UNDP) in the country, Alvaro Rodriguez, told the director of that hospital, Professor Alfred Mtunga that the government of Tanzania was able to build buildings and sponsors to give training and training for the students.
The resident coordinator of UN, Alvaro Rodriguez said due to the importance of health to Muslims Tanzania, they know the services offered by the hospital and therefore promised to continue supporting those efforts.
The head of the department of cancer (BMC), Doctor Faustine Masalu said 200 children under the 12 years have been found with male gland cancer, kidney, blood and blood cells that were found with cancer screening, breast cancer and blood transfusion.
He said approximately 1,200 men every year was revealed that suffering from cancer, male gland cancer, a food and bladder cancer.
The specialist doctor of cancer and radiation from radiation, Doctor Bwankanu said 60 percent of those patients need to use radiation.
"We feel that we took the Ocean Road organization in Dar es Salaam city because (BMC) have not completed the closing of the machine," said Doctor Likangara.
