
What is currently underway.
By Lucy Lameck.
Manufacturing Company has launched a campaign to fight with commodities in the country and in the entire East African region.
However, that company was not able to mention a lot of losses when they got from his products he didn't know where it's only a big amount of money.
The General Manager of the East African company Mister Roida Mahege said that the issue of goods is professionally known so that the company has decided to launch a campaign that is needed to help its customers to be able to help its customers to be noted among the government's help and other concerned organizations.
"The truth is that many times it is difficult to identify products related to each other.
However, this company aims to educate the public together with putting various strategies such as 97 households which will identify its real products, "Mister Asser said yesterday at a press conference in Nairobi.
That company said apart from being customers, they can send a message to assure you of the products that they buy for the internet, now they will be able to do so by sending a short message using their mobile phones by number 20222.
Mister Asser explained that the existence of product products is contributed to by the killing of poor products especially in the country, which by Lucy Lameck said it does not easy for those products to be distributed, a situation that apart from affecting the income of the company, it is also the government involved in tax.
He also said that in the African continent, it has been revealed that product products is a threat to the local and also products that have been directed to a large extent to build a name and attract customers, while all over the world, the products that drive out of international economy more than 21 billion shillings.
"The issue of products that affect the effects of health and security to its customers, both buyers are looking for affordable prices without considering the effects that are involved in buying products," he said.
Speaking at that event, the officer of the company, Miss Mary Lugusi said that product products are dangerous, especially because the real use of the disease, its structure to consider the environment of here in the country as a problem of electricity costs.
Also, he said that recently they did a operation in Elkana after they were killed about those products, follow up with the head of the customers, Mister George Mighty One, he explained that some of the issues to look for example the problems they are making, how the company is growing up and also the company's products are usually paid for two years.
