
32 years and the truth is not accepted by CCM!
May 31, 2012

Last week, February 7th, the Revolutionary Party (CCM) was awarded 32 years since he was arrested in the celebrations that took place in Shinyanga. Last year when those celebrations happened in Pemba.
This is a party that was born while leads media stations, and it continues to live in the same environment, "there are open things that have been made by this party, which can be sent by CCM for its own kind or worth it's the age.

This is an important question that you can live in that 32 years but the benefit from a low level is same as a person who lived for three years.

For example, because CCM was born in power and has attained 32 years in power, it is clear that here in the country there is no political party that died in power.

Therefore, it's a mistake for CCM that it has done good things by being compared to other political parties, who are born outside of the country's leadership but also its age is small.

What is supposed to be done by CCM at the time of the time is to ensure that it gets members and managing the resources of the country for the benefit of all?

There was a panel that can be done by considering various issues including research concerning the numbers of those resources and its benefit to the country.

I recognize that once the time CCM can benefit from looking on how it reaches the election manifesto, but this issue I think it is not very important in making this party because it may be implemented easily and this party does not be implemented easily by this party.

The issue of testing for the election manifesto could have been the same logic as the manifesto could have been written by a panel of experts who will join the politics of any party.

Specialists who could have written the notice by considering the opportunities of development that are there in the country and how it can be used in every five years to change the lives of IT.

It is true that in this environment of searching for election manifesto, you can say that even if the notice has been written by acknowledging the easy promise to be implemented but the citizens have agreed.

Here could be a fact, but in a clean environment is dominated by challenges facing that truth.

Those challenges are together with the criterion of desire for the age of this year 32, there are many people that call him to vote for CCM as usual these are more in the villages.

This situation is not permanent in all the CCM life that have reduced, therefore it is not just going on.

But also in many small towns in the country, there are many people who elected CCM by relying on the campaign celebrations which uses a huge budget for money.

The celebrations of switching off-shirt, amounts to groups of songs that are affected by the locals of the concerned areas and many other things that are similar to that.

Therefore, the biggest challenge here is that in many areas, we expect CCM with the criteria that are not involved in the manifesto, although there are also areas that CCM are chosen by considering his promises.

If I have explained earlier, CCM has attained 32 years but we ask ourselves who are the age of nation at a fast rate?

This can be able to discuss well by considering the wealth of the country for example we ask ourselves who think that Tanzania has been born with various tourism attractions but also in 32 years of CCM's administration or part of the contribution got lost in the course of corruption.

We will think this by touching the statistics by considering the contribution of the important sector of production or services in the country.

Let us start by checking the tourism sector of statistics show that this sector has been giving a contribution to the national income (GDP) for approximately 17 percent.

This is an important challenge for CCM that made 32 years with the government in the country with the wealth of various tourism resources.

We ask and think about this time that CCM has attained 32 years in power inside the country with the wealth of minerals what is the contribution of the sector to the national income?

Here there are problems that give a lesson that there are support of corruption and the system of entrepreneur and minerals within the 32 years of the life of CCM in power.

In the minerals sector, statistics show that the contribution of this sector in the national income did not have the speed of success in that country.

According to the statistics of the Ministry of Finance and Economy in the year the day before yesterday, when CCM had attained 30 years, the minerals sector was giving a donation of 35 percent in the national income.

This situation is comparing the age of CCM to power and its productivity can baptize and view donations from other sectors in the national income.

We look at the agricultural sector of this year, CCM has attained 32 years but agriculture that is why it is able to make a big part of contraception?

Statistics of the government of CCM shows that the agricultural contribution in the national income is 25000 American dollars in the year 2007 when CCM had 30 years in power.

But also the contribution of the agricultural sector is not only has dropped, but even the growth of the sector has been set aside.

We are saying that in a year that CCM had attained 30 years in the agricultural sector, its growth had only four percent.

These are the primary issues in testing the age of CCM and its benefit to the nation or greed, and not depending on the notice which has been written by the aim of building for the image of success that have no benefits to the citizens.

But also the situation is so bad, in the side of the resources sector, in general, statistics show that its growth is 229 percent.

The contribution of this sector in the national income we should be explained that it is 2only 1 percent only, we should be keen on that this country has been born with many resources including breast and juice.

Still, the real situation is not little in many areas of the sector, this time that CCM has attained 32 years.

For example, the industry of industries and business is expected to grow by 87 percent while its contribution is 92 percent only, in the country which has the ability to produce a lot of agriculture that can be used as natural resources.

But more than 32 years of CCM are still availability of electricity in the country.

As a result of this situation, this was the previous day I mentioned that the election manifesto of this party is organized by its members maybe by announcing more promise to implement it.

But apart from that, even the high sessions of CCM have begun losing attraction ahead of socialism and compared to the sessions of other private institutions.

This issue is open and is not yet confirmed to the trend of media stations in the country.

Different from the previous years, the executive committee (CC) of CCM for example or the National Executive Council (NEC) apart from the ones involved in the process of appointment, media houses were producing more weight to the reports of the sessions.

Yes, the media were seen a clear intention of knowing the decision or the resolutions of those sessions, and if it is was as a sign of the media representing the thirst for many citizens.

The trend of the media to a large extent was due to the weight of the decision of those sessions.

These sessions were carrying the weight or a great pleasure of talking to protecting the interests of the nation, different from this period in which CCM continues to have a great age (dye).

For example, among the meetings that have ever been taking the weight to the sessions of CC or NEC is a meeting that took place in Butiama, where it was born in Butiama District.

The public was expecting a lot from that meeting, but the situation was different.

It is clear that now the eyes and ears of the executive committee or the executive council of this situation is due to the sessions not having a huge decision in protecting the interests of the country.

The trend of these issues has noted that the sessions or meeting of the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania has started to be given more weight and visas for the meetings or meetings of the executive council of CCM or the executive committee.

This situation needs to be researched on with CCM and it is a dangerous state to the health of that party especially considering that the parliament is made together with members of parliament of the opposition parties.

That situation is giving open blood as part of CC and NEC who are contributing to return their cost of Mwalimu Nyerere's era.

I recognize that there are some who want to oppose saying the sessions of CC and NEC can't like as compared to the parliamentary sessions because the parliamentary sessions are open is same as a public meetings.

I will do one point with this argument by considering the truth that every session of CC or NEC will also give its resolutions to the public, therefore citizens are proud of those resolutions and the real situation of the country.

As such, the public servants should benefit and especially our scholars is a must to change in the evaluation of CCM, CCM should be done by considering the way it used the wealth of the country, and not the election manifesto they want them, for special goals.

God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
