The rights did not go to Dodoma, same, but it is where when it was found?
Jide 22, 2015.

The Revolutionary Party (CCM) has completed its process of looking for a member who will represent in October general election at the end of the whole exercise of getting that candidate for several years ago, several leaders of the party started being mentioned as required candidates.
We should come out the official instructions of the party which were requested by cadres not to start campaigns "before the time of giving them, it is clear that many concerned people did a campaign, some of them being open and others being high.
Some of the leaders who showed up, and even allegedly being waited for political activities, he has been sentenced to the end of a day that was found with approximately 40 members of CCM who have shown their intention to ask for the consent of their party when they were told, "he is the person seen to have the strength more than all the others: Edward Ngoyai Lowassa.
"An aspirant has said that this is the one who had signed 800,000 American Dollars and sponsors, while every corner of the country appeared to have a huge crowd of people that had been supporting him, and they came out in public to prove that their stand.
However, in some of the heads of the party, the situation did not identify their reasons because the heads do not agree with that situation when they saw the candidate, who had ever been a lot of money so much in his campaign.
Rumors has it that the use of money, and the corruption funds in the process that spread every corner, the rumors continued to grow and spread in various groups including students, youth, drivers of motorcycle riders, religious leaders and so on.
In that big gathering that took place in Arusha last month, where many popular people came out to support Lowassa, it was clear that if he will be called in the first round of the election, Lowassa would not get any important problem as the candidate of CCM.
This was only one meaning, it's only that anyone who wanted to destroy the candidate of CCM who wanted to block him before his name has not been removed from the list, before the session of the executive council.
This is the step that attracted a big debate in the country, between those who decided to support Lowassa, who did not have an act of his name to have been charged with his name and eventually, they know that during the same time, it was openly seen that the party is evident.
The main sign of that division ended up when the members of the council has given him their chairman for the song to sign him, Lowassa, which is the sign of very open symptoms inside the leadership of that party, it has been noticed that the sitting was unable to continue with the retired presidents and urged those who were unable to continue with their session.
That is the symptoms of my joy that you cannot begin their disappearance because the former provincial heads have narrated that what will be CCM inside within and its results can have great effects and long-term effects to that party.
The Revolutionary Party is a organization that has been going against, I believe his life for a long time, CCM failed to inform him from the political party and they have changed to be a great wealth and they can buy any position that they need or any person they know or for their interests.
CCM went down and basically the most of his founder, Julius Kambarage Nyerere Nyerere, and will visit the basis of his legacy of a human being and the African Union.
CCM had already left the culture of discussing heavy issues, changes in mind, a party that will fight against him and told him that she is not wrong, but he could not accept when she was not wrong, but he told them that they had told the citizens and members.
