News news.
Ministry of Health and Development of the community has organized the guidelines that currently has done all councils here in the country when I met with priority on reproductive health, they would have plans to reduce deaths arising from.
According to research, two thousand shillings.
And one of the pregnant women who are vying to the health centers and deaths arising from maternal and deaths arising from gender, there are seven thousand deaths in a year and also David Ramadhani for a report.
You wait for the commemoration of the ribbon which is taking place in the city of Dar.
In all community participation care services to enable a pregnant woman to reach and give birth to the stations for providing health services at home.
The wife of the president, Mrs Salma Kikwete was the guest of honor at the ribbon that is called on villages to use health committees but a pregnant woman or a plan to give birth to partner with his running mate so as to reduce the problem and deaths from.
Ten o'clock in the research that was done in the previous year, and like to talk about due to the cleaning he said, since Samatta was coming from.
Make sure there are signs and photos in the elections to reduce maternal deaths as well as the truth.
In addition to education.
It is being faced with a challenge in rapid growth of pregnant women and children.
The right of challenges is together with alcohol to increase the health experts he will score against any other stakeholders.
His colleague has been found.
National Parks Agency takes place in efforts to reduce the deaths of women.
I have a plan to launch district, Tanga, Tanga and Mbozi province in Mbeya Region, a package of special equipment to pregnant women.
Use them during giving birth of the package that will have all important equipment that will be called during pregnant, to give birth together with the important preparations for the child.
On the ribbon that is dangerous which is aiming to insisted on the point of looking for reproductive health you feel like to reduce.
This is to see the slogan that says' our responsibility is to save the lives of mother and child.
Stakeholders of reproductive health started to the demonstrations made by the ministry of health and community welfare at the Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam city.
We feel that they have been involved in Dar es Salaam.
