The government is inable to carry the licenses of natural resources.
May 1st, 2014.

The government through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, has threatened to cancel all licenses of small-scale miners of Tanzanite in Simanjaro District Hospital due to the damage caused by the mining law.
According to the news followed by Good Citizen from different sources, miners or owners of mines, that will be sacked are those of the mines that are located in Zito B and D.

Those reports are required that the government wants to take that step after the long-term efforts of the small miners have caused the investors of the investors of the Apple company One from South Africa to hit rock bottom.
For more than two years now, small miners have been accused that they are running their activities to build houses in the lake region which are alleged to have lost more than four mines arising from that attack.
Those reports are continuing to be noted that the mines was attacked by small miners from Riders in B and D which have gone down to lack of land in a period of the year 2012 after the game is One, to start the process of getting into partnership with STAMICO.
As a result of that attack, the information states that GAPCO Company has stopped the mining activities in the three mines which are known by Bravo Areas and CT scan to the safety of its workers.
In addition to invading the mines, it was stated that the small miners have also destroyed all important infrastructure in minerals and steal important equipment in the mining activities and caused a loss of millions of money.
In addition, the National One One which was in partnership with the National Housing Corporation (STAMICO) has also started plans to reduce its employees more than 350 employees from being unable to withstand the cost of salaries and other needs.
Miners should be called and being interviewed.
Higher education officials say that as a result of that situation, April 17 this year, some of the mines in the Yanda B Primary School which was called in Dar es Salaam for talks together with an interview with the officers of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
It has been explained that in those talks, the ministry officers requested all the owners of mines in the Yakonko District and D to start a group photo that will own shares and the company is capable of running all activities of extraction and administration.
"It is true, we have been advised to form a company that we will use the shares, and the company will run its production activities and it is now whereby every owner of the mine he sang by using equipment and its workers," explained one of the owners of the mine who attended that meeting.
He added, "we have explained that we don't have so we should do that the government will look for all licenses for small miners and educate them in those areas, to other people."
He added that those miners have also been required to leave inside the area of Peoples' One, otherwise, the legal action will be taken against them together with their licenses.
The statement was said.
Speaking to Good Citizen about that issue, Commissioner of Minerals in the Ministry, Paul Masanja, confessed the existence of a problem of miners of those minerals, non-compliance of the procedures, regulations and regulations of the mining.
"It is true that small miners have been problems in Mererani Town, most of them put up to the location of the mining mines, contrary to the laws of the mining, the department of Diplomacy, are used to protect and is the foundation of talks with the ministry," he said.
He said as a result of 90 percent of the mines, Uhuru One Club has been destroyed by that step is not allowed to be the company of investors together with investing their money in their mines but also the law will protect themselves as they get the miners.
"The law is blocking any person to construct a license area for another person, therefore we cannot redeem the miners who cause the law and we will look for their licenses immediately and take legal action," said Masanja.
And the Coordinator of the minerals region in the northern region, Alex Maganjila being the previous inspection that was done by engineers from the department that shows 19 owners of mines doing their mining activities in the lake region.
Magula said that, they are still continuing to verify that mines, to identify the miners who have reduced the area of 'One One and they are required to leave by consent before further action is taken.
"The law is clear that any person is not allowed to build himself in the area where he does not have his ownership, we had not been forced to remove their licenses by breaking the law and also to stop the law and this will be done in the short time future," warned the commissioner.
The miners talk.
