And very fast, West is to inform us that were written in today's newspaper, I've heard this morning after being satisfied by his father Lionel Messi, a big story that had ever been written in the newspaper, I saw Yanga soccer club, then I saw Mtibwa Sugar, a big issue that has written the newspapers in the end of the game.
The time he was found.
He did not end.
But the Almighty God rest when it was taken to my children where I got to prevent it.
The late does not want to inform each other, there are our colleagues that there is a thing that there is Free nets in the previous schools or they are starting to learn.
By touching the truth, especially nursery school is the ones that I take them like.
There is a girl with the job that took it to the child has copied one of the person to go to be eaten by the late father, but the previous schools does it mean?
I came here.
It is a big school teachers in their schools in Dar, the Almighty God is the groups that he knows how to be in Dar es Salaam as a solution.
We should meet.
What thing is now for these?
Those who raised me.
SA and our call is that there are big changes that are not seen.
As a result of new education policy of education for two thousand education and teachings to see.
That move is saying that the teachers of primary school.
He will be.
And then wrote me.
.
We cannot reach that in one day.
But first and this.
Yes, we start making sure that as I give the first to those teachers who already are at work that this is an opportunity for them to use fifty people when they know this directors are saying.
To join the training was Freddy Maro.
Professionalism, but there was a ton.
And they will have been helping the nation to vote heading to the official goals, but also the action was started to join teaching.
You are good and more better is a good thing, the Almighty God bless our youth who are in good opportunity to join teaching for the teachers now be responsible for a total of members and teachers so as to help them.
He said.
It's a thing that I will help me to know the late God bless you and I think it as she explained his talent.
This is the second yellow card and has a long time followed when Temba climbing on the internet and make sure that the application that goes through the internet and make sure that you will look for me if it is called to tell me if it is a child.
It is a good reader of January.
Gaston Gasana, during the ideas of the Star TV and started their head teachers and to know what I don't know if I think I think about that system and we decided to avoid the teachers looking at each other.
.
If you go, now it is everything that we are doing?
For this is to make sure that we have said to grow, it is the foundation of development that we must have.
Welcome me, I've very happy to the late?
However, Madee who is the director for advice and health care from the national council of education of the second group and a doctor in Prince Mkwera, executive secretary but by having us on something we want to join the Tanzanians who wants to join eight and teaching.
Children of the day like it has explained others on your website in the website to be able to follow the procedures so that they can be elected on the internet to hear our pictures of the picture by talking about more about food.
The second one of students colleges of teaching.
Nusra on time.
