Nyerere passes away the age of five and he did not have.
October 16, 2014.

I have touched me this due to the topics that I have started on the internet about the desire that have already been done in the community to desire to do.
I have seen one of the contributes from Galinoma who is follow.

"Galinoma who is happening in the world was different from the world was different from now.
I have been on the right of the fight for smoking in our country at that time it had gone through the five-term exams as the nation, for the first test for two oil conflicts in the world.
It is between 1970, 1973, the first examinations for oil is in 1970, second year 1973, third examinations are drought of the year 1974.
The fourth examination is the repeat of the East African Community in 1977 due to the fifth examination is the capital of Kagera 1978, on the 79 years.

In ten years our country had gone through a five-year examinations, I was having 11 years in Kinondoni Municipality, when I was heard through the radio, Julius Nyerere, announcing the fight against a quish Idd, who used them to kill them and take part of our land.
On the night that I found himself in the army vehicles that were passing outside our house, Morocco road, which is located in Lugalo Hospital going round up to witness the game between 18 years and for sure it has become more than 18 years, and for sure it has been more than 18 years.
Well, inside the 10 years, our country had gone through the past five exams.
That is why today's meaning is surprising, when we have lost our brothers to fight with a quish Idd whom we are discussing the desire to have a long president.
History is a good teachers, we want to change our history of Uganda, they have had a lot of 8 years but even whom they did not end bribery at each other places in the army and instead he is spreading fear to Ugandans and stop their opponents.
And as a way, as a nation, we have managed to fight with a quills, then we should not accept to welcome her or a queness.
