
Vegetables makes you need.
By Benedict Liwenga.

Tomatoes is the type of vegetables which use it not only here in Kenya and other neighboring countries in the world.
The Rubongo area is in Jihadist area it is in Nyamatala, one of the places in the country, according to the local government, he said it has improved so much for development and in efforts to improve the lives of citizens in this country because it is also known by him.
Mister Ruwa Mitego has completed his class seven studies in the year 1995, due to the problem, his family had gone through a dream of continuing to Msufini Primary School does not make it even one day.
He started serving and insisted that he has all cutters, not lack food and clothes and also his brothers were chased away from school because of fees showed up considering that, at the time the government had already started a free education system in primary schools.
There's where he started doing its obligations in the neighborhood of neighbors and sometimes he went to a lot of kilometers at least getting a day environment.
It is in this situation he was able to be employed in the farm as one of the farmer, from the year 1996 to 2000, where many times he involved in promoting tomatoes, "said Mister Ruidiaz, a farmer known in this area.
He desires for plants in different types like maize and even cabbage, but he is proud of making the tomatoes in it.
If tomatoes is a lot, you have a lot of work and you need to be dealt with so much but its revenue are very disturbing, "said Ndeki.
Mmambe, this is how she doesn't know you so much in this area which has drought.
The environment 'I am saying that you have discovered that you are doing well in the solar environment and which do not have severe pain. "
Says Mister Ndeki.
Mister Bruce is a expert from the KFA branch, Hauston Texas, he went with a farmer Ndeki.
If they sell the branch in that area that is facing a lot of diseases, between 18, 18 and 30, it has not written the type of contraception is not very fast, "the condition of the sun is similar to many diseases to spread very fast," Mister Byakanwa was increasing the issue of the environment for this disease.
Preparations and strong winds up to Mister Ndeki have been organized a place that is expected to grow their seedlings and if possible two weeks before a light weight.
Preparations for the journey to be present two weeks before buying seedlings, 5 meters for a length, this will enable you to cater for it easily.
Break the great success by using a check so as to give a fine of 1-2 against 15 thousand shillings per hour, and a half-1 billion, equivalent to half hundred thousand shillings.
Prezidaa of the animals that fell in the morning and in the evening until when they will not take 7-8 days later.
The expert found himself in the manufacturing of Jichunge.'
It is very important to the farmer to be careful when you have organized by using the production of this disease because it needs a huge number of crimes according to other plants.
When you use the tomatoes and make sure that a piece when you have never been growing up in the tomatoes or even his family as possible for land that has never been taxed.
This makes your plants not to be infected with diseases which will expire, "Mister he insists.
"When you buy seeds if you buy the type of seedlings that match with what reduced the diseases that if you are needed early, with good flavor and also a great shape and also a lot of attractive," he said.
Mister Byakanwa explains the Akilimali Group where he knows Mister Ndeki, after one month (4-5).
Seedlings will be ready to be transferred.
10 days of the last 14 days will enable them to cater for the real situation of farm which will stimulate the water so as to ease the importation of seedlings and also to prevent them to identify themselves.
Panda Hill the morning or at the same evening so as to avoid the sun that can be able to make corrections.
Your type of tomatoes is usually closed so as to prevent the virtues that is under it and also to ease the availability of drugs and water, "said the reporter in Bongo.
Make sure that you are forced to prevent your medicine just immediately you're disrupting peace and it is important to prevent drug abuse or pit latrines and therefore it is very important to prevent the drugs for preventing themselves with your flowers so as to increase fruits.
The market of living in this farming sector, Mister Ndayisenga says it does not have a season to grow and also says that his market is ready every time.
However, here in our month of five and that of December tomatoes, they are measurable. Therefore it starts in the second month so that by attaining five years it is believed to get in the market and the one to enter the market and the one to enter the market and one of getting off in the month of September.
For this month, I do not sell 900 hectares to 1,800 villages and can sell at least ten thousand shillings, while there is this product in plenty, I can sell more than 800 million shillings per day and I can use ten thousand shillings per day, "said Ndeki.
It is because this Mister when he is going to respect their daughters, saying that they have bought the farm and even discourage them.
"The first heard of the farm but through the sales of this disease, I have been able to give my four hundred thousand shillings, for now, it doesn't have more than five hundred thousand shillings for a year and I have more than five hundred thousand shillings for a year and I have more than five hundred thousand shillings per year.
