
The Dongfangzhixing Ship, "Kiango," is Uli Mtebe, 28, 2012.

A Tanzanian journalist, Professor Ekaney (Kenwanja) that he is writing about Mister who had arrived at the song that does not know when he was shocked when they saw them, he asked.
"Nyami is a terrorist?
"We are voters," one of them told the answer.
"Why is a man at a place where you will not happen that?
"Here is where he is" voters called Mister.
"If I could have been used here to show my technical secret!
"We will know I have managed the prime minister to stand at a circle center," one of them answered.
"Right now we are doing our first song."
"And your players are there," he asked Mister.
Any person who doesn't know how to say "another, but those who use their wives are those who are smoking the same world, therefore we have helped them to know how they have reduced, therefore, we are happy to send a message to us.
Some of my readers have urged me to learn more about this issue of Freetown city and there are some who wanted to know the meaning of the word "she allowed me."
For sure, if he knows Professor Kenwanja, I think that we see most of us today we are playing music, especially the journalists, they are playing very well, because they have not been sent away until they get into a free world.
Yes, every day they have a rumor and the rumors of this one and that of the community still has faith with journalists, therefore, very much and journalists contributes to reduce the community.
This issue of Freetown city is one of the biggest nuisances for now has been made.
"If you know the truth," the writer is keen, getting down and read it on the internet about the news of Freetown city, then it can't come up with a great story about the Freetown city, then he cannot come up with a great story about the Hebdo magazine that we are witnessing now in our community.
Basically, the Coke Studio that we read will be there since the 14th century where its new members usually face off by being introduced by members who are in many countries in the world, has been built through a group of religion in the world since the 14th century.
When we go back, that during those days, if the buildings of buildings do not want to be owned by people with building their buildings, they wanted them and they were able to educate them if they did not agree with the building.
And those days along the part of the construction being constructed at the forum's stall, as it was known as a word which is used to date, it is a word that is used until today with the meaning of the guests to sit for payments.
The Peacock Hotel, if the community has been and even if it is not only, only free, but the community with its procedures that had been involved even if those who don't know, but people from other regions in the country are together with businessmen.
Therefore, the Wote Scheme did not start today, and its information are very disturbing and even the internet, bad luck in our country could not be put in the story of the community that protects you from a very bad thing.
That it is faith of the chest and it is involved with quick wealth.
And we know where we are no longer people and also we ask ourselves who are the same way to get married, it does not see people of this world as a long time to join that network?
We have forgotten that, in this world there is many poor and with education also.
When our colleagues have been able to fight for their education you are learning from their poverty, we should have agreed in singing and playing "the song should not know."
Every time the late Ras Kiduku was rigged.

And if we had decided that many people had already given free money only.
Because, by writing the news of Freetown city last week, then I have received many phones of people who want to join that network through me!
That you are ready to use the membership payments! I understood the responsibility that I am not a member of Freetown city and I have written many, and I told me that they continue with me, that they are using their money.
Well, Mister Jesus when he visited River Galinoma, he informed the fishermen from fish, among them being Simao MJesus said, "Simao does not stop fish, and our people have said that there are a lot of knowledge that we are doing so that there is a lot of knowledge that we are doing so that they are now.
When the word knows it, it means that it is a lot of afflictions and the word "virgin" is a word "the word" the word "says, the world's art and she does not see your mind, but he knows your mind, a request that he will lead you.
And the ones who are getting confused are the ones that are blocking us or covered by ignorance!
And the ones who are coming out now is for the end of the last day. "We will lead fear and they are annoyed by fear and ignorance of us.
"Simwanza says that they leave fish, let them stop fish," yes, your fish are free on water, but there are many human beings who are still at caring for the thoughts that they still getting into the afternoon.
Philosopher-fielder John Rwasa has said, "we do not even if you get your natural rights, but if that you will have no benefits to many people, then, it is not your right to make sure that the community are supposed to do and be cursed.
Maasais' even if it is of their rights to look in life, but because of spreading rumors is important things that have no benefits to many people, then, it is not their right to do so, therefore, we can look even the legal procedures to deal with these people. This debate will continue.
