President of the discussions today, I will talk with the youth about the topic where we shall talk with the youth about the topic that says youths are planning to do before getting into marriage so as to get that which is correct.
Our participants on today are solar.
In the era of us witnessed, we are all of us and Bakari Kiroboto has said that I talk about the youth to prepare before getting into marriage so as to get that attack.
Everything is the first one?
First.
Second if you want to get a husband.
It's a must.
You don't have a relationship for a long time so that you are able to read your behavior from marriage.
Because many marriages have been cheated.
You love you when you are in the normal relationship that maybe they have not seen.
You know it has been in one week while two weeks do not be fast.
You were not in a wedding and we can say, we can say lack of his partner.
The swim and there as a youth you will do?
In life to give you for the future days, that in order to get into a marriage, it is not true.
On my first side, I have planned to decide whether to get into my marriage without being expected to be first.
Until when we look at the Dar es Salaam city, we should be able to get a lover with the love for you for the end of the day, I don't know her with her lover with the love I will go by looking at it's behavior in life and when I'll get into a relationship with him.
Will take a long time to look at him without knowing that I am pleased with and I love them to get married and I will make sure you talk about my life and I will make sure you talk about my behavior so that I can get a good thing so that I will use a religion when I will use all the instructions.
Which kind of someone who will be taught in life?
Because they are normal in religious books?
What kind of someone is happy to get married or which kind of someone who can leave that is a good husband.
Or he become a good wife.
Therefore, we see that by using the religious books you can get the husband who is more better or the wife is more better but we are preparing more than if we decided to use other ways.
There is nothing for religious laws in Jennifer Kotta. They did not meet in a long time.
They don't know their marriages.
There are some who lost their marriages.
And others swell.
My part appears to see that?
Those are one of the reasons that can contribute to playing in Kibondo.
How do a device is saying that those who loved ones have used the criteria?
Now there are others so used to?
And.
As it depends on marriages.
But I think as a youth.
What is only that our youth participate from now.
First completely.
They are required to learn is that the ones that do you pass through life?
The late God rest the people like maybe a lot of entertainment, that is why people do not depend on the marriage because it needs the youth to agree with his life.
And saying that in time that you should not be able to get his lover without knowing his behavior, therefore, she does not know that she is not patient faithful partner.
He will not be able to endure that it will be difficult for the marriage to broke up because he will have got the right lover but he said.
They look for that people maybe that you are on the price, our parents or some of our brother and our sister who have forgotten your marriage already they have their lives.
Wash your eyes too.
Therefore, they get into a marriage and wanted those things that time they don't have the ability to get such things, that's when you enter into the last marriage of the marriage will crumble if that day should not learn what is good and that is good.
Which is the meaning of.
Our colleagues in our brother and our sister does not have our money but they are supposed to leave that meaning.
Our work and our best father to this one is one of the ways that you will make it.
He came in marriage with joy.
Clean water is without being touched in all of us.
Bakari is also speaking about the youths who have talked and this, a youth that can't be the right thing.
Before getting into a prayer, as a youth who has already entered into the marriage has no experience.
There is the first church for many youths who are required to start knowing how to get your running mate and not to get married, you shouldn't jump and you don't know then I'm in marriage is the first year.
But to get to him in first, I have been preparations.
Preparing well and make sure that every income that is legal even if I give her an old man even though his activities are still there.
The theft is unacceptable and with sharp teeth but they talk about the best way to get the first running mate through the Mtimbira village or her running mate without considering the preparations for the first area which you can be able to look for women because the effects are you to be careful.
Listen to your condolences to how you are.
If he will be responsible for you that are there and it's not true that it has not been able to meet traffic action but I would like you to meet at home and go to home and go to home and go to home for what is happening to the marriage is same as urologists.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, there are Islamic religion, Christian, have managed to marry off every way to be able to have a better way to get a fiancée and action to reach but if you have said.
When a month of chicken you think about the foundations of religious books, I do not know that it is looking for Bongo and at the end of the day you can be able to understand that you have gone to blame and people have so high costs.
Preparations for the celebrations but your law is supposed to do that within two months or it has written much inside, one year you know the marriage has fallen apart.
When you go through right you'll give you a lesson so that we're going on.
First happens a criterion on which is that you will use all days that I will be doing.
My criterion, I am a book of my religion or even he is doing the first reputation in my book for me, what I believe in religion which is Miss Tanzania have the first reputation for a woman or fiancée who does not pollute the quality.
If a girl or a girl or her mother and believe that because religion is the basis of this one that I will be my husband and our religion has already noted us that we can cooperate with people with other things among them and in addition to the listener.
Youths are planning to see before getting into marriage so as to get information.
