
Insults cannot get a parliamentary seat for the constitution.

The special Parliament of the Constitution has continued to be ruled by people with disability, while some of the delegates not to know the sayings and how I don't have and stop discussing the primary issues.

The debate of voting during the time of passing the sections of the draft constitution, is the one that brought together those people, while members of parliament are divided into two groups who want open votes and others in secret votes.

Every member (standing) did not want to fight and ensure that he is bought, an issue that had caused some of the delegates contributing to a stern warning and severe words.

Said Ndonge who is the one who started raising his motion on secret activities together with wanting the delegates to follow the groups of listening, a situation that had caused several members where he refused the issue.

"I want to start with an agreement here, because we should never understand the rights and others from Zanzibar we know how we have been oppressed on a large extent in the whole period of the union, therefore we must talk and discuss together," said security.

Juma Duni Haji spoke with great joy and urged the delegates not to speak about the issue of voting yes and instead start voting.

That member denied the example of European countries and other nations, saying that they were voting in a secret way to make their issues.

Responding to those topics, the deputy speaker of parliament of the United Republic, Job Ndugai, urged the delegates to have a habit in talks because it was coming from so that hall will not be enough.

"Honorable chairperson, you will not be enough here, because his meeting started talking to news about the names of the union, this hall will not be enough, it is clear that we will have timber and inside here, do not mention them," said Ndugai.

In his answers, Professor Jumanne Maghembe is saying more to explain his answer about the British country to make a secret constitution and said that the understanding of the delegate was not big.

Professor Maghembe said there is no place where England was making a secret constitution because that country has never been able to write his constitution.

"One person here in the morning he said the constitution of England was written by people's votes, but I know there is no one who did all people here in the world, but there is no one who did not know if there is no constitution that was written," insisted Professor Maghembe.

If it could have been known inside parliament, there are people who will not be cowards and they believe that they have agreed to reach the Tanganyika country, but they have emerged afresh.

Members of parliament.

The committee led me the interim chairperson of the special assembly of constitution is front of the kind of use of the private votes is used or open votes reached by that parliament.

The chairperson of that committee, Professor Costa Mahege said that the issue of the votes will be used to enable them during the implementation of the decision.

He said that it should be open or all the secret process is that a democratic process and among those votes is no one that gives someone to vote.

"The delegates came to speaking about all the casting of votes, the committee explained that all the way is good and due to that situation the committee has proposed that parliament is the one that could use this kind of votes will be used," said Professor Makumbulu.

Professor Maasais' speaking about Siwa, said, "due to the cost of Siwa, it's great (1 billion), we have proposed that TFF should not be dealt with because of cost, we will be asked by our citizens using a lot of costs thus the same section will be presented."
