Education in South Africa did not get credit.
October 12th, 2012

Symptoms of the rains are palaces, South Africa did not get married but he has never thought the heavy rains in heaven and South Africa to see the symptoms of the heavy rainfall while what I want to say here is this one has its symptoms.

When we talk about the importance of looking at times, we have no reason to go look at our fellow times or not to look for our current actions and therefore, the importance of looking at our symptoms of things that will happen.

This is our country for our country to all of us, we have a must to have a problem of our country that we were born and find up on how our country's property, has caused doubt in millions of people of this country.

50 years after our Uhuru is still many living in a lot of poverty when a few days and not by the colonization, instead of our colleagues we shouldn't read it, "it will be a result of the conflict that allows us to look at poverty and then we're getting married but we will not get married but it will not get married."

All of us, without caring about our differences in ideology and faith, we must make sure that we are supposed to get more than their colleagues so that we can make sure you continue getting more than their colleagues.

There are a lot of areas to work on them.
The strength of the good work to be able to participate in these activities are very important and to make sure now and make changes and improve our education system, from primary schools to universities, we still remember the results of this last year's examinations that they did not have good, and that is not a matter of suddenly.

Without stopping words, our primary education which is the foundation of education, is in a bad state, there is a need to think the existence of a system that will make class one to ten years to be a must and to be given free from class to form four in one school.

Because in the current state, more than half of the children take place in class seven in the age of ten years and without having a possibility of going to form four, they would have been given an opportunity to arrive up to form four, they would have been given an opportunity to arrive up to form four, they would be given a chance to arrive up to form four.

Yes, let us start and strengthen the primary education because the situation is bad and here I will give a good example of a period when I visited Rahaleo Primary School, a distance for a half hours from Iringa town, Nduli, Isimani Constituency.
They were in one class, and for the teachers is one.
