He was the owner of the heart institution of heart diseases, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that it has started building a new hospital for those diseases in Mbweni Area, in the outskirts of Dar es Salaam, we get information.
Speaking to journalists during a message to the experts of heart diseases from an international hospital not in America when they saw the area where they think that the hospital is expected to be completed and start providing medical services in January next year.
He has said that the hospital will be known as a guarantee doctor, will not turn back, to take a former coach Herbert Louis and that the experts from America have started to bring equipment that will be used to provide treatment.
After any problems that have been done?
I would like to succeed to be supporting him from my friends and have great ability to America if you are living.
They have come up to look at how.
It has come with some of the equipment from the child, we will ensure they finish the construction.
This and later they will continue to bring equipment so that the late is very dangerous to ensure that they are already completed.
And the leader of that delegation of five people Mister Meng has said that they have been impressed by the development of that project and promised to cooperate in the field of expertise and training to doctors in the hospital.
Tomorrow.
We will see you know about that event.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, I've heard this one where the police will give your stars supposed to appeal so.
For you for you are there?
There is a problem.
Diamond in the health sector has told you that he does not want this season that he gets a Manchester United mid-fielder.
You have not seen in chemistry and search for you so that we are inspiring.
The female child doing his name of the artist admitted for his death in the farm that seems to be available, which was increasing the treatment of one diseases in the city when they were unable to continue with its services after they were unable to continue with its services.
After the leadership unable to know the truth, they have in issues of payment of payment and the National Social Security Fund.
Who were the owners of that hospital, a step that caused all the equipment of that hospital to be played at the auction so as to pay the arrears of cement in the city of Civil Society, who is also bullied.
