Zanzibar and the poor development.
Petit 12, 2014.

In a new edition of Addis Ababa city that was published on September 7, 2011, I wrote articles which was done by the address of Zanzibar and Mauritius on the reason of two countries in the sea.
These articles are under the name of our reporter, "we tried to go as compared to the islands of Mauritius and in our country of Zanzibar and show how Mauritius have done for development and because of it.
For sure that coughing in doing that is my view, one of the Sweden with great relationship with the Indian Ocean by Comoros, Mauritius, Rengua locality, Bukore, (UDOM) and Zanzibar.
He has other things also, who did not give him one week or two without informing them that I have attached it from the article that was published by one of the newspapers in the islands.
All the days you have the desire to see some development in one of those countries or things that concern them in the community of those countries, something that is faced with Comoros for example, is how many citizens in peace without discriminating each other.
Many times, but usually builds the articles about economic development in the Indian Ocean, apart from Zanzibar for example, earlier on April, he mentioned four articles among the international airport in Mauritius on the second one and the first one is MEMKWA centers.
Better fields of plane was mentioned in the celebrations of the World Airport that was done in Barcelona, Spain.
After releasing those articles, remember, I told me that during the peak of a season of tourists carrying goods at the Karume International Airport in Unguja had been destroyed for a period of three months ago therefore, cargo had been caused by the staff of the airport, an issue that had caused the long distance of passengers and get forced to get their planes.
May 10, he told this article on one of the bus station in Victoria area, the capital city of Mkomagu led the newspaper of a public transport agency (MARI) really urge the citizens about change in their place of departure of that station.
All pictures showed that the number of buses that have high-speed buses will destroy the passengers without stopping the rains or the sun.
Sahel club of me, told me that the New York city led to independence from 1976 and 90 residents, had only 15 years later, they will be built through a modern station of buses that are usually destroyed immediately after time.
These days instead of the heavy affection in that country has 300 modern buses being provided by the GNP), all the services offered by the public organization (MARI), there is no wonder, there is no weapon, no one was a bomb.
