Mama Salma Kikwete is who in the government?
May 23, 2012

Recently, Mama Salma Kikwete, the wife to the president, Doctor Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete is part of the leadership of our nation if the answer is what is the article of the constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania that I clarified his duties and responsibility to the president's wife?
If the answer is no 'the mother of this woman is going round and moved to the provinces in public meetings and the various ceremony he's doing when he made a open campaign to be keen on her husband and his party (CCM) using the public resources he sees it?
We thank these questions because with the eyes, he sees them and the poor is saying that this woman is in his campaigns and different topics which are organized by the tax payment of this country.
Money for the government of this country with about 40 million people for the interests of the party with 46 million members only (number that has ever been confirmed by the vice chairperson of that party Pius Msekwa.
Although the leadership of the government and the ruling party of CCM has shown the cotton industries, the fact that this woman has been the talk of things that he is doing especially when he is in the provinces by using the government's criteria and to get all honor that he was given to president.
He is doing media and government institutions in the provinces and district to have a difficult time to an extent of being accused, to make sure that its security and in doing so, the citizens of the relevant area have been identified by the constitution "he is called.
It is not true that the presidency of the presidency is not seen by the mother Maria Nyerere, a wife to the founder of this nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and all the others who followed it is not allowed by the constitution so that we can make sure that we are doing and he is doing?
We think time has come now for the position of president's position to be separated by constitutional constitution to know the responsibility and borders of this country's leadership so as to remove this problem brought by the wife of this president who is completing his five years of leadership.
It is important to do that so as to start the future term, the wife to the one trying to get a bond of getting into the very high office, "Masau boasted.
Because he will be even a lady of the country and not for any party, then it is a must that the constitution give a chance to give him a chance which will make him be the father of the nation if he used Mama Maria Nyerere from the year 1985 to 1985 when he reached the State House after the father of the nation retiring from consent to lead this nation.
