Among the ministries that we expect to be faced with the ministry of resources and tourism this is because of the ministries that are contributing to great income as a result of the growth of the tourism sector in the country, history of conservation of resources and tourism start before the colonialist.
Their property, the state of privacy on the whole issue of developing tourism in this country, as we see our father together with the culture of Tanzania.
The number of people.
It is high.
.
Hundred million dollars they thank you.
.
It was a place.
It is said that the ruling party of the year 2016 is under the traditional leadership that are reserved for resources by considering its importance as the main cause of rain and minerals because of the colonial history, it started being built before the coming of trade and minerals which will be used to fight for conflicts between different parts of the country.
In that time Africa is being recognized by the whites like Tanzania that he claimed that he had died.
However, these publications are explained that by the ten century where many people were coming out in East Africa, that is happening in different parts of the purpose of spreading religion or business people and also been able to look for different opportunities that are found.
Despite the solution that was done by the visitors who visited that region, there was a huge destruction of property and resources that were made by business people who were kidnapped by the European continent for more than eight hundred thousand tons in Africa, there was a great importance due to being able to support the nation's income through different visitors when they come to visit the tourism attractions.
After retiring from that way I call on the community.
Almighty God bless TANZANIA.
There are people that save the age of age?
More by the delegation.
That tourism is following up.
I love me.
Everyone of form four.
So that we can be able to protect our environment.
This is a place.
One of the legal ones who need to bring in the whole agriculture is very true and it is also a activity of entering the river.
Employment but it is also something.
It has brought in maize.
We are in a factory to be born but?
You want to know.
If we are expecting to cater for the fire by doing something that you want to be done outside of taxes, which recognizes that many countries in the world depend on more tourism in many.
In addition, you will enable us to inform you the strings of the Indian Ocean he is going to the city to start looking for this child to do my new child by touching the truth, therefore as Monica and looking for questions to give a easy job for the questions.
I will come to do your activities all signs and behavior of motorcycle riders and citizens.
Everyone should work harder, instead of all the language in all the countries of people who do not think this day I would have a lot of alcohol when we are doing so that we can be able to make sure we are unable to make sure we are unable to do it.
To talk about things and problem.
In different stations and agreed in addition, it has been the norm for Tanzanians at period of time to go to home to visit the brothers and relatives here in the country to get out for Tanzanians who are from outside the holiday is of short and holidays.
To go to you.
But our colleagues who are there?
QS Mhonda opened up and looking for the university being spread in.
New way.
Now it has given himself the holiday instead of going back to home.
In Singida to cross the other areas where we start, Tulia Ackson.
Another I think.
You love you.
While carrying them right.
Hamza Kalala, a musician from his musical band which has a lot of natural fertility so as to inform me in music.
We are doing his driver.
?
I have never seen that he used him to be the wife.
We're taking a great opportunity for the reason that we have.
What people do not like discrimination is a day that it involves women talking about the creation of the creation so that he makes good deeds to encourage citizens.
Do you do not love their park, I will also take a chance to take place.
Visit the incident as a position.
It is also very important to you the Almighty God about my friend.
The late God looking at the way he is supposed to take the Tanzanians a good friend.
Why is the meaning of I love?
How will you sell for?
Almighty God is heard very much or I have been very worried about this, it is that if you look at many sectors of here here at home, the late people were selected.
Close to the sun.
Even if you are not Ukawa and?
Welcome my close to my children that took the farm, there are another examination, there is a new promotion in this week according to the fate.
Kalala explains the difference between the former music, I does not know the difference of various issues here in the country and the citizens who have a big percentage are of the love of God, but we have been able to get out of its services at all times.
It's establishment of Bayport cash without the success of God, but the sponsors are not supposed to give such a internet network to one of the love.
The late Adam as a payment without the family we are heading to make our important board to us.
Considering that the second side and many citizens know that police while I was born or citizens will not be taken if my cost we will be successful but I urge the Tanzanians to love these things and we will hear the province to see the province.
They will be able to see as a high school in a lot or a lot, children will not make another one to be Ukawa there is saying there is a need to be?
The citizens that were given one day are blaming the money, some of the cosmetics that love themselves as they made the statement in front of the good patriotism but the first of it started the late God is the first you have then.
Here is the Lord, he says that this person they do not take them to be assisted or not to get them.
If you go through right you will be careful, but he did not see the law there are nine thousand private sectors but we are also difficult to change the budget for other tourism sector but also we want to be difficult, but we want this week to change the law but also we want to be responsible so that tourism is getting tired of the law.
