
The coalition government of Zanzibar are ending on May 31, 2012.

With the surprise of the surprise of the president of Zanzibar, Aman Abeid Karume, and the secretary general of the Citizens Party (CUF), Maalim Seif Shariff Hamad, continuing to be the guest of honor in Karume, and Hamad claimed that the action is reduced, it is the previous step to prepare the government of the coalition.
According to our news source from the parties of CCM and CUF, the coalition government will be made as one of the security agencies to get an opportunity to identify themselves and how to perform well in this period of several months before the general elections, next year.
Just after the general election in the year, CCM parties and CUF which were officially announced that Zanzibar will be run through the coalition government system but it has been revealed that it is good to work on the idea so as to reduce the virus which will help to come out after the general elections.
After the meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) of CCM, that took place in Butiama, Mara Province, March March last year, CCM basically confirmed the establishment of the coalition government to have a tension between the party and CUF was taken by a question that the coalition had started.
CCM wanted the coalition to begin after the general elections in the next year, but CUF wanted it started now. When the tension continues, there were few people concerning the issue because Zanzibar is not of CCM or CUF only.
Among those who believe that the coalition government is possible to be made in Zanzibar to end the political division that had emerged since the first election of many parties held in the year 1995.
The leaders who had been made its open stand since August last year is together with the deputy secretary general of CCM Zanzibar, Saleh Ramadhan Ferouz Bano, when he spoke to one of the newspapers in every day in the country.
Earlier this week, President Karume met with Maalim Seif, the Zanzibar State House in a public meeting which after the completion of Seif made a public rally for the members of his party and told them that they want to officially end in Karume because that action is open for a great way, which he didn't know.
The step by the leaders will be dealt with by President Jakaya Kikwete, when he spoke to citizens a few months ago to be the issue of solutions for political conflicts in Zanzibar, it did not meet the president in Karume on an extent of him to intervene.
However, at the same time, the situation has been critical in CCM parties and CUF as CCM and especially those who have succeeded in that party as they start to implement the strategies to oppose that issue, CUF are looking at the step of their leader to identify the country especially during this period heading to the general elections.
Already various national leaders of those parties have supported the decision of CUF to recognize Karume. The leaders include the secretary general of CCM, Yusuf Makamba, and Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, who participated in the team for the appropriate time of permanent secretaries to those parties.
The issue of conflict between the political party in Zanzibar was done by President Kikwete in his speech to launch the parliament, December 30th, in 2005, saying that the conflict between Zanzibar is taking him and promised to make work.
