The 120 minutes of the Bible.
Petit 30, 2016 by Ezekiel Kamara.

This week, Mke Mwema came me in home to one of the players of the best organs that have ever happened here in the country in recent years, Athuman Nyamlani, Catherine Kiyemba.
The goal was to make talks which they were able to take a total of 120 minutes dealing with its own life.
In approximately 80 years of Tanzanian soccer, Mchage has a unique history as he is the only player who had played for Simba and Yanga soccer club once every time in his tour.
Mo Blog who currently has completed his contract with Mwadui FC, has also worked for the police team in Dodoma and Taifa Stars.
In his talks with this newspaper, Mkubwa Fella said that what he did in Tanzania is doing badly in that game different from the past, it is the presence of hackers.
He said people who know the issues of soccer have been sponsored by the club's leadership and the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF).
He explained that there are some leaders they have been able to help the country to move forward, but due to some people, he has made those leaders to sit on the front and doing football unable to move forward due to those people.
"Several times I have been talking to some of the old players and even the former leaders each one he complains about running the current operations which have been filled with them by lack of people.
"What is swelled is a current leaders not to put forward the interests of the nation instead of them to fulfill their personal interests.
"This is looking for our ball to be this because people who try to help the countries have been built with the ball themselves," said Teacher Kamilly.
He said that leaders in the moment are unable to supervise good foundation that would be able to provide guidelines for the players being available easily, but put forward the private interests that are given out of problems in this way.
"Do you know that there is no reason if we use people's meaning that can help the country's football, but a big problem we are going back to your first question which many of them are unable to supervise well their responsibilities as leaders.
"The leader of the soccer club is supposed to come up with creativity about the availability of team needs or the federation.
"But at home there is no thing that everyone is doing his private thing and now when they see it in the basis of how you can be able to succeed.
"It is a must that everyone to look for his responsibilities and people that they will bring each other," he said.
Despite seeing the leaders as the source of soccer in the country it has dropped, but he has mentioned the reason for upcoming players to fail to sit for a long time.
He said the upcoming situation to make sure that it is taking even some of the players who come from the provinces to come to Dar es Salaam, get their standards.
First, the modern players do not want hard to do hard and do not have enough exercise as we are we have been today morning or in the evening, you will meet groups of artists who are coming out and eat with strong winds, everyone should work hard.
Another "another person (the journalists) did not write two times and lead in the media, then you have seen their responsibilities and we'll see their responsibilities and we see the best players and at the end of the day, he said.
The mid-fielder who was to leave the country next season, has named Coach Abdallah 'King "Kibadeni as he is the best coach to foreign coaches.
He said Kibadeni is like his father because he is the one who represented the year 2003 and brought together with Serengeti Boys squad.
"Kibadeni is the only coach who can say he has helped me to arrive here when I was told I thank him and his assistant, the late Marijani Rajabu (shillings.
I remember Kibadeni has told his national team the youth under 17 years "Serengeti Boys", but we did not want to reach far from CAF, who came to save news from Nurdin Bakari, who at that time Simba club took different reports and reports that were taken by Tanzania Football Association (fat) at the time now TFF.
"Kibadeni is a guardian inside the family, an indication that you will decide I want many things and say openly that if the team did not have problems of Nurdin, we were going to put a new history like the one that was done by our heroes of the year 1980, who had qualified to African countries in Nigeria," he said.
It will continue.
