Sheikh Mangele has said that without a vision he will give gas to natural gas.
Kristen 14, 2014.

Sheikh Nurdin Abdallah Zuckerberg has said that he is very respected in the country, not only because he is the Sheikh of Mtwara Province, or just because he is the Sheikh of Mtwara Province, but it is also a scholar with a high level of higher education in Islam.
"You do not see this primary schools I have reduced every place and in general it is not very clean, but there is no schools that performed well this year in Mtwara Province form six. Here there is no division that won't affect the pillar.
"We have a five suspect, wine which is 19 in 14 teams and there is no one who was coming back here," says Sheikh Manguanjuki and English (HGL) and Hairuki Memorial Stadium (HGL).
Sheikh Mangomes, the one among the 19 leaders of Lindi and Mtwara provinces, who this year, under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, was taken to Thailand for a training tour of gas production sector, he was among the senior leaders of the convoy.
What what we learned in what we believe in? "What I believe in our colleagues, are the good use of three human resources, the person getting land and shortly.
"You has appealed to their people on issues of economy and gas that they know that many of the employees of the important part in fighting and the gas company is the citizens themselves.
"At the ground there are gas, minerals and oil, but in order to use well the land for development, you can have seen well the way to abort.
"About the time, there is no one who is running without any time, everyone has the activities and all the time used to work for three things, are used well so we get development to our colleagues that have been using well and their development are very big."
But in Mtwara, and especially if you go back to the violence of gas is coming from or they don't know, allows for Mtwara and Mchuchuma project from a total of getting development that will benefit from gas?
He says Sheikh Mangomes, "gas is not only today or tomorrow, this gas is the gift of a nation, not only in Mtwara province on the what happened, the government had been made to apologize for the official meetings.
"Those who you said in the media (not our citizens) about the provincial commissioner (Retired President Doctor Joseph Simbachwene (right) and she didn't know what he has participated in every step towards getting the gas issue in Mtwara and his development of winning him is a few.
"It is true that the time peace was seen here, the situation that you want here is to build and restore peace, but it is said to return.
"Polepole said that some of the promise is true that the Dangote cement will be built including that Dangote cement company (cement), to go for the Madimba, it will have a lot of investors more than the time in Mtwara it has been built very much and to know the work of bringing peace and it's not easy.
"The gas education has been released at these meetings are taking place, and this journey of us are for the purpose of expanding peace and we have written the government what things are being done."
The journey to go to Thailand, Sheikh Manguanjuki and his religious leaders was the third step of the government's efforts, through the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, to look for an appropriate time and understanding and going for a wider economy.
January 19 and 20 this year, those religious leaders from Lindi and Mtwara provinces met with the leadership of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, at Hyatt Regency Hotel which had sustainable developments at the second conference of those sides in VETA, Mtwara, between February 25 and February 26th, this year.
The report of the convoy of Sheikh Mangomes, has already been made in the government carrying a lot of things, a system used in the training that were taken by the delegates of the primary school, the important one that we learned in the challenges and expectations.
"Education that is found in Thailand to be used well addressing them to inform us that we should be patient in the quick expectations that the citizens about natural gas," says part of the report at the challenges area.
