Minister Mukhongo gave a plot to vote.
APR of 23rd, 2014.

At the time the budget of budget is expected to start its sessions in the coming days, it's expected to start a special strategy of preventing the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Sospeter Muhongo, from his stand about the gas sector in the country that makes some international companies and business people in the country.
Some of the experts in that sector who talked on condition of not being mentioned by their names, have noted the existence of strategies to stop the plans of the government about the use of gas here in the country, due to fear of preventing themselves in their businesses of oil and gas, which essentially has never made a lot of benefits.
Among those strategies is together with preventing the minister, together with his secretary general, Eliuther Mwageni has said that these were given to their stand about the operation of that sector and the heads of the plot.
"War against Professor Muhongo is continuing with some of the business people who have been using a lot of time in Dodoma while running a strategic plan to prevent the minister," says one of the gas experts in the country.
Before yesterday, the prime minister is his stand in managing that sector, those who seems to be an obstacle to some of the business people with an aim of investing in that sector, especially gas.
"In business, especially the human resources, these things are there, if you depend on these business companies, oil and gas, will be happy about the plans that will affect their businesses, a primary issue here is to have a habit, if you have the leadership that doesn't have a habit," says the expert in his interview with Raia Mwema.
Speaking about that situation, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Maswi was admitted to have a report of the conspiracy, but he did not get in details so that he desires to know.
"Here I have heard about, there are some members of parliament who have ever talked about that issue, but that is our Tanzania," said Maswi.
In his answers through a short message of the phone, Professor Muhongo did not show him or refused.
I advise these reports to be found in the relevant agencies, "wrote Professor Muhongo and going back again saying that he was' Bado, my advice is that one that will take them to the relevant agencies."
Among those who gave their views about that issue, include the Kawe member of parliament, Halima Mdee says there is a probability that there is a lot of challenges facing the ministry, while many promise that were given there were no answers.
"I have not heard of it, but I hope his budget will not be very easy because of many things going on now inside his ministry and the constitutional parliament," said Halima Mdee.
Open misunderstanding about the management of the gas sector in the country started to come out in the project of construction of gas pipeline from Mtwara to Dar es Salaam.
One resident of Mtwara town with the servant of the Tanzania Ports Authority (name withheld), explains the involved in the air transportation and oil distribution company in the country, to give them some of the politicians to prevent the construction of that pipeline.
Together with the conflict in Mtwara, for approximately three years now has been following strategies against some of the leaders in that ministry, especially the minister and his secretary general, the strategies that are accused of involvement of changes to time in those positions at the ministry.
Other misunderstanding that are involved in parliament are together with the purchase of oil for the production of electricity production in the country where the ministry decided to pay for their distributor in the country where the ministry decided to pay for their distributor in the country where the ministry decided to pay for their distributor in the country, a step that was carried out together with the fact that they used a lot of money.
Other news sources from the ministry of minerals and energy together with the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) have noted the concerned involved in some of the financial institutions in the world to stop the project, the reason being loan to China instead of those institutions, if the government failed in the country, it is big.
"The war of this pipeline is not small if most of them are big, here is speaking to the big international companies, international financial institutions, they get cooperation from inside and politicians," stated our source inside TPDC.
Another source inside the ministry explains that together with the gas pipeline to be in its final stages to be completed, the World Bank still did not agree with the government's stand to take a loan from EXIM Bank of China.
