
It is a big blow in their homes in Benitu.
By Charles Kimei.
Jennifer Kotta ure, doughing, Wayne Rooney in her farm which is located in Ikondo area, Igurubi County, North Unguja.
A situation of misunderstanding and the truth is still ongoing in the area that improves coughing, he from Mount Meru, with the ban of transporting Cargo and England to continue to start on Tuesday.
The leaders and farmers who attacked them, they hope that the government will deal with the concerned parties to postpone the ban and save the product that has brought approximately 1 billion shillings per year, and its reliable workers are more than 500,000 shillings per year and also a lot of Sh. 500,000 shillings.
The product is the one that involves itself in large numbers to be paid in the area and followed by the breast cancer that is facing them in the East African Community and Igurubi County in South Africa.
In general, the lives of that area from the economy, culture and politics use their husbands in Cargo.
Politicians who want any position to send and insisted that the man wants to marry a girl, while a man wants to get a girl, a must that you get married to their parents from a special tree known as' Usiwe Bubu '.
"If it has not been removed and Cargo or don't have been identified.
When you get, you know that someone is forced to appreciate, "said Mrs Jennifer Kotta., the chairman of the development of women, he said a small group of Igurubi County in Northern province.
Miss Kathure, who is from the area of Cargo, said that women who are not employed and those who do not be employed and those who do not affect the income from their businesses to invest and even contribute to their political parties.
The son of the son in Kathmandu, also bought that product against claims that it endangers the body and male strength to men.
I have been seen many people to marry each other and have many children.
In the hip-hop market and Mutasingwa John, where more than 60 percent of Miraa Cargo were transported to England, farmers have never been worried because many of them have no alternative ways to get income.
Mister John Lukuwi explains that he is supposed to receive him in 30,000 up to Cargo and he bought her six acres.
However, even when he got it, it will be at least five years before getting another thing, because many trees are big and it was planted in 1930 years.
He explained that, that is their thing that has been depending on to his family, and that he is one of the rich men in that area due to Miraa.
Mister Kamoga wants her own kind to be known as darkness, and Kangana which is selling England.
Also, he is saying that, 60 vehicles of 'Follow-up', usually comes from-reliance, Kiroboto, Ranaldo and Mutabab, Maasais' and Mutasingwa John, which are universities to buy MFI accounts in that area transporting the England market every day.
According to the work they feel that the issue has been involved in politics and they accused the government for introducing himself instead of solving this problem.
"We were putting the first ban, Holland will ban that attack in England which has become the main market that will be following that course.
If you get a lot of time, that step will not affect the 90 percent of business in the area because it is expected to grow and even women who are selling them with the leaves of banana, and food will also be affected, "he said.
"We thank the President Uhuru Kenyatta, because they do not talk to go back, though he promised to open a better market for people who ask for him because the president promised to open our economy such as well as stew," he added.
The Member of Parliament for Igaka North member of parliament Joseph M-Ekaney (Tansort), says that the area seems to be president has decided not to understand what is needed.
He has also said that, the step by the government of not supposed to go back to their agricultural sector may have given the European countries because of making their ban.
That member of parliament is a member of the committee which he has urged the England Parliament to change that stand.
"What England has done, it is contrary to the human rights because their product is reliable and to close to one million people and also culture of our people, the ban is supposed to help people to look for alternative ways to save their lives," said Mister M-Simiyu.
That member of parliament said that leaders who were chosen by the elders of that area, they will meet with a union of Europe.
Also, he criticized the action of the leader of Cord Raila Odinga, to write a letter to the British Prime Minister David Cameron, like not wrong.
The "what he did is to give birth of joy.
He was a prime minister the ban that will begin and have never participated in, "he said.
However, the process of helping that lives have started in the past before freedom.
The former prime minister in the administration of the late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, explains that, legendary Co which had many whites, made a chance to oppose that step, he also led the Somalia delegation to score against President Siwema Bartez had been banned in order to oppose the ban in that country on 1969.
"We met in 21 days we came to talk with the president before you want to be sold and even discourage each other," explained Mister Mutta.
Kenya has also banned the killing of Miraa Cargo in 1977 but President Jomo Kenyatta made it into his decision.
"Farmers have been affected by a big way.
Grow other plants, it must be blamed each other.
He will take more than five years for the ban that it will not affect in the economy of the economy in the country, he said that the country has also been a total of the reasons that makes a foreign money, "said Mister Mutta.
The Deputy Governor of Meru, Raphael Muruma said that his effects have already been seen in the country, he from any other parts that don't sell your gold.
Mister Muruma said that the local government has that it is worried that the quality standards of life will be stopped and the students may stop the ban on that school.
"The ban will be a big blow because England is the main market," we thank the president in the middle so that we can get more time.
There was no doubt that Cargo and drug abuse, that ban was announced as we request England, as our business person, to go and get the market according to its needs, "he added.
Mister Rwegashora decided to educate the laws on how to connect Nsalaga and sell themselves so as to prevent people who have not arrived safely in eternal peace.
And the former member of parliament for the northern region, Rahim Hussen said that his residents who are many farmers and business people will get a lot because they are depending on the akemikali ward.
"If there is no money, the people do not want to buy and our children should go back to school.
The Secretary General of Njekela said that President Kenyatta wants to encourage the President Kenyatta to pay for investigation if you go without any danger.
