
The councilor has attacked his colleague.
Rufiji District councilor, Haji Ngongi (CUF), has been identified by being beaten by water bottles at the nominated member of parliament, Amina Masenza (CCM) in a session of the councilors' council that was going on in the district yesterday.
The event happened at the time when he was giving his colleague by garnering a point to oppose the cause of the borders of the new district of Kibiti and Kilwa district in Lindi province, on how to save the reserve in Rufiji district.
While speaking about the incident, Nganga claimed that he was giving a motion, that when he was shocked when he was beaten by water bottles at the near to the councilor without knowing the reasons for being beaten.
"I was giving an issue to oppose the borders of the new district of Kibiti and Kilwa district, suddenly I got shocked that he has been played with the water bottles in the near to Amina Masenza after the incident was preparing to play again with soda and soda," he claimed.
, Nganga said the borders of Kibiti and Rufji, being divided into consideration the sky.
He said the areas of the southern highland regions will be done to be done in Kibiti district which will bring trouble to the citizens, but it should be done to Rufiji district.
That councilor claimed that Amina has a habit of opposing his motion every time speaking to him.
Responding to the allegations, Amina said he did that action after he was impressed by the argument of time to time when he was unable to destroy the Mbahala region that is near the southern region where the late and Kilwa district in Nzega District.
"I sat with his argument of forcing the borders of the Southern Highlands, which is in Kibiti region given a new district to be stopped and taken to Rufiji," he said.
However, he claimed that he didn't have been attacked with a lot of words and Ngapa due to refusing his opinion.
The chairman of the council of Rufiji district, Khatibu Chaurembo has said that action is lack of discipline against that councilor will be taken.
