
Minister Nelson Mandela have a farm in the villages.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The Minister of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Fisheries, Hamad Rashid Mohamed has urged people of the farm and two elderly women to go to the villages to provide education that will enable farmers to make progress in agriculture and increase their income.

Mohamed has said that for Wete District in Pemba Island when he was handing over a total of 18 motorbikes for the purpose of pregnant women and the farm, following the development of the agricultural sector for two provinces of Pemba.
He has said the strategies of the objectives of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar is to ensure agriculture is a savior to the citizens together with the government living in food and to reduce the importation of rice outside the country.
"This is our aim to ensure we are preparing to last within food and to reduce the importation of rice outside the country while farmers use agriculture to get more income," he said.
Furthermore, he has urged the farm and elderly women of the farm to make sure they are going directly in the areas of farmers, to give instructions and professional advice, that will enable farmers to make steps for success.
He has said that for a long time, complaints from people have a farm and the farm is lack of working tools including transport equipment which will enable them to visit farmers.
"The excuse of having a farm and female children, lack of equipment to visit farmers including motorcycle riders, and now the end of these motorbikes, his work will visit farmers and give them advice whose aim to make big steps in the agricultural and production sector," he said.
Earlier, the sponsoring officer of the ministry of agriculture, natural resources, livestock and fisheries.
He said that farmers have not been reached well and professional services, with the farm and female children, the farm and urged the officers to be patriotic.
The farm, Issa Hamad has congratulated the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar by giving them motorcycle that will be used to provide medical services closer to farmers.
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Fisheries has set up the objectives of ensuring that Zanzibar is expected to last within food, a step that will help to reduce the cost of rice from outside the country by 60 percent.
