
If they seem to join to contest for the central railway.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

I was published today September 22nd, 2016.

The minister of works, transport and communication, Professor Makame Mbarawa has urged the destruction of buildings and they affect the stoves in making their union to ask for the tenders for the construction of central railway to the level of the community.

The tenders for the construction of that railway will be opened on December eight this year, Professor Mbarawa said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when he was opening a sustainable training seminar, buildings and destruction of iron sheets that was organized by the Registration Board of Experts and said the contract starts from the railway from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro.
He said the second phase will be a contract from Morogoro - Tabora until it appears.
He said if those experts will request for the tender to one person who will not get the tender because they are not involved in competition.
"The blood has been a big problem because we use many, a situation that causes us to think that the government does not care for, you should have strength so as to ease the availability of work," he said.
Moreover, he has urged the Advisory Board of Majengo and if they intend to unite people through media, experts and companies that were given registration so that they can be dealt with because of violating the ethics of their work.
He said after being announced it's good to be taken to the court to be taken and directed by the law of the country.
Previously, the registrar of that board, Jeb Jews have said up to June this year, these experts of 1,333 and 372 companies have been registered while the board was started having 188 experts and 53 companies while last year they inspected 963 projects in all provinces.
In that meeting also, Minister Mbarawa issued a gift to three winners of the competition to write it to secondary students who had been able to announce that profession and to encourage them to study those studies, together with three winners of the affordable housing project.
The first winners on Thursday is Ernest Mangu, Morogoro Secondary School, Morogoro, and in the affordable housing project, the first winner was a student at the University of Lands, Amon Hokororo displaying the construction of modern houses by Inflexionpoint Company.
