This concept of energy seems to be supported by the government which has set a strategy of investing in the maize to encourage citizens to join and start political parties that they will be able to develop themselves from the threats of poverty.
And by recognizing that strategy of the government, wildlife conservation in Africa also through her program of Kilimajaro Orlando America, in collaboration with the government has started implementing the political parties through its project of development of livestock.
If we have not yet answered that earlier in the village of Kisauni, the implementation of this program has continued to spread in other areas of Longido district especially those procedures are three points with nine villages that are in the reserve areas of the wildlife community that started legal.
Political parties were there in the past.
They are supposed to claim that we start in the another system of involving one community to one of providing education to the community and told me that there is a need to start.
For the purpose of bringing us they take and come to talk with the ones that can benefit from livestock.
Someone is believed to have many livestock that do not have benefits, therefore we have started the district.
In the world of the world, there is a council in three wards to refuse houses to build eight wards in Makalama ward, I see Miss some of the livestock are just some of the livestock to appreciate themselves and we need to improve livestock because it can be very difficult for children living in a house.
Educate those people, but also they can benefit from those systems that give children to school.
If it is to have a good house, those people can have a good life or we like the African organization and those a lesson if you will lead them to join capacity in class seven parties.
Already all procedures of the start of other political parties in three wards to be demolished and they have already been completed and all parties are not registered.
And here in order to prepare well, the members should be careful when the next day have been given training that will enable them to run their parties by following the regulations and law, you know which has been canceled, Kenya have come to Bomang'ombe.
The late God has arrested hundreds of people to inform us about the procedure of running the party, it is good to remember maybe.
The chapter of time comes here.
On the side of February, he says that they were not involved in the hands of people.
Most of them have a good thing on him and I want you to do so that we do not talk here and we will talk and have succeeded in work.
Between us, they have collected their preparations because of wanting to benefit the party.
We are using WhatsApp that happened.
Already we can also provide care of what to enable them to work hard for our party.
But also.
Because of our colleagues in addition.
To get a seminar.
If you remember the party members we went to Kenya, the leaders who went to learn through weight where their lawyers had already started their party but we are also following two seminar at where he was there.
Undoubtedly have enabled us to get a long time they went to where he is a sin.
But I don't know what?
And the procedures.
Or we have learned about the following things we have to learn a relationship with the wildlife and community because of that we are able to learn issues of the environment.
But also live with buoys.
Conservation of criminal activities.
We have learned in the seminar.
But we also look for the forms that we have, and those that we believe in our areas for the purpose of our party.
Who until now, we have the late that we will continue well in investing and buy shares, we are finishing up, for now five years, we give posters even to start the same bank, we will make sure even buying of September to make work if we will get married.
This step by members of the Political Parties will be given an opportunity to speak and get training inside and outside the country is being mentioned by the ordinary director of the Kilimajaro Music Company, Steps Entertainment, I don't have given light weight to learn the ones they are doing their properties as if they use the broader field of these issues.
I had a very big group and government and when they get big it's easy to use that I have been able to come for then?
And as such, you will have a lot of voice in that voice can be able to help us in matters to change the policies which we can help them in issues.
The meaning we saw Kenya have severe pain during the police issues has changed so much through.
As a song that you can join the government if they want other old things, I will have married, I will have died in mind and we see if we have reduced, we want to educate the children so that we want to educate the children so that we want to educate the children.
They are not found.
The law is very keenly.
Our party does not mean?
