
The decision of SUMATRA Dar es Salaaam.

It has been written by me.

It has been published today May 12, 2016.

After the buses that provide services between Mbezi and Muhimbili National Hospital to stop the services due to their permits ended up, passengers and patients who use that way have requested the Surface and Marine Transport Regulatory Authority (SUMATRA), to return the vehicle to continue providing services.

Passengers and those patients said that since those vehicles were sacked six days ago they met with the challenge of transport to take them to the hospital because of getting medical services.
A resident of Ubungo, Dar es Salaam, Eric aka Hamad told the newspaper that after being suspended from those buses, the users of that way, they're being forced to use the high-speed buses (UDART), whereby even so does not help them because they are not involved in Muhimbili.
"These vehicles are supposed to help us all the residents of Mbezi Ward, Kimara, Ubungo and others who need to get medical services at Muhimbili National Hospital, but we request that SUMATRA they need to look at this issue, to help these vehicles continue to provide services," said Mgungusi.
The chairman of the Association for Democracy and Holiness Church (CHAKUA), Hassan Mchage, said there is need for those vehicles to be given time until it will be considered for another solution.
He said the result of those vehicles will increase the problem including great use of fare which sometimes do not have the income that affects those patients.
"You know that now it is forced to build a high vehicle for a high vehicle where fares from Mbezi up to Fire is 1000 shillings then he will be presented in another transport that you can be Ukawa or a phone and not that the user can use more than 20,000 shillings," said Mchwaa.
He said that as a result of that environment, there are some passengers who are some of the passengers after suffering from legs so as to make use of money to remain in the hospital.
Responding to the complaints, the Communications Manager of SUMATRA Daud Mziray, said they are already given those reports and that right now they are planning to look at the possibility of giving them that service quickly up to when they start using their car there.
"Today (yesterday), we were in a long session of discussing that situation which his answer will be found soon because of helping those citizens who need transport services," said Mziray.
He said that while they continue to look into a draw of that problem, it will be forced the citizens to use a vehicle for a high speed up to Fire and other buses that come from Temeke and Buguruni in order to reach the hospital.
