You would like to say that Americans are thinking of touching and give a visa.
Their citizens, Mexico the way America becomes difficult from the truth.
She has identified himself by the experience that I got.
If you're very disturbing, it is true that access to American products is a case, but in implementing the conditions, he wants to be satisfied with the products they were satisfied with the products they are doing.
The man is when I'll see I am going to do?
And the big problem has come to that those who do there are many times that you will have been sentenced to one hundred thousand, but we will not be able to have an intention and it is impossible.
This world and difficult life that you get for the first time comes back to the law and procedures of our country, that someone gets even if he is hard to get products from the country and they don't have a habit to bring back home as it is in England.
Among those told now, the patient does not have a modem.
And there is true that if every country and its procedures and I believe that America is also one of all schools and its procedures are to be careful, but if they tell them that it should be done, two three and three procedures are the one that will be done is only two three and three but if they decide that, that will be done is only two three and three others.
On my experience I have never seen that someone when he was popular while he will organize it.
I cannot say it is not right but my many years which I have died. I have never met a situation like that if you know the procedure.
Almighty God rest the late?
After that, while outside the country, those who are outside the country are the challenges of life that is why there is no longer level.
And the challenges of good life, do you know many and it is hard.
But it's like and said that what has taken to them there is what has failed to read the intention and purpose that you have gone to study, and it will continue to live, but there is why we want them to live there, and that is why we are communicating with our colleagues.
Previously we had already said.
When you talk about several hours going back to the home, but what I said more is that so we are communicating with home but invest, as it is not that they are not involved the financial system.
?
The eyes have been there in different countries.
And now there.
.
For the experience which have been there here at home where you have a thing to tell you that your colleagues are outside the country concerning the life of our country?
This week explained that it is many.
If our colleagues are saying that diabetes is a mother, I don't know what there are a lot of opportunities that you have been employed.
Self-employed the opportunities are so many.
Let us want to invest in our country for a period of financial resources, the idea of expertise to make opportunities are so much and it's only one country that depends on it is true that we can help you to see that everything we are doing?
Then.
According to the conference, I am saying it is the first conference.
But before the conference without doubt, the communication here in the country will not be careful.
How is how it is for the people that are outside the country to look for a must and come to invest.
On the eyes of the brother I did not take care, pour your good thing and maybe it is.
Founder of Fly 540 Kenya has helped so much able to be able to get out in accordance with the different community members I believe it because before that, it was that son of diaspora will return?
I continued to communicate with the government as he is going directly in the government but there was no platform with the president of the United Republic of United Republic of Tanzania and international cooperation together with the office of the president in Zanzibar and Tanzania.
The expectations of there.
There are many people in the conference and our expectations is to have a hundred thousand people.
It will be a two day conference, I have heard five years of five and five years.
Ten years of ten and ten years of growth and development.
That is blocking us in having the current players to meet with people?
We will deal with other stakeholders.
The late does not see non-governmental organizations that are non-governmental companies in any country in the country for different players who are coming from outside the country and given different meanings in here in the country together with the institution.
Government institutions and ministries.
That in front of Tanzanians who are outside the country.
It is expected to invest in the country.
There are many who have the heart and there were people who came to their life history as it is heading to it.
Ahenkora has said that I am happy to see in the country outside the country, their lives is to come and there are others who are saying that there are many stars but now.
We do not want jokes, a good thing that are there because they see the capital city and so much, that it is for the first time we can say because of many doctors looking at English in Canada, but by DAWASCO, it is very big because Jimmy will be careful.
USE (six).
China is taking place.
But the reports are given to the northern region and the available opportunities will be taken and they are happy and they have organized with two hands bail or they were unable to visit their talks and they have no brothers who are coming to visit at one time.
And when you know but you know what's when it comes from.
He visited my brother's information, asking a question that he can get accurate information or not right now I will partner with the government in order to cooperate with the government in preparation of our year's goals, so we will help them to see our colleagues in order to look for them.
How do I vote?
