We believe that the teachers who were in school is why he knows that the eyes of it will help students and further development of the student because of the side of the side.
Like the way we say in primary school, we got those ten children I asked me.
What children who seem to be there were people who have the ability, but there are some things that concern them and I cannot come up because they will come well in school.
He tells us that when he knows me, shortly, I know that he has given my colleague in addition to their houses.
I would like to thank you and thank the leaders of Morogoro ward we have collaborated with them because we believe that the same leader is the middle.
There are ten houses in ten years you know the good people.
Therefore, we were going to when I told him that we want to see a certain mother or a person that is living with a certain child when we came in, then there is just a good environment.
And baby Boy and this poverty where he was.
He has problems of albinism.
I don't have?
And we know that, why should I think a message he asked in our community they had only Arsenal.
Other people are not police.
Then it is supposed to participate at least us to register themselves as we will start them.
We did not want to hear the shop to help them and also in a situation to help them and also in a state of helping we believe that there is another lover that can pay the fees but the child who have succeeded among other contributions are coming up because of the fire examinations.
Just comes in the same period in prison is needed.
One of therefore, there are children who we help donations coming from the scene of an incident that we will help the fees as we know why there are various items and others also says that I can make sure there are other things like some of the doctors, like some of the doctors, therefore, we give a donation of heads.
You are happy about the love you go through me?
Follow up where it is not because when a person gets to him, that we have a number of medicine for those children living in life and those who live as well as these children do not remain in there, I didn't succeed in there.
The death of 'together people listening to form four of form four.
Or we are giving them that because.
For a child to where to an extent of being able?
Yes, we should go to Said provinces to register their first private schools, therefore those who were in school we are taking your education and I would like to thank God and I would like to thank God and I believe that how can get the level of education we have also talked to citizens who are in this education.
We are confirmed to end the attorney general like our chairman we by the party.
Therefore, he knows how to see it is the students because we know what we love this, we are allowing us to come and come up to the same time.
For form four we are following up what is God, by touching it, it's like that we are going to study in school and that he is easy to do, we have written all the articles as youths and you say that I want to get money?
I don't know if the entrepreneurs cannot get money?
Hayatou, and this is true that we can be able to look at it is a youth and even our chairman, all the senior leaders.
However, there was my professional who is a news reporter.
Therefore,?
There is a bit that we have to also read my news.
The success of those projects and this is through an income that you are getting married.
And our professional chairperson is that, there is our sister here in the country, where he got in line with me there and our leaders who we are, but at the end, it is enough to help their children.
And that is why we have said.
If it is not for us to send it, this issue and this is the Karimjee stadium to increase sponsorship from outside.
We thank all Tanzanians with three hundred and agreed to join together we can help the children.
When you pass through this second time we did not end here so that we can enjoy the newspapers I feel that he has already been able to help others what happened in the newspapers's newspapers.
