

By Elizabeth Michael.

Today stem cells are celebrating 54 years after this nation managed to come out from hostility.
History shows that after the second phase of the world, the United Nations (UN) has given priority to England to kick the Tanganyika until when his citizens will get knowledge of claiming their freedom.
Before England being given a bond of leading Tanganyika, this country was under the colonizers of Germany.
The nation of this nation has been known in the different parts and the concept of several types of shisha, and the system from socialism and natural resources until now, the nation is in the concerned system to compete.
In the beginning of Tanganyika freedom, everyone expected to be built to the nation with the same level of resources to benefit all citizens.
The late father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, after Tanzania being free, he continued to make sure that we benefit from independence that they got, they started and preach the system of socialism and self-reliance.
In line with that, he noted that every Tanzanian is getting education so as to avoid the ignorance of the importance of the development of our nation, therefore, starting a special education campaign, especially for those who were in the official education system, reading for free.
So as to ensure the things are going on well, Mwalimu Nyerere passes away the basis of life and equity among the Asian countries which involve all types of discrimination, from color, religion, tribe, and others.
But also Mwalimu Nyerere since Tanzania got independence until when she dies.
In the issues that he believes and to find out, they are together with rights of rights and equity among the continents.
He denied those loopholes that they called "Fella," including any policies that can produce the economic groups especially the rich and the poor.
The chairperson of the National Bureau of Tanzania, made sure that the fish and corruption that today has been mentioning among the leaders and executives in the government in private institutions, it has no chance.
Those are some of the expectations of civil servants they were having just after getting the freedom of Mwalimu Nyerere when he went to deal with it.
Today, if we commemorate the Uhuru day of Tanzania, there are things that are seen to go against the expectations of many if the nation was coming up with its founders when the country started from the colonialist.
