22 October 2013.

The followers of Issa Ponda.

The High Court knows the problems.
With Grace Ndeki.
The High Court of Dar es Salaam has had 52 followers.
The secretary of the community and Islamic institutions, Sheikh Ponda Issa Ponda.
They were arrested three charges.
That judgment was issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Judge Salvatory Bowman.
Who said the mistakes that were seen as an error in his punishment.
A total of three months in prison or pay a fine of shillings 50,000 shillings every one.
He said the first offense which is eating.
He was not correct, thus the punishment for serving the imprisonment of one year in prison.
He removed.
He added that, the second offense and three.
He has agreed to be identified as an accused, but he changed the punishment for that offense.
The accused of going in prison for one year instead they will get three months in prison.
Or pay a fine.
However, Judge Bongole said.
The ones that were seen as an indication that those accused is suffering a plot, doing gatherings.
The legal and a request that was given by the police force on a blockade.
The protests.
He said section 8 makes a mistake.
Eat a plot and give an offense, his punishment is not correct.
Two in one offense, eat it together with stealing.
"Was accepted by an offense of stealing.
The offense of eating conspiracy is died but they came to be punishment for all mistakes.
Two from the punishment for the punishment you were given is not correct, "said Judge Bongole.
He added that, the second offense after getting.
The evidence that he has seen on the side of Jamhuri, confirmed the accused who attended.
Dealing with the police force.
"I agree with his death was brought by the court.
The resident magistrate of Kisutu, give an offense for the second time and three.
The order was given by the police force are inspiring.
The accused lawyer, Mohamed Tibazarwa testifying.
He said after the court of Kisutu give an offense, it has been unable to consider the law.
The purpose of the cost of that discipline, "said Judge Bongole.
He said he has touched on the trend of that case.
Keenly, he didn't agree with the defense of the defense and the law to be completed.
The suspect was not signed in mind, his sentence is not following.
46 percent of the police laws.
Those accused was sentenced to prison.
21 this year where up to yesterday, they were on the prison for more than three months.
Saba Saba, therefore the court made all the accused.
Previously the accused were found.
It was known as an offense of three mistakes that each one is his punishment.
Prison for one year and all the punishment were expected to go together.
