It is a network.
The representative of the bank a question, has explained the way they will improve this service easily.
We welcome all the customers of TANESCO to come out to pay their bills because it will be possible that we don't like to say that the buses from Patrick Kluivert has talked about it and so that the bus can make us lose their husbands.
As usual the time you will be the idea.
So as to solve the problem.
To get out.
The customers of TANESCO speaking about their feelings after the launch of the program.
It is very safe to see for himself there because your team has said that they get into hundreds of the phones that have made it, I don't know that, I don't know why, I don't understand that, I don't have graduated from that, I don't have qualified because we have no ability.
Therefore, we have been given a lot of work of a bus since they have not reached a long time until the cities, but at the speed of getting information that the government or the bank has done it.
I have been an employee of the best ten commandments and my colleagues will not get a home here, I have risen up.
Therefore, I thank you and I have been working on how I was getting, but more than that you missed him and those stars.
When I have been looking at times, I have been saying that I cannot get the father, maybe I have read and I did not understand what I will go back to home and I believe that I will leave you, I will leave when I will leave you, I will leave when I will leave when I will stop at eight o'clock in the network.
It is claimed that it is alleged.
If I went to look at I am not late because they don't leave it.
If you go to Grind.
The plan to pay the pay for TANESCO through the network has started working in the city of while.
And it is expected to be launched in the whole country on one month of six and ten thousand in order for all the customers of TANESCO to benefit from this service.
It is important for a customer to know what our taxes on how to do?
Ras Kiduku was involved in spreading various posters that have shown but Simba won.
In his phone they will start even in football.
It will put fifty hundred thousand star fifty-five star, then he will leave the number of identification number.
We have forgotten that he said.
Then you will put it when he will see you.
Therefore, in his speech here is that I urge you to work now from now, every customer should know his client's number he said that the voter is same as the voter is the same as the voter's account number.
It is same as a customer as if you know your school's account, you should know that your account gets enough for example, we will talk about many times that they get five hundred and ten years and continue with an amount of shillings.
Now, when you do not know that after putting the number one that I have identified by her, I have heard about a message that you have told his number and then start a message from countries, though I start a message from countries, but I don't know it.
So it is an easy way to use your phone wherever you will know your name and a total of your debt.
When you go to know if you are two hundred houses.
Say he can leave you in the place?
When he reached an example of a phone with a phone of the money and Tigo, the money can have sent it into money for money or Tigo, money and later the little.
When you go into the price while at the payments, they will be able to inspect, if they go to Dar es Salaam, there will be a company number 000404, for companies and El Nino companies is one of the two three teams.
He will tell him the memory of the payments that I have said in his heart disease.
After that, it will put an amount of money to pay and continue with if the money for the money should be heard.
How does it mean?
Therefore, number one has said that he can't pay.
He finished being called on phone and it can't pay a place wherever he is and where he is and all the time he loves you.
How is the second way, a customer can pay you in our education agents.
Where it shows that they are divided into different countries here in the country because any part where they are from him, the customer can be able to cater for the third time a customer can be able to pay for goods from the bank to attack and go to the bank.
He gave those reports he said, or we were standing the number of a customer continuing the normal procedures of paying.
According to this service I think Monica as a customer will pay a place anywhere and any time he wants to protect that commission as a result of.
