In our discussions today, there will be new big peace, I would like to talk with Diana.
Where today we will talk about the topic?
Friends are contributing.
See a girl in the danger.
The infection of infection should they do to deal with the problem.
We're very happy and then I have already been found?
And the name Dudumizi together with fluency of Sherman.
There are reasons for friends that are one of the friends that are your friends, which is one where there is one of the infection of AIDS virus, I have ever heard, especially when we reached every person she is with his different habit, because it depends with a person that was there.
Now, used me there is a good environment in a good environment, an aim of removing the debts from female child who deserves to be given.
We're coming when we agreed to do justice and we met with Arsenal living a difference, who like to get the members that like my father I want himself to be a girl.
With a car, it wants someone to send himself well because those with the habit, I cannot change my son and why my colleague has a lot of oil and good vehicles for a good thing.
Why is a new blogger. I don't know if I don't know if he did not get pregnant, the boy you love is very delicious.
That is true then the friends can cause a girl.
Because for example a person can be afraid that maybe by her boyfriend, it is still using what?
You miss.
Or the ones I will use you to protect themselves from protect themselves from legal infections.
In his friend, maybe I was talking with my lover, what should I thank you are told, therefore his friend can be told.
We will inform you and the sweetness of such a girl who had decided to do?
Who can do that without writing, this is what causes many girls to be infected by friends.
I assure you, we find you very much, we want them to meet in the heart and I do not want to go to each other because I don't know what I don't know if you get pregnant, you find you, you find the girls get a lot of diseases.
Number one was going to Captain Komba.
When you reached when a person comes with a lot of love he desires to have his friend and speaker and you will not accept to be careful.
To say that just one time you will make sure that I get HIV but there is everyone to be heard.
How did God get pictures.
A woman is a girl.
He gets a desire to read and go at the office hall of the father's office of stealing their teachers in any place of office.
And the person allowed me?
This Jangala and me was going to me for his friend and he is saying this and recently, he will be careful with his personal left and without think it is going on.
To say it reaches a good foundation is not clean and is not that someone who we were standing, when you finish up there, you can look for a big book.
Cookie?
To support him.
By one point, he has talked about.
Girls.
And if they have not noticed, they will liberate them.
That is a person I was happy to convince the court to look for many girls for these old hours, or to prevent it was published on the issues of the man.
Rumors explained that those who died and that is a person can be sitting in a girl and they decided to attend the shop which was it possible.
Do you know which it will be very easy to inform you that they came to.
I have touched me because I want to go to the country in the right of forgetting what I saw and I don't know but I don't know what I don't know or even though I don't know what I don't know if someone can't understand what you want.
That is every person who will be taught, will lead you with the rest of the women even if you do not have a lot of skills, you don't know that there is a lot of skills here and to travel from TRA to be like a lot of skills to have any lover.
And if you don't know your girl, there was no worries at today, I saw Rio de Bruyne, that I would like I would like to get in the chest until when he got his friend they had agreed.
He is saying that trumps mirror does not come out in fourth, the rapper told him that for now, the work is there and security.
In the love and secondly, they don't have a stand but he doesn't know but.
?
Agree that maybe a girl you have not been the first person to be there.
Ten years and two that are not supposed to know you know what you know is why you know your child and that your child is so much like to say that what is my son and you know that you are died due to the diseases on up to that you are required.
Meaning, I can say this is.
Give up according to time.
They can't have a girl child.
I thank you so much.
Now he writes that if he is passing by the road I see other girls being good.
When I talk to him I will change you like the most of the girls being infected with elderly but I believe that you will be able to pay for her father, but I believe that she has the ability to recognize the girl and I cannot get married that I cannot get time.
He told me that he knows how he knows where I see when you walk on my wife but comes back for him.
Up to bad, those girls do not come out before property, if I don't have here I was born with me.
I was with my policies when I don't know, laughing out surprising way.
It's true I want to say that it has a meaning, but it wants you are using by name, they are killing people.
To use that from.
What is the infrastructure that got an eye for other human being that we are we, we're talking to you that you love her, but a girl we have to look for that you're being tested for people that you want to go through it.
First I want to tell me that at the end of the month of September that we have never been affected and even if you have my person but because we are told me if you have been told and if you will be told if you are there.
He loves another person although you have a wife or a person who comes to you and it has been known by the person who during the life of life.
When you came out that I had given that money that we should listen to the press that we are not supposed to come from.
The incident of making a habit like stomach, and if it is, that is why the man is getting the girl to lead but we are looking at what is there as a girl and the sweetness of its sweetness and this is what I have done and it's a must.
I would like to meet it if he will lead you.
But if a good reader knows me I met and there was a whole person.
If we see that now there are problems from a girl, there are problems and because there are problems and all of them can Kabaka.
If you are already prepared, it is possible that Mbowe is a girl.
You are required to know that your importance is the importance of not knowing that you are required to know how we leave and not.
So that we can be able to be afraid of infection, even boys should not get up so that we can avoid this action of being infected with diseases which are many here in the world.
.
He stopped.
