
A government has been added on parole.
He gave him a police station of wildlife in eternal peace, yesterday thanked the government for putting stern legal action against illegal immigrants, that this will contribute to growing the number 15678 and rhinos.
The head of Human Rights Commission, Mister Mike Pence, said that those new laws that have started being used have contributed to sexual excitement because they are unknown in prison or pay a fine of twenty million shillings by manslaughter.
In his report, Mister Watson said that anyone will participate in possession of illegal immigrants, he must be arraigned in court so as to be a lesson to others while asking for the court to stop and give an appropriate judgment in that case.
While speaking to the nation today, Mister Watson said the laws has given priority to lack of personal park for now, they will get an opportunity to contribute towards activities of protecting the wildlife and also getting sponsorship from the main government in order to protect the wildlife.
All over the whole world, the head said that Kenya is proud of having a great law to anyone when found with albinism, ivory, teeth or wild animals, saying this is joy for all who know the wildlife and tourism here in the country.
Last year, they found 291 injured and lost more than three hundred girls that were killed this being an indication that they are blaming the illegal immigrants from a big market.
Mister Watson, asked the government to stop and look for modern practices using all goods at the International Airport and at the port of Mombasa.
The wildlife law has also been supported by many people since it involves a voice of wild animals from the wildlife and wildlife board (KDS), and therefore giving them an opportunity to contribute to strengthen the conservation of wildlife.
That law will also give personal conservation, a chance to receive funds from the main government to improve the activities of preventing wildlife for the benefit of the future generations.
