
Mkapa documents are being discussed in parliament on May 31, 2012.

The government has been caught up with parliament, an extent that was forced to start having a legal decision and even tell them an opportunity to remove from us from the third phase president, Benjamin Mkapa, or looking for a possibility of stealing from us from the third phase president, Benjamin Mkapa, or looking for a possibility that questioned him about coal is found in Kiwira Mbeya region, he is alleged to be one of the owners, through the InSync company.

Mbiku of parliament against the government is due to what is explained as the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals who got into documents that need to be the Retired President Mkapa is one of the owners of Oyster Bay Area, the documents they were thrown in order to inherit the Mkapa in that state.

The documents which President Mwema have succeeded to see it noted that Mkapa together with his wife Anna is the owners of the shares in Oyster Bay Rotary Club through their company Twilumba Mlelwa. However, due to the trend of issues, especially after that issue seems to be set aside in politics and legal action was touched.

In those changes, the current documents shows that the mine is owned by Tanaka Company Limited Company, which is a union of four different companies.

Those companies are Festus Mengele, whose shareholders are Nick Mkapa, Foster Mkapa and another one who was identified as B Primary School, another company from Universal Communications Limited whose shareholders is Wilfred Malezi and Evans Mela.

Mke Mwema has been criticized as the previous documents (release) which is owned by a company which is owned by Bottling Company Limited which is owned by Mkapa Bridge, have been removed from the top leadership of the parliament.

According to sure news just reaching us said that those documents have come back to the next evidence that Mkapa is the owner of a company which is concerned about the ownership of Ubungo's mine.

As a result of that situation and especially what is known to be parliament through his committee on energy and minerals being satisfied with the evidence of the documents, the national assembly has intended to be used by the government in two major issues.

The first issue is to ensure that coal is found in order to take place in government because of several reasons, the most important investors who are supposed to run the mine was known as summoning demons. Who failed in implementing their promise to the government.

Among the things that are being discovered that the investor failed to run the project of electricity production using coal in the mine, is to fail to pay their wives to the mine in January this year, they claimed that new salaries that was announced by the government being the least being under the mining sector is 5000 shillings.

Also, that committee was noted that the investor was unable to pay workers which they have planned to pay which is the least being 20,000 shillings for a period of approximately eight months now.

But the biggest challenge is those investors to be unable to produce electricity in accordance with the agreement between the company and the government through TANESCO and before moving the mine, it was producing 6 megawatts that were put into the national grid but after TanPower Pool companies that were given to pay 200 megawatts in the two phase.

The first phase started with 50 megawatts by July 2007 and the production of 150 megawatts that are remaining in March, this year, reliable information shows that there was no anything that took place until now and especially considering that the electricity was being spread and used in the districts of Kyela, Ileje district and Rungwe.

At the moment it is said that it is producing electricity in the mine, it has gone down from 6 megawatts before storming and causing the electricity problem in those three districts because these reasons and others are the cause of the parliament to rise up to government from the hands of that investor.

The second issue that the parliament has decided to do it to convince the government that he interviewed Mkapa or even opening the way to marry off from us the body is to be prosecuted.
If the government will be unable to give them the importance of removing from us from the body that is to be prosecuted, then the parliament has decided to put restrictions that Mkapa's desire to be so that he can make sure that the country does not have leadership.

According to the assessment of the year 1998, the mine had a value of 42 billion shillings while the evaluation ever been done in the year 1991 by the Land Institute shows that the mine had a value of seven billion shillings.

But in his tour in January this year, the parliamentary committee revealed that together with the assessment done, despite that he was held five years before honor, the committee was unable to understand that the criteria used and decided to sell shares at a cost of 700 million shillings only.

More news just reaching us say that during that tour, the parliamentary committee received two reports that are on the shares of the shares of that mine, what was revealed is that a report of the investor claimed that he has bought 70 percent, only 12 percent and other 18 percent have not bought for.

That report is alleged to have a sitting with one of the workers that was given out to the parliamentary committee, that report of the workers explains that the investor uses 85 percent and the 15 percent.

As a result of that situation, that committee made its report that was revealed that the delegates of the committee have been unable to understand about the controversy of the shares of shares and they have been forced to request the government to explain openly that it's shares in the sky.

Another big challenge that is being implemented by the parliamentary committee that happened in Mbeya town is a report of the investor to show that the government was built 17 billion shillings for the renovation before the aim being to strengthen all the production of the production that was mentioned to be subdivided.

However, that committee was shot dead after it was not only by the workers that there is no any renovation that was done and more it is that the second rate of electricity is abolished and does not work, while the second goal has the ability to produce only more than one megawatts.

Coal is located in which is in three districts of Rungwe, Ileje district and Kyela, was launched by financial and technical support from the United Republic of China and was launched officially by the president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, November the year 1988.

That mine is mentioned to have the ability of producing crude oil of 150,000 tons annually and the amount of production even so it can be added up to one million tons in the year 2015 which is used to produce electricity.
