All from the fear of participation of other different musicians, you have been getting to participate or has decided to do it like that, we are supposed to have.
The residents are still taking place.
Almighty God rest here?
We can see the countries that we build in the east and central streets.
Which I have shown Kenyans to choose it.
The R & b here.
And elsewhere, therefore, we do not need to have these opportunities by giving them enough and therefore the book does not lie?
He celebrated another unique incident that had tried to follow up on that they are still underway.
How will we be full of baptism but also?
The very big problem on Saturday we believe that we are supposed to have written about what was the previous question and asked me.
The greatest believers that are going in the Indian Ocean Areas.
In the previous issue, I will desire to increase that on the show if you ask well that this is the end of December only when you have no other outside.
We welcome our fellow leaders of our religious leaders, he has been pleased with all information that will come to different groups including thanking God and praising God and not knowing anything which will have a lot of things that will be done it because they have said that there is a big number of people by scoring it.
Next month.
All of us have for four that will you do?
All of them are there.
Mbeya has bought a national stadium to you the late God with each other and that is why they were received in the field.
Starting from the 4th.
Up to seven days to come from the month of February this year, there will be ready to relocate if we will start.
Until now.
Therefore, today it will be open and everyone has been announced to give by J because twenty percent of people have already explained my investigation here, that I have explained my investigation here is that there are many things well in Dar es Salaam.
We know we are living in different parts here in the city where you enter.
You have surprised how to allow a person from a person who is outside the city where he is out of having a lot of seven or any one with good love which he would like to follow up to know what is happening and any way to view the incident.
That day or still the time there was still a total.
Drake has been given the way it is in the process that we have no answer to do but it will be no true answer that what will it do but it was a person with technology like this one does not lie on a good way so as to protect him in the other provinces.
So they can benefit even if they are together.
Remember.
