
Adorned with the team that there will be productive to May 24, 2013.

The Tanzania Football Federation (TBN) is in a trap of the procedure of swept away from the levels in the premier league of the islands.

In the recent event, the Tanzania Port has sold their position in the premier league in Malindi.

Later, the Azam soccer team in Tanzania Mainland has caused complaints that already they had bought the port after the port of Dar es Salaam unable to be running, but this is not present in today's debate, but it shows open leaders of soccer teams.

The motion of thanks through the secretary general, Kassim Haji Salum, is saying that the action of the team led to the bridges that protects the soccer of Zanzibar, but they have decided to agree with those acts because only the whole world, the teams are supposed to run away.

It is surprising thing to the leader of the Football Federation, there is no good reason for doing something that the whole world are doing when your soccer is found.

FIFA have set their laws that involve the party members, but he didn't be blocked for the federation for some countries to check the interests and the real situation of his soccer.

For example, the Zanzibar Premier League has players with great talents but the surprising thing is that his team does not have a great attraction to the women of East Africa, there is a need to increase efforts in their premier league to bring development.

History shows a team that Malindi has ever bought Mikumbi, last season but it was arriving at the bridge and now it has bought the port it is clear that their ability in the premier league is small, apart from being the old team in the African Confederation Cup in the year 1994.

It is not true that when there was rich that wants to bring challenges in soccer by buying a bridge and to bring a new team, it had never happened by Kajiaga of Dar es Salaam.

But for a team that has ever performed well in past years it is not wisdom to buy bridges because they don't need to be proud of, there are African Sports of Tanga, Pamba of Mwanza, Majimaji of Songea, Rujewa in Tabora, and many others.
