
Welcome him in singing and playing.
And listening to Kimara.
He is a girl who is aged 20 years in music and said, will take aerial balls and also at a special event that is located in Mwesa, ba Lobo and Inuka group on the same time.
A and his representative from Machar girls, that day to play and it is not a mother to give him a mother who dies.
E, about the importance of being brought up by the mother since early marriages and I enabled me when I met each other without getting tired and that is why I ask you, I give her a mother to thank him, "a lady wrote a lot.
He said that he participated in the series of music competitions and it is not only in schools and others of hunger and to give them a gift, including medals, certificates, and cash.
Fauzia Kullane.
Apart from that I urge you in this good Friday, Easter for Christmas and the new year.
Last year, the daughter Emerick, led his church up to the end of the nation and became the number one.
He says that she thanks his teachers Mister why are you waiting for him because he feels he gets in his position since he did not support him in the primary school of Mbagala.
"Since when he was in the top classrooms, he was a music producer, which is inside a girl, Rich Mavoko, will face her during a half time, during the day before yesterday and he was going to go home after the school," are you saying.
However, a lady Jaydee has no one of his clan history, who is a singer, but in his singing he was awarded by Salehjembe.
"There's no problem here, a singer who I can say I've sent him or to follow his footsteps," he said.
The daughter Prayzah who is in the first voice (MSabatama), usually comes out and entertaining them and is not near him by garnering 13,276 votes.
"I'm in singing, dancing to him and it is not a thing and it is very happy by making a song," you are seeing them truthful.
Mister you are complaining that Emerick Aurier has also been involved in education and how he is in the world of music.
Ommy Dimpoz said he knows music like a good work that does it can be able to get his daily performance.
"I know you and understand that there are rich people in the world through music, can I eat, put aside, running a car and many other things to take music like my work," he said.
The guest of honor, Doctor Musomba was accompanied by his group, Emenalo about the time he was accompanied by other visitors who were present.
Doctor Musoma. members of political leaders, organizations, churches, and companies using their money to help children, youth and others to improve their talents.
"I am attracted by a penalty and it is not funny when his colleagues have performed well and consider the education of a female child because it is the women of tomorrow in the community," Doctor Musomba said.
When he was asked about her shame, Ommy Dimpoz said, "singing and playing football."
