I will see you.
It is nothing.
It is nothing.
It is a saying.
You love you.
How do I register me?
I'm in here because I was told that she was being recorded, then there should be no reason to agree with the phone not that 'no office is being recorded, then that situation is that in a man, we are looking for people with the whole world.
It is good to talk about ten minutes without getting.
You should be happy to speak about what the late does not get again?
Lupita I'm good, the late God bless you.
It was written yesterday now let me tell me the cries of your vehicles, you know what happens when I was unable to live.
Now, what is very bad and he knows in, because most of Ongea will go down from ten o'clock I was and I used to use it, "Masau boasted.
He has never spoken about me, I was surprised.
Therefore, there was no problem if there was a thing that made it leaves.
Ali Dhanji, I was in I am Mshenga.
When the problem was very much, you know that I have been giving them a phone.
The law is written about what they were back, I said so much, if you see me, he did not want to know if she has reminded me, I would like to use money and leave.
She was born, I use that she does not want to pay a name that has reminded me that if I don't know why I don't know me, but I was not seen why I don't know why I don't know what I don't know and even if I saw it, I would like to ask me when he did not want to ask for him.
A person who was sacked from the language, the late God is no one who had never made Ongea will be locked out, therefore it's surprising that I was looking for a way or I can leave what we will do?
AGOA, the late does not lie! I am told I told me in everything like that, what does it do?
In that budget it is very difficult, when you know, you're very happy because you know you, when I see you, if you see you, if you see me, if you see me, if you see me, if you see me, if a person knows you, if a person sees you.
I will take him to let me tell me what I met here, I would like to play Ipswich where I would like to welcome him, I would like to welcome him, when I told him, "I told him," I told him, "I told him," I told him, "I told him.
If a car that was looking for not is not looking for me, I am supposed to get married to me, I wish you for someone who wants to speak with me if you want to talk with me if you will not want to talk with me in the moment I will come to speak with me in the current world I will come to speak with me.
If you are the legal assistance, if you get married or another person now, I ask you, you know you know your joy again?
When you are still, you know that you know you, you know that you know the secret of his things usually do about.
If you go down, even when he was even a member of Mwanza you know that you can't know the Roman Church to sit down and let me say it's just like himself.
If you know what I would have been done here without knowing what you know if you know these hours you know.
He went to.
I have been a very long time he went to a very long time when he went to a very long time again, when I was sent back to home yesterday, I was going back to his home last year in his home, I was not seen until now he was not seen in his home.
Who is it?
?
Nusra was told to be told.
I have not been told that when he was told when he went to each other when he went to each other after he was forced to leave, if there are things that did not leave.
Let me lose your heart alone, you know that I don't know the one who don't know what's coming down here and those who were sitting on this long hours, in these hours you feel like to you.
Mchaga answered me, he is using it.
Outside who did not know what he has not found you and told me.
Follow it also known, I will be put why I will be buried and I don't have heard the phone that we used by someone and another person to go.
You have heard of you.
Still, I have not heard, but you know I cannot get?
I don't like I cannot redeem them and someone by Sure you, but when he was found, it was only better for a student of that school he is looking for you to leave.
If you came in, the patient did not happen here.
Look for this heads, he was better if you know what he was.
When there was a situation that was there in the late I told me this one who had a red card is the work of what his child is.
Or the late?
And we did not go the late?
I would take a politician and that's why he was surrounded by Ambassador Seif who is not a view as the rebels so that there is no one who has planned to know if she was speaking at home and is like a person, that is why he was speaking with him is why I was speaking.
Watch at each other.
So as to ensure that it has done it alone for now, I did not want to ask for him for the past, that is why I made him only to be the late father.
I've told that, I told him but use everything that, you know what is where parents are told to go back home if he did not go back home if the youth can get to him.
However, I don't want you to go back to his home in the past, and there is no doubt that you are at home for two o'clock.
There is a question.
Ras Makunja came out saying I won so that he has never happened to me so I said.
It can be careful, what does it mean that you can be under Syria therefore, the late us know you will have you love with cassava when you know whether you don't know what you don't know what you are marrying.
Mchaga answered Yesuu!
