
Without knowing the SIDO, we have forgotten that Tanzania's economy.
Among the priorities in the fifth phase government under President John Magufuli is of Tanzania to be the country of industries in the African Continent to reach 9 percent, a level that is little compared to the importance of this sector in promoting the economy of the nation.
It is clear that there is no reason that will be able to achieve this government's goal, without the presence of many years since its establishment, it has not yet succeeded in providing enough contribution in raising and developing industries in the country.
I don't think that the government's intention is to make Tanzania a foreign industries that will help to employ youths as its obligations.
When you end in short, the National Housing Corporation (NHC) we get a lot to learn through this organization was started in 1962, only one year after getting freedom with the main aim of helping the availability of good residential houses, especially in urban.
However, in the past five years, the government presented a grant to the organization as a result of a great help in the economy and later in the year 1990, the organization started to construct 458 houses being used so as many public organizations are run.
In the year 2010, the president of the fourth government, Jakaya Kikwete decided to revive the organization by making changes of the system including the arrest of some senior directors and bring in a new blood of youths led by Mister Mchechu who was previously the executive director of the African Development Bank (CBA) in Tanzania.
For a period of five years only to lead the National Housing Corporation, Mchechu has succeeded to build 9800 houses, being a half of all houses that were built in a period of 50 years ago.
In the year 2010, the income of the organization was 366 billion shillings only, but up to the year 2014, it had managed to reach 2800 billion shillings per year, by the NHC is the biggest organization more than all in this region of East and Central Africa.
SIDO needs changes to Kim Kardashian if it comes from NHC, we need religious leaders to lead the organization in a business chapter than now it continues to be used.
This organization that was started in October the year 1973, has been planned for the purpose of developing small industries in the country and which already has several offices in every region of Tanzania mainland, it is obvious that it has been unable to move with the speed of the current world and it will end being dependent on the government and international donations to run its activities.
I don't have an aim to assume the contribution done by this organization in developing the industry sector in the country, but the contribution is little compared to its importance in this nation, young people that were involved with various challenges of lack of employment to the youth.
All of us see the way the NHC together with the National Social Security Fund are planning to contest for the residential houses and business buildings, SIDO, so as to help the youth to start small industries that cause modern bricks.
These industries should be able to enter the contracts with these organizations in making and supply machines in the whole country, and eventually reduce the problem of employment.
The Rural Electrification Agency (REA), are continuing to distribute electricity in every village of our nation, it is obvious that the electricity will end up and treat radio stations, though this is an opportunity for our youth to start small industries and processing of various crops.
When we read the bill at this organization, we have the ability to run and then we are at the time to develop themselves and then we are at the time to develop themselves as it is to NHC and they used those loans to invest in youth ideas.
Without knowing the current SIDO, we have forgotten that the Tanzanian of industries.
Habash explaining the importance of the degree of administration in business at the University of Dodoma, he has prepared himself in agriculture in the Coastal Region.
