
The businessman has been put for internal auditors in the housing organization.

Rashid Mkonga.

The crowd that arrived in front of the shop of medical equipment in the neighborhood of natural gas in Mbeya City, today morning have witnessed issues that are not normal after the workers of the NHC Housing Corporation to set fire by three hours inside the shop where he is claimed that he was not late to pay taxes of that shop in which he is claimed by that organization.

That situation caused the crowd of people to be filled outside that shop and to question the reasons for the NHC to unite his fans contrary to the procedures that resulted in fear among them and saying that, "the violation of human rights". "

"This" this is not the right if someone has failed to pay taxes, there are procedures that are supposed to be dealt with, because it is given a notice and later ordered him to leave, not to put the prisoners at the scene.

The house which is in the 6th graduation which was 3 in the 84th minute in Mbeya town has been directed by the Housing Corporation and his fellow musician, Isakemikali ward who is doing business at the shop of selling equipment in his office, "he said."

Employees of the Housing Corporation arrived at the area at 3 o'clock in the morning and put a surprise, outside the owner of the shop and two employees while inside that shop.

While speaking at the introduction ceremony of the shop which doesn't cause compensation to prevent one of the employees of that shop, Cesar Julius said that those workers have arrived there and spoke to his boss, but later he went outside and lost their votes.

Cesar who was heard very far as a result of signing, she doesn't sign a letter said that they had been banned from claims of passing the month of this month.

At 6 o'clock: One of the servants of the Housing Corporation that was known later by the name Kocha, who is the assistant officer of the Housing Corporation of Mbeya province arrived at the shop and opened a poster that was on Instagram.

A short time after the opening of the scandal, the owner of the shop, Isidore has been forced to go out of the country while he said that he said with the strength and sharp teeth.

Who was banned from that shop is the owner of the shop, Isakemikali ward and two employees Cesar Julius and Baron Boniface.

However, that officer when she was asked for reasons for winning people inside, he said that he is not the spokesperson but all reports will be realized at 8 o'clock in the afternoon.

Journalists came back to 8 o'clock in the evening and met with the acting manager of the province, Katanga, in his office who was accompanied by his two wives, Amos Makalla who is the owner of the province and his assistant officer.

When required to explain if there are laws to bid farewell to the fans inside his room, Katanga said that there is no law but the problem was attributed by the player not paying for a month of January shillings from 24,749,00 Tanzanian shillings.

When he stopped more about that scandal, the action that will be taken against the officer who sent away from the employees of the club, Katanga said that issue will be dealt with.

And the owner of the shop located in office, who has problems of diabetes and attractive, he said that he had gone into the shop because he was banned from that shop due to lack of problems.

He said that he was suffering from diabetes problem and that if they could not be released at one hour they could not be demolished and lost a lot of relief.
