The chairmanship will be followed by Catherine Kiyoja, Dar es Salaam city.
Events of a goalless draw have been arising from time in different areas in the country.
You can't see himself and maybe be surprised that how come the child of one month is open and they should not have started even to stop at each other from one area to another.
The main reason that contributes to the situation is being mentioned as laziness of some of the parents and guardians to lack them keenly to protect children against the danger of a knee injury.
We should come, there are other factors that contribute like electricity problem but a big percentage of the fire outbreaks that are caused by water with water such as breast cancer, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, foods, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food, food
Small care for children especially those who do not understand the most of them in a pond and died on the world, a situation that affects their future dreams and there are some who missed their previous appearance.
The specialist doctor of surgery and the head of the traffic unit at Muhimbili National Hospital, Doctor Edwin Mrema, says that eight to ten children of the age of one month to eight years take place in the hospital every week they have been affected by various fire accidents.
He says that the number has increased compared to four years ago and that situation is allocated to a large extent and carelessness, together with lack of education on the way of asking for a child to leave the accident.
"You find a parent or a guardian.
He is saying sometimes the parent of producing water which was prepared for the purpose of making it a child and therefore they are not found himself completely.
"Water is making sure that the child is supposed to have an average of average sun, sometimes some of the parents of producing water and because the skin of a child is very high compared to the whole person you have found themselves insulting each other," he says.
Doctor Mrema says most of the children especially those who have started to be treated with a large percentage are reduced by poor things and a few among them lose the fire that comes from the problem of electricity and others.
Moderator, Dismas Mosha, a resident of Kimara Dar es Salaam is one of the parents who were admitted at the children's ward at the hospital.
He was admitted after his child Arafa, who is six years old is reduced by a fire in January 3, this year.
He says that on that day, that child was playing out of his colleagues, they were unable to beat him and he was rushing for us to go to his home and that's when he was affected by that tragedy.
He says that when Arnautovic, he had fled to, he was not there by bad luck and involved in the oil that had lasted for a short time from there and that it was still ongoing and changed it.
"I performed poorly, I did not depend on if I am depending on my son one day that will come in a trap because I saw for all the days and this year I expected to get a first class," he said by sadness.
Commander Sirro is thankful to the nurses and doctors of MNH for taking them to her child well where for now he has started falling on his injuries.
However, he wanted the government to increase work tools together with improving the infrastructure of the ward including an increase of beds, because the situation is very bad.
"Infrastructure is not good because the other time you find the maternity ward, they are forced to have two children in bed and we the parents are forced to stop," he says.
Arnautovic said that now he is doing well and he says she desires to be one day of God asking him to be the president as Jakaya Kikwete, an army or a doctor so as to help people who are faced with that disaster.
"By knowing that the child has reduced, it needs an additional heart, doctors are supposed to help them in addition to get advice on how to raise them to the same time," he says.
Doctor Mrema has emphasized that parents should be keen and take precaution because the number of children built and taken to that hospital has been increasing day by day.
"The number has been increasing and according to statistics that we have, now we are providing services between 384 iron sheets to 480 votes for the year," he says.
He says that as a result of that number the increase at times the special ward to prevent children who reduced that is at the children's building in that hospital, are not supposed to be avoided.
He says the ward has the ability to buy 23 children together with their parents, but another time he will be forced to pay 30 children and their parents.
"We reach 23 children because it is one child and his mother, therefore we become a lot of 46 people but there are 30 people because that is why we are forced to pay four people in a bed.
"This situation is not good even health, you find you the way we need to help all children by giving them appropriate services, therefore we need to be responsible together with the number of beds," he says.
