
What happened in Mbagala, it is the anger of Muslims all II on October 26th, 2012.

Before getting in details in this article that is a continuation of the article that was published in the last week, I request that I should narrate to you the tragedy that you can be "Funga" in the influx of those leaders.
Last week, the Deputy Minister of Education and Vocational Training, Philipo Nyandugulu, said that I've heard this year through the Democratic Republic of Pemba and Zimbabwe which was received by a union between the United Republic of Pemba, since 1-19 can also bring the meaning to the United Republic of America (which is 19-64).
I request that I will not be able to be the deputy minister Kiziguto.
There is possible that in a speech, but it did not need a lot even if you cannot get a speech before you go through the lake region but it would not expect to be removed from that position but I don't accept to be removed from that position but I don't accept to be removed from that position but this week is continuing with a discussion about the conflicts of our nation but that I would not expect to be removed from that position but this week is continuing with a discussion about the political violence that are in recent days.
In the last article I decided to show reasons that are building the foundation of preventing themselves with Muslims in the issues of education and employment, at the end of the article I asked the following questions (I want to quote it).
"Do you know what happened in Mbagala, it is only one of the Muslims who are annoyed by the act of" the Christian child, "explained yourself from the Holy Quran?
So, religion is a big problem in our Tanzania, although when it was not only enough, I believe the answer to that question is yes, what we believe in this problem?
So, religion is good and desire to some of the previous politicians, "by the first question, we have already noted that in the article, there should be heard of some of the Muslims who had been angered by the name of the child to come out on yourself the Holy Quran.
If you go back to say that the anger of some (and maybe be many) of Muslims at home (Tanzania) is against what is mentioned as' system Christ, "in short, those who believe that they have seen the system that will continue Christians, especially in the education sector and employment which are usually related to them.
Though, if I have noted that in my last article to Christianity, in collaboration with the colonial history, it does not mean one directly that Christians are smoking cigarettes and I request it should be understood here, are different between the system and people who benefit from the system.
I am saying that because there was an issue that Christians are complaining of Muslims not to have rumors on the first phase of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, all of them are Christians, it is difficult for the issue to have weight in the second phase and the current presidents Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Jakaya Kikwete.
However, on my part, all the four leaders, can't affect the blame from a big amount, they have not succeeded not to identify their complaints by Muslims but also they have been involved in dealing with the necessary weight.
At least the side of father of the nation we can agree that it's not only that he insisted that lack of equality in education and employment for Muslims is a problem, but he also went more than to try to renovation the education system so that it can give opportunities to our faith.
It is important to see that despite the fact that the teacher was a Christian and religion, its success in the process of fighting for freedom has been contributed by Muslims.
The blame is a big "that can affect the Teacher's way it will handle the issue of a very important thing, the creation of the Muslims and East African Community (BAKWATA) and being banned from the Community Welfare of Muslims of East Africa (East African Child).
In a short time since its establishment, on a great extent Bakwata, it has been unable to carry the feelings of the government and it was not allowed to eliminate the importance of Bakwata in education and employment opportunities like Muslims and Christians would have been reduced by a great extent.
, limited space is to take advantage of the opportunity to enter in details to discuss the argument of scoring (EAGI) and at my research, the previous results showed that most of them are not seen in the last article that I got into two groups of "Success is normal" - so as to obey them - it is the issue of Bakwata.
Now in this environment that is the only pillar that is expected to connect Muslims, are seen that it involves some of the believers and maybe most of them do not know if they are not supposed to defend their interests (Bakwata).
For my opinion, that the hostage's system has been accepted, "introduction of poverty and if we need to speak, hatred give birth to the audience.
And "virgin" is giving a answer to a second question about religion and that Muslims see Christians, I don't know so that Muslims (some or many) they do not see that you are inspiring.
And because it is difficult for you to change the system of Christ, and Christians like religious believers, it is important to recognize that in a certain way or a love of God, there are hostility, or a difference between these various denominations.
By bad luck, the basis of that foundation is being stolen from the strength and politicians who came after Mwalimu Nyerere on a short time, that is called the field of socialism and self-employed so as to build a request that came up because of the death of socialism and "the same time will give an opportunity to the" Matatizo. "
If I have ever explained in one article in the past, about hypocrisy when you know our religious faith, our culture and our weakness what is still ongoing in order to talk about the issue of religion because there is no political party (and even community) to deal with this problem.
He is a heartless person to be during the administration of Mwinyi was there were some Christians who were unable to get married because she was not less than Muslims and it's also a heartless person that when he got to Mkapa the blame if those were going on with Christians?
And it's a reason why he does not know that the administration of President Kikwete has become a chance to be used under him because it gives them Muslims?
I know there are those who believe this is my eyes, but these are what we are supporting them and hypocrisy this is among the big restrictions of discussing the problem of religion, and violence that are being related to that problem, in fear of being interviewed.
To say this, better should be called a joke to you, to start a debate on this issue more than what we are getting to you, though we are taking our country a place where you are not fit.
I will endeavor to conclude the series of these articles about sexual violence in the next season, or maybe the next two articles, even so, I conclude this article on a brief answer to the third question about the religion you will be used by the current politicians.
I believe all we remember how the campaigns of the last general elections has been caused by allegations of religion and here to get words from Muslims and here I will discuss a lot of time in the next article, but in a certain way, CCM cannot make sure that it is among the sources of religion, we are looking at now.
A political party where I decided to destroy the voters in the basis of their religious faith, it should be remembered that this is this CCM that has managed to protect Muslims about the introduction of that promise, and until now it is continuing to play on the issue.
How do I start to finish this article I wish you my colleagues that we have every place of losing, poverty, diseases and doubt that we are just one thing.
