
The scandal of Samsung started afresh on May 30th, 2012

Some of the members of parliament, politicians, and laws the law are looking at a decision to stop the land in court, the director of Richmond Development Company, Naiko Gmwaijonga has said that there is an increase which took place here.

Richmond Development LLC is a company given a tender to purchase solar power plants, last year, and is the source of resignation from the former prime minister, Edward Lowassa and ministers Plasmodium falciparum.
Ibrahim Ajib.

It will be remembered that in a report of a chosen committee where gas is led by the member of parliament for Kyela, Doctor Harfanti from Mwakyembe, 23 recommendations, including taking action against the procedures and even the law in the country were made.

While speaking to Good Citizen, Dar es Salaam city where members of parliament are meeting for preparations for the next general meeting which will start on January 27th this year, members of parliament and those specialists claimed to be the basis of their fear among them is the type of charges that is facing me.

According to the documents of court, Grisham said she is faced with charges of saying false and downloading documents.

He is faced with five charges, some of them being false reports in the board of Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) and in some of the senior secretaries in the ministry, including the former secretary general of treasury, Gray Mgonja.

"Gikombaa is a very big person in this whole scandal of Richmond, it is true that he has a mistake and deserves to be taken to court.

"But we the members of parliament are not supposed to take him there, we see our writer's view, you should be able to go further and especially in knowing the possibility of taking legal action against all that were involved in the mining scandal," says one of the members of parliament, who involved the law of law.

He insists that by considering the type of charges against Glasgow, there is a possibility that all other directors and politicians in the scandal, they were seen not to be guilty of mistakes.

According to the member of parliament who did not want his name to be written in the newspaper, charges against Gwagilo says there are false and presented the documents that are not fit, politics can be proud of being the ministers and the team by specialists of the government had a good intention in the whole process of Richmond Development and they are not supposed to blame because they were given false information and documents.

Another member of parliament who also did not want to be told the name on claims that they don't wait for the government's statement in parliament, he said, "the mother in Richmond Development is the directors of the government that were involved in possession of the country, that will be dealt with but not a priority to the parliamentary recommendations.

"The chosen committee of parliament has done great work and with enough evidence to how the executives and politicians have carried soldiers, despite the warned by some of the specialists of TANESCO and others," he said.

It will be remembered that in his report of 165-term information about Richmond Development, a chosen committee that he interviewed 75 witnesses, while asked 2,316 questions.

That committee also went through 104 documents that were mentioned to parliament by Doctor Mwakyembe from the evidence that the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, appointed Richmond Development Company LLC from the beginning of the process of the tender to the end.
Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals, William Shelukindo, said together with the opening of the case against Gothernburg, other involved that participated in the scandal of Richard have no loopholes to be safe.
"It is true that that GNP has been taken to court, but he is faced with criminal offenses and spiritual formation, there are government officials who are supposed to be taken further," said Shelukindo.
"If the executives and political leaders have agreed to be associated with Richard since previously, its meaning is lazy and it is obvious that they have done a sharp object in the country," said they are waiting for the report of the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, about the steps taken in the implementation of the parliamentary debates.
According to Shelukindo, they are expecting that Prime Minister will give his information about the implementation of those recommendations at the next parliament meeting.
Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has been made the previous report in parliament about the implementation of those recommendations and promised to complete that implementation.
On his side, the Chairperson of the Civic United Front (CUF) Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, has said that those involved in the scandal of Richard used the power same as the politicians who were brought to the court concerning the issue of Alex Witselfor for.
The problem of Mramba (Basil) and Yona (Daniel), using a bad power to be used by the executives who were involved in the government's contract, therefore they are required to be discussed in court, "said Lipumba.
But on the other side, other officials of law are forced to become a step of getting him to the court to put up the parliament to discuss the issue of Richard Mwaikenda.

They are saying that the parliament has a great loopholes and constitutional changes to interview the steps taken by the government in the implementation of the resolutions of the parliament without relying on the Court of Goshashy.

"Parliament can continue to discuss the government's issue without standing on the courts, an issue of Glasgow, but there are executives who visit the government and there are recommendations of the parliament and these things can be interviewed or discussed without managing the court," he explains one of the members of parliament for a long time in parliament.

The chosen committee of parliament was revealed that in what they had explained to meet the private interests, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals refused to see the files in ministry of communication about the contract of Richmond Development.

It was also noted that the Ministry of Energy and Minerals announced the decision by the council of ministers for stopping the plan that had been increasing at the implementation of electricity production through the Cemetery for Cibitoke village.

It is alleged that the inflation was done without stopping the government's message to that company of improving their conditions so that the project will be discussed.

It is also reported that the event took place on that day which the cabinet of ministers got instructions and four days after the start of electricity in all provinces of Tanzania Mainland that is joined by the national grid.

The nominated parliamentary committee revealed that the violation of the law of public purchasing of the year 2004, and its regulations of the year 2005, despite the council of ministers insisting on the law of public purchasing and its regulations should be noted.

According to the report of the chosen committee, the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) has also been suspended from writing professional advice from the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA).

As a result of that blood, the board of tenders for TANESCO was put in front and TANESCO had been directed to break the law by protecting its members of his board of tenders.

The Ministry of Energy and Minerals has also made a decision on the purchase on behalf of TANESCO and forcing the leadership to sign a contract with the company (Richmond) which TANESCO stopped three times with the criteria known as it is not supposed to do that job.

According to the official memory of the parliament that made me the report of Mwakyembe, "Hunter, a big erosion of leaders and executives in TANESCO."

Another thing of increasing doubt is the report that one month before the tender to produce emergency electricity, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals revealed that it has not been unable to implement the contract between them and the ministry about the project of oil pipeline.
As a result of that situation, the silence of the ministry about the weaknesses of Richmond Development Company LLC has assured a chosen committee concerning the integrity of the leaders of the ministry.
