QS Mhonda J.
How would you be close to you?
Thank you, thanks of Violet, a person from Mwanza province is giving thanks for paying, where I'm the deputy president who is the deputy president of the Democratic Republic of Tanzania, I would also go back to Malawi to return to three two goals because it is causing the collapse of this basketball game.
Ahenkora has said that it is the second game for love you here, if you follow it, the same time when my visitors will continue to meet with your visitors and I have been touched.
Doctors.
And directly, let us start praising God and we should have heard for?
How are our brothers bad luck.
There are things that happened in the area where it is the soccer party of Mwanza Province, you will speak to the vice president if though they have contested for building a field like.
Mwanza.
Let's go directly to you?
Collapsed in tennis game?
Because the technical commissioner has agreed with the request that it has gone to.
It is continuing.
Until now I will ask you that if you look at the field we are in Dar es Salaam, we have the problems that here there have no problems.
Q-in the year last year.
If there is a good thing that there is bad, we know that those from behind there were bad.
There are many effects that have a good and good work but I thank you that I was surprised a bit about it, due to lack of unity to leaders who were in power while the same time we had and they were not aware of each one with the eyes.
But since the leadership we have come up and we believe that the leadership will be.
In conjunction with the provinces, we will make that which it is possible to come to increase the basketball game and I don't have ways.
If possible director number one.
Not it is not that and I will answer you on behalf of those leaders, I decided to give him because of the collapsed building.
No longer was true because of land.
For example, at the moment it is still early so much we need unity and we like to our colleagues and I believe there are fruits that are needed until now.
Very much if you check the first we talk about basketball when I was told there, I don't like to talk about it like that when they have been done nationally, we will die because we are coming from?
Every person who was forced to leave his big money will be losing and it's not a game that is there with employment as an army like the army to have the criteria that we want to do now is that to strengthen the parties.
That those were able to supervise good leaders who know what their duties in implementing issues and responsibilities of every day and not that we are expecting all party to identify our party that you are required to look for political parties that they do.
Insults can I see if the basketball who have already died because we are happy about how you want to die?
And the book of the meeting that we have met?
There is a person commenting on the broader field and loss of the truth when I read the competition, we believe that Dodoma will have a good center but we believe that Dodoma will have a good center but we believe it will have a good center but we know what I have sent it by the chairpersons and secretaries together with them.
.
By twenty-four years.
Do you believe in the province.
You have been given a chance to prepare their course and performance, then it will be open in other provinces, it was able to do in the region for example, as a man from Mwanza town, maybe he is communicating with the region for example as a man from Mwanza town, maybe he wants to take action against them and I urge them to take advantage of that cost or at the purpose of paying those costs.
You take him to there.
Thank you?
