The port of Dar will bring productivity to the nation.

October 4, 2016.

The changes in technology and creativity which affects the ship has provided opportunities to the port of Dar es Salaam to expand the competitiveness of the competition against other business port.
Recently, a big ship of the ferry of Gongo la Lalaguna Royo has broken the fees of 261 hundred thousand shillings which has never happened in the country since we find freedom to dock at the port of Dar es Salaam with 483 households.
The coming of this ship has been officially opened a way to another big ship of this kind where they tried to get into this port to officially open competition and other business port.
Speaking soon after arriving at the ship, the Executive Director of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), Engineer Deusdedit Kakoko said that the arrival of the ship revealed that the great ability of this port is to receive a big ship of the type which had previously planned.
The port of Mombasa.
He says that there are some who tried to think that our port is not working but the truth is that our port is okay and it continues to receive that ship as usual and this has come out.
Engineer Kakoko said at the time Doctor Magufuli arrived at the port for a tour he found the port with a huge ship of seven having been restored.
"I would like to give our customers that our port has the ability to serve a big ship without any problem and the coming of this ship has opened up for another big ship to come to our port," says Kakoko.
He says that the port of Dar es Salaam has a dock has the ability to serve a big ship in the way which include a dock number + 9 and 10.
The attorney general of the Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), Kaporo, Abdu Hyghaimo, who is the one who introduced the ship, added that, that ship is big than all that have ever happened in the port of Dar es Salaam.
Captain Mwikabe has said that earlier the door of our port was to be able to serve the ship of 234 meters only but due to the changes in technology and how the ship will have been able to bring in a huge length.
Together with the issue of technology, Captain Mwikabe has said that for now TPA has enough experts who have received training in various parts of the world in order to bring in a big ship in that way.
"We have taken the first group of our youth in South Africa to get training on how to bring in a big ship in the port with the goal of our youth and the second group of these youths we should be held up to Denmark," he says.
He wanted the third group of those youths that went to Dar es Salaam to get such training, therefore he wants customers to believe that currently the port has enough experts to make this work.
Captain Mwikabe has said that in TPA, it was seen to bring in another big ship with a length of 250 meters and later it went to another ship with a length of 255 meters during the ship of the length, many times were presented to the port of Mombasa due to the shivered.
"The arrival of this ship has been officially opened a way to another big ship of this kind that I discovered it can get into the port of Dar es Salaam city and therefore officially opening the competition with other business port," he insists.
The statistics that were given recently by the director of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Doctor Albina Chuwa, about the activities of transport and conservation in the second phase of the year 2016 that it has increased to 306 percent compared to the speed of 949 percent in the same period.
The speed of the growth in this activity is as a result of the increase in purification of passengers through the railway, road together with the transportation of natural gas in Dar es Salaam as well as transportation of natural gas.
It also said that Tanzania cannot evade a reduction in goods into the port and the world is facing a shortage of economy which is caused by the cost of cargo.
Doctor Chuwa, says the economists have effects are required to continue with research about the situation and added that for now, more than 600 owners have been restored to the ship waiting for the cost of operation in cargo.
However, Doctor Chuwa has mentioned the National Revenue Authority for the year 2007 in the second period of the second year, they had reached a total of 105 trillion shillings compared to 109 trillion shillings in the period of the year 2015.
