Kili Marathon has been launched officially.

October 13, 2016.

The beer company in the country through its Kilimanjaro Premium Lager Marathon race which is expected to take place on February 26th, next year.
This is the 15th time for that company to sponsor those races that will be held in Kilimanjaro Province, while expected to involved more than 45 athletes from 45 countries.
Speaking at the launch of those races, the assistant director of sports from the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Alex Nkenyege, said that, "those races are for example, since it has shown them fruits in the nation."
He said, "through the races Tanzania has been able to get a name, after the philosopher-fielder Aljabri who won the fifth position in the Olympic race that took place in Brazil."
Apart from that success, the Kilimanjaro Marathon races have been able to create employment to different people, together with improving the economy of the country through the tourism sector.
"In fact we thank all the sponsors of these races to what we are doing and we like the government we promise to participate in hand," said Nkenyege.
In addition, he urged those sponsors to start removing those sponsors so that they can be able to do well in big competitions since in Kenya, has had a lot of sectors in the country because of its athletes to have sponsors.
On his side, the Director of Marketing of TBL Group, Kushilla Thomas said that this is the 15th year of their company to sponsor those races since it started in 2003.
"We have seen the fruits of this sponsorship for example this year, we have witnessed the Kili Marathon race, participating in the five-kilometer race in Brazil and end in the fifth position in the 42 kilometers race, we can get many singers from Kili Marathon which is what many sponsors are looking for," said Kushilla.
He said, "the next year will take place in Moshi on February 26th, and are expected to get more than 45 athletes from more than 45 countries in the world for this time the registration of Kili Marathon will be held in Dar es Salaam and Arusha to avoid congestion.
The Manager of Kilimanjaro Beer, Pamela Kikuli said that they have given a total of 20 million as a gift to winners of 10 kilometers (Marathon) where the first winner for men and women will get 4 million dollars.
"Kijukuu cha Bibi K 'and a Tanzanian athletes in the country, who participated in these competitions and gave all the countries to participate and we believe that, this Marathon competition will also open doors for our athletes for the purpose of participating in the international tournament outside the country with a big gift," said Pamela.
The director of Tigo, Northern Region, George Lugata said that his company will be vying for the semi-kilometer race (21 kilometers), while they have built 11 million shillings for the purpose of getting the first 10 winners, the first winner in every group will get 2 million shillings.
The Marketing Manager of GAPCO Tanzania, Caroline Kakwezi said that, "we have witnessed these races starting from the year 2011, but we have talked about the benefits that are found to the athletes and the society in these races are written so, we are happy for continuing to cooperate with Wild Frontiers, who are the organizers of Tanzania.
He said that GAPCO will be on the forefront to continue to sponsor the race for disabled people and the year will cater for transport and accommodation for the participants from Dar es Salaam city and transport for those from Arusha while the winners receiving gifts worth 10 million shillings in general.
The Manager of Grand Malezi, Oscar Shangazi has said, "we go to them to sponsor the five-kilometer race and urged all those who see them, they will be able to participate in the long race to come out in the long distance of five kilometers.
