

The sin of seeing that stem cells do not be able and believe that from outside the country, they can be like President John Pombe Magufuli that was revealed recently, that is the regulations that has been used by the policies and the Decision Council and that has no objection.
When you get married in the opinion polls, despite the president saying that there is wrong for forgiveness from investment issues on the second side of shillings shows that they stuck in natives to get opportunities or given priority to be caused by bribery.
The fact is that there is no single investor who will accept to give bribes from the level that were donated by investors from outside and to the meaning of looking for the audience.
Those types of environment show that the vibrant regulations of "corruption is true and I will not receive or give bribery," it has not been seen and forget the broader interests of the community which is caused by the toilers.
But in order to confirm that bribery are capable of protecting the opportunities of investing in World Bank has made it open in research that has been doing and printing report on how business situation in different countries has been affecting investment.
Those researchers have been done by taking the researchers in several countries in the world who have talked with different people especially the representatives of the business companies about the problems they got in investing in the country's economy.
In the year 2006 at its research more than 669 companies in different countries, the ones which quickened their views about the state of investment in the concerned country.
For Tanzania in the year 2006, the research of 419 companies which quickened their opinion about the state of investment and business in the country, before the research was done in 2003.
Those researches in the World Bank are important because of helping the companies and investors in the world in general to conduct an evaluation and decision when they need to invest in foreign countries.
The criterion that depends on these research is the whole issue of bribery, some companies that were interviewed if they are forced to give bribes so as to get permits for business or investing in certain countries as well as they are asked for bribery they are given to invest.
That came out is that many companies showed that they have been giving bribery so as to invest in big government projects in Tanzania.
Those payments are the official ones that do not be open and didn't affect the government's records for example when the investor is supposed to give a gift or a certain amount of money to a certain leader in order to help them make any intention of investing.
Other investors claim that every time they are meeting with taxes, they give them anything so that their needs of investment can be implemented if they had anticipated.
According to the World Bank, the level of bribery that is expected to be released so as to get investment in projects was 294 percent in the year 2006, and in general the investors were expected to provide a total of 27 percent of the project as bribery and other payments which do not be launched so that things can be discussed.
This amount of 27 percent was one of the average of bribery like that in the Sub-Saharan countries, which were estimated to reach 214 percent of the project.
During the research that took place in the year 2003, the company claimed that the amount of bribery they had been giving them so that their things can be able to go well, it was 290 percent of the project was under approximately 90 percent of the project which was reported in the year 2006.
