Close to his lover, the groom did not be remembered during this period of the platform of the youth, when you visit this period, it will talk about various issues of youth in the community and today during this period we will talk about defense and value of a girl on behalf of their music producer on behalf of their music producer.
There was a youth that has been prepared to cooperate and involve a servant and through a political campaign who contributed to him because I am a youth.
What's the message said?
Teachers.
What does it mean?
The youths who are clean.
Geita City.
It is not right.
Recently, my fellow members in our today's debate are called, Fred Swagg, is the chairperson of using a bomb fees, I would like to welcome him to be the secretary of our debate by giving me my opinion, to thank our fellow chairman for giving me this opportunity to introduce himself to the vice chairperson by giving me this opportunity to introduce himself to the vice chairperson by giving me this opportunity to introduce himself to the vice chairperson by giving me this opportunity to introduce himself to the vice chairman for giving me this opportunity to introduce himself to the vice chairman for giving me this opportunity to introduce himself to the president and I think it will reach you shortly in the district.
Today we will talk about the topics what you want to ask and house of the girl, I would like to welcoming her sister's sister to give him a short message about defense and house of a girl child close to a modem.
To give a short speech of defense and a girl.
He is a person with the sex of.
May, under the age of ten years and who is from early and until it stopped.
The security is a condition of supporting her.
In security.
And I explained to tell them the presence of different effects to kill them.
And looking for him.
The value of the value.
Almighty God is to understand.
And discover ourselves that I understand and tell them, thank you so much for giving a short speech and defense of the girl before going, I would like to give him a chance to talk about all sections that are in the topic.
Thank you the deputy chairperson for giving me the opportunity so that I am able to study in our topics, for the first time to study from girls who are living in school, the third period to get married to girls who learns in enough schools maybe a distance from home to school, the fifth section of groups.
The sixth section should understand the little of parents on education to a girl, section seven.
The poverty of parents, giving thanks to the brother.
We will start mixing up of the first section that is looking for a short time to study from a girl, he says that primary schools have been looking for light.
The position gives the iron sheets to give his opinion Ruth Meena.
I commend the chairperson for giving me the chance by the name Professor Ruth Robert I am happy in secondary schools?
My contribution is that girls being given various jobs without caring.
Parents have not given time to study for girls but it's not because parents are given to work without a special program.
Many girls when you know since we are doing a lot of work.
No we have lost politics number to be enough.
.
It will be remembered?
And has come.
This is waiting for a girl to get married and to fail.
My opinion is.
The government wants the government to provide education to some of the parents they discovered that behavior.
About the education of girls so as to increase the knowledge on that chairperson, the Secretary General and my colleague has talked to names and is called you for the secondary school's secondary school and form three contributions for my contribution.
He said that the responsibility of the family is true that most of the parents should not forget yourself to get the responsibilities of bringing up my family responsibilities, it is like a person can come to family, here, he is supposed to have to know what they are doing.
Do you know more, the house has been squandered, "he had been buried and let me now have.
This is the answers he had a girl in a family and I told him you can be able to find responsibilities when he is doing when they are at home.
That is heading to it.
To know that we have the right to go to school.
When the last results of that day he found themselves so much and it's also a series of examination comes because I think the examinations will win because she had getting a chance to go to school in my opinion I am.
We would like to remind parents of parents to get the opportunity to go and be something to get education at the past, when I arrived at home, it does not know the problem and it does not know what the student gets in school, but when I saw them, it does not know the problem and it does not know what the student gets to the school.
