
Family and safe dreams in Ukerewe, 13, 2012.

At the time Tanzania is expected to reduce the deaths of mothers during the birth of 133 in the year 2015 with 100,000 parents from 529 deaths, it was in the year 1990 so as to implement the objectives of expanding, something that is seen in a different dream.

In Ukerewe District, the health service of parents is facing a huge challenge to some of the parents in that district, they are saying they were given out with those goals in controlling the issue of reproductive health, it is very difficult because of the services provided in the hospital and health centers.

Zuhura Karya, a resident of Ukerewe, says that despite parents being forced to buy bed sheets, services offered to the hospital are poor, to an extent that they are forced to buy devices such as chicken, a needle together with many other things that every day explained that they are available for free to pregnant women.

I have tried to be affected in the blood and he gets a lot of money, I saw the listener to come back to remind me when I went to me, I'll give him, but I was surprised when I met me, but my brothers will give him money to be found on the same time, "he said.

In addition to being told that he is supposed to report the incident to the leadership of the hospital if they have been explained at a public and various workshop which he attended that issue did not be taken against any action.

"There are so lot of things we want, if you remove those equipment, you don't give out nurses who want to get 20,000 shillings because I don't give complaints to the leadership of the hospital, I was told it should be dealt with until today I don't know how we are playing," he explains.

He is not alone at this, Hovind, Joseph, a resident of Nemu in the district, explaining how he is going to his neighbor to the district hospital but also to understand that the services for pregnant women are supposed to be released free to pregnant women, the real situation was not so.

I gave him to my neighbor, they told me that I put aside balls, color, and many things, I told me, when I met me, I explained her and I don't speak, but I continued to fight with the doctor without anything, "he explained.

He also explained that hospital is like the hospitals that have been sold at the business area especially to the pregnant women who if they go to them everything, and those equipment are available at the hospital and money.

"To the truth that pregnant women have been infected with customers, you go selling everything even a card for the clinic as well as it is not sold but it is not given free but you will pay shillings 1,000," says Hilda Juma.

Responding to the complaints on the citizens, the acting chief medical officer of Ukerewe District, Doctor Nyanda said that there are issues that are arising from private behavior of health workers such as a parent of bed sheets and requested them to be given that issue should not be seen and that they get that report to take over the step immediately.

But there are other things that are outside the ability, especially of equipment and the number of health workers who are supposed to be used in hospitals, health centers and health centers, which sometimes are few more than what is supposed to be, a situation that is not understood to the citizens.

He said that the geographic division shall be one of the biggest challenges because the district has 38 people with permanent residence is 15 and that have arrested 23 provinces where its residents were sitting on time and moving to another area.

According to the acting chief physician, Ukerewe District, has only one hospital, three health centers and 32 health centers which have a shortage of 510 health experts but there is a shortage of approximately 186 experts.

The needs of the nurses from the District Hospital are 86 in the districts that are 86 in the districts in health centers are 36, but there are 12 only and the needs of the experts in the clinic is 90, but they are only 24.

Coordinator of the health service of the child in that district, Moshi Mgalula, said that sometimes, they are forced to advise women to get pregnant women to come up with those equipment according to the real state of the environment that surrounds them.

He says the guidelines and procedures are making pregnant women to be given to the free services but sometimes the real situation does not have injuries and plans of health policies how it said, gave them an example of how those equipment are not available.

"We are supposed to receive it (a box for medical equipment) for the purpose of serving pregnant women every year, but sometimes we have received those equipment this month in July, we are forced to advise women to come and those equipment we should help them," he insisted.

He says in the year 2011, the number of pregnant women who opened the hospital and health centers in the district had 15 pregnant women, 702 and more than 5,000 shillings they should be affected outside the health centers.

"When you are with many parents on how and those equipment are available on a sluggish way, it is important to advise you to make preparations, if you do not see how to get to them, that is why we see it is important to prepare for them," he said.

The challenges like these and others that came out in the health sector are participating in the International Federation of Parties, doctors, (Boniface MSA) the African region called a meeting that will take place in Arusha City from the end of this week to discuss the agenda of human resources in the health sector so as to see how Africa can come from this problems.

The president of the international meeting, Florence Mwanri, says that students from African doctors will discuss because the challenges of why the graduates of health profession will not be affected by many who are rushing out of the country while still there is great needs.

"This is one of the biggest challenges in Tanzania and Africa in general, we have many health experts who have graduated from their studies but many of them are going to work outside the country, as a result of doctors is important to look at this challenge and to see or advise the way to deal with it," he said.

He added that it is with the problem of infrastructure in the health sector where in addition to having few doctors, but even the ones who do not give service to the because there are no important equipment that are required.

"Another thing that will be part of the topic in that meeting is how the health infrastructure is in order to help the ordinary citizens work and to try to see the best way to communicate," he told BBC Sport.
