Stakeholders approve the change, they insisted on the procedures to be followed.

It has been written by Grace Mkonga.

It has been witnessed, 23 October, 2016.

The stakeholders of sports and business experts in the country have supported changes in the soccer club taking it in a procedure and considering the regulations of good administration.

Those stakeholders came to the remarks at the conference to discuss the system of operations of soccer clubs that was organized by Tanzania Sports Writers Association (TASWA) and communication directly with Azam Media.
Among those stakeholders is Professor Prosper Alute, an economist from Mzumbe University, who said in the economic view that it is not a wonder, the club wants to make changes maybe by being involved, an issue of change is allowed to be used for all the two sides.
"Change is a good thing because we are forced to make a team to run itself, what is needed is to make sure that every part has shown, not one of her message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf of his message was read on behalf
Another stakeholder, the coach of the Federation of International Football Association (FIFA), Henry Tandau said the system of running the club is not a problem but what is needed is the education to run football.
"The problem started in good administration, did not understand the boundaries, members do not understand the boundaries because there is no better administration, it is a must the education to be given about the running of football so that we can be able to check the nations of our colleagues going on," he said.
On his part, the former Secretary General of the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Noel Le Pen said there is an importance of the club to have small secretariat which was made with different experts who will referee the team in a good system of operation.
The Manager of the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE) Patrick Msuha said the issue of shares is not supposed to be one person, but it is a company.
He said the company has a good name and good history for three years, it has the ability to join the stock market, the former secretary general of TFF, Michael Wambura, and the former police commander of Mwanza and Kinondoni, Jamal Rwena from all they met with the importance of the government they were not involved in order to make steps for change.
Wambura said the government is required to be productive to protect people's interests, while talking about the importance of education on the shares, business law will be given to clubs that we don't like to be told the truth, since many clubs have been facing football.
He said that it has come for the government, stakeholders and investors to sit together with depending on every step of change so as to get the ones that are required.
Previously, speaking on behalf of the guest of honor, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Professor Elisante Ole Gabriel, the Secretary General of the Tanzania Sports Council (BMT) Mohamed Kiganja has urged TASWA to continue providing education on the journalism profession.
