Mister.
In the third month, people are complaining, do you have a lot of life, for this year of money we have paid five billion, this year of the financial year we have not given them a dream of providing water to be available and this week of the budget is not involved.
The fourth project.
Jokate Mwegelo on her way to Sengerema to help them not in education.
You will be self-five million American dollars have been built but the local government will have put more than six billion shillings to give water to the citizens of Sengerema to London and not this is the work of the revolutionary party.
But also just after water comes after the government already in collaboration with the gold mine, the ordinary citizens have reached seven hundred million, more than three million information that sell water at all.
The five project that is the one for answers is to go through the rights, why they have not been in this year of money we have allocated four billion shillings.
Another project is to ask for God to Bariadi tourists.
If the shoes are there?
Changes and opposition but water will be led by the government of the revolutionary party.
It took this card.
There is another time in the city of Mwanza.
Ilemela and Nyamagana's directive that he was getting into the water it's not getting water from money that have been built for this year a ring which has been built for this year to sign up a hundred and four million dollars will be played in his next week.
You prepare well so as to get a person to study drawings so that we can prevent you, where we go with us all is the work of the government of the revolutionary party.
Eight project know the history is my same time because I was in America, I heard this project, because this year we have set aside eight billion money that took place in water when it was beaten.
The other streets between this year.
Going to the state of Dar and Tabora.
I say only?
In addition, we've set aside money to complete the internet and next year has been set for the purpose of starting the project will receive water when Joseph Sinde Warioba arrived in Tabora province.
Honorable general secretary to say.
In the financial year of financial year.
I would thank all Tanzanians then for him to talk about our budget it's expected to complete our budget it's expected to complete any ten years which will be completed in your districts of Singida province that we benefit us.
But we will also continue implementing the notice and expanding the new projects in the district is good, the breast that includes Mbeya City, Tanga will get water through this government of the revolutionary party in the country.
But the?
There are better people.
I urge you to see the citizens of Dar es Salaam Province.
We have had a long-term problem of water production at water which is three hundred million shillings but the needs that I was called for fifty million shillings.
The project of this report is about to be completed in the month of August, it will pay a two hundred million dollars to end in September next year and that of the wells.
November this year, the problem of water.
