
Assistant minister meets with insects in the Chinese company.
A foreign citizen are doing their work which enables the ability to start.
Mister el Chidawali about the Citizen that was unconscious.
Dodoma.
The deputy minister of the country, the Office of the Prime Minister, Labor, Employment and Employment, Antony Mavunde, reached that decision the other day after visiting the S & B Company Limited and cut it a fine of 4 million shillings.
Likewise, in that event, 10 citizens of that country are required to surrender, Immigration.
Mavunde, took the decision the other day at the factory that is in the country outside Dodoma town, after visiting and witness the big number of foreign citizens who are doing work without having permits in the factory which is used as the slaughterhouses and is in a clean environment.
When he arrived at the factory, Anthony Mavunde, he met with security guards that had 218.
However, those citizens have noted that, they stopped the vehicles and started to run away before being welcomed at the seat and the rule of minister.
That factory was found to have more than 80 Tanzanian employees and 10 citizens of China, but its environment is dangerous to their health and there is no employee who used to have security equipment.
The chief executive officer of that factory who identified himself as Myoung Su Ko, he confessed the existence of a shortage in accordance with the work law, but he said he will expire.
The assistant manager of the factory, Titus Gmwaijonga said that he started production in November 2015 and asked the minister that there is no employee who was given the work equipment and all they don't have contracts together with a dangerous environment.
When he was asked why people are working on a big machine, but they don't have a lot to put him by the manager who asked for forgiveness from the deputy minister and disappear by him in that factory.
The neighborhood with that factory is a modern factory that was set aside, where he met a citizen of China that are registering as technicians but they are doing the work of giving them.
That factory that is producing cooking oil, was found to have a big number of employees who don't have contracts.
Acting labor officer of Dodoma Province, Jacob Mwinuka, said that the industries is part of many other areas that are working against the law.
He said that action is making many citizens of Tanzania to lack work, while the number of industries is told to be big.
