
Mtibwa is playing in Mbeya City 2-0 in her house.

Rashid Mkonga.

Mtibwa Sugar team in Morogoro town today evening has training the Mbeya City team by forcing a total of 2-0 goals in Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya town.

Mbeya City which has lost its second match at home ground, after last week was defeated by Azam 1-0, was defeated by the ball in all the matches of the game.

The ball started very fast while every team is putting efforts to look for a goal but in the 21st minute of the corner, that was played by David Luhende and found Mohamed Ally who had put the white house in Mbeya City.

Until the first half you missed in Mbeya City being behind by 1-0 goals.

The second half as it was in the first time the team defeated the team at the end, while Mtibwa defeated their goal and wanted to increase the goal with Mbeya City without success.

Every team did changes in the second period in which on the side of Mtibwa, Mussa Zungu came out and his position was taken by Vincent Kigosi, though Mbeya City has scored Saad Kipanga and his position was taken by Mwaura who was taken by Mwaura.

Those changes in every team received little, the situation of the game where the new power of the ball started being seen in every side.

However, it was the top minute of the Mtibwa player, who was in the second half by scoring for Mtibwa goal the second goal and caused commotion on the side of Mbeya City fans who started to carry stones for the side of Mbeya City players who were celebrating that goal.

That situation caused the squad and even heading to the violence of switching off his car which he didn't show and give a stern warning by preventing and distribute them.

The forum for the fans of Mbeya City continued to be open while the ones who continue cheering though in the Mbeya City players were seen to be accountable for playing the football match that came about while the Mtibwa colleagues joined the ball.

Until the end of Mtibwa was leading by 2-0 goals, where the fans of Mbeya City were seen not to believe those results while the Mbeya City players were not able to remain in the stadium.

In another step, the players of Mbeya City got in the coming in their car and walking on foot from outside the stadium to the Holiday Inn hotel that is in the neighborhood with their coach Juma Mwambusi and said that he didn't answer that team.
