I have been getting training.
Then above.
The committee's committee.
The health and environmental sanitation dresses when they were done, then us from educating the citizens.
If you play in what we made and broke?
First, if we use the late's session in the neighborhoods we provided education then later we will begin.
In this neighborhoods up to the household to encourage and investigate it is true that he has risen up and following it.
Then for us that many people have never done?
Make and use it?
If we continue to urge you, that you use the same way we get the same time but we are not yet so good and another thing that we are doing so that the end is not because of people.
Having a story of diseases so that it can rule.
It's not true that every one to have a better and clean and a university is used to be a college which will not be used not to do not have no benefits.
That is the user.
And this education we have given citizens every citizen to now taking the quality.
If this does not recognize the number of the president and now they are also continuing to use it.
And another thing.
In that state, we are also providing sanitation education.
That every citizen should be doing his environment in a clean state.
So as to be able to have severe pain of all type.
And another thing that we want.
It is.
He desires are very disturbing that each one should have a hole you want to you want them to be read on the fire so that our cleaning environment and.
And why is another thing that will let me start doing so that we are present, we are supposed to take care of issues which we are not using education is what is using the university and the university is used every one to be for the teachers.
Technology this world has been another reason for the citizens to fail to be better in their households not to enable our residents in the villages and therefore we will continue to build their citizens at the villages at the end of the world at an average of more than two hundred and half years at the end of the end at the end of the world at the end of the past.
Preparations for the citizens can make that campaign up to the I have put it in money but many things are found in the concerned areas for example one hundred thousand shillings when you know it, you can make sure that if he can be Faustine Kamuzora if the other things can be Faustine Ndungulile.
The implementation of that project are saying that those efforts have started giving them fruits in the community.
We will take a big research on the threats that we are doing so that we are supporting her brother maybe the money can cause the environment holding on a stand.
If we are supposed to go down here, we were not aware of us here and not.
You can unite all the types of universities that use the sun afresh, that we will be found in the right time.
But out of two percent a three hundred percent only were only best which without Sister Kibira (center), there were seven wards where we were in the middle or when we are doing, there are the best at the same time when we see it, we have the plan to continue.
But that is an average of ten thousand households with two hundred thousand households and five hundred thousand, we will work to be done.
I was in this ward he will go.
Now and.
