
He allowed the Governor to put aside an evaluation of economy.

It has been written by.

I was heard of 16th September 2016.

In our yesterday's newspaper, we wrote the statement by the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu, said that the state of the growth of the economy in the country has continued to reduce.

Moreover, in his report to the public, he said that the average of inflation in the first six months of this year has continued to rise up to 49 percent in August 2016 from 69 percent in December 2015.
All the information have removed doubt of the citizens about the trend of the nation's economy and "noise," of politicians about the presence of the whole economy.
The statements by those politicians, who used the weaknesses of many citizens are not aware of the economic growth because of their private interests, they have been making citizens not to understand the truth.
In that state, many citizens have started to build the concept of government ability to sustain their needs, it's coming out and therefore start to be shaken, especially due to the fact that the haphazard use of funds that was there previously for people who do not work hard to get money for the purpose of its use.
We believe that the report by the Governor Ndulu, has been released at the right time especially after politicians in polluting the weather in using the "politics quack" explained the things that do their expertise and make corrections.
According to the Governor, we urge us to identify the heavy work that is done by the government in making Tanzania's economy, to grow from its fact, for people to work with an indication that they are open in that area.
On other words, Governor Ndulu said accurate data, different from the claims of some of the opposition politicians that there is a series of economy.
We would like to thank Professor Ndulu, for representing us through our economic growth, by getting different issues that all of them show that our country's economy in the country will continue to improve by 72 percent.
As a result of our economy being same, that is why there are big projects in industries and infrastructure that is going on, and that is expected to start working so that our dream of having a nation with the central economy, it is complete.
We urged politicians that together with wanting to rule, they are required to look for the truth that is there and to stop the fact that the aim of giving up the government and the efforts of the citizens to have a nation that is understandable.
It is good to be careful about their statements, because it's impossible to have a economic growth has dropped by the government with the use of foreign funds for increasing important needs for the nation for four months without shaking.
The only state of having foreign funds, long distances and continuing to meet the foreign financial needs for importation of products and services outside the country, including increasing faith to investors in the economy of Tanzania, it is an important thing that things are not bad and not to prevent it.
