
Friday, August 22, 2014.

Employers are expecting to do with the labor force?

The report of the employment and income research of the year 2012, shows that our country has an official construction of 2,28,018 among them, 499642, have been employed in the private sector and the ones that have been employed in the public sector.

In addition, the report shows that approximately 8 percent of these workers have the income of starting from 1,067,888 trillion shillings per month, a total of 300,000 shillings per month and a total of 300,000 shillings per month.

The positions for work should not be?

Statistics of those reports indicate that one of the challenges facing the employment market here in the country, is lack of employment opportunities for example, during the year 2011 / 12 they were able to enter into the employment market for the same period so that those statistics show that approximately 35,374 employees were not able to get into that period.

In addition to the fact that the ability of employers to employ new employees, depends on money and other important preparations, but there is a fact that what is looking for many work they are required to have employers including experience in work.

Khajida Kopa of their skills which do not meet?

In order to confirm that, the Council of East African countries (IMR) in partnership with the East African Development Council (EABC) made research to know how many employers about the graduates of universities in the results show that employers don't have faith, professionalism and skills of these graduates, which have met the criteria required by their agents.

In those results, it is seen that apart from the lack of employment, our country is being faced with a big problem of people who are looking for work, but on another side, they did not be understood that here we will talk about learning skills.

On the other side, according to the number of people and housing of the year 2012, there are people who have the ability to do any work together with those that do not have official skills, approximately 212,150 people are doing a lot of time their work place and they do work at a very long time.

The problem of not knowing.

Normally it has been the norm for lack of work happening in a environment that someone who believes that she is self-employed and the ones who are looking for work, is unable to get that job.

For example, a total of political science, with a good performance and one with employment, is unable to be employed, we can say that a person is faced with a problem of lack of work due to someone who does not work hard, we cannot say he is faced with lack of work.

However, a person who is looking for work with from getting out, still do not have skills, understanding and reputation that make him be able to get employment in the employment they have, because of their benefits, the employer, the community and the economy in general.

A person doesn't depend on, is the one who, apart from lack of work or failing to get employment, he does not have the skills of working but he will not like, without fear of getting that job.

For other words, a person doesn't jump and he can have work, but he cannot ensure that the work for a long time and has no ability to ask for him from one work to another job to meet its needs.

In a environment that approximately 2 percent of 2 have been employed in the private sector, which many times are usually employment for a period of a contract, you can see the effects of having many people, but also can't show professionalism and success in work, but also you can't show professionalism and success in time, and therefore they are supposed to show professionalism and success in a period that would like to continue with the employment opportunities.

Lack of skills is not expected.

Many jobs and employment research show that together with the importance of having a high table, many employers do not have a lot of skills of class seven, many employers don't see a lot of skills that is expected to use knowledge and understanding of the class in solving the real challenges of work.

In another reason, the employer is expecting you to look for the work that you have the ability to involved and use the phone, knowledge and professional regulations you missed in the class to stop the problems facing him in his office.

That is saying, basically, the employer needs to see your skills (Soft copy) which is why it intends to increase their efficiency and skills of this skills, even so, it is rarely on going through the good professional system.

It is continuing.
Twitter, annamatinde @ gmail.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
