
30 people related to a bomb.
The local security officers, Aisha Bui, together with the great skill of being out of the building that was used by the police officers of Moalimu, which was carried out a bomb in the city of arts, on Monday when the bomb won the sixth militia in that capital city.
In charge of art, Yemen, more than 30 people are supposed to know the world while more than 50 others were injured after unknown attackers on Wednesday night before the crowd that had been presented to the registration of the police force in the city of arts.
According to the police officers a bomb that was inside the vehicle before the attempt failed to bring down the activity.
That attack occurred just a few days after another bomb occurred in Draw, where four people including a journalist were killed.
Six attackers of albino youth have also been injured in that event on Sunday.
However, up to now, there is no group that has claimed to be involved in that attack on Wednesday.
A group of Al-Shabaab's group that has been listed in America being the high standard network in the world, has been performing attacks against security forces in Yemen.
That nation has been faced with a knee injury since the year 2012 during the process of stealing from the former leader of that country and a political leader, Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Navy Kenzo group that is controlling the big part of Yemen, has been preparing to fill in the gap left by Saleh.
Al-Qorro has returned to fight with Navy Kenzo group which is also known as Antwerpen.
The capital city was caught with Navy Kenzo group in September which has been increasing its stronghold up to the districts that are dominated by masturbation.
Al-Qadhi Court is controlling the south and east of that country and has started the process of wanting to capture the capital city of arts.
The government of Saleh made those restrictions to America in the month of November due to claims that he had supported.
America also tried to recognize two commanders of the Russian militants, Mrs Abdullah Yahya Al-Him and Abd-Square, by involving themselves with actions that were put in peace and any progress of the nation of Yemen.
Elsewhere, two people including striker were killed on Tuesday following the attack at the military station of Texas County, America.
The clashes that took place outside the military clinic in Forte Dodge, Pasilida Bandari and twelve o'clock in the afternoon, according to Major General Stephen Wasira.
"Striker was killed together with one person," he said each other without knowing they are inspiring.
"Patients together with employees who were inside that clinic are safe and then it is back," he clarified while added that the opinion polls from the National Bureau of Standards (FBI) are leading the investigation to be the cause of that attack.
On April last month, the police who had a mental problem shot dead 35 points where he killed three people and injured 16 others.
