Tanzania progresses in a famous news agency in the United States.

Tanzania has been married by the famous newspaper of America when President Obama is being received with joy, emo too.

The popular newspaper in the United States of New York Times magazine, has shown the news of showing events of violence taking place in Tanzania.
How is the news.
That was published in his edition of June 30th, he explained the incident.
Being used in a prestigious tournament for the leader of the community of doctors, Doctor Stephen.
There was a pose.

The writer is a reporter.
The news of that news has tried to hear the statement of Doctor Humphrey Shao during the way.
He was abducted by being comforted by being stabbed with a bomb attack.

The writer is a reporter.
That has said that Tanzania is respected outside the country as a island.
Peace inside the region of violence of East Africa.

.
As a result of those qualifications, Tanzania has received reputation and sponsorship from money.
From different countries that are continuing, including America.
Last year it got more than 480 million dollars.

He said.
Being when President Obama arrived in Tanzania groups to defend justice.
A human being and the opposition party are saying such events.
The suppression of political parties are very fast, "there is fear and not peace."

He knows that journalists have been suffering from one person, was killed in his work of writing news.

He added.
Being in July last year, the government was forced to ban a free newspaper for investigation.
Every week of the magazine MwanaHalisi was written in details.
An incident that was done by being attacked by Doctor Ulbrahim, an incident that brought him.
That is the government of President Kikwete.

The committee's committee.
Of protecting the journalists at the New York headquarters in the country.
America, last week wanted President Obama to destroy the issue of freedom.
The media will meet with President Kikwete in Dar es Salaam city.

The newspaper has also mentioned violence of politics that they played a new twist.
That it did not depend on when the bomb attack was followed up.
In a public campaign meeting of the councilors of CHADEMA and caused the deaths of four people in Arusha province.
