CHADEMA is controlling these conmen.
Dec 27, 2012

I start to let this article through a Christmas message (which was yesterday) and the new year we would like to give my condolences to you, the readers of this column (and others in this full list), especially in your opinion, we have contributed to the scope of my opinion about different issues.
This year of the year 2012 that is expected to be played on many, good and bad luck, and if there is one thing that is supposed to remain in our records, it's a rumor that led by the police during his responsibilities of strengthening the public concerning the political processes of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) in Iringa province.
Although Nelly Mwangosi (not with us), his death has caused the catalyst to check the performance of our police force, especially in great strength even when the deceased has no justice (because it is difficult for the government to recognize the need to control our police and their husbands.
But if there is a matter that can be taking up, Nelly Mwangosi, which is the current situation in Iringa province, although I don't know his lives while following the party's meeting in Iringa province, although I don't know her life of politics but the important thing is that its reports were benefits to the party and the citizens in general.
For several days now, the wind was bad, "it has been collecting from CHADEMA to follow up on the way they can think that the cause of the presidential candidate in the last general elections, and who is also the secretary general, Doctor Willibrod Slaa, is still using the Revolutionary Party's card (CCM).
But for those who go back to political activities of the party, they do not fail to identify that one of the main reasons for instance, process, are supposed to reveal the name of power if a party can buy power from CHADEMA while in future, it appears from the top of the country, that is the presidency.
It is not a sin for a politician to say, to desire or even the presidency, but the ideas and wisdom, there is no one who is able to enter the State House because of getting his party, where the presidential candidate will enable us to avoid the political party.
While the power of CHADEMA seems to depend on more than the youths who are in recent days, they have been the host in the use of communication technology especially the internet and social media networks, that issue of internet use is seen as summoning demons.
By using the social network of various debates, Jamii Forums, some of the youths of CHADEMA have decided to play clothes in public and bring back to some of their leaders, especially Doctor Slaa (CHADEMA) and those who protect that group as well as suppression of success and the fate of that party.
When it's time to take a step by the vice chairman of the Youth Union of CHADEMA (BAVICHA) for example, urging them to be the secretary general of his party, it is clear that democracy in that party has taken a bad direction (not in the party) despite being caused by consent, outside CHADEMA.
It will be remembered that it's just recently, the new secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana, has intervened in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and gave 21 permits for small-scale farmers, although the idea of helping the small miners of the government in 2010, is being run by regulations and procedures of political ideology.
When he arrived after Kinana completes his responsibilities in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, it cannot make sure that he has changed his energy in another place and ensure that I urge the department of national safety of CHADEMA but these are just my thoughts and not to be employed as the real situation!
