
The procedure of JK has use the elders not of HIV / 21, 2012.

The president of the fourth term, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete has encouraged the president of Tanzania to speak with the elders of Dar es Salaam when they need them to talk about the important thing that concerns the nation.
Starting from the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, the president of the second phase, Ali Hassan Mwinyi, the president of the third term, Benjamin William Mkapa, all of them were normal to speak to the elders of Dar es Salaam when he wanted to pass a lot of information to citizens.
Last week President Kikwete continued with that culture when he wanted to explain the stand of his government concerning the claims of the workers' strike that had been planned to take place from May 5.
We can inform us for our brothers who were born with Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, Ali Hassan Mwinyi and maybe the Benjamin Mkapa for starting and continue the process of the president talking to our elders of Dar es Salaam when he wanted to explain their part in a matter involving the whole community of Dar es Salaam.
I am happy that when he wanted to explain their part of an issue that involves the interests of the nation due to the fact that this talk time of the president and the elderly are not normal to allow questions but the elders do not meet without getting anything.
I have said we can inform us for the first phase of the first to three by developing this procedure and we can decide just to agree that these were them end the century of the young people when we are facing freedom.
It is clear that when what happened this issue that involves the future of the nation, the first people who will go to talk to them, even if it is to address them, they were the elderly and those of Dar es Salaam and their colleagues in the provinces.
For the first phase of the fourth term, the issue of talking to the elders of Dar es Salaam was the problem of taking a message to what we shall be very difficult.
This is a president who entered into power through the same way - he is the president of the whole world - he is the president whose number of their votes are youth.
According to the normal regulations we would like to be any time this president of voters of the cervix and Holland has an important thing to tell citizens, he would have at least the youths of Dar es Salaam city to talk to them and not the elderly.
And because it is possible for youths who had been able to look for life and build the economy of the country, then they could send and talk to our scholars and our universities for higher education and the students.
But the president could also decide to collect a crowd of people who are required to try to look for their daily work on the day of work it could not be a good thing and therefore he decided to make the editors and journalists from all media stations in the country who would decide the citizens to see them feel.
A good thing in this is that these journalists would have been given an opportunity to ask about important questions in relation to the speech of the president, different from our elders who are due to the growth of the chairman "they've heard just like we not less than you.
Youth, scholars and the media are the groups of people who are the president of the rainy season when he is expected to speak with them, and not our elders that should be able to rest instead of being able to use their friendship with the salaries of all the workers of Tanzania for a year!
For sure, it is not a good thing to make these elders like to inform us that the government does not have the ability to pay their children the salaries that were forced to explain their needs even for several years to come.
They can cheer up during the time where we go down, but later when they go back and think that the government had the ability to give them their children the ability to give their children their needs for several years to meet their needs.
He said that these are the elderly who have only two days after cheering the statement by the president of the government not to have the ability to pay their children's salaries as compared to their parties, some of them were in court continuing to look for the rights to be paid for their benefit from the East African Community.
He is the elderly who in looking for the rights they had already begun to sleep at the road and endanger their lives and other people they have already met even before the entrance to the State House with the hope of seeing the president of the country to help them get their rights.
He is our old elders who together with being promised that they will get free medical services in the government hospitals, there is still a great letter from various areas where those of their differences have gotten tired and not the enough identity card and the right to get those services!
It will be a very good thing if we will be able to address the community problems that are facing them with the speed that we used for instance, they collect them and talk to them when we believe it was a matter to inform the citizens and wanting to be dealt with.
I also advised our president to stop the procedure of "a word" to speak to the elders of Dar es Salaam when he is doing an important thing to inform the citizens, and instead of using a modern way of talking to media networks that they will be able to ask questions, instead of cheering.
It is a good thing and we build a culture of filling up and to celebrate our elders by welcoming Diamond Jubilee Hall even at the State House like the popular guests at the National Stadium, Revolution, and the union because without their holidays that would have been there.
But if I think it is for our elders only when we become a problem of joy that we want to inform the public on the side of the government of this important thing that concerns our nation.
