Close to this discussion here, it has a lot of property, who destroy their votes.
It is that?
Her daughters know the effects of entering into sex actions before getting married.
My name is that I was Freddy Maro and they can beat their opinion.
You know what happens, it does not have faith.
There are some of their daughters know that there is dangerous and others?
For example, for those who know themselves is for those who live with parents who know them about relationship and work.
But there are those who don't know for example they have lost their daughters who live in your villages and how can I see it?
They tell them about the things of his relationship.
If the name is called boils that I think for other girls, they should know why they are producing down they are told.
First, it needs first to be released on the right to get sex issues that are taking place where these are educating.
Others are not supposed to be told that there is another time you find the daughter and his mother are not there.
At the same time you find the front of the mother, I can get a child below and he started stealing from that one is called Christine Ishengoma, there is a lot of reasons which they want to know the effects.
Getting into sex.
One of the parents not giving their children to female education.
For the purpose of knowing that, there are other effects to build their parents giving birth to their children, but when others know it, they don't know how many girls get married but when other people do not know how many girls are sick and do not have a lot of diseases.
We are small and is called Latifah or on my side, I think others know that they get into sex that you are small and small are very dangerous and there are others who here in the country.
For those who have not know as a result of ethics that we live with their lovers.
It's like those parents are your opinion they are not close to their children and they are unable to give education about those things and those who know how things want to education and their parents is not a source.
Causing many deaths, especially those who go close to their children, when I want them when they live two, you know that there is a relationship that we have been told, there is a relationship with him and but you've heard about what he knows more.
His wife was going to see the effects that they have been given and they still have not found the effects of seeing them being arrogant.
For girls to get those effects because there was a know, but if I have been listening to their religious leaders, what should you know what you know, you do not know that there are effects like AIDS if I'm pleased.
And others so I don't know anything related to you like what is there.
My mother, that is you do not tire to told my father?
That is when I was coming back home, and he was born at home at home.
And start with religious education.
In this education I was told the effects to have relationship with.
I would like madness that am being involved with Mose you know that there are two things that will put it a relationship with him but to do.
Even my child cannot have told him to be with her.
He will told me the face of the boss.
To see but being keen to do sex because I was still there, there is still a lot of effects as pregnant like each other, I'm going to land when I was going to land without a blood.
It does not make him to put up with water.
These are effects like what they do?
How do you have a lot of effects.
On my part, I know that there is no effects and ethics that tells you about what is the ethics of Islam.
And if you look at all his colleagues, you're very happy that you are supposed to teach them?
In the effects getting is like taking?
What can it mean?
It is easy to continue to study and also in my life general, also there are other diseases like AIDS and other things that can be able to get out and get a good life like you know what I want to get into sex with my fellow parents.
Those effects are as if they get pregnant in a small girl, what is led to you, is to endanger their lives.
You can decide to release that pregnancy so that it can be able to continue with their studies in order to continue with bad luck you can buy a lot of life as a result of Ukawa, I have gone down, due to those acts.
If it's difficult to do you, a student even if they had the ability in the class and to you, it is crossing to us because it is growing up for many things without considering it, because it becomes a lot of effects.
For a message.
They are not young people like us that we were so cunning, we are so much so that you are so much like that, that is, you can't know your health and you can't be able to give birth to my parents and this new readers come to Sure.
Ambassador of state, we have never spoken today.
That students should be able to do sex when we feel small businesses and guardians also have the people that live with me, I think that they don't know the sex time today because there are many effects.
There's a lot of AIDS to get pregnant you can get pregnant, you can give them an opportunity to give education that you use it, a Christian does not talk about.
Hundreds of love between.
I have the ability to have her boyfriend but you do not do you.
But only, it is for the advice they have closed down, we are giving a saying that I have talked to this and recently, but also the birthday is when the one was looking at luck.
Get married.
You know there are others who is giving their daughters.
How would you fulfill the sex!
There are some of the.
The small child will break it.
They are saying that they are going to play.
In denying those who teach them that you shouldn't understand the meaning of someone who is the one who is in their marriage.
It is healed?
He does not lie?
The house becomes very important because it is a must to be the Azam FC for going to do sex issues as a parent and themselves that you look for.
There's one that that night who was a lesson on her things there is no matter, in the head he used to bring changes and told the effects that you are not aware if there are some of the ministers while if the man did not know anything about the sex of what he will do when they were beaten and listen.
Anything can be done in boxing when you read with your private schools, even when you finish school, there are others who are born first and I give you a lot and I have decided to talk to those people who feel that they can help them.
To give advice on issues of relationship and.
You know what is a girl and about you know that we are very good.
There is very happy to listen to the radio you know many things and like reading?
The school tries to close to the female teachers to come out and teach about issues of relationship and support and also care of them, therefore, it is able to inform your daughter concerning the effects of getting into sex with the girl and what you are told, then you will do it.
My mind has it on the Friday and here in Nairobi.
