
More suspects of excessive drinking of alcohol are supposed to be affected.
More than 1,500 people were killed in different police stations in Nyamkazi Primary School after they were arrested in danger of the Christmas season.
According to the commissioner of that he said that, Mrs. Fauzia Kullane, who was caught in the bar, workers of the bar because of violating the news analysis of details, being unable to protect the public and other mistakes.
"In all the seven regions of Keko, we have modified the body against criminals and got paid 1,538 suspects, who are expecting to take their court on Monday," he said.
He said that a lot of those suspects is determined within four hours in four hours and also tired of the stability.
"Health workers have taken an opportunity for the holiday by violating the law for the selling of alcohol and the others believed that they are needed to be sold with alcohol inside the bar and tests while others are supposed to participate in accordance to the bar," he said.
However, the United Nations has continued to rise from the bar and he said that what is nothing is a plot to the police officers to claim the permission from victims.
The chairman of that union, Mister Onesimus Laizer, said that he has reports of 100 suspects who were identified and they were set free after giving a warning inside the police stations.
"For example, I got complaints from Markhiya, where among people 163 of that body, more than 80 percent have already been released after giving a warning to those who are still stem cells and failed to boycott the police officers," he said.
He said the workers of the bar were set aside for 20,000 shillings while every time he was set for a warning of 2000 shillings each one.
"In other events, the officers were even putting off the bar because they were implementing the new laws that were called recently, where we are unable to understand if those laws are understood well by the police officers on that, they are unable to understand why those laws are understood well by the police officers.
However, Mrs Huvisa said that those allegations have not yet been confirmed, there is no official report that have been registered to complain about the effects that are done by those officers.
