
Japan building the fish market in Zanzibar.

It has been written by special writer, Zanzibar.

It has been published in 1st November 2016.

The government of Japan through the International Development Corporation (JICA) has promised to continue supporting Zanzibar in improving development projects including the construction of a modern market of fish that is expected to be built in Malindi, Zanzibar.

The Vice President of JICA, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that yesterday at State House in Zanzibar when he made talks with the president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein.
That leader told Doctor Shein that the organization is ready to start the construction early next year and right now they are preparation in the final stages.
He said the project of construction of that market will be modern and attract so as to meet all the needs that are supposed to be used for the purpose of a modern fish market.
He said the market will be only in the regions of the Sub-Saharan countries, which its construction is expected to take place within two years starting from the time of starting that construction.
Moreover, Kraehenbuehl has promised to continue supporting Zanzibar in developing other important development projects including the agricultural project of irrigation farming, fishing and developing the water distribution project through the Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (ZATI).
In his talks, that leader explained the efforts that are being taken by that organization in strengthening the water project, which will go hand in hand with the modern technology so as to ease distribution and clean and safe water in the country.
Doctor Shein urged the thanks to the government of Japan through JICA and explained that the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar and its citizens have been able to increase the donations and cooperation and the relationship that is between him and JICA.
He said the Japan International Development Corporation (JICA) is an important participant in the development of Zanzibar, because it intends to support the efforts of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar in strengthening various development projects including agriculture, water, education, fishing and others.
He used that opportunity explaining the aim of the construction of that market, he said it will help promote government goals in strengthening the fishing sector and insisted that the infrastructure of that area is expected to be built in the market including electricity, science and culture (UNESCO) and it has been released.
14 billion shillings are expected to be used in the construction of that market, and six areas of running the auction, 141 households of small businesses and 13 areas of getting the fish.
It is expected that for a day it will enable the fishing tools of 5392 and 1,400 workers who will referee crude oil and pit latrines and also 6,500 traders will use the area safe.
