Women Zitto Zuberi to be handed over 28 million, 2013 by eternal peace.

The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has officially announced the letter of being called to appeal in front of the main committee within 14 days, the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe and the representative of the executive committee, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo.

Speaking to journalists yesterday, Tuesday, the headquarters of the party, the Director of Information and Publicity, John Mnyika, said on Monday this week the small secretariat of the party met and warned the concerned letter.

He said the secretariat session that happened on Monday in discussing before giving out their letter to the constitution, ethics and protocol of the party which is the main foundation of any leader of CHADEMA is expected to focus on it the same time.

He added that in those statements that they have released yesterday, Tuesday each one has been charged in front of the executive committee of the party, a total of 11 mistakes of defending himself and what to be removed from membership due to the mistakes that they are facing.

Speaking about the decision by the executive committee of CHADEMA that performed his session in Dar es Salaam city for two days that you asked the constitution, regulations and regulations of the party and not the misleading reports are being spread for now and they were sacked from leadership.

On his part, the lawyer of the party, Tundu Lissu, who was cooperating together to answer questions asked by journalists, he said those accused were unable to defend those 11 mistakes that decision was taken to identify which we will end.

Meanwhile, he said that the accused of Zitto Kabwe, Doctor Kitila and Samson Jumbe at the moment, have continued to give birth certificates with their main aim being to ask for money to the public and not otherwise.
"Our party's executive committee did not destroy the leadership for false reports from the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) or any signs of election constituencies in the general elections of the year 2010," said Lissu.

He emphasized that all the leaders of CHADEMA leaders have been expelled from their actions of violating the party's ethics and not if they continue spreading rumors and wanted to change the public.
Zitto Kabwe together with other two leaders of CHADEMA, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo and Samson Jumbe being removed from their positions by the executive committee of CHADEMA after it was revealed to plan for huge changes in order through the document that was giving a strategy to make great changes in leadership during the general elections.

Together with other things, the party has also announced officially the schedule of internal elections starting on November 22 up to December 14th this year, all the neighborhoods and later will be discussed at the ward level, district and the nation.

Tundu Lissu.

In that situation, Zitto Kabwe and Kitila were able to be chased away from the party, Tundu Lissu said CHADEMA will not have started doing a difficult decision today and brought 74 matches so that the Doctor Walid Kabigiri ends.

According to Lissu, when they toured the decision which she released right, the media were seen that CHADEMA has gone because CHADEMA has died but the whole period has never died because it will not die as it appears from the committee.

Lissu said that Kitila has been named as the main committee that does not have the authority to explain his position as a member of the executive committee because he was chosen by the main council.

Said Zitto Kabwe was supposed to remind me of his friend (Zitto Kabwe, there was also the executive secretary Doctor Walid Kabund, and the Deputy Chairperson of Mainland, the late Chacha Wangwe, who has no standards, and that he didn't leave the public with an intention.

Regarding the violence that deals with the flag in Kigoma province, he said that some of the security and security of the party are communicating with the party leaders in Kigoma and they will release a report.
