
3,400 rebels have been killed in the sea in order to move to Europe.
By OMR.
Geneva, more than 3,400 people have lost their lives in the sea in the Medicine, this year, they have been trying to cross in Europe. This report is according to the United Nations Refugees Organization (UNHCR) on Wednesday, the organization has requested the government to take more action to save life.
More than 2039 people have passed away from January this year, although they filled the huge danger.
This number is three times more than the previous time in the time of war in the year 2011 where 70,000 people were unable to cross, UNHCR.
Among those who have reduced from Libya, the 19 goals that lost their lives among the 72 percent of the deaths of the sea which was reported all over the world.
Many came out to Libya's heading to Italy and Malunde.
According to the organization, there were 6089 percent of the citizens of Syria and the 34,586 in the country.
Those statistics were issued during the launch of a two-day meeting of Geneva, Zanzibar, that meeting was prepared by the UN commissioner about refugees, Antonio Gusmao and it involves the way to protect refugees who are studying in the reserve to look for war, cannot get married and poverty.
Before those talks that have brought together government, UN organizations and non-governmental organizations, Gmwaijonga has warned that many government are giving efforts to put security for their nations instead of preventing the lives of its citizens.
Without mentioning private nations, he said, "this is a problem, maybe a bad step when many people are rushing to their security due to the war.
"The management of security and the Immigration Department is the things that resulted to fear among nations, but the policies must use the creation of the ways that are not affected," he said.
The conflict that have been witnessed in the south of Europe, the borders of the east and south east of Libya, Ukraine, Syria and Iraq have been tested in the number of those who are smoking in Europe.
Most of them are swelled in the port of Italy where the country has managed to sell more than 50,000 refugees from within the beginning of this year.
Last week, security officers in the sea and those of protecting Resurrection and Holiness Church found himself, an issue that does not have the ability to sell the weather in the Langoni Area in the country who had 75 percent of people who died from a lot of cold and lack of water in the body.
But Italy also put up a plan to convince the refugees of MEMKWA centers after the others want to fund the program. If they tried to cater for the refugees going into order to try to marry off their safety by using restrictions.
"The full reason for refugees want to be dealt with this means to review reasons for people to run, because of not getting safe ways to cross the way to prevent people who use this way to promote their crime," he said.
