
The first fee will take place on May 31, 2012.

After many years the following are about the establishment of the National Identification Authority, finally the Ministry of Internal Affairs has announced that six companies have been killed in the previous day before it was planned to produce those identity cards so that the project is expected to cost 222 billion shillings.
Identifying this is good news, for this time, by considering that the project has been in more decision than actions, it is dominated by controversy, due to a long time, there should be a good news for this time, because the process of putting off the project is still a long time and will be followed by the other more.
But also, for our view, by considering the requirements of the country right now, we see the issue of identity cards is not a priority to the citizens, and the environment we have been able to check the economy of the world with a shortage of food due to some foods being used as energy.
In that meaning, in our opinion, by checking the current needs of the country, the National Identification Authority can be put aside, and we are not affected.
Those more than 200 billion shillings should be used, for example, buying tractors that will increase the speed of agriculture in the country to sell food and money so as to look for food and money so that we learn from.
Why we have said that today we are for many years, since the first idea of having this project passed, instead people have been looking for many years to see who had not been given, because this country had a lot of people to live in their homes.
Without the National Identification Authority, the country has continued with its issues as usual in our great problems but normal of hunger, health, education, infrastructure, and others.
We believe now has come to leave this project, together with all its importance, to take a long time, so that we consider our efforts in priority.
Now we are being faced with hunger, again in the provinces that in the past, it was a shame to understand that it has hunger, instead of the identity cards are used to improve health services, it will improve health services, construction of roads and energy distribution.
We cannot make sure that today in the world, in front of the world, we are hopeful that the National Identification Authority is more better than tractors and misuse of farmers, or even laboratory, books and teachers in our schools.
Certainly, as a result of those thoughts we will announce people.
Sometimes the whole concept of identity cards is for sure, let us think about people who will use modern technology, this means that they will need electricity or machines run using electricity.
But the big part of our community is in the villages, where electricity is still a big offence, it is also there that more than 80 percent of us use and even if it is still poor farming.
It is enough to be open that now we look at issues of priority to the development and the benefit of the whole community, it is possible for the national identity cards are among the economic growth and not the priority of development if we are waiting to see that Tanzanian who won the identity cards, while his wife did not leave a high table.
