
For free health to be sustainable in the country.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today, 26th of September.

At the end of last week, the residents of Dar es Salaam city got their health health at the Mnazi Mmoja fields starting from 12,010,00 shillings in the morning until evening.

We thank the Provincial Commissioner of Dar es Salaam, Paul Makonda for increasing in the campaign, which enabled them to test for free for diabetes, breast cancer, cancer, heart and others.
More than 70 doctors were tested for free for those people, where they were found in problems, will be taken to hospital, as a normal appeal.
The aim of that two-day campaign is to have a procedure of testing health, because many do not know their health status, for example, some people do not lie on blood pressure, without knowing those are signs that they have the kidney disease.
We thank the residents of that town to come out in large numbers for a period of all the two days of that campaign so as to get that service.
In the first day, many came out and given number number for the purpose of being given services to more than 1000 in the day were canceled, while there are hundreds of those who need for free.
The citizens failed to accept that number have reduced, but the truth is that they had reduced because they came out many reasons more than the number that was organized by the organizers.
We support the organizers of the organizers of giving number one because it wants the citizens to shouldn't take the whole day, to wait for that service, then in the evening, they were given a report to return to tomorrow.
We are sure that specialist doctors from big hospitals in the country, like Muhimbili and others, they will continue having the heart of providing free medical services to citizens.
We request that campaign to test for free medical services to the residents of Dar es Salaam, to be sustainable. The government is required to support the campaign, an agreement has been emphasized and Makonda to improve that opportunity, it will help many people to realize those diseases including big diseases.
The leaders of the government in the provinces and other districts in the country, have not been able to put aside the campaign and running in their areas, where we're fulfilling the free medical camp in the provinces and district, to take place for a long time, for instance, instead of two or three days because the need are many.
It is obvious that we benefit many, like to test their health, but they cannot get that opportunity for example, the number of people who came out at the Mnazi Mmoja fields, Dar es Salaam, was big because of the number expected.
We have sure that in that campaign, it will be sustainable, it will be able to prevent many people against diseases and save a lot of money that are using for treatment.
