The conflict between the conflict and Kenya is to save.
28th of 13, 2015.

Since the end of last week, media and social media has been dominated by information about the conflict between Tanzania and Kenya about the issue of vehicles of tourists entering or not in the reserve areas.
Tanzania has talked about the decision announced by the Minister of tourism of Kenya, Joseline Itatiro, to protect the Tanzanian vehicles to enter the area of Jomo Kenyatta '(KIA) because that area has been mentioned as one of the reserve areas.
It is clear that even if Kenya is using the excuse of contract for the year 1985, about the partnership, it is clear that they have not been happy with the action of Tanzania to prevent the vehicles of Kenya to enter in the national park.
This step by Kenya has a great dangers to the economy of Tanzania and it has more effects to youths and people who depend on the tourism activities to get income in the North of Tanzania.
It is known that 30 percent of the tourists that get in Tanzania came through Kenya.
Tourists visiting Kenya because of transport through the Kenya Premier League (KQ) is going into a lot of countries where the tourists get from the only way to deal with the situation is to have a National Parks Agency as it was in ATC).
Already Tanzania has been mentioned as one of the seven countries in the world involving tourists in large numbers because of competition, it is clear that people will do every efforts to ensure they are competing with us.
He is the only National Hospital only that it will be a permanent solution to them because there are believers that will bring in a loss of the truth is that, an airplane has many times affect the growth of other sectors.
National Park Agency will attract many tourists to come out in one country directly and therefore growing the tourism, it will help business people of flowers and vegetables for transporting their products quickly to go through the 15th of 15 - shillings.
If we will look at a loss to the organization without considering it will be found, we will do mistakes in the tourism sector entered into the national income by 15 trillion shillings last year and therefore the sector can grow further if water will be improved.
Employees are there, their skills, get enough opportunities and the only thing is the true intention of wanting BAVICHA to go back as it was in the past.
Rumors continued not to help a human being when they do has come.
