
ATCL has our leaders and an investor from China on May 31, 2012.

"He hurts me!" Is a word that can't be able to have a good flavor in the ears, but you can explain to very short, our efforts to repeat the mistakes that they will have costed as a nation.

We are expecting to do this crimes according to our leaders that they tell me that it is able to bring in organizations and public companies from the problems that we got on the excuse of privatization policies in the partnership.

We have been told that our organization of "airplane does not depend on," it is in the race looking for him from China so that it is lifted.

It is difficult to say that until this time and all the experience we got in giving our organizations to those who are called "investors and our partners," our leaders believe that the only way to bring in organizations and investors after those who failed to take their positions and leave.

It is also true that until today, we believe that we believe that we cannot run our organization themselves by the plane without support from foreign people, and that they are inside the African countries, contributed a lot to him to be in a critical condition.

Still our Memorial Stadium is based on how ten years ago but we are believed to have hope and our leaders that partnership with albinism are the solution to the problems facing the organizations and our companies.

These hope from our leaders were to take the step of going by the citizens in two groups, ordinary citizens and those who were employees of public organizations and public companies that will be on the list of privatization from the partnership.

We witnessed, for example, employees of the Tanzania Post and Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (NIMR) and later TTCL, had been taken to their fellow citizens and was told that their protests have already been canceled because the company was recuperating.

The situation was so that according to the workers of TANESCO, the National Business Bank of NBC, the new film company of the NBC, Tanzania Railways Company, ATC) and recently Tanzania Railways Company, TRC.

We shall continue to hope and the arrival of privatization policies and the investment is to see their brothers the work of companies and those organizations, which was the main source of organizations and those companies, "he was admitted in a critical conditions.

The blame from organizations and those companies will be arraigned in Birmingham city, it is not good for our leaders to employ experts of leading the big political institutions, and that is why they were ready to give money and employment to the brothers of our leaders by parasites.

We thank you of ten and five years later since we want to fulfill our investors and our partners in their homes, we can't know what we are standing in front and saying it is very important "to provide services to citizens more than it was the management to be paid" to lead?

So, can we look at the chest and said by saying it is true that our mobile phone company (TTCL) is giving more better service to prevent it more that is being led by patriotic before posting them into the partnership?

Kanali Mwenyembu said our mobile phone company which before privatization from the villages, but after privatization from the villages, but after privatization from the villages, he had not been able to wear shoes and leave the end considering the buildings being black.

Kanali Mwenyembu said our railway organization is that after the mistakes that we did in the past we would have managed to carry out a better contract with its employees and instead, the government has continued to carry the cargo and stop the citizens, there were no need to enter into partnership?

With our organization of "airplane, it should not be remembered here, I am not a partner and I went down here by our leaders who had gone into line with our leaders who have died and breaking the contract to break the contract.

This is why in companies and our organizations, more than one hundred and other organizations were modified and entered with in partnership with the ones that make cigarettes and alcohol only is the one that at least taking good pictures of privatization policies in the partnership?
There is a message that we are supposed to get the day.

You don't see that after all the leaders would have learned anything and they would like you ask for the first time before going to the organization or our public company to protect themselves in the partnership with any person.

Or if it's not like that there are people benefiting from poor conditions of the contracts that we get in and our investors is now there is a report that our organization of "airplane does not depend on," there is in strategies of solutions to the Chinese.

If it will like we want to enter into partnership with a system "Kylie Jenner, does not have a solution, and I am Ng'ombeni, I am telling us that we should not want it.

It is clear that any contract will you get in any time that you will go and see any time that will you see me.
Maybe the lady asked him to be with him do not tire us like us themselves and we cannot go into the partnership with any kind of our diseases and depending on a lot, any kind will be released on.

Instead, here there is a danger to get a gift of the type of Techno (S) to come as he is at the time we will have all our employees such as there is no wonder, but he will take a huge fees and when you go against them due to the real benefits that will be found!

In addition to that we don't like looking at, but there is the importance of educating our neighbors to do the success in the sector that we are unable to get success in the sector that we are unable.

For sure, there are things that our neighbors are doing and succeed and that we are forced to ask for them because they can do what you want to do what we hope.

All of we started our aircraft of the year 1977 after the broke out of the former East African Community, it was going on far that they are supposed to grow and remain with a lot of big planes that remain in us.

Other years later, when the planes of our neighborhood are there at a lot of time more than just like the ground, as it is supposed to have, our us are in the ground more than just.

And even when they enter into partnership, they do not enter into partnership with organizations' agencies that were going to school "different from us we are attending to partnership with organizations that" come up by suddenly "we are announcing the tender to get into partnership with someone!

That was the process of our shoe company to their best, already they had gone against them.
Our best will be able to provide services to the villages but in the way it is not able to raise funds and then it is expected to be sold to make sure that, our neighbors are still continuing with the extent of opening our branches in our country.

It's not my intention to inform us but the poor comes in, but his right is.
We are supposed to arrive at the place and asked their leaders, to follow up on that they have people living with EPA and Jews at work, what are our leaders don't have?

Why are our leaders not to focus due to mistakes of believing that racial segregation in the partnership is the solution to the problems facing the organizations and our companies?

It's a person who did you assisted and ask for them in poor contracts and people who do not like to investors?
