Instead of
I am very happy about it is the responsibility of the government in the neighborhood, maybe the ones with people who do not want to know what the patient was a report that Mister water was carried in the first step before he has not carried out the first step before he has gone to.
Or then?
Those people have come up now they have come up to tell him just after time.
As the chairperson.
The executive director of the department of yesterday, Mister Kajubi Mukajanga, will not set the coordinator to sell their products.
I would like a mistake and put aside, but you are a parent and to write a lesson so that he will take that action.
We do not see that very true.
We have a responsibility to you maybe my opinion should be done here in Mbagala and other areas with advice and friends that do such actions as women see you have been caught up themselves as I hope that I had been caught up themselves.
In road I take a look at there, I will talk about this one who we talk to Tanzanians to discuss it.
If there was a accident that.
At least they sit in the area like this good thing, if the answers is best to remain without being paid by those women to do business along the roads that concern them.
They did not know what?
That is why we need to give an assurance that then it has got.
Not to know what?
Love like the road, I know that it is still the court who should not think of trials is same as if you like the mother and Sunday stories that previously agreed.
But also the other services continue to continue, you need alternative advice that they are coming from their girl or a youth, a person who died and I got lucky to sign him in the market.
There was a series of vehicles.
Normal will liberate them at that time through the way.
This still don't know the night of anything or in eternal peace, it happens.
There is no doubt in the news.
I was coming from.
When I saw Simon I have gone down here and it would have been an important area for vehicles that are contrary to the procedures and laws of those roads to all those who will be responsible in one way or another which will be responsible in one way or another which will be responsible for you as they have the authority.
Security of Mister.
