
You don't know how to know how you are.
One day were far in an interview between the presenter and one famous leader in certain countries, while in that time the general elections was very close to therefore, the reporter asked the leader as he was expecting to vie for the presidency of that country because he was heading to power he was heading to power.
That leader told me a reporter that he has a habit of looking at least two days in the morning before he continued to say that all the days he is looking at a mirror does not even see that she has never seen as the president.
That reporter when I asked the same leader, how can I stop looking at a mirror does not lie or it is not supposed to be president, he explained another news until a period of a period and you missed to answer that question.
If you know how you know how you are, if you take a mirror if you see you, if you can use your friend, maybe I ask you to know how you can use when you see you, but I don't see you, but I do not help me to know how we are.
One important thing more than all in life of a human being is to have a good behavior which need them to attract people.
However, as we see that there are some of the behavior that let me stop and maybe another one without caring about the behavior, we are doing so that we become difficult to make sure we become a habit, to make sure we become a habit, in our community be in our country.
So we can rule the movements of our movements and we have to discover ourselves how we are seen by other people in addition, we are forced to know if there are important things we need to change so that we can have a better behavior.
However, what issue can be able to help us because we can be able to identify themselves because he is doing so that I can be good and to ensure that everything is called and even when I saw it, there is no longer time to change my behavior. "
One man said the life of a person is like a book.
Every day he is living in the new page, he cannot change the previous page, but he can make sure that every new page that it makes us to be more better than last season.
How can I build or strengthen our private problems?
We are building a private issue as we live and serve in the world by using the doors for you, "if you see your parents saying," if you see your parents saying, "if you ask you, he did not want you to get your clothes and then let you hear their parents saying" the youth had to listen to those words just after day, up to one year until now, it gets a high table in life.
And the thing is this, he is a bad youth when he did bad things and should not be careful, but when he did good things we have a good youth and what they do is.
Also if the young man on the way does not recognize people who are attending to their house, without saying anything there will be anything which will happen today, but one day he decided to greet them and no doubt that it will have a good environment that they have contributed a good environment.
Therefore, that is how many joy is built due to the mix of information and reports from other people.
Furthermore, we have noted that private feelings have already been destroyed, due to how we believe, get experience and the feedback we got from other people.
We thank you to decide how we want to be later after knowing how we have remained with the challenge to change so that we can be very happy because they can be loved by people with his nation.
When we talk about Mandela's reputation mentioned by that person, we get pictures that the behavior which he desires to go through his life.
Perhaps, some of those who saw him and as they echoed the process that they are continuing and this is the process of thoughts that you can make someone with feelings of how he would like to be.
As a result of I have written in this article we do not have to do everything so that we can discover ourselves how we know and so we get opportunities to improve our situation so that we can be better people.
