
24 December 2012

Doctor Shein of Zanzibar values the cooperation of Korea.
The president of Zanzibar and the chairperson of Revolutions Council, Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein has made talks with the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea, Bwambalu, to explain to him that the country's step to support the agriculture for irrigation farming is little and to be added.
Reports from the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday said that Doctor Shein told the Ambassador that Zanzibar values the relationship and cooperation between him and the country and a decision by South Korea to support Zanzibar in strengthening the agricultural sector especially irrigation, is a confirmation of partnership.

It said that in those talks that took place at State House in Zanzibar, Doctor Shein gave thanks to Korea for his step and explained that those efforts are the catalyst to Zanzibar in order to increase its intention of implementing the agricultural sector.

It said that the report that Doctor Shein also congratulated the Ambassador for continuing to support Tanzania including Zanzibar in strengthening its development sector including agriculture.

Doctor Shein told the ambassador that agriculture for irrigation water has been emphasized on by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar and to make sure that great strategies have been put by the government including depending on 21 machines that can be used in that farming.

The report said that more than 700 megawatts that are available in that area have not launched irrigation infrastructure and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar is continuing with a huge project of irrigation farming for the donation of the government of the Republic of Korea where a total of 2000 megawatts have already been taken against the law.

Moreover, Doctor Shein led the idea of South Korea to start cooperation in the air travel by bringing a plane that will make one journey directly between the Korea and Zanzibar through the organizations of that country.

He explained that the step will help in increasing cooperation in line with strengthening the tourism sector here in the country by being able to get many tourists from that country.

And the Ambassador of the United Republic of Tanzania told Doctor Shein that the project of rice bran and Irrigation and its process is going on well and it is expected to start at any time.

However, the report said that the ambassador who has come to introduce himself to the president, told Doctor Shein that Korea will continue to support Zanzibar in strengthening its development sector including agriculture, and insisted that his country through the embassy of that country will take an effort to ensure he succeeds in it.

Also, the report said that in those talks, Ambassador Chocha told Doctor Shein that his country will look at the possibility of starting a one-day trip to Zanzibar through its aircraft which has already started in Kenya.

In addition, the report said that the Ambassador congratulated the strategies that had been done by the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar in strengthening its development sector while making peace and calmness in the country and congratulating the efforts of Doctor Shein in making sure that peace and stability.
