We warned and we warned them again, without mind the gas will arise!
May 31, 2013.

It started as a nuisance, but now the issue of gas benefits which affects the citizens of Mtwara and the government has begun being a big national problem, an aim of solving problems in peace and there are also preventing the government.
He explained that it is an important part in knowing the source of the problem so that it can solve. I say one directly without knowing that they don't understand their responsibilities, but they never thought a person to carry out their condolences, but they expect a person to carry out their roles as well as summoning demons.
I wish you so much the government and especially the concerned ministry of energy and minerals by using a lot of time and many national resources to make answers for the questions that do not be asked by the citizens of Mtwara.

We can't understand or misleading the claims by the citizens of Mtwara, but this did not withdraw from the truth that we have not seen the questions that are asked by the citizens of Mtwara and the citizens of Mtwara who know what is not recognized by the government, and we are not supposed to be demolished because it has been closed down?
In another way they ask the citizens of Mtwara it is because the industries or the electricity generation equipment will be constructed in Dar es Salaam and not Mtwara because the citizens want industries to get employment to their city.
Now, instead of looking for this question to calmness and try to educate citizens or agree with them, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals has brought down and claimed that all the citizens of Mtwara do not want to be used and that the country's resources are the whole country without caring where the country is not a place of the nation.
The responsibility of the citizens is to ask questions and responsibility of the government is to answer and educate them without getting tired to the citizens, therefore, the government has been unable to educate the citizens of Mtwara and claiming that they are unable to educate the citizens from Mtwara and claimed that they don't expect all to benefit from gas.
These initiatives are unable to produce environmental degradation, others do not see our colleagues in Mtwara according to our colleagues, even if they do not know if they are doing incitement.
Maybe what happens more in this scandal is when the government wants to make us believe that citizens can't know why people can be safe and believe that, citizens can't understand why people can be dependent, because citizens can't understand each other.
Different types of meaning that is between a human being and other animals such as a human being has the ability to think therefore, I can try to know or to see other people that a human beings can't know or do something to anyone else.
In my opinion, this is one of the issue that enables citizens to speak more and reach a step of doing actions that basically not is not the culture of Tanzanian to claim the rights or look for answers.
The second reason that made up to where we are in the province of Mtwara is the culture of African government leaders not to fear the citizens who will lead them in a democratic system, most of our countries have not allowed to take them to the public and therefore many of our country have not seen to be in a democratic system.
This is a system that ordinary citizens are supposed to fear the government because most of our leaders they want to be dealt with, and that is why our leaders of energy and minerals are understood, and that is why many leaders of energy and minerals are understood, and that is why our leaders are appointed by the head of the country and again using the official stage as a parliament.
The gas problem is in Mtwara and it is a picture of how we don't fail to prevent our natural resources, all of this is because the government has decided to do things without the citizens to know where up to today, there is no dangerous culture in the administration where the government can't know members of parliament.
Now, when a person did not be in darkness, he will be forced to do anything and what is what happened in Mtwara province, and this is the nation with great economic resources and especially to make sure that every time they get to mental disabilities, especially to make sure that every time they get more than mental disabilities.
