
728 patients were kidnapped in Muhimbili.

It has been written by Hellen Mlenda.

I was published in October 17, 2016.

Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) that is in the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in Dar es Salaam has done an operation to 728 patients in the period of January to September 30th this year and therefore save more than 1 billion shillings.

That operation has costed 1 billion Tanzanian shillings and if it is in India they would have costed 32 billion shillings.
The Director of Research of that institution, Doctor Pedro Pallaghe said that yesterday in Dar es Salaam city when they were receiving a donation of 303 million shillings from three institutions involved in helping them including heart problems, to get surgery services.
That institution has handed over money for those funds including the M and M Bank (T) Limited company which has given 222 million shillings and Children Trust Fund which has given 422 million shillings.
Doctor Pallaghe said that among the 94 people were operated on with a special machine, "Catholb" and 234 others were tested for a normal heart for the period of January to September this year.
In addition, he said that for last year, 234 patients were operated on with a special machine of Catholds and 204 households have been operated on as usual.
"This situation shows that, how we have been increasing our efforts to provide services in the year up to last year, it will also start a special service of testing the pregnant women so as to check if their children have cases of heart disease," said Doctor Pallana.
Speaking after handing over the donation, the Executive Director of the M and M Bank (T) Limited Company, alamana Mohammed, said that bank will continue to participate in various activities to help the community as its contribution in contributing to economic development.
Secretary of NCCR, Charts, Parthiban Chandeka said that in last year they had helped 100 children to be responsible for heart surgery in the institution and requested various institutions to support these efforts so as to help reduce the effects of heart problems.
While giving thanks for that donation, the Executive Director of JKCI, Professor Mohamed Janabi, said the operation of those patients will end in the middle of November and urged pregnant women to come out in large numbers in that institution for purposes of going for investigation.
