
Another 12 schools are expected.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published on May 6th, 2016.

The Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training has canceled the previous schools and primary schools in the country that are not registered more than 10 schools from December last year. Moreover, five out of 40 schools have been canceled as registration have completed procedures and forced to attend to its registration.

The acting director of the school registration in that ministry, Khadija Mchaga has said that until now, they are still continuing with inspection to identify schools that are still not registered.
He mentioned the schools that have been sacked from not registered as they are Mwandwani Market, primary primary schools in Kinondoni district and others are the primary school of Same District, Verbania Italy which is in Kigamboni District and Hokororo displaying the Junior of Temeke District.
He said other schools followed by the Kaondo Secondary School which has been canceled due to the cause of running mate and also its buildings have been changed to use, he said other schools in Dar es Salaam have been impressed by the names of the owners.
Mchaga said that two schools are not supposed to do that the dormitories are headed to Ukonga, Ukonga, Morogorogo.
Speaking about the various schools that were taken in the registration, he said that it is Grisham, Rose Land, Contruction, Contruction and Grace, in Dar es Salaam city and Muskat Maliya and Qunu Village that are in Pwani province, Mugini of Dar es Salaam.
While clarifying about that school of Coner Stone said that after inspection, registration starting from the month of July, there are schools that were allocated a procedure and moved out of registration, and that there is no school that was described as a result of false accusations.
"About those schools that complained was said, it is not true but an issue that took place after taking a letter urged the students to make the students after the registration were completed," he insisted.
He said that the inspection of the school is going on in all provinces in the country by using traffic police and those who will be canceled until when they are continuing the criteria required.
"But the second kind are those that are not registered and are not run against the law which were following procedures can be given registration," explained the acting director of the school registration.
He said in that period up to August this year, after the announcement of wanting to register four primary schools, those were earlier on 105 and 19 secondary schools, arrived at the ministry for the purpose of getting registration procedures whereby they are registered and others given the permits.
He said in the registration, there were injured and others were given instructions and given permits for using the buildings while others are given permits for building school buildings before getting the registration, he said that the school they used to buy students from schools that are registered for their cost without considering the students.
He mentioned the schools carried out for running its activities without registration being the previous primary school, Muskat Maliwata, St Thomas Dwayne Johnson, St Colombo, Upendo Singu, Upendo Singinika Somba, Upendo Singinika Somba, Wanigeria Nkwankwo Kanu, Zekirer, Elisabab, Wanigeria Nkingwa, Zekirer, Upendo Singinika Sendo.
Other are Coast Islamic, St Kizito and Rwena from Kagera Province, Donde and Magogo who participated in Geita City, Janet Mbene and Magogo who succeeded in Geita City and I'm in Dar es Salaam and I'm in Iringa town.
