The volatile situation is One-2.
Brightiles 19, 2015.

The Minister of Energy and Minerals, George Simbachawene, at the end of the week (Friday) made a surprise visit to the gold mine located in Mererani Town, Simanjiro District, and said that the company changed the mistakes that arose in running that mine.
The surprise visit by the Prime Minister has come just two days after this newspaper in the last week (number 418) to remove the information that the company is called "Masau boasted.
The money is depending on the contributions of more than 800 employees which was not submitted to NSSF between June 2014 to July 2015 and also the company is alleged to have various services billions of money.
In addition to that news, the company was accused that it has employed more than 80 workers from India who have no permits for working in the country and also they are doing the legal work that are supposed to be done by our fellows.
In their claims, the employees of that company also complained that those investors are running that gold mine in the country and they do not have any expertise to run the company to attract minerals.
The Proin Promotion Company, currently is a subsidiary companies of Sky Associate production company that bought TBL Group which is claimed that it has been registered in Hong Kong City. The step of buying that company is still being marred by controversy.
According to the information from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Sky Associate production company owned by a business person in Hong Kong, having 40 percent shares worth 40 percent and UDA-35 percent.
In addition, the mine for now is run in collaboration between the investors company with 50 percent of the shares in the mining industry and the National Mining Corporation (STAMICO) that is 50 percent as part of the implementation of the mining law of the year 2010 that caused minerals of mineral that will be mentioned by young people or in partnership with visitors.
The minister's tour.
The efforts of getting the prime minister was not able to succeed but the information that was found out of that mine explained that when he was in that mine, the minister made a session together with the leadership of the girl child One, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that he officially launched a group photo with 6 people's leadership, Thobias Sedoyeko has also launched a group photo with 6 people.
That committee, in accordance with those reports, its chairman is one of the directors of that team DOne Faisal Juma Duni Haji, and his delegates are Hussein Gonga, Khalfan Haazu who represent Tanzania.
Three other delegates from Stamiko is Engineer Diaries Ngonyani, (Director of KULEA Childcare), Asha Ngoma (member) and Professor Ruth Meena (member).
In addition, the minister also asked the management about the news that was published by our citizens, where the leadership revealed that some of the allegations are true and they were in the process of improving the condition of the religion in that religion.
"Minister emphasized that the workers who have been brought from India will rise up quickly and look for the permits in order to meet the requirements of the country," explained our statement.
"In that, Simbachawene was tough and urged the investors to the minister emphasized about being followed by laws of the country and that in issue of employment we should be given priority, otherwise there is no reason for investment to take place in the country.
More reports are indicating that even so, the leadership of the company made "Famy" to bring back some of the local workers in the department of analysis and to increase the mining licenses (SMS) after seeing the minister inspecting the mine.
That action was aimed at bringing up the minister claims that it was not recognized about the employment of local employment which were brought down by employees who are brought to India.
The statement of the girl child One.
Speaking to Good Citizen on phone, one of the directors of that company, Faisal Issa Machibya, confessed the Minister Simbachawene a tour in that mine and added that his tour was for the purpose of launching that committee.
"The minister was forced to launch that committee which for sure it has great responsibilities of managing the mine from administration activities, extraction, and the distribution of revenue that are found," explained the director.
He said other responsibilities of that committee is to ensure that the mining of minerals in that mine is sustainable by considering the regulations, procedures and regulations of the mining activities.
