
By Bashir Nkoromo, Dar es Salaam City.
December 18, last year, Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) announced that it will pay all phones found to be counterfeit after the first six months of this year, that is from January to June.
For that meaning it has maintained approximately three months from the moment so that the authority will look for all fake phones and its owners don't be able to get communication.
The truth is that the current world is communication and everyone likes to be in the air, "communicate with brothers, relatives, and friends every time.
That is why the use of mobile phones have been growing very fast in the recent years.
Mussa Mwaikyusa, a resident of Dar es Salaam, says he was forced to buy a mobile phone to help him simplify his business plans.
"I live here in Dar es Salaam but I come from Mbeya Region, I came here for business and my family is in Mbeya Province, I am taking goods from there and get them here especially bananas and potatoes.
"Many times I usually use my mobile phone to communicate with my family as well as informing them to prepare for me another load when I am almost finishing the one I have," he says.
Mwaikyusa says he bought his Samsung type phone from one shop in Dar es Salaam for 80,000 shillings.
"It has good communication, but I have heard about the information that TCRA will look for it when I arrived in June and I have tried to ask if you said that if it is real or fake I have noticed that they are fake," says in sadness.
Mwaikyusa right now is in the process of buying another new phone and he is insisting that before he leaves the shop where he will sell the phone, he will make the numbers given by TCRA to know if it's real or not.
Mary Kazaula says she once bought a phone from 20,000 shillings at a shop in Kariakoo, where she was given two weeks time to check on it.
"Three years ago I bought and went to my home before two weeks, I was surprised when I was to give him but I had gone to buy, but I was forced to go down, but I have seen the money," he says.
The truth is that Kariakoo market is the popular area where many business people sell every type of phones at different prices.
And for many years the traders have been selling those phones that resemble the real phone and different types of phones without caring about the quality of the equipment.
Due to fake products that sell taxes, Tanzania has been losing a big amount of revenue from the sales and even the value-added tax (VAT) and also other taxes as well as other government levies.
According to some reports, fake phones that were involved in an official market have made approximately ten percent of sales all over the world and the level can increase in fake phones that are effects to the users and even their loved ones.
Also other effects are together with the destruction of the network and to own poor products.
