There are news just reaching us immediately from our news headlines, reports are saying that more than 40 passengers of the Indian Ocean and Mchuchuma company from the city and they have survived, after that plane getting rid of three tires when he was at the airport of Kigoma.
They need a fence from Kigoma, he explains that the type of contraception is only four times where there is a number of signing.
Fifth time.
The number Joseph Mungai was shocked when they were in the circulation of giving out at the field at around ten o'clock and one was due to the attempt and it was not known immediately when they get transport due to the servants of Kigoma and wait for instructions from Dar es Salaam.
And there in Zanzibar Islands, the president of Zanzibar.
Ali Mohamed Shein has appointed the judge of the High Court of Zanzibar, when he made a chance to lead in a ten-wheeled motorcycles which happened on July ten and eight in this year and caused the deaths of eighty people and one with the secretary general of the council before this time.
The explanation that the president of Zanzibar has done the appointment under the law of the commission for investigation on the sixth and three of the law of Zanzibar.
The delegates that make that commission as well as well as an elder Captain Abdul Razaq Yusuf when he arrived to the deputy secretary of his ward.
We are happy to come from Omar Kopa, Major General, fever and Shabani Ramadhan, who is the secretary of the commission.
The commission has ever done the investigation on an accident to say that EMEMKWA centers that caused the deaths of hundreds of people in September last year and gave different recommendations including being arraigned in court that he was involved in an accident.
The commission has been announced as the minister of infrastructure and communication Mister Hamad Masoud while announcing his resignation from his position after the second accident which had lasted for that position for a period of four months.
Not because you know what I have?
But the time to be accountable.
So you arrived.
There is this one?
To me.
I say it is a big step.
In another step.
Chama Cha Mapinduzi has appointed the representative of Vunjo constituency who was the minister of arts and communication Mister Hamad Masoud, his decision to be accountable after the occurrence of the accident.
Speaking to journalists, the director for human rights, outreach and communication has been advised to ensure that Mister Hamad Rashid has no mistake of he didn't like carelessness but take them that step with an aim of carrying a political bail, something that is better to be followed here in the country.
A Revolutionary Party.
It has revealed.
It is enough that Honorable Hamad Masoud Hamad.
He has no mistake or he did not want jokes in any way.
Where he has taken that step in order to carry the bond of politics.
To protect his honor.
Why Zakaria is captain of Zanzibar.
Thank you granite is that until now the bodies of people who have been unable to understand are ten and one of increasing the number of people who will be sold to ninety minutes and two others have not yet known.
