
The institution has contributed 100 million shillings to disaster.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has received a check of value of 140 million shillings, construction equipment and food valued at 325 million shillings for purposes of expanding the earthquake disaster in Kagera province on September 10, this year.

While receiving that donation, Majaliwa he was thankful, six groups that arrived at his office to present the check for the purpose of helping those servants and said that it is a continuation of those involved in the matter for continuing to provide what they have.
He said that all that contributed the contributions will give them to the citizens of Kagera through the security committee of the province.
"All the donations we want to thank us, we will make our ways to thank in writing and through this contribution is why I see Kagera has come out to come out so that our colleagues continue with their lives as usual," said Majaliwa.
The institutions that presented the contribution is the Vodacom mobile company and Vodacom Foundation has gave 100 million shillings, the LAPF Pension Fund (20 million shillings), religious institutions of Shishi (20 million) and construction equipment valued at six million shillings.
The other one is the construction company of Shamo World Foundation that gave 40 tons of cement worth 165 million shillings, Institute of Natural Resources of Lennarth Hknown as leadership and Leaders of Education Link which has given 16 million shillings.
That earthquake took place on Saturday, September 10, this year and caused the deaths of 17 people and 440 people were injured in the provincial hospital, 153 were killed, 113 were found and allowed them to get treatment where 23 people were badly destroyed and they are going on well.
Also, the earthquake has caused 2,081 houses to fall down while 14,081 houses having a dangerous environment after getting a mixture of 471 points while the small destruction was 12,015 as they need various donations.
