
The government expects a good environment in the private sector.

It has been written by me.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The government has said that it will continue to put a good environment for investors from private sectors which have had great contribution in the energy and minerals sector.

Speaking at a seminar for energy and energy between Norway and Tanzania yesterday in Dar es Salaam city, the secretary general of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Professor Adolf Mkenda, said the private sector is contributing to the growth of the economy in various sectors.
He said that the sectors have been helping the availability of electricity in various areas, thus in conjunction with Norway, they will improve the sector to prevent and skills of energy issues to learn modern technology.
"The partnership between us and Norway started several decades ago on the improvement of the fifth phase government, the cooperation in improving the energy and private sector has been given an opportunity to invest and cooperate with business," said Professor Shivji.
The Ambassador of Norway in the country Hanne-Marie Kaarstand said that the aim of that seminar is to increase the number of investors in the energy sector by using the improvement of stakeholders from Norway and Tanzania.
He said through that seminar, 80 representatives from the private sector and public institutions will know how the modern practices used by Norway which are among the leaders in the sector that produce water energy.
"The private sector is the important stakeholder in the development of the energy sector here in Tanzania and Norway where we have a long-term ability on the energy sector, thus by partnering with you, this sector will be successful," said Ambassador Kaarstand and added that Norway is the sixth producer in the world in production and sustainable energy energy and that it has been in use by 95 percent.
He also said 14 companies from Norway are the ones that provide training about the sector by making gas to be used to produce electricity energy together with skin disability, which could be used in the production.
The Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, Doctor Juliana Pallaghe told the government of Norway for its contribution in the sector through different programs including construction development and renovation of special electricity machines and fund funds for the purpose of electricity production.
He said the government will continue to appreciate their contribution and that they will continue to cooperate with the purpose of bringing development in the country.
