
Technology has helped the agricultural sector to have a new system of production of production.
The efficiency of Kenya technology, has helped to strengthen the agricultural sector in the country, while Kenya is continuing to hold the first position in agriculture production and production of various crops depending with the International Service Access Fund (ISACA), there are five new products in the agricultural sector in the country that is continuing to be researched on so as to welcome him from the farms.
The Tanzania Agricultural Research Agency (TFDA), has started an effort to expand the agricultural and cotton industries to eliminate the production of plants in that plants.
In a period of the current budget, the government built 37 billion shillings to strengthen the production of food in the efforts to fight the cost of hunger in the country.
Those funds were able to uplift the projects of man's attraction to sell water, fishing and to provide medicine for livestock in order to improve livestock in the country.
Likewise, the government has given 26 billion shillings for a plan to save food and pay for the cargo of buying seedlings and equipment for the farm.
By the year 2016, the fertilizer factory will have started its work according to President Uhuru Kenyatta, who said that the contract has been given a company that Totoo Zebingwa, for now the government has invested 3 billion shillings to be used for farmers.
The government has emerged a special organization to supervise and expand the projects of man's attraction to produce water tools and for now 54,162 people from their areas are under the program.
"By the year 2017 we want to have one million pounds under the program of man's amounts of 5 billion shillings issued for this program and another 1 billion shillings were used to expand the agricultural project of Mombasa," said President Kenyatta, at the agricultural show of Mombasa this year.
Agriculture contributes to 25 percent of the income of Kenya and 65 percent of products that were shot outside the country, this means that any changes in the agricultural sector and many effects in the national economy.
By Bashir Yakub.
