
Well, what does it mean?

It has been written by Hudugu Ng'amilo.

I was published, 08 October, 2016.

The maize flour and breast cancer is sold at the shops, urban areas are not safe due to its implementation, lack of requirements while preventing maize so as to get that donation, it has been explained.

The research that was done by this newspaper in Tandale at Kinondoni Municipality, Dar es Salaam where there is a lot of food digestion system, that was revealed that many of suffering from maize are doing so without the required levels.
The effects of the health to the consumers have been confirmed by the experts from the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (TFDA).
The research has shown that, after the maize being aired on the Tandale machines from big traders who depend on a lot of maize, clean water takes place and started falling directly while laying a little water for the purpose of helping that project.
Although the sponsors are not supposed to start by putting him in order to remove various waste in the maize, which are normal to participate in the farm up to the conservation, it has been revealed that they go directly, without doing that.
This newspaper has noted that it's unable to be accountable because the conditions came from lack of supervision of the relevant requirements for investigation, which is not considered if they can have the effects of consumers.
After realizing that distribution of maize that doesn't maintain conditions, this newspaper witnessed some of the professionals in the agricultural sector, including from the solar eclipse which is a high level one with a solution to follow up security of food, who have explained that there is happening and clean water is against the procedure.
Officer in charge of quality services of the board, Sarah Ngapa, said that most of the maize use drugs for breast cancer when they get married to try to sell it.
He said there are some of the farmers that despite using those drugs, but they fail to consider the quality of maize flour and therefore doing part of the maize produce so as to make sure the chemicals be used to ensure the chemicals used to save in the country.
"Other farmers use drugs for the maize that are in store, now, because of the diversity in the systems they put aside, therefore there is a great need to make it better and to dodge each type of dirty that will be found," said Sarah.
He went on more by saying that in order to get the sun, there is a better way to grind using the maize whereby he said it is supposed to have been condemned and remain the cause.
He added that under stigmatization that doesn't maintain quality, drinking alcohol, thus failing to give them safe.
He said lack of maize that doesn't maintain quality standards in general you can have bad poison that can cause cancer cancer and the growth of the child, reducing the body's immunity and especially in the mud.
Those information professionally is indicate that clean water on the maize that doesn't affect the safety of consumers, because the scholars of the roads are getting enough to get profit and not to consider the conditions.
The spokesman of TFDA, Gaudensia Simwanza says that the authority has been giving education a clean water from the maize flour to consider the conditions of that activity.
He said that farmers are required to put drugs for the maize that is waiting for within three months and then sell those maize.
He noted that TFDA is looking on the effects of maize flour and drinking water especially those who engage in bags and bring in the market to ensure that they are politically discriminated against the logo of the authority.
The research of this newspaper has revealed that they are waiting to live and sell directly, 's shop or sell in the hotel without considering the conditions of professionalism, they will produce food and not safe.
