It is not only candidates, we should lead all camp - 1.
28th of 13, 2015.

On September 3, this year in 1971, the sixth page of Uhuru Newspaper reached a special letter of "secret" that was presented by the source of information of the newspaper.
It is not a small event, it is a big event of many times in these times to look for the presidential candidate who is keen.
It was a secret letter from one company of Switzerland, that had a special song to the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Julius Nyerere, together with the Minister of Finance, Amir Jamal.
Those letter written by Mwalimu Nyerere and Minister Jamal, all of August 5, 1971.
It is a letter that talking to Mwalimu Nyerere and Minister Jamal, to enter the secret agreement with the company so that it can be approved by a special account in Switzerland, because they would have been able to collect tax (not in Tanzania).
That company told Mwalimu Nyerere and Jamal, that the plan will have great importance and will be supervised by experts with a doctorate degree in that company, to make sure that they are able to protect the secret of their customers.
The news that was surprised about the issue to understand the way of the letter saying, the only two people of our company are the ones who will give information to your Joomla website.
"Our heads are faithful and they depend on, the expert of economy and the champion of politics and the lawyer - all of a doctorate degree and skills of many years in the financial business that is run in our company."
"They know how to stand firm to oppose any problem, more than the great secret which is known which is in Switzerland, it is also available in our company, therefore, there is no one who knows the sun about flatulence."
According to the company, if you go through a teacher (Mwalimu Nyerere) or a person you don't want to know your money for money. "
Without doubt, the letter released on the newspaper was given a consent to or Mwalimu Nyerere one directly or through the minister Jamal.
If I have explained, this example is one of the top foundations of the article that I will write about the presidential race for this year 2015, to show a lot of integrity between the head of the country and people who help him to implement its responsibilities in different levels to be a minister or even advice on several levels of leadership.
This letter gives us to recognize that, for now, for now, for now, its meaning is to choose because its aides are "strength" to enter the State House with the aides they can have the strength of corruption and integrity of the concerned country.
By voters, it should be on the party meetings or otherwise, it is not only to add a doubt or check the integrity of the concerned candidate, but it is also a need to help journalists in the State House, to the extent of their absence from the prime minister.
For these, we will continue with a total of these articles, I will be able to do the analysis of aides or lack of five in every presidential camp so as to reduce the camp and eventually know the camp is very dangerous to try to attend the State House as a high place.
I will do that by going back to the Mwalimu Nyerere example that if it was a result of a problem with integrity, it could not have any difficulty on the Prime Minister Jamal Malinzi and other ministers who came into their position against the Mwalimu Nyerere ethics, but they did not want their decision to choose what?
His way here is that for now, for the current candidates, especially those with a shortage of integrity, it is important to bring together people with a huge deficit of integrity and one of them, we should help them to meet with them in their condition of a shortage of ethics.
Let us think about this situation where it will be a shortage a problem (a shortage) of integrity, reduce the shortage of integrity among the senior aides, when getting in the State House what will happen?
