Most of the local governments have not yet given a full report that happened recently, he will receive one citizen of Mwanza province that has died from the Ebola disease even so the government we know that there is no child.
An ancient attack.
We gave you the view where I have visited various issues of what to get the views of the citizens about it.
Where many who know them have come from us because they benefit from the youth and the Ebola disease, cold drinks without journalists, has announced about God, there is need.
It depends on the environment of Tanzanian shillings on how he is in Dar es Salaam city, I think about you to go and even when I went to you even when I was looking at travel infrastructure where these buses are in the city we are doing.
And the lack of buying each other because without other people we go to another team, this structure will continue in other African countries to maintain our environment that we have not found in this minute, it is still a situation that they have not done this minute, the government cannot be made a procedure of distributing the elderly.
Most citizens are very close to October and his partner.
Mi ward to be rushed to the villages that will be paid thus I have.
EfG officers go to African Prayer for all the days in the villages, education is very much and as stakeholders.
Ebola did a word.
United Nations, I was there and then it was also full of it's only to be.
Or if it is difficult, I have seen the wind in front of it.
When you go to you, we must know when I went to her.
And in this, we have not decided to bad luck that the tests showed that the phone is not wrong.
There is no shock and we have been fear in our country of our country?
So we want to promote themselves as it is possible for people to take research early, they can decide and check and check the children from the neighboring countries they can come to our country so that nobody would like us to come here, so that we recognize them so that we want them to succeed in us.
And as possible, if someone has bad luck, Tanzanians must have doctors and help them to talk about them because of giving them a seminar and symptoms of this disease so that every time you get in hospital for the purpose of bringing life.
Our still has not been found.
Educate the citizens about this disease it was written that it is dangerous number can endanger the life.
When I have not got all the problems of we were told everything that we are supposed to do or maybe there are these symptoms of this disease so as to provide information early to the concerned areas so that people can address early more than the same time.
Trying to ask ourselves that citizens should give that disease.
The first to get to you, there is a daughters in my mind, because we cannot be a strong member of parliament that we need to build a special needs for Mister Rwegashora decided to avoid many things.
Having been arrested I was with my colleagues.
Changes, George is the first to put a lesson there are air stations, most of them have come out of many times that they had come out if many are still a prayerful person that they decided to test their votes.
Tanzanians to educate us still while others who were interviewed they wanted the government to invest more in the solar energy equipment, by the borders and the plane that has caused any person that has become a disease when it is still many.
We are told the plans to reduce someone with better person?
And there is Africa a patient.
Was introduced.
Follow up.
It has been seen and he has been buried.
Being someone to fail in a picture of what is going through.
The government through its ministry has denied its claims that there is an Ebola disease and said that we have plans to ban a good person that is still set on.
Meat in bed is one of the best drought of the disease.
Why are the efforts to take place at the port ground for those buses and like.
When the right time you get news about the newspapers and say that we are still a new farmers to the answer, maybe if the band has caused the borders of the country but to them, I don't know then, or the member of parliament are forced to go to Nairobi for the purpose of going to Nairobi.
Father and I give you.
Maybe it is coming from our parliamentarians who focus in large numbers to send some residents to loose in Nairobi.
Against Ghana.
Funds should also be able to prevent it is big and consider some of the big percentage they have been sent away from work.
Gatherings when we see in these neighborhoods if the opening I went to where Coastal is an example to sit for the councilor that you did not agree that Ebola has brought up until now there should be a phone from here if he says that there is a phone here in the country.
Determined, we will decide it to be possible by the person to see and say now is example of the disease which is underway here.
From East African countries, according to the health organization in the world, more than five thousand people lost their lives.
, Fally Ipupa from Misri.
