The topic in front of us think it has been announced first to start with the meaning of investment.
Investors in a easy way we have said that it is a way to do your money?
Money for money.
Now, we believe that you believe that, I've heard a economy, he does not show a lot of money so that the preparations have already said that when he came to him followed by an offense.
Other 'so money can be even the ones that came from.
If you want to be yet, your impatient is that investment in soccer news, the preparations have never been found that we will produce another money, I commend the players.
I think this I understood now, I cannot get into one topic because what has already been delayed in investment and it's true that which has been since the first time is for a success.
If we have been wrong, a success was written because we failed to invest in football.
There is a certain thing, I would like to use so much and they added me that because they are usually, so as' do not like, get married or get married because they do not live.
Opening the success the day all days is the car.
If you expect to get achievements, that is not a car.
Now Tanzanians don't start investing that it was difficult to get success for now, the time he will love you as parents in the whole sports issue because we have found themselves that in soccer.
Continuing with eNewz I think we have not continued to invest more, it has resulted in a lot.
Another thing causes lack of good leaders.
We are saying the leader.
The preparations should be first in order to ensure that the patient gets a must to get a thing.
Now, even the leaders who were in the game was hunger, I have heard his father and gave a example to our country, the neighboring country of Kenya.
Currently, he has only plays outside the late father and he did not go back to small town to play in a friendly match because if there was a leader, it does not have faith, but we think this, but the end of the leadership is true, but the end of the leadership is true, but the end of the leadership is true.
Another thing we have failed to have players living.
That players are.
I leave you to meet in provinces where I was a player even one day is that we have forgotten the concept of my dear friend called me, I'm looking for a question that here I've seen him, I am very happy and to leave a question but there would have a lot of investment by seeing Christopher Lissa.
As players who have great morale and give me a good thing, relatives and grateful for a lot of information, giving thanks to the reasons, I will get married and leave when I will do when I will do.
What does the introduction of us to invest in Tanzania?
Usually, claims to explain the delay of investment by contraception?
For Tanzanians why you ask you not to invest in spreading efforts of investing their money to invest in power so as to produce the current players they are marrying.
When announcing that only, you have not released the meaning of at work when they see our market for foreign people and within their homes, you will expire all over the whole where I will go down here and what will it be used to do what you are doing?
Then something when it arrived.
Investment from investment and affected with the support of God is that.
Her honey?
The late God rest the players of a big age and who use experience.
He said in which we can use us.
Simba and Yanga up to Azam FC if you follow very happy about for all players, you can't see a lot in his bed sheets, you can't see if you can get a big number more than how many times you do not want to get spoilt due to human beings they do not want.
As a result of that situation, the situation of not knowing the players their responsibilities because it is crossing borders.
Do you know that there is a problem of us?
