Dust and Father Dumu.
By giving me.
I am saying.
A fire is not fire.
I see it was not doing exercises for a time to read, when he decided to together with things we have to talk about him in this meeting.
Thank you very much, the chairman for giving me this opportunity to be able to read names like I was called 'Mike right), a person's house is going on in that district, which he did in that province.
I would like to read you!
On the things I have giving information to the meeting, the youth I request that they have requested to land to take care of the call.
It has been able to buy industries to process three times youths in the country after those youths of Komba having different loans.
The names of those youths are not available.
It is being released.
To be released for agriculture equipment together with livestock and livestock.
Six will follow.
Processing of production.
The youth have added me.
PSG has found his crops being opened.
Without giving them the drugs, we request that there is a reduction of production of its produce that I want to use your produce through it, this will take food to start a few months if this food will end and start using and start using the last time.
When we have seen that you have forgotten the technical colleges (technical colleges), it means cold has been built in technical colleges yesterday they will be able to get employment for their employment to them and they will know our brothers to be in them and self-Swahili people are saying.
There is no first one and at the end.
Therefore, we have seen all in our province of fighting.
Almighty God universities in the youth.
The youth will be able to answer.
The purpose of them and on the side are self-employed.
What is it?
And with various work, they are saying that this in the employment opportunities of self-self-employed, they say it is supposed to know how many people do you know how many people up to the end of your life and this one of the issues will also discuss or sit down from those chairman while opening the meeting.
I desire to thank the honorable while so as to study as we want to talk about it, as to commend the secretary.
Thank you very happy, the one clapping as a child who we have.
If I would like to take this opportunity to welcome him, the coordinator from the International Agency for someone to speak a few questions.
Chairman and the secretary and all the delegates of the youth group want to be happy with your discussions, I have followed up since the beginning to the end.
Hayatou, for a name is called very fast, assistant superintendent of terms of platform and child and young people.
I will give Tanzania to give an opportunity to the youth to talk about the problems or different issues that are facing them to prevent them to get their development in the community.
This opportunity has been released through the campaign is because I am a girl or in the foreign language, "my.
The late?
This is giving an opportunity to the young man and female children so as to be swept away from the problems that it gives them the community, the government will support the policies and different people so that they can agree to identify that.
In discussing the section of the Almighty God create employment and different issues with the school, it is not sure that it helps the girl child or female children to help him in different levels.
If he is self-employed, that they will avoid anything related to someone and a girl or when I am self-employed and even if I get a girl or a girl, then I'll get a girl or a girl and therefore I commend him for discussions regarding how I have been sure.
Different stakeholders have made parents to hear the community I have written the society and I think that I think it will not be discussed in the use of the phone sector which have been built for living in cooperation.
