
CUF has given a statement to Lipumba, the registrar.

September 28, 2016.

The National Executive Council of CUF have met yesterday at an emergency meeting that took place at CUF headquarters, Zanzibar and gave a declaration of dismissing him from the chairman of CUF, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba from yesterday.
Also, the council has given a statement of not knowing the position, advice from the registrar of political parties in the country, Judge Francis Mutungi to recognize Professor Lipumba be the legal chairperson.
The report that was given by CUF yesterday, said the session of the council was prepared by the national executive committee according to the Constitution of the Revolutionary Party in the year 2014, article 80 (1).
That sitting was attended by 43 members out of 53 in the National Executive Council and discuss the three agenda presented by the executive committee to be discussed in order to undergo a decision.
The agenda is to discuss the letter of Judge Mutungi of September 23 this year, to receive and discuss the charges against Professor Lipumba due to evidence that he did in September 24th, this year at the CUF executive office, Buguruni in Dar es Salaam.
Another thing is to discuss and questioned Professor Lipumba before the session and presented action against them, after the discussion meeting, the council has refused to advice, stand and direction of Judge Mutungi that made him through his letter.
According to the report, the law of political parties in the year 1992, Sura Sirambi has decided to give the registrar's registrar, the ability to give advice from political parties concerning the decisions of the party meetings.
That report said by recognizing that, that's why the statements did not mention the registrar, he has failed to mention one of the law that gives the ability to give that ability and claimed that, the council has directed the secretary general of CUF to give him a letter of Judge Mutungi in writing so as to inform the decision that they took.
"Constitutional time the council is the one with the authority of managing the party, it has not been given advice.
The stand and direction of the registrar, has thrown out the logic, issue and legal action.
"The council needs the registrar that he will give a bond of all that was done by Professor Lipumba and his group raided the CUF office, to make people, to make destruction due to his private statement," said the report.
The charges against Lipumba?
That council passed the charges against Professor Lipumba, which was organized by the executive committee that is in accordance with the party's constitution, article 108 that is organizing the discipline of the party at the national level and presented its recommendations.
The report said the council has been done with the committee to follow all the rules of the constitution of the year 1992 for organizing those charges due to Professor Lipumba, breaking the party's constitution, article 12 that concern the responsibility of a member. "
About the interview.
The council has been reported in being satisfied by the executive committee called themselves as Professor Lipumba, a letter asked the audience to be in the session to give information about the accusations that are facing him by defending himself because that action taken against them in accordance with the party's constitution.
"We have appeared before being interviewed by Professor Lipumba against this sitting because not getting to him, this is a high level with the authority of managing the party's leadership, which shows how to respect and honesty is the party.
"Because of not getting to him, the council also had reasons for continuing to discuss and take action against him but it has been satisfied with his charges to lead and supervise the party's property, thus causing security guards to break our honor," he clarified that statement.
As a result of that act, the council was using its capacity in accordance with article 10 (1) (C), all the 43 votes of his delegates condemned the membership card, Professor Lipumba.
"The Executive Council has set aside that, starting today (yesterday), Professor Lipumba has no right to be involved in any way and any party activities.
We are giving their condolences to members who were affected from the step of the registrar to intervene in the party contrary to the ability to join with Professor Lipumba, his group raided the office, "added that report.
