
Business challenges is an obstacle to the economy of industries.
The fifth term government has set aside great progress in the construction of industries.
In the speech by President John Magufuli that he made in parliament on November 5, he emphasized that the industry sector has a great responsibility of taking Tanzania to the middle economy by the year 2025.
"My give me and on the fact, the efforts of the fifth term government will be in the construction of low-income economy, where most of them have reduced, there is the improvement of industries because we shall begin and ensure that they work," said President Magufuli.
The industries sector contributes up to four percent of the National Identification Authority, giving employment to young people who do work in small and medium industries, this sector has a responsibility to promote industries and to bring economic changes in various industries in the country.
In the recent years, this sector has been due to the growth of small industries like small industries, food and products related to albinism, processing, food, cement, 150 plastic chairs and programs that have been organized by ministry of industry, trade, and investment.
That amount of 107 trillion shillings is needed to cater for the implementation of the national development plan that is being implemented in a period of five years from the year 2016 to 2021 (that plan will depend on the collection of tax and is supposed to ensure Tanzania becomes a country of industries.
After handing over the second phase of development, the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Phillip Mpango said that in those funds, 59 trillion shillings will be offered by the government, with the only thing of 48 trillion shillings that are as a result of private sectors as well as loans and donations from outside.
While giving thanks to the management of the program, Doctor Mpango said that every year the government will give 78 trillion shillings and that during the five years of the program, the government will have given a total of 59 trillion shillings.
He said the second area of the cost of that program will be popular while the private sector, loans and donations from outside and that the government has put a good environment for the private sector to invest in development projects.
He said the country has invested in the construction of industries, it gives donations from outside and that is due to the experience of other countries that put strategies in investment of industries.
"Our logic is that the country does not have a specific strategy to collect money to enable the implementation of this program to success," said Doctor Mpango.
Doctor Mpango said that the funds to cater for the program will get the collection of tax and those that are not tax, whereby the government has aligned big projects as an example that coal is safe and steel mines.
Also, another area is the construction of the central railway and improving transport infrastructure for the national development plan for the year 2016 / 17, has shown the priorities, four universities has been forced to promote industries for the aim of making the country to fulfill the objectives of being a central economy by the year 2025.
Those priorities is to have industries to grow the economy, protect themselves on development of economy and human resources, to put a conducive environment for running business and investment and the fourth priority is to supervise the implementation of the program.
In those priorities, all sectors will be viewed as a result of improving infrastructure including industries, agriculture, health, education, and human resources for making sure the country reaches its goals to become a central economy.
In that implementation, industries that had died and the ones that are not run by benefit from others started in order to increase the production of value-income and growing income from the nation as a whole.
Doctor Mpango said the only way to get sustainable development is to invest in industries and that is the way that is used by many countries in the world and Tanzania has decided to organize themselves economically by there.
The challenge of industries is the ones that involves the key to the economic and social development in the country because of its ability to make a lot of employment.
The report of the industries sector in the East African region that was released last year says that the sector is not only for the nation's engines to improve the economy, but also to change the lives of citizens.
That report is emphasizing on the use of technology, the purpose of production as well as controlling the industries and other economic sector.
The report that brought together the countries of Tanzania, Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, have reduced and Uganda which is part of the research on the industry sector being sponsored by the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation (TPSF), Godfrey Simbeye, said that any country, which requires to be independent in its budget is the first to improve the selling of its products that are added worth outside the country.
"The country that use foreign products in large numbers like Tanzania did not expect to be independent, so that any country to sell the donations from outside, must be strengthen the sales of outside," said Simbeye.
In addition to the importance of the economy and good life of the community, the industries sector in Tanzania is still being faced with a lot of challenges because of the intended purposes.
"If our government would have been keen, it would like to help investors of great shops to bring in foreign products for some time and then started their industries."
Said Simbeye.
While the report shows that the industries sector in Tanzania has been growing at nine percent per year, still the level is little compared to the goals that are in the development sector of Tanzania is 25 percent, as it is in East Africa countries where there are half of the journey towards the economy of industries.
That report shows that a small level of business outside the country together with several issues concerning the start of closing of a company as the biggest reason facing the growth of the industry sector in the country.
"By considering the importance of business outside the country, you have made a environment to learn and increase skills, it has dropped by that business, it has violated the development of the industries," says that report.
"By considering the importance of monitoring the production of industries and other sectors, the difficulty of the start of business institutions is an obstacle to the distribution of industrial products," according to that report.
Another challenge is as a result of the existence of economic infrastructure that is under international standards and even the African continent.
Electricity is not known as one of the biggest problems in Tanzania and East Africa in general.
That report shows that the East African region is the very high level of production of energy and stakeholders, are saying a little amount of electricity production and stakeholders are saying the reduction of electricity production as well as the existence of the expensive plants in the country, is the things that increase the cost.
"The East African region has the road that deals with poor infrastructure, a situation that helps the cost of transportation and lack of natural gas and likewise the port of this region are still doing work under standards compared to their competitors in the other areas.
"The issue of the management of purification of products may not be used as a great problem in the infrastructure that could destroy the economy of industries," says that report.
These challenges which have been mentioned in reports are inspected the development of the industries sector in the country and if they will not be stopped, stakeholders say, even the goals to reach 15 percent in the year 2020 will be a difficult journey.
