
We are in the general elections they have started early!
May 21, 2012

Last week I cautioned our parliament not to be by getting every person, I said that this is important for making laws, to advise and to make sure that the government, does not be sold and to be sold at the exhibition platform.
I issued enough examples to show that it is not every person who can be a member of parliament if we are many who we think and should not inform them.
Unfortunately, some media stations which were supporting my motion by releasing the heavy scandal in CCM about the process of vying for parliamentary positions through the Union of Youth of the Revolutionary Party (UVCCM).
In the heavy scandal that was reported by the media, some of the leaders, including ministers, they have been able to get their daughters Wasagaji in the race.
Those scandal explains that the war to vie for parliamentary has taken fast after the union took this journey to get 15 seats of the special seats, instead of two in the year 2005 which were taken by Lucy Mayemba and Amina Chipa.
Issue here is not to oppose the children of ministers to get those parliamentary positions, on the point is, when these female children have a member of parliament because they do not know Tanzania and its problems we know the problems of the youth in the villages?
Many times children of ministers are not seen in our schools and others who are outside Tanzania, therefore the problems of Tanzanian youths do not know.
And another primary question is, there is a work of the ministers and their representatives, or it is the work of the youth themselves?
If the release of those ministers who want to be able to get their daughters in a special seat for special seats through the union of youth, human rights say that a group of leaders of the party members with strength in UVCCM who have been requesting them to help girls in special seats of special seats.
It is that even girls who are not the members of CCM, have been recent days when they started moving to the party and make plans to get cards for the past.
My main question on this argument is that we should stop the work of members of parliament and do you know their work and their responsibility?
When you're close to the general elections, it is identifying the importance of this work which is a great cost if our nation is using a lot of money to run the general elections, will be identifying its importance?
We are seeing the members of parliament for their reputation and their ability or we are looking for those who use alcohol and to get sugar?
We are praying to our parliamentarians to look for the benefits of the policies of their political parties or we are searching in power and financial resources of their parties?
We thank the members of parliament for recognizing that they are worried that they want to participate in our problems and our success or we are going through blood and maybe it is possible they are not able to do so, but they should be announced as the winners and the concerned authorities?
When I met here, I have met with a poster that asked the member of parliament of a certain place, including some of the various donations I have made in my personal circumstances.

I wanted to help access to deaths along with transporting the deceased from my district who had involved the train accidents in Dodoma town to address those injured in order to get quick treatment.
I followed the reputation of the body of the late Mathias Kasele from Dar es Salaam.
I received so much the possibility of air transport together with the air travel vehicle from the airport to go to which they had.
I issued a bicycle with a physically challenged person, a car that is worth 500 million Tanzanian shillings with 8 billion American dollars to buy another one with a three-wheeled disabled.
I talked to a woman the whole person to get his rights in Dodoma that were in danger of its disappearance, let him Salehe, and his friend (1000 shillings) the fare is from Dar es Salaam.
They were stuck at Dar es Salaam.
I left the transport of two youths from my county who were stuck in Dar es Salaam they could be given employment.

After mentioning other contributions, that announcement of member of parliament held up recently, "I have sure I have given many other contributions to a human being with other people who do not wait," if I could get a chance to meet with our brothers, I would make sure that among them what he mentioned is no even one thing that is related to his parliamentary work!
Maybe he wanted to market itself only that he is a good citizen, but it is obvious that she didn't know the work of member of parliament.
Our lovers, right now we are in the election period and already the members of parliament have started to play in their constituencies.
Others are taking these constituencies as their property, land, vehicle or family and how a person does not like to do his house or land, it should also be no longer members of parliament.
Now, where they are starting to inherit the voters for those who were living in Dar es Salaam and Dodoma, they are starting to remember their constituencies as there are reports that others got the previous parliamentary sitting, together with that they had a huge contribution, so they can get a chance to visit their constituencies!
They have started to sell their homes while while carrying the sugar, bananas, soap and others.
When shaking hands over everything to visit the patients and give donations!
The member of parliament can advise the government to build a school, but it's not the work of a member of parliament to build a school for its private money.
A member of parliament can provide sugar such as citizens with good intentions and ability do, but not that it is a work of a member of parliament to distribute sugar, a person that does not be paid for sugar or will be without any parliamentary work.
However, it is not a must for a good citizen to enter parliament and good citizens, who we have many people to continue with their work of serving the community by their good deeds, and politicians who have the ability to explain themselves and explain what they have been sent by citizens, who have the ability to send and explain what they had been given to the citizens in parliament.
We can be able to work with the member of parliament by checking the parliamentary work and the member of parliament (citizens) in parliament, "the second part of parliament will be the University of United Republic and its institutions in the implementation of its responsibilities according to the constitution," article 63 (2).
Furthermore, article 64 (1) has explained the parliamentary work on making laws and therefore, the member of parliament is the representative of his constituency in the University of the United Republic which has the authority, on behalf of the citizens, he didn't request and to advise the government of the United Republic and its institutions in the implementation of its responsibilities.
Therefore, giving donations, shaking hands and visiting the patients not the work of his member of parliament, it is his responsibility as a citizen in community living.
However, he would have been a member of parliament to do that, all the citizens are doing so that they should be doctors, teachers, religious leaders or other leaders of the party and the government.
It is also possible that even citizens think that the work of a member of parliament is to construct bridges, it is to bring water, it is to bring water and to build a school.
That is why people feared to citizenship is not wrong and ignored, it is a must that the government can be done and to put all strength in providing voter education to the voters and the citizens in general.
It is an important thing before the elections of this year, all the citizens, together with those who want to vie for the parliamentary seat, they recognize the responsibilities and work of a member of parliament.
Those acts of our brothers, the member of parliament I have mentioned the past that it is not good or make sure that it is a poster that was buried and distributed to citizens of his constituency.
Without doubt that the member of parliament asked for votes to vote so as to go back to the parliament, but all that he mentioned is no one that need someone to be a member of parliament, that is where he did.
The one that made it is the action of being unable to go to the community and not parliamentary.
I congratulate you in eternal peace and give condolences to the responsibility of every citizen to help the disabled and other people with problems, not parliamentary.
Transporting people, to pay for fees, buying blood is normal actions in the community, and not one of the work of a member of parliament.
Someone wanted them to used those things in the campaign to enter parliament, it is an example that someone can be careful.
As it is a member of parliament who defected to his office, as it is heading to this member of parliament, we would like to hear the government to build a hospital, to give water people, to build school, building the road.
And it is not for his constituency only, but in the neighboring regions and counties that have more problems.
The candidate when he was presenting is the best to mention the parliamentary work, if he was not a member of parliament, it is good to mention the citizens in the main level of the country, the agency that has the authority to compose and make the law.
Bango Sangho which I mentioned in this article is enough evidence that people are continuing to be demolished and to vie for the parliamentary candidates, when they were admitted for a foolish promise.
There is a need to teach those citizens to know their parliamentary and parliamentary work, to know that they don't know the member of parliament of visiting the murder, paying for fees and transporting their bodies, to know their complaints in parliament - the complaints of development and development of the community.
To know that the member of parliament is continuing to be one of them in the community, therefore when it reached in the funeral is not a act of us or support, and not the parliamentary act, but he will have to give his responsibility as community members.
The member of parliament who lost his success in contributing to the development of his constituency, is not for its private donations, because it is not his work to help his private region, is not supposed to be elected in parliament.
