
Minister for conspiracy at the State House.
May 08, 2014.

One minister in the cabinet of President Jakaya Kikwete, who is leading one of the important ministries in the country (name withheld) has planned to act against his ministry in collaboration with some members of parliament, so that finally the ministry's budget to be discussed in parliament, our citizens have been told.

That minister who has been in conflict by some senior officials of that ministry, to the amount of conflict led by the chief secretary Ambassador Ombeni Sefue recently, is alleged to cooperate with some of the leaders inside the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, to make that plan.

Those members of parliament (names are reserved for now) who have been leaders in cleaning the health, various ministries are from Mara Province (one), Tanga (one), Tanga (one) and Arusha (one) and the previous ministers.

Ministers who had gone down in December last year as a result of parliamentary blood which is the implementation of the operation in dealing with the minister of natural resources and tourism, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi, Minister of Internal Affairs, Doctor Mathayo Suleiman and the minister of internal affairs, two-thirds.
He is happening against the ministry, State House.

The foundation of allegations of that minister is mentioned as a result of his decision that he went on February 24th, this year when they won't return to work some of the senior directors in the ministry that he is leading (names are stored), contrary to the procedure.

However, that decision was supported by the State House through the chief secretary general, Ambassador Ombeni Sefue who wanted the procedures of the public service to be followed in the issue and eventually, those directors to return to their previous positions.

As a result of that situation, the report about those conspiracy shows that the minister has joined some of the members of parliament to prevent the pass of the ministry's budget for the financial year 2014 / 2015, on an issue that the decision to return to their offices for the financial year 2014 / 2015, on an issue that the decision to return to their positions and senior directors left roofless from the resolutions of the Parliament of the United Republic.

"There are money set aside for some members of parliament to do that job to stop the ministry's budget (being mentioned), they want to come from the State House to marry off his decision," he explains our news reporter.

Member of parliament.

According to our report of our report, there was evidence that involve two member states of parliament who are part of the parliamentary committee of parliament and three leaders who destroy the parliamentary committee due to the positions they are facing now.

Two among the leaders who defected to the parliamentary committee due to their duties in the committee of the sector and another colleague is on that committee because of being the assistant of speaker, Anne Makinda to sign their names being reserved for now.

More information shows that, for a long time since the Minister has been appointed to lead that ministry, he has been very close to the chairman of the parliamentary committee of the sector that deals with the ministry that they participated in several weeks ago, by using the ministry's funds, in controversy.
The minister and chairman who went to participate in one of the sectors of the sector that they are leading in London City, England, but in the surprising way, the chairperson of the committee decided to remain a hotel in all the days of the meeting, while he has been paid the money for that ministry headed by the minister.
