
They have written with gown in a war of fighting.
Tumaini Msolwa and Hinterland, Tresphory Mtibua and Tuface Idibia.
Motorbike riders have been arrested by police at the scene of Mwenge area that brings together road accidents, Ali Hassan Mwinyi and Coca Cola Company which is in Dar es Salaam.
Dar es Salaam, Ukara is supposed to see the fight between the drivers who were involved with passengers and soldiers who are getting pictures of fighting corruption.
The driver of a motorcycle requesting for police to pave way of flowers that are not allowed to be shaken, while gown, who usually swell in the citizens, did not pollute the way so that they can fall down.
That is the life of every day by drivers' motorcycle riders and dancing in several areas of the city of Dar es Salaam.
It is still continuing.
Citizen has followed up and witnessed the tension between the type in Ubungo, Ubungo, Tabata Dumba, Kariakoo of Uhuru, Mnazi Mmoja, Stibel in front.
At the time of those events, the passengers of the motorcycle that fell and suffering from the others want to get tired with the vehicles and get burnt down, but fighting and there is not seen if they can end.
In February this year, the resident of Tabata, Juma Mshighati giving birth to the head and a lorry at Tabata Kimanga area, after falling down while trying to arrest those policemen.
That incident that caused the drivers of motorcycle riders invading the police station Tabata claimed their rights.
"There is no friendship between us and the police is why it is good of us to succeed so that they can be able to do, than the arrest," said the driver who introduced himself by the name Innocent Joseph who does her work in Msewe and Ubungo.
"There is no day that I was arrested by police, to get involved with the offense and that's why we can decide to run away so that we can be recognized," said Joseph.
The statistics that were given by the police force show that between January and March this year, 762 people have died and approximately 371 others being injured due to motorcycle accidents which have been allowed to do business to carry passengers.
The head of the road safety squad, Commander Mohamed Mpinga said a large number of motorcycle riders involved in the rules and law has been a great challenge since the law caused by those fire equipment to carry passengers.
He said the number of a motorcycle that is in the country for now is going on all the fire equipment, an issue that needs efforts to control the high level to control the law that is dangerous to the security of passengers.
The real situation of the confiscation of those who survived, said that the tension is dangerous if there will be no other way to arrest drivers who affect the law.
A resident of Ubungo-Msewe, Frank John says that he had survived after falling off between the driver that was born with gown when he wanted to cross over Ubungo Plaza.
"It was dangerous because soldiers who stopped him and the driver that he wanted to run away is another one who attacked them and started falling off when I was walking," he says.
He said after the tension between more than five minutes, he fell under that driver, he shot him and leaving the police.
Another passengers, Athman Hamis a resident of Buguruni, Malassy, said the situation is bad in the junction of the road at the junction of the road when they cut the police while vehicles were allowed to be allowed.
He said there are some of the passengers that had injuries arising from the kind of being recognized as a swim.
"There is a time that tension usually comes when the police got these vehicles, while the roads are in the road," he said.
On their part, some of the drivers said the fear of being found and mistakes will be fined is the one that has had a fine which has been causing them to stop the law and regulations that has been causing many of them.
He said the truth is that many accidents with fake accidents have been caused by carelessness who must be avoided.
Speaking about that problem, the head of the road safety squad, Mohammed Mpinga has said the challenge of a gun to break the law and seems to be increasing every day in Dar es Salaam.
He said that it is a must that you're blocking the law without being forced, if they decided to stand for the purpose of protecting themselves and so as to avoid accidents that arise from carelessness.
He said that if they will continue being fast, especially in various parts of the country, will be wanted to have a new way to arrest, including its spherical guidelines which will play the force to stand.
"The police force has been extended to control the issue so as to reduce many accidents that are caused by carelessness," he said.
He said those drivers have been given training for a long time and that if they will not hesitate to change, the time has been done is to obey the law on the alcohol use, Commander Mpinga said that many drivers are using great alcohol, especially in accidents, popularly known as Vientiane, a thing that has been contributing to the increase in those accidents.
He said they will continue to control the problem of drinking alcohol by taking action against drivers who are found using alcohol to save the lives of citizens.
The accident of boda boda MOI and Minister for Health, Ummy Mwalimu said that he will partner with the Minister of Internal Affairs, Charles Kitwanga, to make sure that that they are making the increase in accidents with a motorcycle that are a huge burden to the Orthopedic Institute (MOI) for now.
He said that the fire accident which has started using the institution which is at the Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) due to receiving many patients in a day.
Ummy said 75 percent of patients who come from MOI have been involved in a motorcycle accident and passenger buses.
He said that it is a challenge to the Ministry of Health because the cost is very big, while the doctors are few and therefore left behind by responsibilities.
"We have been explained that among the 50 patients that are brought to MOI, 75 percent of the fire accidents with the passengers' buses have been getting 20 patients in a day for now they are getting 50 patients," said Ummy.
"I will speak with the Ministry of Internal Affairs which has a bond of ensuring the business of a motorcycle is run without bringing huge effects to the community," he said.
Moreover, he said that the institution for now has four specialist doctors of heart surgery and veins.
