
Government has contributed to fail -.
Mr, 27, 2013.

While the special commission to investigate the cause of misuse of form four this year, still continues with that work, the former Prime Minister Fredrick Sumaye, has said that the bad results have been contributed by the government itself.
Speaking to Raia Mwema, in a special interview that took place in his residence, headed to Anthony B, Kisarawe District, Coast Province, said that together with other things, he mentioned the four main reason for form four results that was done by the government without enough preparations, secondly, it is a government to address a shortage of teachers by mistake.
Regarding the system of expansion of education, Sumaye says, "the problem (fail) can have been caused by our education system without important preparations for teachers, teaching equipment, books and even buildings that do not meet this situation, it will give poor education."
While explaining the problem of government not it is considered for the development commission of the year 2025, the former prime minister says, "analysis is striving to grow all the sector through the good growth of the education sector in order to carry the costs that will be used by education, and also the sector of industries to be employed in the industries."
On the side of the third reason for the government to address a total of salaries for public servants in the sector, Sumaye says, "the problems like salaries and other interests, it is good that they don't have problems in their service, but this situation did not have any importance in their service.
About the shortage of teachers to be dealt with by mistake, Sumaye said, "we also know how the teachers' strike is being dealt with by the government by going to court together with that the government is evident, some of the teachers were not aware because some of the teachers were not available as required.
The former prime minister, who until now is getting in the record for being the only prime minister at the third phase, under President Benjamin Mkapa, while the country witnessed its great improvements in the whole education sector, under President Benjamin Mkapa, while the country witnessed its great improvements in the whole education sector after the establishment of the high level in education sector in the country.
These are just some of the reasons that I have decided to contribute to that state of our education, it's my hope and we should see most of my colleagues, "says said in that interview that has been published by, in the middle-page of this newspaper.
