
Port will continue to look for equipment for winning the league.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
Port's port is required to make good players who will be able to fight for the victory of the Kenya Premier League this season, and not to participate and remain in the league next season.
That was said yesterday by the commissioner of Confederation of African Football (CAF), Mohamed Omar who believes will help the port to have the ability to register good people who can give it a victory to the league.
"Soccer is now a game that has been international and therefore I urge the port that has the ability to register any kind, they will also care from the neighboring countries of Tanzania and Uganda," said Omar.
The CAF commissioner says that the port is supposed to take a example of other East African clubs including those of Simba Sports Club and Yanga from Tanzania built several clubs from Uganda.
"It is good as heads of port would have visited neighboring countries of Uganda and Tanzania to look for good people that are able to register themselves, an aim being to win the premier league championship," said Omar who also requested the Port committee to get to be done to take the team's issues.
At the same time, the Chairperson of the Port Fan Club, Ernest Mbani said that the team had already been made for three new players who will participate in the squad which will participate in the premier league of this season.
Mbani said that they have great hopes of that team to do well in the premier league this season because they are expecting to cater for their squad to be stable for the past years.
Mbunga is good for the best mid-fielder for the year 2010, Anthony Mavunde, from the Tanzania Mainland Premier League club, Anthony Katanga of Kugunduliwa school in the southern region and the mid-fielder John Ndeki.
Mbani said that apart from signing those three players, they have also signed a Tanzanian mid-fielder who completing his contract at the end of this month, "he said but he didn't be able to play well in the premier league," he said but he refuses to see names until when they complete their registration.
