Today I want to thank you a lesson.
For his victory as the first president?
It is saying that?
During the campaign.
I commend and congratulate but after being sworn in.
Let's witness.
It is saying that they have started having those who have been cheated.
And I would have?
We love you.
All of us are way to prevent him because I see before.
I want you to consider here.
He is a Tanzanian.
He tries to reduce the use of money that has been to go above.
The eyes of the journey to go and return to meet without stopping.
Which is a citizen of a Tanzanian.
Without a pose.
I would have asked my president who are Honorable independence.
You can be?
To see Mister Kimwana from our country in Kenya, we are very many human resources but it's only a journey David went to America to go back to see what the money, ", you have written in peace and see.
Our country in Kenya is blocking us ahead and at the end of the small scale of Dar es Salaam.
I want him to appear and also I will face things to my brothers from we reach the disabled, what I want to ban the disabled that I am able to ban and who will be appointed Mister Pengo of parliament and law as a government.
If you shouldn't look for Diamond we saw for the panel that enables you to come from John Magufuli to get a solution to us that we have managed to bring benefits and relief to participate in.
We have seen that there has been a bit tricky subject where I don't know if we don't have a lot of people to reach you, but if we see God, I would like to see you, but if we see God, I would like to see me, but if we see God, I would like to see me, but if we see God, I would like God to see you, because we are called Adam and me is a shame.
And went to another time to say?
It is true that because Magufuli has come with the work that currently is, it is said.
But can he can withstand and continue the one in the purpose of fighting corruption, this is a question that his citizens have.
In we see you, the time he tries to show how to get the expenditure of the government so that this is a matter which I got problems in East Africa and between the government's use of knowing people who are supposed to help the public, a thing that we want to support the government they have been able to support the government.
In the.
Maalim Seif who has the right to protect themselves and rule so as to use it as an easy way that the people of Zanzibar can get their rights on this, he will be remembered by all Tanzanians that he will be remembered by all Tanzanians.
It has brought in conflict of the issue of Zanzibar and give their rights, my name does not lose the whites or love you.
He is a resident of the capital city of Kenya in the United Republic of Kenya.
They would like to be informed that the president of Tanzania?
President John Pombe Magufuli.
I have written as Kenya why students of a subject of history?
And said that Doctor John Pombe Magufuli.
It has taken a good report for the leadership of the presidential institution.
In the first commandment, it is a guarantee doctor in alcohol?
Try to work, I commend his good message to take it up to the sky.
Second from alcohol, alcohol Magufuli dain or ideas.
And that is a good reputation for a leader to do his work, there is a sign that he will be well according to the few words he has done.
The health sector in the ministry of health has been able to bring changes and to explain the ones that are in the country, so that those things are doing when he went to the hospital.
It has been a threat.
First day to address the citizens.
Than I think about how to get themselves with those words, and other things that you will be careful, you will realize that his parliament and his members of parliament are required to consider the ones that are loved more than personal issues of corruption, there is a source of human resources.
People living in African continent celebrating issues.
War here and there that terrorism has continued with issues that can be same but if corruption will be found and to be finished like Magufuli has started doing?
The accused of the Africa can be similar to the citizens that live in African countries, can get the truth and know that what they want to get and know how our government continues to be careful, and also all explanations in Africa.
The late?
