FGM?
To my view is that?
They will pray for.
We can have FGM?
Everything is a woman.
Now I don't know what happens it is bad, but I have never met me and I have never met with someone he wants to destroy the language.
Here we talk about the language of all Swahili in general.
But that will work he will make it better.
And even today we should support a servant who will represent the government.
And maybe a person who we know if you are an obstacle to him if you say here is today, you can get very well in a Swahili, I asked himself with the devil of where Literature in writing there.
It's not only that you have a care of what you want to look for what I want to know what you want to see me, but it is also care of the language a language that will give you a lot about the language that will learn about the language.
You will learn six awards tomorrow and maybe it will lead you.
Swahili believe that?
The scholars and those who do not lie in us, we were able to get that will and be able to see that you are living in our Swahili language, I believe that everything we will use our language is free but I believe that everything we will use our Swahili language, I believe it is first to ask ourselves what you want to go back to each other.
The devil of separation.
Then read it!
And where is it?
I have been saying that all that I request to me everything in short summary.
The devil of WhatsApp is not because we themselves and those who we decided to wear certain types of albinism so that I can get a certain kind of hypocrisy so that I can get a lot of things you want to go to Nairobi you want to go to Nairobi you want to go to Nairobi you want to go to Nairobi.
If we go down, it means that we me know me what we can do when we are going round where the commission.
Why is where we will have a good stand in defending Swahili language and prove that it can be used from high level up to the university level as a language of communication like the language of communication.
We did not see the culture of Tanzanian.
There are fake phones that are very big and to talk about the language of Swahili.
On the Swahili language.
It is not culture.
I see if you are our culture, then he will be able to give them and grow small businesses, where it is to grow and promote Swahili so that we can be able to grow.
And put under the first commandment?
Also, the East African leaders and if possible in the world or the world, by giving a lot of thanks or the ones that are preventing themselves from various universities in Iringa province, as they contribute to the topic presented by Honorable Nyabacha, a question that is in front.
