24 October 2013.

Ban Ki-moon is happy to follow APRM acting.
By Hassan.
Abbas.
The secretary general of the United Nations (UN), Mister.
Ban Ki Moon has said that the East and good administration (APRM).
Important pillar for growing the best administration in that continent.
Has congratulated the leaders of African countries.
Continued to implement that plan which was launched by ideas.
New cooperation of this cooperation in Africa (PAD), to make sure the continent of Africa.
It is growing a good administration so as to speed up development.
Mister Ban Ki Moon gave these congratulations this week.
New York city.
In the United States, after meeting with senior officials of APPS and FIM).
It is part of celebrating 68 years of the UN, the African week and iPhone 6.
Speaking about APRM acting, Mister Ban Ki Moon said.
For the first 10 years since the plan for us started in the African Continent.
Making action since the process gives good administration, to respect the constitution.
Expanding democracy.
"APRM acting has been able to put a culture.
Politics is to respect the best administration among the African countries.
He has been able to put in public the democratic rules to be followed by urging them.
The debate so as to deal with the conflicts, "he said.
Tanzania is among the countries.
Out of 54 countries of the African Union (AU) that joined APRM acting.
His evaluation report showing the state of good administration in the country.
He used that opportunity to commend the country 17.
They released their research reports where Tanzania.
By Zambia.
They managed to be approved on January this year, thus getting the number of 17 countries out of 33.
I commend the 17 countries which arise.
The first evaluation of this process has been able to strengthen accountability in the country.
Concerned, in some parts of APRM, it has been able to identify the indicators of conflicts.
And give recommendations on how to kick off, he added.
Arising from the value of APRM acting, Mister.
He has said despite wanting that plan to be strengthened more, he urged countries.
And the international community continue to give them a donation so that it can be able to succeed.
His goals.
"The past 10 years of APPS.
Being a historical process that shows the world that Africa is ready to take.
The step of dealing with various challenges is expected to meet with construction.
CHADEMA.
"Ten years now, this program.
It has confirmed that the value in this commemoration will help the community.
International to help each other to APRM acting to be taken where leaders.
Africa will be accountable to their people, "he said.
APRM acting was started in March 9th, 2003 with an aim.
To do an evaluation of time to time of good administration among the countries.
Members with the aim of knowing the challenges of working with good things.
Increase or be followed by other countries.
Tanzania sponsored the program.
In the year 2004, parliament has placed on APPS and started working in the country of 2005 and January.
This, President Jakaya Kikwete has presented the report of Tanzania.
His fellow heads of country and local government in Addis Ababa city, Ethiopia.
