It is being waited for fear of President Kikwete.
Sep 18, 2013 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

Among the great news for now, they are solidarity of the opposition parties to oppose the Marx-fielder of the law of constitutional changes.
There are news agencies to explain this issue like the opposition against the ruling party and that is where we are doing a big offence if the country's issue is the issue of the country without caring for the country without caring for the parties that they will be led by people.
Therefore, if I have written in the past, that in the time we have failed to save the constitutional ship sank and it is not seen well for the bill to witness with three opposition members and all others have not seen in this.
And here that I would see you can intervene in helping this ship is President Jakaya Kikwete's meaning, so many people we agree that together with the spread of the bill, his President was blamed and has brought hope to open a new page of our country for many years to come.
It is also worried that there are happy that we did not make this ship from the people who want them to be in the past, most of the people living with each other and their colleagues can decide a swim.
Therefore, that with the successes have been sent away, with transparency, and even remaining, for a bill to be returned again in parliament before the president encouraged them to stop and go back down, so that we can be able to stop and go back down, so that we can get us with us.
It should be remembered, in this constitution, it is great changes have happened in our country and this is a great changes to have been done since the year 1977 due to the constitution of the United Republic and even the system of government leadership.
Well, in this world, social changes give birth to political changes and they have no permits, they have said that two reasons with giving birth to those changes have been beneficial to the relevant communities (non-communicable diseases) and non-communicable diseases.
On our part, we see that, the reasons for within and out of the country together, have been able to reach this step of the great changes of the constitution.
And in our community for its-inch width, it has a primary reason to prevent these changes.

And President Kikwete, up to this step, he has shown his great courage to leadership because it is to do even what would not affect before they were done in this country.
History will remember Jakaya Kikwete with his courage to leave and leave on the thoughts and to be ready for the first time in history of our country's future, but our country will also be a member of our party, but this child can be a member or a leader of different party and your daughter.
With the courage to lead this process of constitution and basically the great changes to the interests of the nation, Jakaya Kikwete gives a great changes to the nation, Jakaya Kikwete gives them a big changes in the system, economy and community comes from a new constitution that is coming from.
And in the current world, there is no one who is able to prevent changes arising from environmental degradation, the former Russia and the country in Russia was getting two names of 'system in Russia and lost two names, and "otherwise he will not kill him.
Before the big changes, Russia was faced with the problem of existence the thoughts and transparency and lack of transparency, the community found fear, many issues were very disturbing but in the end of there, there was a strong desire to make Russia be the modern country as it appears from now.
