Close to today's discussions, I want to assure you of you and here is with them who are discussing.
Are many responsibilities of parents.
It is a source of erosion of ethics for female children and called a scholar.
The children have a lot of work on another side, you can have said that it is a source of erosion of ethics for female children due to small people not being close to people, there are them not to advise that despite living in the community of his boss at the same way if you will be back.
Children in the whole day are those alone it's difficult for the child to get teachings or to get something in his game by the name is called Jamila Abdalah.
On my side.
I see you.
For now, the responsibilities of parents are many.
.
.
I continue to children below.
Because of it?
The elderly at a long time are going on in the office.
I request at home in home.
.
They have risen up to be difficult for you.
The children asked the education and asked the studies it's going, then it was done?
Or you cannot know that the child got problems and needs a donation from the elderly.
Because I can't tell his old man from that.
Mzee her husband is not pictured or back the night, they have gotten tired with the truth when he did not get information from the child, it is doing that a child is unable to know what you will give you a good decisions which is good for children and reduce them as possible as possible.
If going back on night, it should be a reduction and don't want to be careful so that they can be taken by their children so that they can be released on the children and the normal problem is called amen.
We focus directly, I got off the day before accepting or refusing to test for the other side.
I would say it is for another example because parents do not contribute so much to female children of erosion of ethics.
Why is a female child?
To be told something that it will be able to help him for the same time.
Like for example a parent has already been found.
However, he saw his problems, he saw his policies of human activities to sit with the child and told her as a certain thing for him and to do it, but also on the other side, I said it cannot loose.
Erosion of child with water because a parent can also be able for himself and his skill of work and not close to the child, but the child also understand what is doing that way to my advice.
It's not for a child and it's not for a parent to give time to sit with the child.
Many need for her biological mother and also the child to sit down and in doing what happens here, you have contributed to the parents and many responsibilities, the source that makes them lose hope for this female child, but a difficult life has risen up to all.
And the parent of the money President Magufuli is often seen because he can bring up well the family.
Now, we are doing your responsibilities and good ethics of the female child we need.
So as to at least close to her mother and her child at least get even a little time you should be close to the child explaining your problems.
Let us like to talk like this weekend because it gets to at least close to your children on Sunday and explained their problems to tell them on how to put it.
And how to live again by following a good foundation in life, so that you must be done on Saturday or Sunday even if he has dropped, AT has decided to stop the song and her child.
And how does it go to my people?
What has ever happened by Everton, how many can't be eaten by her child that you wants his own father and even do not know it.
.
I have surprised them but he knows the girl he is doing so that he is using the same time which is not only to know the table.
He is using the time he wants to ask for studies.
What happens today which is in which is in the moment, it gives the child a challenge to understand if my friend and when I think it does not have my good experience in our daily lives and to also know the experience of Jamila and his parents and responsibilities.
And her daughters need us to agree with good ethics, my Father of my son we are not there.
There is a place.
Therefore, I cannot say very much, don't inform others but on my side, I hope my.
If it was in small, that until now they are doing well and we are happy about my development, that is if there is a problem if there is a problem here.
I will release it on my side.
Your parents are at work.
His lawyer, but not to an extent that they are unable to talk with me.
Most of the past weekend, we are using the Manchester United to be home.
If there is anything that you said even so that there is a normal day for a week, we become a very long time, we are not worried that there is a good time for us to sit together with their parents, although we have also contributed a chance to talk to them on different issues especially reproductive health and that I have also contributed to the collapse of a female child.
Your part of what you have?
To speak to your parents, what should you know is a challenge you can told him, you can't told him because I will be able to finish my part, I am good and good thing that are required to do.
Because it comes back to a female child to tell me that, most of what is good for everything you do in the side of the elderly only is to contribute to the same time until a child is supposed to use his mind.
We need to know her good thing as a situation where she told many good things that he told them that it is to try to study because without a education you can't know where your education is why I will help you to get you.
And read it as you are.
And it is to get development.
Very much, it is a great importance and a language.
The issues of reproductive health is still ongoing.
There is still a problem.
We are doing there and also many preparations to get pregnant that are supposed to be pregnant in the small age while others are saying many responsibilities, but not the opportunity to talk to the parents on that issue.
Yams are similar to anything related to each day, I went back home.
I insisted that they are told then even if I am very different, I am seen to look for you even in a view.
Therefore, posters that I will deal with me, she told me keenly and in a lot of things we have not seen him because she didn't know her so that you can make sure that you get married even if you want them to make sure that you get married even if you can make sure that you get married even if you want them to make sure that you get out here on that responsibilities of parents.
But the good ethics of the daughter should be required to do that both sides are supposed to consider the time it is very important for a parent to sit with his daughter so that they can get good and something to follow in the community.
Hayatou is not today in Dar, the church could be FGM and there were we were seen in the discussion.
