If we continue with the news reports, the government of America that forced them to do the work of forty-seven children who will be working on teaching various schools in the country which are in the villages to raise their work known as a squad.
The property squad was sworn in today in a brief ceremony that took place in Dar es Salaam city and was attended by various leaders of Southern African countries since our news, George Mwakalinga, or a report.
It was not easy.
Because today the late God will be with the wind power in the world with great workers from America where the oath before the ambassador of the country in the country which was led by the journalists together with some of the leaders who came out to witness the event.
These they refused to appeal the ambassador of America in the country, which was ready to represent well the country what are here in the country and to be good ambassadors when they go back to the country.
The Almighty God rest.
It's said.
I understand it so much that we should stop or see why you get a chance to be there here I request to represent America especially in the services that we will continue within that service.
The Lord does not lie!
What is the punishment.
Just after taking the oath of some of them with the conditions of talking.
In A I will teach us against terrorism but when we go to Dar es Salaam, I wish you a lesson.
When we live in Dar es Salaam, then, the Tanzanians live very much and asked me.
What is it?
That event that was attended by the Secretary General of the office of the president, the management of public service Jones, who is required to show cooperation from those teachers, I have asked the government of America but also I requested them to change them.
And.
For I have faith, because we shall give them well and also I urge Tanzanians especially in schools where these servants should work and receive them to form a good environment that will enable them to give their contribution even.
Teaching of science and science subjects are as we know where they are areas where we have a huge shortage.
Among them, where they came from the provinces, those workers are together with Mbeya Morogoro, Mtwara Province, Tanga Cement.
The studies that he will teach them is doing their work to be expected to start that work recently, including mathematics, together with countries and they will be in the country for a period of two years.
Joyce Mwakalinga, this problem will have.
