
The machine for testing weight on the way.
And the bible on the testicles.
The big congestion of the vehicles was captured on Wednesday night after the machine for testing weight to vehicles at the station of Mariana being sent away.
The machine for recognizing the weight of stem cells of the lorry so as to get its light weight, caused the congestion of more than seven kilometers from that center.
Drivers of motorbike riders did not want to be mentioned easily, poor management of the government in that center which has caused them to eliminate disruptions and destruction. "
"The station requires major renovations considering that many hours we are losing here should be dealt with," he said.
They wanted the workers in that center to change them immediately so as to stop corruption that continue with the police officers.
That yesterday, the chief supervisor of the center, Simon Ole Nkingwa, confirmed the spread of the machine, but he said, while dancing to test for vehicles at a normal system without using a computer system.
"The machine to identify the weight that is very fast, can be able to get into a normal system that is doughnuts and therefore causing a long schedule," he said through phone.
The problem which occurred in one hour and caused the vehicles of vehicles from the center to the factory to form the iron sheets that had gone to Rolling Stone that is a distance to make their work so as to avoid seven kilometers.
Last week, five officers including three police at that station of Mariamu, were arrested on allegations of corruption, there will be several decades ago, including the record of relocating the money through M-Pesa.
The ethics commission and delay in the way.
This week, those police officers have been accused in the court of Mombasa with claims of receiving a car through their mobile phones.
Inspector Paul Makoko, told the court that those suspects were using more than 48,000 shillings from which one of the cargo whom three witch doctors were supposed to carry cargo on an amount.
Part of the charges are indicating, Abunga who was among the police who had been giving security at Mariupol City, in accordance to the reception of a few days from Adam Mayingu,.
Abunga is alleged to have received those funds which are among the money that were scored, which are used to arrest the armed officers.
