
"The witness of ICC has not accept it.
A witness at the International Criminal Court (ICC) Friday, was found dead in a situation that is not only one week after arriving from his home at the end of the issue.
The body of the heroes' price that had been found dead in Mkonkole area, he noted that he has reduced more than 40 kilometers from his home in Freetown city.
The family of the deceased said that she was abducted by being transported to two vehicles near the town of Turnbull.
Relatives of Mister Yeboyebo schools yesterday condemned the police for running the investigation, so they believe that after releasing that incident at the police stations of Turnbull and Eliona.
According to the activist for defending justice of human rights, Ken Saro, Mister Jew, Mister Jews have been a witness of ICC although he was not in the list of the witnesses who can be used.
The family of the high court said that that death was a plot and seem to be the "political" said Mister Yeyo he was a businessman in Eliona.
Vied for the position of the representative of Muembe Majogoo village in the year 2007, but he did not succeed in the year 2007 when he was a member of the Association of Pina Turnbull.
"Why the police have won a car after, since August 2001, it was claimed that she was safe and now we have died," said Bishop Sedrick Ndonde.
The accountant of Moses Kisanga of the IS rebels who is also a great brother Mister Yeboyebo schools, said that the late had gone to the market to buy water from her child who had been admitted to the hospital before going to it at a business center, but he did not get it.
"Kakingo said that she was getting a child at Turki who was born with his wife when he was in the hospital, he started vomiting and he left out of buying water but he did not go back again," said the accountant of Shree.
Mister Jews was abducted in December 28th, 2014, and the police started investigations while his family was left out as it is confused.
While the National journalists today when they visited the Jehovah's family in Rancho Pickup, on Saturday, the burial of the burial were still ongoing.
"Monday we been reported at Eldoville dairies emerged with the police and promised to do investigation," said Mister Makaka.
The head of the police in Jihadist area, he said that the issue of the country was a fox has confirmed that the late for the late had reported that incident and that the investigation is still ongoing.
"The department of dealing with crime continues to do investigations and a full report will be released soon," said Mister Boba 'in phone communication.
