Tourism close to South Africa.
Mr 25, 2015.

In the Park or Park City in America, it is very popular in the world in the mountains race which contributes to attract the tourists, stakeholders in the tourism sector as they ask for what is happening in the Kitogo National Park?
The information on the Wikipedia network show that the tourism sector in the city contributes more than one-thirds of all the economy of Utah Jazz in that town.
The city is usually using games in developing its tourism sector, which will affect the country's tourism sector, then it will be shaken the world / park, which is together with the bicycle competition of the mountains and not only (PAD).
The Coordinator, the Financial Services network of South Africa (Sinyati Enterprises), GodMzee Ole Gabriel says that the importance of the mountains in the mountains (IAGRI) is an important pillar in developing tourism in the region.
"MFI accounts is an appropriate time to take place in many parts of the southern highlands like the Kitaa area," says the coordinator.
The number of tourists that join the city is said to be more than the number of residents of that city about 7 million shillings, according to the number of people in that town of the year 2010.
That draw of sports is the one that contributed to the tourism in that city which before being beaten in mines before being defeated by Yanga who were waiting to participate in tourism.
Kitavi.
The mixture of tourism activities in the Kitogo National Park is said that the only thing that will enable an entertaining tourism sector in the Southern Region that include: Iringa, Njombe and Mbeya.
The executive director of Parkal Randall Company has been set aside in Iringa province, Darcoboa, which is among stakeholders who believe in using the mix of sports activities and tourist attractions like one of the entertaining tourism sector in the Southern Region.
"The young people are continuing more than sports like running the mountains in the country can be used to the Kitulo group," says Darcoboa, in his interview with Raia Mwema.
The Kitogo National Park has been praised to be the reason of flowers that have been surrounded by the mountains in many corners of the tourism sector that do not see tourism in the South region.
Among the non-driven cars for the bicycle game is together with the present at the mountain has increased from small town of Chimala, Mbarali District, at the Iringa High Court to Mbeya, heading to Matopeni Ward in Makete District.
The main reputation of the hole should be high in every corner, where the big number are in 52.
"Mtunguja was a big percentage in 52, it's a challenge to motorbike riders, getting into that way everyone knows their championship, the whites like to see the challenges," says the acting head of Kitogo, Pius Mutakubwa Lugangira.
Together with the bicycle race, the park says that operation is among the correct games that are expected to take place at the Kitogo county.
Golf player, is explained by the tourism experts to be among the important services in the hotel and to attract more tourists in the past years before freedom and the first four years after independence, one of the reputation had witnessed in Mbeya City at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium.
That stadium was listed to be among the best soccer fields in South Sahara Desert, and asked many visitors from outside.
Another game is estimated to be an appropriate time for that region is the same time, which on the women's side, in 1970 to 1980, it was dominated by athletes from the region.
The environment of Iringa, Njombe and Mbeya is explained to have a great opportunity to attract athletes from Europe, United States and other areas in the world and that tourists together to visit tourism attractions will be recognized by the competition to witness or participate.
Strategies developing tourism in the southern region.
The tourism sector in the Southern Region is still in its previous steps, it is a area that has not been continued together with the wealth of various attractions.
Chairman of the Tourism Committee, Mbeya Region, Khajida Kopa, says the opportunities in the tourism sector in that region is still being identified, that there are those involved, which are very few compared to the real situation of the region.
