
In politics, when your life will be finished by 2 trillion shillings.

There is one saying I don't like so much to use it on talk time, which you said, so that you can learn or go down in light, and contrary to our country, but we can also get opportunities to resolve the difference of issues between here and in home but also we can be able to follow our community because we are not to remain.
However, there are a time some of the people that we have outside a difficult time to talk about the issues of there at home, especially from the claims that few days do not qualify directly.
Some of the "our rivals," it seems to go back further and we wouldn't understand that we can't know where we are not full, "because of that problem or joy is not to face the way they are facing them.
This is a foolish thing especially considering that most of us, if not all of us, we have brothers, relatives, and friends at home thus it means that Tanzania does not identify them, but only a few others who have their origin.
It is good to look at our country for the same time, I participant who is a tough place, then I have found yourself when I received the conclusion when the trend of things at home is to look at home.
Between the last week and this time I see this article you came out of several events that can indicate that our country goes by, "I will give a few examples to the news that has reduced, this is an issue of some members of parliament accused of receiving bribes.
The news gets more weight where it's emphasized that despite some members of parliament was accompanied by those allegations, some of the parliamentary committees are accused of being involved in bribery, a situation that led to the parliamentary speaker to decide that can take the parliamentary committee on energy and minerals.
But these allegations of bribery have been touched on something that, I think if a primary problem in our community is in a few days ago, I have been using my lot of time on Facebook network especially those who are alleged to have received numerous opinion in order to close to the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).

Last Sunday one of we supposed to inform the famous people (in the picture), seemed to be annoyed by my criticism that essentially had been directed to one member of parliament of the opposition party who has announced openly that he has an intention to be our president in front.
In the normal environment, a politician who complained to the public that he wants to be a president, it is a must they be dealt with keenly so that the voters can get a good opportunity to understand.
For reasons that he knows he is a private, a female artist who told him have been thrown out of his words claiming that the accusations that I have given out of those politician have the symptoms of private individuals, especially because they have not yet confirmed that the politician is the ones that don't have.
But before I don't know, a musician or another person, a scholar and the one with the position in one of the public institutions also told me what the politician has been named as a thief beating maybe until here, I can ask you why the rapper seems to have only one sex.

This is the second person explained to I think my heart about that politician, the one who has touched me more, because basically, education and his authority is known as a central group.
I was seen to write in one article on the past about how the level of the action is needed to be a link for fighting for the interests of the body and the poor.
I explained that in the article that the central region would be able to have an important strength to fight for the interests of the private sector being identified, and finally be worked with a high level (which is caused by ruling party).
I appoint you to know the words of the second lady, told me that "they love that politician as to be shaken," I have been shocked by this words because when that politician seems to get defense on the accusations that are facing him but also even in the past some of the politicians who were accused to be defended by that amount.

Although I advise and to respect the right of every Tanzanian to ban a politician and the truth is that despite the defense, the fact is that despite having other suspects in that scandal, we can convince other people to continue depending on our country including being supported.

One of the most important things to our development is what I called "politics," the leadership had already been sent away from bribery, especially those that are not allowed to make laws, especially those that are not allowed to make law (including those of corruption) are part of the corruption problem.
I have noted that in the beginning that recent events shows that the state of things is not well, another one that made me is an issue of the teachers' strike whereby though there have been reports of putting it in the environment, there are some symptoms that the strike is going on.
But an incident that occurred in primary school in Kibaha in Kibaha town, can be able to pay a lot of joy about the trend of our country's economy, it is said that in that event, the disabled students decided to be thrown in their school.
I don't know if they did so as a sign of opposing the strike of their teachers or supporting them, but that is open is that when it got a place at primary school students, "the law" then it is clear that our nation has opened up to me.
These students are the day of tomorrow, that is the ministers and our members of parliament, that is the first leaders tomorrow, when it reached a place to them who depend on the new culture of "violence as a solution to the problems" I don't know how it will be.
Recently, we witnessed the strike of doctors who yet it has not explained to the consummation of a report on one network of the community explains that some doctors have shown an intention of wanting to go back to the strike that we have witnessed how some members of parliament are participating in ensuring that some members of parliament are participating in helping TANESCO.
At the same time we are witnessing some of the teachers when they decided to fulfill their goal of many days of breaking up, but maybe the greatest one is a report that one of the famous religious leaders have been faced with a scandal of her private leaders from TANESCO and other things that are not well in home.

So, our leaders are doing what to deal with this situation?
Maybe it was an important phone from the speaker or maybe the president, but the picture as a result of the incident a situation can be safe in home, it is not well in home, what has made some of our leaders, where even in important responsibilities of parliament they can talk to them.

Funga is a decision by the government to ban the magazine MwanaHalisi was sent away after claims that the magazine has been writing inflammatory news.
In the previous edition, there was information about the issue of Doctor.
Steven there was a servant in a good government institution that was involved with it, the government did not mean his decision to ban that magazine that you can be interpreted as it is aiming to prevent it, "about that scandal?
Recently, it does not have been possible to forward the magazine to court so that justice is not only enough but they are forced to register it?
How do I start by giving advice to the national debate about the fate of our nation, where we are not good and this debate is not about the ruling party (those in parliament), the government, but also there is need for national debate about the position of the central region of encouraging and even fighting for the interests of the central region of encouraging and even fighting for the interests of the internal and the reader.
In Tanzania, we are all of us to put aside political parties, we should stop our interests, instead of the interests of the nation, we will make sure our differences (compared to each other, we should support me in together with struggling to take our country to its direction.
It is possible, meet your responsibility.
