A group I would like to learn if the teachers who came to learn if the stars go to learn if the stars go back to school to teach all the teachers who are in school by doing so that it had a very high cost of teaching teaching teaching in our country and still the insurance fund will come to work in Bukoba.
More that will be postponed if you put something similar to when I don't know the club where the teachers can be with him.
Being the knowledge of using various foods in order to make sure that you sell it at the cost of students.
Even other teachers, I was called me like you.
To you, in general he was announcing that it has been accepted by the heaven because we have gone to Qatar and to kill them and remove them on how they were able to teach them keenly but since the month of September.
The teacher had warned those involved with the teachers where he is the Kilakala Primary school to succeed in terms of doing things to change the examinations because it has reached payments when we get to the internet I see how to learn.
Different meanings in so as to get knowledge still have not have a habit, by using the normal article so that you don't have a own life in the whole period because it is not a threat.
Through the teachers rest.
It is our hope that this program has decided to act made in the teachers last week so that all teachers can be beneficial, so as to ensure that great results are now.
The announcement of government has been drugs to the problem.
This work to do if the administration do work to write a letter to write a letter to someone who have not been forced to prepare my letter and you will make sure that I have a great ability to make sure that my teachers get a lot from me because I have been going to school that is there.
This sector has the ability to go to a picture that the new world get married to teach children, maybe I will look for another time to get in our environment that we don't know, then I will know you, that you will know that, some of the teachers do not know now that some of the teachers do not know.
The truth of employment or a citizen is when I don't know why the size of the preparations will be I'm in.
A teacher to teach Willy China.
However, when you are coming out of not having the desire for the preparations to see anything.
Now if we want to meet you, you ask you in the book of writing a certain style but also you are looking on the way it is very difficult earlier.
Follow up I would like to see new things.
But in a normal state?
Still it was not yet given a gift like that, the same way by if you believe that terrible to the child will know it.
We see the fruits.
Bad luck.
Fire station some of the teachers who are free.
You will find you that, when you get you, you know that in that area, but the.
It increased so much because they will be.
Things to try to accept to read it.
The person known by Kitime who is great love even drinking alcohol is possible.
From there and it is true that you are still ongoing again.
The act.
The introduction of the '- M-P-Square group, gets pests and looks like a series of drawings that we have been able to understand that there are some of the drawings that we got here is difficult and even if you want to go through a fine and even if you want to go back to students saying that I know if I want jokes.
As it is in the slaughterhouse, I will go through.
For now, we become a lot of sharp teeth.
Our photographer in a bomb.
Normally, it becomes difficult but we will use you, if it uses elephants is in a certain place where we want to bring in any information or be known and I have already arrived in plastic chairs to be known.
To the beneficiaries of this program, receiving and receiving bribes, we need us to make sure we do not have enough books because I don't have any other things and we do not see what you are doing, but if you see you, we do not see what you are doing but even when you look at the computer and we do not know what you are doing but again on the computers I don't know what you want.
Also, it said there are books who have a lot of looking at these hours when he used for the teachers in the class when he used to study for a long time who is in the class, but also there is a lot of things that you are doing so that we can look for a long time, which will you know yourself and see a computer use.
In school a lot of sin is very good because it helps you do not lie on this one in their daily studies and we have not seen if I did not like, I did not like to see that I am supposed to see that I am supposed to see that I am not easy to see that I am not easy to see that it is not easy for them.
This is called Michongo, I remember the main reason for the country to increase how it continues to see if the purpose did you love the use of the stem cells, the announcement is a main plan, I urge him to see among others told the opening of different issues in terms of managing director.
Little, the health has been like to know that teachers get enough insurance insurance through a day and you will have a third term, but using information, it will have a lot of teachers as he does not like that, their health has also been affected by that health.
Because of it?
We were with their fellow teachers on time of the wife.
There are big things that do not like to find people.
Teachers are given events still.
.
For a speed.
We have?
Which is the past.
Heading to where he went to where it is possible for the number of people.
Babati has given you questions or budget to it not seen in schools.
To know, if he was shocked here is where the youth was there and that is where he is.
They are not found.
Little, it becomes difficult, it will be easy and?
Despite the ordinary citizens, when I think about it is not something that I will be able to have noticed if he had a lot of questions in the sea, we saw people to increase efforts and support these government efforts in improving science subjects by using abusive language, we will increase experts in technology.
And increasing production in our industries and by doing so one day we will have this economic growth as it is in other nations your song is.
That man has been a slave.
The plan is.
Eyes too.
I was sent here I have fallen in love with people.
Is your opinion about people?
All Kidoti Brand.
When he was there.
It was opened.
.
Where we shall do?
.
He has returned me.
It should be.
