
Diamond has set aside a total of its income and put it in the last month show of June.

The tomorrow's star, Diamond has continued to make money for many show that also entertain every day in large numbers to make him make sure among the few artists of Tanzania with a lot of money.


We have tried to look for some of the show that he did in this month and which he will do at the end of this month and in the next month so that they can make sure that he gets in, some of the show will be able to make sure that he is doing.
The show of Comoros by 22.
In this show, he said that it is being paid under Tsh 25,000 American dollars which is more than 38 million shillings.
The XXL show of Wasafi Records and the 29th of June.
Many times in the internal show, Diamond did not get more than 10 million shillings for two show may be paid more than 15 million shillings.
The show of Tigo Mwanza 30.
In the show of companies like this, Diamond is usually paid under 10 million shillings.
Kili Music this year.
We got the report that Diamond will do a show in four provinces and he has been paid 50 million shillings for all show.
The Hope 7 show, this Thursday show Diamond has a lot of shillings.

The show of Kenya 27.
In this show Diamond is a draw that took place with Nigeria's stars, Ice Prince and Davido and here if he said that in an international show of the country, he does not have a probability here he has been paid more than 20 million shillings.
If you have Falcke won then it can sell your account which is the amount of June and July this year, I remember that all the show even the July, already he has signed a contract and he has already completed his contract and he has already paid his contract with 140 million shillings.
He also remember that it is an ambassador of Shimo area, it is usually paid every month for activities related to their daughters in the month of July, there is also a probability that he had other big show.
"All the days known as you remember, life is a great war, a day after you came into the grave, therefore it should not get married or get married, effort and applications are the only pillar that will enable you to win this life," says Diamond.
