
After the finals of the World Cup, 1995 we have signed.
A draw of 2-0 goals from Cape M has been in the second round match that led the race to look for tickets for the 2018 World Cup.
Later, the hope of the Kenyans have taken action in the international competitions were apprehended in the tournament that was carried out of the European Champions League, the quarter-finals.
He entered the new year of 2016 with hard work to ensure we have qualified for the African Cup finals (AFCON) in the next 2017 season.
In the match of Harambee Stars played up to now, it has been unable to play against Zambia and drew 1-1 by the Democratic Republic of Congo.
So as to have the opportunity to qualify for the AFCON tournament, we should leave Congo in the repeat match, we should leave Zambia at their home and also to register good results against Guinea and here at home.
Finally, the draw of the qualifying matches for the 2018 World Cup in African countries will take place on June 24 this year at the CAF headquarters, in Cairo, Egypt.
The schedule will involve 20 teams that will go based in five groups that each one will give one team that will participate in the finals that will happen in the country Rusimbi, Africa being represented by five teams only.
Those teams are together with Uganda which is the only country from the East and Central Africa (CECAFA).
Those who won from the primaries for 54 teams are Senegal, Cape Verde, Mali, Gabon, Uganda and Congo.
Other countries are DR Congo, Egypt, Algeria, Burkina Faso, Zambia, Morocco and Nigeria.
Likewise, there are South Africa, Cameroon, Ghana, Tunisia, Ivory Coast, Guinea and Libya.
Uganda is the only largest in East and Central Africa after Kenya, Rwanda, Burundi and Ethiopia to fail.
Many fans from this continent of CECAFA is now continuing to ask about these bad results that happened few days ago.
A fundraising was eliminated from Cape Verde which has a total of 2-1 goals.
The youths of Coach Manuel Pellegrini has condemned the mistakes of their journey to continue ahead after a 1-0 victory in the first round, before being defeated 2-0 away in the repeat match.
Tanzania after a draw of 2-2 and Algeria is at home in the first course, finally they scored 7-0 in the second round in Blacks group.
Fundraising which will give the best position of 2015 was difficult for the national team, Harambee Stars in the open tournament of scoring the goals that they got in the first course.
In the repeat match, those youths started showing their differences in the second half.
In Kigali city, the hosts Rwanda were defeated by 1-1 against Libya which has moved forward by a total of 4-1 against Ethiopia who witnessed, they scored 2-1 goals against Ethiopia.
DRC Congo scored the victory against Burundi and went forward with a total of 5-4 goals.
Another African team that had qualified for the group stage is Cameroon, has been charged with a total of 3-0 goals, together with Ghana where they completed the victory of 2-0 against Southampton.
We must have fans of our team to understand that there are a lot of things to learn and continue to prepare well in the coming days.
It is difficult to think one person or a certain group of time following to be expelled from our teams.
In soccer in those nations, especially Kenya and Tanzania there are big problems from there.
Our big problem has been a system that for many years has contributed to a big part especially in the international matches.
For many years, the citizens of these countries have been encouraged but they have ever heard.
Our soccer leaders have been unable to learn from their colleagues who are different from them and we are big.
There are nations that have been behind our country for more than 10 years but today is between the countries that are doing well in international matches.
Small countries like the country have been causing great opposition to the rocks of the continent like Ghana.
Apart from having a poor foundation, our country because they are forced to help our politics themselves.
We have no plans to promote youth soccer.
In our national team, there have been players who even after being left behind in the age of age, they are still brought back, though you cannot bring him any success.
Most of our players have not been born well basically, therefore we must be the players of playing for the national team to be more keen.
We must have better plans for representing us where we are in to be reached by them.
In the past years, our countries played soccer in a high level and have caused many countries like Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, and Ivory Coast, which is the same days is against them.
These days, our teams are not expected that good preparations before meeting with our opponents which many times do not have a better foundation of not getting.
Forever, our opponents usually have a lot of soccer players to be paid in the European Champions League.
Our country does not have a long-term plans to build a stable foundation in the near areas with talents in Africa, our countries have talents in every kind, but it is a must for you to do a extra work to sell and promote them if we want to have better teams to do well in the international competitions.
Our soccer parties are expected to ensure that every big clubs in the league have youth teams so as to reach our goals in international standards.
Apart from that, getting tired of talents that were in the past years together with the youth competition must be shaken, so as to help to build players for the purpose of future days.
In Kenya, Germany, in Germany, Eindhoven mid-fielder, Eindhoven mid-fielder, Reinhardt Sputanza decided to remain in the memory of his coaches who had kidnapped them after doing our team run before the rocks.
During those times, Kenya continued to remain among the best teams in Africa, to an extent that they were separated by countries like Mali from Togo and even Cameroon.
Kenya continued to participate in matches to test themselves against the big team and started being recognized by the world.
Years of Fabregas believes, Harambee Stars went to and remain in the best player in Africa for a long time.
So as to be successful, it is a must for youth soccer plans to be discussed as required, apart from taking up the youth competition from the estates.
