Two banks in charge of the council.
May 27, 2015.

The big conflict has emerged inside the Council of Monduli District about the bank to give its banking services out of two major banks in the country, NMB and CRDB which have won the contract of caring for government funds and its institutions.
The information followed by our citizens at the end of the week explained that the conflict has caused the members of the committee on finance and economy of the council to address a agenda to elect the bank that will provide services of its banks.
The incident of dispose with him happened on May 20 this year, while the delegates of that special committee of councils discussing that agenda, after receiving instructions from the treasury about the decision by the government to choose two bank's funds and its institutions.
The reports discussed in this newspaper from inside that session are indicating that after the council's chairperson, Edward Lowassa announced the discussion session about that agenda which started to the delegates through the advice that was given by the experts of the council.
That tension inside the session started after the chairperson announced the argument that all the accounts of the council from now they will remain in brackets to go to the CRDB Bank as soon as possible from NMB, something that other delegates attacked them.
Previously before the directive by treasury, Monduli District Council was served by NMB Bank, which also has a branch in Monduli town for a long time and is between the two banks with an agreement of caring for government funds and its institutions.
The letter of treasury?
The letter from lack of information to the director of Monduli District explained that the government has ratified any contract with two banks of NMB and CRDB for the purpose of providing banking services to its institutions.
That letter said Good Citizen has been able to see its use on May 13 this year, having records, number 5 / 31 / 2014 / 15 / 2015 with the news headline "contracts of banking services in the government."
That letter has been written on behalf of the deputy secretary general of treasury, and the officer who also identified himself by Aziz Kona who was even so he did not sign the procedures they are facing.
In his letter, Khajida Kopa, the executive director said that they are required to choose one bank out of those two so as to give banking services to the council.
That letter is to be easily read, as we have explained to our previous letter to be presented to the accountant of the government, only one bank that will give financial services to your council.
"In your letter the bank has mentioned two banks of NMB Plc and CRDB that they will give services to your office for your recommendations not to consider the instructions I have given.
The recommendations of the experts?
In their recommendations, the experts of that council after discussing for a long time they requested the council's accounts to continue being in the NMB Bank PLC for now due to the challenges of CRDB Bank not having a branch now in Monduli District.
These experts have warned that the council is owning seven accounts in the NMB Bank which include Mdigo 'team, Mdudu', Mdudu ', Mdudu', Mdudu ', Mdudu' and Mdudu '.
The source of a tension?
The source of that tension between the delegates of the committee up to the aim of giving me a sharp object in the region was ready to have two sim cards from Kinondoni and Ilala councils of Dar es Salaam which are believed to have already bought his accounts to the CRDB.
Two delegates of the sitting in Julius Kalanga and Isaack Joseph Kadyage has started following the reasons for the chairperson to ensure all the accounts of the council to be handed over to time from the NMB Bank PLC to CRDB without the implementation of the evaluation and important criteria for service delivery.
One of the delegates of the meeting who asked his name to ask for instance, he told Bongo Five that the two delegates showed that "wrote me" and accused the council members to have personal interests in the issue and wanting advice was brought by the experts of the council.
