Women leaving the leaders of protecting and protecting the forest.
Petit 14, 2013.

There is a big thing that you differentiate these women in the district and other districts of Tanga Province, they don't like to fail what the men are not behind even in danger of the dangerous activities like to do police inside the neighboring villages of that district.
During the recent tour in that district, the journalists of the association of environmental journalists in Tanzania (JET) was revealed that women's women are on the front line in all activities of protecting and protecting the forests.
"Forests have been damaged by women (women) that we are being affected by men because it is a must for us to be on the front line in protecting and protecting our forests," says Zainab Omari who is the chairman of the environmental committee of Misukosuko.
And on that meaning, they were in collaboration with men in starting and protecting a forest with that village which is called "Msuha" with a size of 3677 hectares, and also in participating in campaigns to break the two local government in that village called Mlapa.
According to the details of that mother, the contribution of women in protecting and protecting that forest is big than men and "men are normal, to come out in special operations, different from it is for us women," says Zainab.

That women in the villages of Tunduru district are on the front line in the process of protecting and protecting the forests, it is something that delegation of JET is also in Mkwajuni village, in that village committee has a big number of women more than men.
"By fact, I can say that the participation of women in protecting and protecting the forests in Amani ward is huge in many villages, its environmental activists is equivalent to 60 percent," said Godfrey Zito, who is the executive officer of Mkwajuni village.

On another side, you are not supposed to know that women in the village of Amani ward, Igunga District, are on the front line in protecting and protecting the forest that is why the district council is a woman.
All over the villages of Amani ward, the mother, Jane Madata, is known to be known by the nickname 'Follow suit' - a name that without doubt, due to the fact that the community has been shown to make them feel that the community has been forced to make them lose the forest with men.
That mother, who has the experience in the 22 years sector has done a great work in collaboration with the Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (CCG) to educate women in that district benefits of forests and to encourage them to promote the park.
The organization for producing natural gas in Tanzania (MSG) is one of the 11 participants in the Easter festival that is being implemented nationally in nine districts in Kilwa, Kisarawe, Kibaha, Masasi, Masasi, Masasi, Longido, Korogwe, Korogwe.
On other words, you can say that, the response of women in the district is in controlling and protecting the forest is the fruits of the project of breast cancer where a knee injury on times in that district is (CG).
Certainly, it is a modem that has been able to enable the mother to make the job of educating the public, being faced with great expertise, especially for example, it is that organization which is in July 2011, "noted that motorbike riders commonly known here in the year 2011.
