
In the league, we have seen that we are affected?
Allan Goshashy.
It has been a long time witness of the premier league matches in Tanzania Mainland in different stadiums in the country for the whole period to witness the match since 90 years, the picture I have seen and continued to be there until now, our players failed to play soccer professionally, therefore lack of attractive soccer.
We are not need to do an evaluation and identify this, that says, examples are open from the club's players up to those who are called to form Taifa Stars, attraction, and good flavor.
In sports, the competition of competition between the team or players themselves, is the main foundation of the competition to our players, the situation is very different from the ones that arise in the field so that they do not be careful, they have a shortage of expertise thus causing a good friendly match.
If you are in the field to witness the matches of the Mainland Premier League that ended recently, I believe that it will be looking at the primary issues concerning the good soccer game and if the truth was looking for those professional matches, it will have many players who have a shortage in many primary things.
Primary things like coughnuts, receiving football and even heading to football, protect football, protect the ball, putting off the ball, laying the killing of attacks, defense, charges, and other primary issues.
In fast, it can be difficult to write my meaning, but with the needs of the soccer, you will discover that everything is delaying Tanzania to reach the development of soccer where most of us see it is normal, but it's not even a little thing.
For example, when I think about doughnuts, it is clear I am pleased with a great ability to sell your ball well and make a good environment to save or make a good environment to prevent or make a good environment for voting or to make a conducive environment for voting or not to disturb the ball.
There are different types of sexually transmitted diseases, a player can use part in the inside or outside his foot or bake at each other and even heading to football, let your impatience will be given a soccer game to kill him.
In an issue of knowing how to vote, let your impatience will be important in every position in the pitch and there are different types of voting because there are long distances and long distances to each other, get a long distance.
At the same time when I think that you vote for a head, it is important to say the importance of the use of the head balls, especially with the attackers who are supposed to connect with a high speed by using the head, where the defenders who are important to take a high table with the head players are also important to take the right place to the head.
When I speak to protect football it is clear that a good soccer player is to know of protect football and protect football, it is important for defenders and even players of the organs to protect the ball so that they can be able to serve the ball.
Apart from closing the goals by using the head, the foundation of making sure that they are the right way to score the goals.
In the foundation of soccer of expanding in football here, there are different ways of denying them balls, one being in a sleeping way, also you can enjoy the ball by thanking your opponent.
Those are very few, and that is why I thank my colleagues, that league is over, so we have seen those who made them or like that we are seen, where we are forced to do well in our soccer and therefore failing to perform well.
