
Ngeleja, "Masau boasted" Kikwete in Mbeya, May 31, 2012.

Most of the expectations of many during the recent tour of President Jakaya Kikwete in Mbeya Province, is the presence of several events of violence and violence as it happened last year during his tour in the province.

Among the groups that attended that tour would have been many events, he is the journalists from different media stations in Mbeya Region.
The time for the time of their editors, in Dar es Salaam city, going to the press who were in that convoy is an important evidence of how the tour was given to the importance of news agencies and maybe more than all the tour of President Kikwete is doing in the country.
A big question that was asked by those editors is that one that need the answer to the presence of violence or violence in that convoy of President Kikwete.

Some of the media houses led to the press up to two during the tour, a step that shows it is how those equipment was expected to have cases of violence such as last year.

It is clear that all those who had expected to take a tour covered by violence and violence, including others from outside the media, built bad decisions against Mbeya Region, a question that will expand the province to have a culture of bad events including illegal immigrants.

By bad luck to people who were in that view, it is that they did not understand the residents of Mbeya, and if it is not that you want them to know the behavior of the residents of that province, an issue that could help the government and its leaders.

What happened at the President Kikwete's tour in Mbeya Province recently, didn't come from bad luck or by using the Almighty God, the same way came out in his last year's tour didn't happen by bad luck or to continue the Almighty God!

The two day tour of President Kikwete in Mbeya province have given two different pictures, last year it was caused by violence and violence to some of the areas, while this year he was accompanied with calmness and peace, a situation that is not expected by many.

The difference of those two days is due to one main issue and here is preparations for the visit and here I'm not happy about the use of security and security agencies because I don't believe in the use of energy to be the correct solution to the problems of citizens.

The tour of President Kikwete in Mbeya Region, which began on 29th October and will be played on November first this year, just after putting the foundation stone at the Tanzania Breweries Limited in Mbeya town, he went well due to its good preparations.

It is a tour that will not be forgotten in the memory of even President Kikwete himself on how it was in his success and how it gives a real picture of the residents of Mbeya Province, the picture of generosity, love and honor to their leaders.

Preparations for his tour in that province this year are many, including various leaders of the government and the Revolutionary Party, they did not understand its importance and they believe that they believe in the sake of bringing in the citizens instead of the true preparations that are seen by the eyes.

This year's tour explains that if there is not true that if the leader is a man for his voters, and different from there seems to be an artist who is not keen.

If he took place in understanding or bad luck, the truth is to remain when that tour by President Kikwete in Mbeya Province this year was good and successful, and behind that success, then it is not another but is the minister of energy and Mdigo, William Ngeleja.

The government's step through Minister Ngeleja officially announced officially finishing the problems of the work of Liganga and Donetsk Airport in that province, approximately one month before the arrival of President Kikwete in Mbeya region this year to be successful.

More than 500 employees of Spain's gold mine were not paid more than ten months ago since last year to October this year.
This was a number one person and the biggest challenge to the residents of that province with the foundation that caused many other families more than those workers.

Employees bought tickets or experience especially when they noted that the popularity of the president in that province did not have their support, but later they got hope from their member of parliament, the committee on energy and minerals led by William Shelukindo.

Hope of the workers that were given more than after the minister of bail, William Ngeleja, started a one-day communication with those workers through their member of parliament and leaders of their employees' party.

That truth is been confirmed by the chairman of the association of staff that took place in that religion, Daniel Kibacha who says she was communicating with them with one phone to one, and even they not using a short message of the phone that responsibility and voting for them.
Speaking about that decision by the government, Minister Ngeleja noted that it was not appropriate to assume the situation that was facing those workers, considering that it is a human being and they have shown a lot of joy to protect the nation's property as well as lack of poverty.

He says that as a human being, the situation made me and it was the reason why he had a chance to be the member of parliament for Kyela, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, when he spoke about an issue that was made by the member of parliament for Kyela, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, when he spoke about an issue that was organized by the parliamentarian for Kyela, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe when he spoke about the issue of Kiwira prisons, to do communication with workers from time to time to explain the development of their problem.

Joy due to that decision by the government this day it did not end with the workers themselves that they were given by the Minister Ngeleja, and their member of parliament for approximately one kilometers from Kyela, Rungwe, that day.

One businessman in Kyela town was heard saying, "the government has now done the brain, these people were paid on Lwambi hill in the first extract of Kasese district with the difficulty they got to build himself, we will sell for iron sheets and cement."

A solution to a solution to the staff meeting which was attended by President Kikwete's tour in last month is not yet confirmed by some of the journalists in the talks that are not official, when he explained to be surprised by how the citizens in that province did not have joy for the decision, and that every person met with him for that decision.
In addition to be done on that issue of Kiwira prisons workers, they have been promised their employment opportunities to continue with their salaries being paid without lack, Minister Ngeleja, he was sent by the grace of the electricity projects including the price that was stuck for several years now.

That electricity project has started to be implemented by approximately every district in that province has been touched, and even when he was interviewed he gave a confirmation about that step by the minister, TANESCO's manager, Mbeya Region confirmed that the money have arrived in the province and work continues.

At the time it is going on to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals to address those problems, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation continues with its strategies to remove the citizens' problems, strategies that was reported to by the minister, Professor Mark Mwandosya in all the meetings by President Kikwete in his tour in that province.

This situation is different from when it was during the tour of President Kikwete in that province last year, instead of leaders to give an opportunity to the employees of Spain's gold mine, explained their problems, they were tested for that position and even those who were removed in meeting with dollars.

Other problems of last year is to sign the president in the middle of the citizens when Mwanjelwa is still being satisfied with the huge loss due to a knee problem in the market where a very few billion shillings made by the CRDB Bank for the purpose of construction of the new market of Mwanjelwa.

No doubt that if that if you will be done, the President of the man and his car which is pumped by if it was for Ngeleja, when he was (for example), have explained the following words.

"Fellow citizens, first, I would like to give my condolences to bad accidents that had flooded your market together with many property, I know you have been able to come up immediately but I wish you my condolences to him, today I will give your condolences to him, today I will give you my condolences to him, today I will give you my condolences to the police in Mbeya town, a check of three billion shillings for the construction of the new market of Mwanjelwa."
They want them completely like, I would end up the speech by saying that, "I urge all the people who were present here and then I will not understand what I will be able to ask for your brothers that I will take.

Just picture above the situation that would have been there that day at Mwanjelwa is like human beings who would see those words.
The answer is no one.

A lesson here according to President provinces is that good preparations and right of the president's tour is to eliminate the problems of citizens that are not need, and not using force's strength to control the public of the public.
