.
What we believe every Tanzanian has a desire to see the late God is doing well in the big international tournament and most of them don't know our nation for the last time to participate in the biggest competitions outside the African Cup but since there we are trying but we are waiting for.
Many days, but now we see the strategies that are there or the strategies that are done so that they can be careful, I cannot be stable and be able to be able to sustain him in the tournament.
International.
Here.
I will be with.
The case of July being happy with all those.
Now in good things.
In the first commandment of money?
Here is it?
This is the first goal coach to be with him.
Today's topic will give these houses because when we talk about these houses, when we talk about approximately sixty players of that team, he has started with approximately twenty players and agreed to enter the camp so as to attend to Tukuyu, in the city of Mbeya.
Kugunduliwa school.
Already in the primaries for getting the players who now get the children, the deceased will enter the country to get many youths who are in every reason, there are the ten expectations that we will come to increase strength more than fifty six that had already been doing for a team.
So as to look at how he is sustainable tomorrow, the late God bless this squad has a stable squad in Dar es Salaam, then I will not see my conflict so that the student's conflict is also participated in the whole process of improving this student's soccer team, we will also participate in the whole process of improving this student's soccer team, but we will also participated in the whole process of improving this student's soccer team.
?
When you know the language is the technical director of President Pierre Nkurikiye has said that it is his advice to technical issues and requested them to make sure that you will put in details about the children out of improving our country's soccer.
Taifa stars.
Ras Makunja did you see the reputation of the reputation but Malinzi.
Almighty God start this strategy to ensure that they are blocking our things.
.
Tomorrow.
It is a plan that they do.
Or we know inside.
Royalties.
Every leader or everyone who gets power is that he becomes the philosophy of her because I saw the guards when he entered to power, Mister he found the things that the leadership will go through Msasani, Msasani.
But after staying and faith, he got advice and still get advice because they were given a better house, you know but it is possible for the houses to get them.
But in looking at the general elections that the phone will be good with the eyes and when you see for every corner of the road, they will make sure that there will be a bad day because they will make sure that there will be a bad day, therefore, they will make sure that there will be a bad day without the teachers to choose the number seven phones, there are many youths.
Walking, when they get exercises once and using that game, we have been asked here in the picture because we saw there we start from the application instead of therefore, Tulia Ackson, because there are youths who have never got a chance but for this time they are getting the position of new leadership at the end of the game.
That is in a bad improvement.
These experts remember they are going on, because with the aim of getting players but at a period of us, I believe that for a short time is evident that the generation is still needed here or the bus.
The same time they received and P-employed I give you.
But in a short time.
Here, it is a attraction to the ones that do not sell the soccer players.
For someone who will make sure we need for two months you need for two weeks, you will just be a player early this week, if that lady will cause a lot of joy to see that I am no longer.
I cannot say that, there is a big time this was a short time but the youth has been found to kill many.
What is it easy to see.
Already, we have people that listen to our religion because the first is its teachings but the second is that it is a must to build their colleagues when I am a place with my topic and why he will receive him.
For teachers, he will make strategies that now you are required to do exercises for three times a day.
For now, you are still on the shoulder?
And know that it is a job, therefore, the young man from that way will leave each other and its teachings to do that work for men.
Because these hours we're blocking you for a short time here to that.
The Jenga Tanzania virgin "is more than those things, science and development to help those things, therefore we will decide to receive teachings from the teachers and our faith in the field but when they get a lot of patriotism he would have, I have faith in work that you come.
