The manifesto of the claims of women in the new constitution is the commission to listen?
May 16, 2013 by Almighty God, a new constitution.

Angellah Kairuki about four hours during the deputy minister of Constitution and law, May 8th, this year, officially launched the 'Women's Day inside the new constitution in a ceremony that took place at the TGNP Internet grounds, Dar es Salaam.
That day to launch the manifesto of the Women's Day of Tanzania in the new constitution was historic the launch of its kind and to ensure that the manifesto was conducted through the hands of representatives of different groups in our nation, women, men, youth, youths and so on.
All the speeches that were given that day, were able to give a huge message to the director of TGT, Usu Mallya, in his speech, with emphasis on efforts and plans of making information to the commission, to encourage women participants every step of the process of preparing a new constitution.
The guest of honor she reminded the history of a group, "said Mrs Salma, a history of past history that the first woman in the world entered the parliament in Bagashe (Finland) in 1913, France this year 1932 and Switzerland in 1971.
The women's manifesto which was launched has 18 recommendations that women have decided to discuss these recommendations here, because it is not my motion here, but my request to discuss today is a question by the commission of constitutional changes will listen and focus on these issues of women?
No doubt that women have shown an example of their notice which is on the fanaticism of political parties, in the way of religion, is about encouraging and is about the normal system of testing the groups of women and men.
We cannot say that these women don't have their political parties, they don't have any religion because of this fact is that this issue of making a new constitution in the country have come and give one voice with an aim of building Tanzania today and tomorrow and of generations to come.
Any person who is a good nation is a must to be on political fanaticism and it is a must to make sure that our nation does not affect the constitution of citizens!
When he was appointed, Judge Joseph Warioba to be the chairperson of the commission on constitutional changes, we believe that now the process comes well. Judge Warioba has a good record and there is no doubt in his patriotism in that country.
Moreover, most of the delegates of this commission as well, Doctor Salim Ahmed Salim and other fellow colleagues have been respected and accepted by our nation, although these people have been members of CCM for many years, therefore, our faith will help them to see more than patriotism in our party.
The Revolutionary Party (CCM) is a political party which for the recent years, has been working on fanaticism and sometimes fanaticism can be productive to our nation, tickets that cannot build Tanzania's Tanzania and tomorrow.
We cannot believe that Judge Warioba has put more eyes on the way he did not see how the CCM ticket is causing a lot of issues inside our parliament and there is no need to give examples if I had explained by our nation to achieve the step of increasing life and selling our resources at a small price.
