
We saw the violence of Al Shabaab.
Sei, 26, 2013.

Saturday last week, our colleagues in the neighboring country, the Nairobi city in Kenya, was a continuation of killings as a result of the killings as a result of the terrorists' group of Al Shabaab.

In that terror attack, Al Shabaab killed several people that were holding an army and starting that day on Saturday until there were also a citizen of Kenya, but also a citizen of other countries in the neighboring countries and Kenya together with citizens from some of the European countries.

The biggest thing, we should be able to confirm that the terror attack in Oyster Bay in Nairobi is the truth that all the terror attack and the terrorists is in general, the only way the only way to fight with them is to unite people of various nations in the world against them.

The board and management of the Catholic church of Mwema, we met with senior leaders of various countries in the world to send condolences to all the victims of the terror attack in Kenya together with our condolences to the victims of that incident to get high prices with the love of God, that we have condemned the incident by the terrorists' that led all the heavy rains in the world.

There's no reason for going back to the fight against terrorism inside the East African countries, Africa and the world as a whole.

But in addition to all these, including the pain of being left with other citizens who are not guilty in the East African Community, we think it is difficult for leaders of the East African Community to join and discuss the security issue within these countries, against a threat to the terrorists.

The president of Uganda, Yoweri Musomba, the president of Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta, and the president of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, will participate in the terror attack in Johannesburg, but also in the issues of economic and political leaders, but also in the security issue which currently is the terrorists.

They should know that the infrastructure that we make between their countries by relying on other countries without primary reasons, only to our colleagues, God is together with you, the victory against the terrorists will not be only inside Kenya but in the East African Community and Africa as a whole.
