
Kagasheki will not be a bone of the four ministers?
Jide 16, 2012

There are religious leaders, they have started dealing with the performance of the new Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Hamis Kagasheki, a lot of skills they have been revealed at the way he started working immediately after being appointed to lead that ministry instead of Ezekiel Maige.
Just a few days after getting in the office, Minister Kagasheki, shot dead and removed the officers on suspicion of being involved in the killing of two sides in Serengeti.
Recently, Kagasheki, insisted that his senior officers in his ministry to pave way for investigation against them while welcoming the officers, Minister Kagasheki, announced that now he has started working on the ministry.
Those and several others are the ones that make us believe that some of the IMF are saying that the ministry has had a vibrant leader, and a good thing is true.
I say that at the beginning of that, I am not one of those who believe that the ministry will also care because there is under a vibrant listener who has managed to fight against corruption that took place in that ministry.
I know it and me, and I agree on the previous record, these current steps to compete is "energy, soda, only and even other ministers in that ministry who kidnapped the ones they started thus.
All those who attacked them were presented to the parliament when they presented their budget that they will stop the ministry, but it did not happen, and ended up being transferred to the ministry or put into a sharp object.
I am sure Hamis Kagasheki, would like that, when he takes the budget for the financial year 2012 / 13, Wednesday night of July 11, this time he will hold that ministry, it is an issue of just the answer.

Kitegu has returned to Minister Kagasheki, and which is the meaning of his fellow ministers who kidnapped them, he is a big number of big producers in the country in the tourism sector and forests, those who caused them to step down from ministers who preceded him were the last one with Ezekiel Maige.
And because the veteran players are still there, and they still have a great importance to our leaders, it is difficult for Minister Kigwangala to stop corruption in that ministry, even if they would have banned all senior officials of that ministry and put new leaders!
The presence of that network of veteran players who have great influence to our leaders have been confirmed to be close to all the ministers who came through that ministry in the recent years of President Kikwete's administration, that is the Professor Jumanne Maghembe and Ezekiel Maige, I've heard a few.
Let me listen to them when we start with Mousa Diallo who was in the minister of natural resources and tourism, in the year 2006, he announced that the illegal business that sell water from outside the country was done by several government officials, while some of them were in government.
That minister noted that many companies that have been registered themselves with illegal businesses that sell oil in the country is owned by secret and some senior officials in the government in collaboration with several leaders.
Minister Modi did not want to get names of those leaders, but later he was removed from that ministry, it is believed to be removed from that ministry, there was being supported by one of the veteran players with a huge challenge to our leaders.
Commenting on the other of the presence of those new leaders with great impacts that they denied the efforts to end corruption in that ministry, was brought by the Minister Maghembe.
After being found in that ministry for a short time, Minister Maghembe and he repeated the statement of his colleague that involved the illegal business of illegal immigrants in the country, who are big producers in the country.
Certainly, the Minister Maghembe and he went more by told the parliament that already he was awarded President Kikwete the whole list of those ministers. Until today the names are in that list of Minister Maghembe and became the State House!
But testifying on the whole of the presence of those veteran players who missed the fight against corruption in that ministry was brought by Ezekiel Maige just after being left out.
Maige said that the public that the fight against corruption in that ministry which had been presented by those leaders, and that they went to him as the minister of that ministry results from them being an obstacle to him.
Maige said that the veteran players were not satisfied with the way he did not want to address the issue of preventing animals from outside the country or the good allocation of illegal drug abuse or outside the country.
The only difference between Maige and the two of the two - Jumanne Maghembe and Latifa, is that he placed a lot of things after he was shocked when his colleagues were given out that secret when they were still ministers.
Any reason, we learned from while testifying of all the three ministers is that they missed the fight against corruption in that ministry is people with great strength in the country who the ministers do not have the Adam's rib, "
And that is why I am saying that when he got the veteran players, there are still some of their network is still there, and how they are continuing, he got in the chest with our leaders, Minister Kigwangala and his current efforts he will end there.
But we have asked me more to Minister Kagasheki, because it is not only two lawyers, because he has increased the second enemy in the illegal business of selling Shisha that is outside the country and the corners of the church and the new person is the Chinese!
Since the government of China asked its law to protect China of China in the year 1998, industries in that country have been vying to the African continent to get their huge needs of timber in illegal immigrants.
Organization of the England organization that deals with the investigation of illegal resources of natural resources, Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (Eme), has explained its report that the Chinese are involved with illegal drug trafficking, rhinos and also sell gas in the Coastal Region and Mozambique, especially in Caspian Sea and I got it.
In addition, which for the 10 years has been following the participation of the Chinese companies in the illegal business in Africa, it says that China officers use central people in those businesses, and that their ship contributes to transport every year cargo of HIV in China.
But without even going back to the new research, most of us know that many times some of the Chinese who come to the country because of the construction projects that also engages in illegal immigrants.
And many times our leaders are believed to arrest the toes or give the arrest, because the reasons should be shown by the "donations" and "sim cards," the government of China.
And the Chinese know that, and that is why you continue being involved in those evil businesses, in African countries where its leadership system is not stable including DR Congo, Sudan and Zimbabwe.
Therefore, Minister Kigwangala is not only that he will have a huge crowd in its efforts to stop illegal immigrants from outside the country, and they will also have to deal with the new laws that contribute to burn our forests from the Chinese.
It is this difficulty that attracts some of us to have doubt like that Minister Kigwangala will not be a bone in the ministry, Professor Maghembe and Maige.
It is an issue of just time we will know that her fans had a strength of soda, same as it was for the ministers who attacked them!
It depends on.
