Government denies going to sell.

It has been written by Dennis Temu, Mafia.

It has been reported, 31st October, 2016.

The government had assured the residents of Mafia District and encourage us to be Kisiwa of Shangwe who is in that district in Pwani province, it has not been found and sold to anyone as claimed by some.

Instead, the government has signed a contract with an investor for the purpose of doing business exhibition of five star in the island for a period of 20 years, investment that has more benefits to the citizens and the government in general.
Speaking during the occasion to launch the hotel that was given by the name Thenge, the Executive Manager of the Bahari Beach Hotel in the country, Doctor Uluguru Myovela, said the investor had a contract with the government to make that business being part in order to improve the business.
"I would say it's not mentioned that the government which is in power under President John Pombe Magufuli, is keen on the rumors of being sold to this island, no doubt, because you will be built on the tourism hotel for an agreement with the government and not to be sold or to be found," said Doctor Machar.
He said the opening of that hotel will benefit the government by getting revenue through tax and create employment to the Mafia residents as well as encouraging development and also to consider the law of ractory sides in the sea.
The Mafia District Commissioner, Shaibu Namkoveka said that the launch of the hotel has given good employment opportunities to its residents and also will stimulate the speed of development in that district.
The executive director of that hotel, Pierre Nkurikiye has thanked the government through the manager of National Social Security Funds, Doctor Machakos as to enable that investment, whose process started 10 years ago.
Mselem stated that the hotel has five houses of sleeping, a swimming accident, a tennis ball, a tennis game together with all other things and the cost is 10,000 American dollars (equivalent to more than 20 million shillings) at night.
He also said that they have been beneficial to the Mafia residents and thus on the side of 65 percent, it will be to the residents of that island.
"Today we have officially launched this hotel, but it will start working in the middle of November this year," said Delhi.
The Island of Shangwe who is part of Mafia District in Pwani province is among the 15 regions which are the highest areas that are in the Indian Ocean and it is not allowed to do any activity of buying fish.
