
It is wrong to refuse.
October 21, 2012

December 14th, in the year 1991, the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, said one of the foolish things that he has got in East Africa is to break the African Community.
East Africa that was started in 1967 and signed in 1967.

On his words, Mwalimu Nyerere said that, "is wrong, it was a shame to have a high level of breaking the community. History will give judgment on some of us (their leaders), but a group of socialism has done that job to be hard to succeed."

"Even in Europe, which their history is only war, they join with the truth we need unity and join more than Europe, but these are the words that we play the song of separation." These are the words of separation, "these are the words that love the union of Africa and the world as a whole.
If the teacher says it is ignorance of breaking the East African Community, and we believe is the ignorance of breaking the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.

With those thoughts, although it is their right to think and raising the thoughts of those kind, we urge them to respect their thoughts and let them to bring up the best way to improve the union more than to think it is a solution to a political problem, economically and the community as a whole.

We did not believe that in breaking the union is the only way to deal with problems between two countries that join them even if the union will benefit from, it is clear that those problems will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every problem will be divided, every
On the side of heading to the two sides connected to them.

If they are complaining of unity they are doing so because of power, it should be the side of the mainland or in the islands, the problem will leave it after the union broke up as a result of the coalition nuisances for leaders, then the problems are not available outside "he found the union.

Therefore, for any reason, it should be able to have a political party or government not to give birth to reasons for getting the union and especially in the current world.

Like Germany, East and West which at the time they managed to run itself again by building a great wall and later discovered the ignorance of and.
To join again, it is why we encourage us to register myself if it's a solution to our problems?

We pray for forgiveness for the interests of who and why should we be able to solve the problems that are there without knowing where we believe that Mwalimu and Karume was not good and to decide on how to improve the good intention.

Although we recognize that the union is the strength of separation, we insisted that it is not only in the union of bees, but also it is not involved in all the important areas for the life of IT.
