Parties are institutions and were not involved in the media?
Dec 5, 2013.

For a period of approximately two months now, the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and "vibrant listener, who was the deputy secretary general of that party, Zitto Kabwe, have been in conflicts between preventing and below down.

Those conflicts were getting rid of more especially when the party's executive committee announced his positions out of the party, Zitto Kabwe, who is the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency as a step that was taken to other two members, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo and Samoa Island.

I don't want to get in details on how these things have been taken since this issue especially from how these things have been on the media at a whole period and also I will address the future of political parties here in the country.

Because I don't have any personal interests or in any side, or in any political party here in the country, my debate will focus more on the broader interests of the citizens of Tanzania and this nation in general.

Therefore, in my debate, what doesn't maintain it is a must for the presence of political parties here in the country, it's true that every party's goal is to make law and make sure they are being used as required.

For natural resources then for the objectives of political parties, and the way it is run and by considering that, the conflict is in CHADEMA there are two things that contribute here on first of the party, different from running the party (which is the institution) through the implementation of the program and running the party through the media stations.

In that first time, the political party is a group, made up of people who are together with goals, and ideology of the same way, even so, the main aim of the political party as I said previously is against.

In working and implementing its responsibilities and finally, to achieve their goals, the political party is led by the constitution, regulations, and even special laws by considering the constitution and law of the country.

Every member who has the responsibility to implement its responsibilities, or by partnering with his fellow members, but with the purpose of actualizing the party's headquarters, it does not mean that the benefit or the results of the party will not be the benefit of the party and not a member of the party.

The same way, the party has managed a group, results or fruits of those achievements are not supposed to attract many people alone.

That is the reason for the party to be a party institution as an institution that is needed more in implementing its goals in foundations, notice and regulations of the party and those who are doing well in this area to achieve this goals are members in their positions and they had not yet to be about the party.

Let us learn through an example of various political parties in the world, including opposition parties like Democrat and Republican (America), Spohr, (Kenya) and elsewhere, with other parties that come back and up to date it is a lesson to us because one person or two can't be careful.

It is true that there are parties that have found the benefits of building a stable foundation has it start from doing its work as part of the government of the parties together with the Revolutionary Party here in our country, but this does not mean that when there are people inside this party with the basis of the party but they did not just check up in their actions.
