Tanzania will fall down.
May 1st, 2014.

Finally, Tanzania has launched a shop from Kinyanyiko area, the Ministry of Transport now decided to use the opportunity of the countries that are not affected by the port.
The growth of the country.

Among those opportunities include the country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), which by recognizing the importance of Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA), has decided to open the communication office of its transport activities in Lumbumbashi town in that country.

The office of TPA will be launched on first May this year, where Tanzania's delegation being led by the Minister of Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, right now is heading to the road through roads.
The journey started in the port of Dar es Salaam.

Minister Doctor Mwakyembe accompanied by the chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Infrastructure, Peter Selina, a member of the committee, Ramadhan Madabida to be the acting director general of TPA, Emmanuel Kalobelo, and the acting director general of TPA,.

"We have seen it is not good to use the plane to go to the launch of the TPA office," we have decided to use road transport so as to see the real situation of transportation and problems.
The facility of the port of dry land, "said Doctor Mwakyembe in an interview with the press in Mbeya City yesterday when they were waiting for time before continuing with their journey.

Together with seeing the real situation, it will help the government in making efforts to take action against the improvement of the transportation sector especially considering that the country like DRC have already started improving the sector in his country to look at the port of Dar es Salaam.
As his main goal in the transportation of his cargo to go to the country.

"Tanzania right now, we are in promoting himself in the neighboring country to believe in the port of Dar es Salaam where DRC have faith in our port for now, improve the port of Dar es Salaam.
Putting you to use that opportunity, "says Doctor Mwakyembe who recently was in that country for the aim of developing the port.
Dar es Salaam City.

According to chairperson Serukamba, that journey has enabled them to see different problems that can be able to stop the success of cargo.
Some that resulted from the law that engages in light weight in large numbers of inspection and others being are as a result of some of the executives of those stations.

Serukamba has mentioned another problem that affects the efficiency of cargo as well as the use of technology that were called and sometimes, he said that causes of congestion that are not a must at the rate of weight in the port.

"Tanzania we have not used our opportunity to advance into consideration the distance of these countries until the port of Dar es Salaam is small, it will not reach 2000 kilometers and the other port will use it more than 3,000 shillings, our problem is.
Lack of productivity, "said Selina.

The information of TPA, as it came out by acting director general, Dylan Kerr has noted the size of the cargo from DRC to DRC to be a ton.
One million for a year, among those 750,000 tons is the ones that remain in 250,000 to be a load that is being transported outside DRC.

If the rail in Dar es Salaam up to Kigoma will be expected to increase a load of payment, whereby a bronze medal is expected to continue to reach one million tons, and it is due to the size of the size.
The cargo has been launched at the TPA office in DRC to give an address as one of the important steps in promoting the business of transport in the country.

However, chairman Selina noted that it will not be productive if there will be no success in the performance of the authority and all the other stakeholders of transportation including medical equipment.
The signature of the port of land.

Together with DRC, there are also countries of Zambia, Rwanda, Burundi, Malawi, and Uganda which is a good capital for the authority to give entertainment.
The country, a big way is to improve infrastructure for railway infrastructure, road and air and efficiency in TPA.

The improvement of the central railway together with the TAZARA railway is given priority to the whole business of transportation in the country for now.
Increasing the size of the cargo that will be served by the port of Dar es Salaam, to increase efficiency in it is possible for transporting the cargo.
Further, in one time, but also it will bring in the destruction of roads in the country that comes from passing the great burden more than his ability.
