He deserves us to use the effects of masturbation.
December 25, 2013.

Politics does not have a lesson so that with a huge indiscipline on the western part of the western countries that are involved with clashes between those countries and countries like us.
She no appropriate time to nation of our country, they did not respect the ordinary citizens, it did not respect our leaders, it did not respect the ethics or it did not respect the truth.
Those politics are the ones that missed the western countries, should ensure that immediately the morning do not have this stand, by this evening usually have another position that is contrary to the previous terms.
A good example is the stand of those countries about an issue of the suspects in Kenya before the International Criminal Court (ICC) in town to inspect them.
During the campaign meeting on March 4, ambassadors of the western countries, especially the United States of America, were saying that they will not meet the Uhuru Kenyatta, and William Ruto, accused of criminal offenses and Court ICC if they will be elected president and the deputy president.
Those ambassadors went to say that Kenya will be affected when those two will be discriminated.
A few weeks ago I wrote on this newspaper of Good Citizen (challenges that are facing Uhuru and Ruto) that those were only in the western part of the western side and that those teams will not have the Adam's rib, or to remove its leaders.
I heard that Kenya is not Sudan, the country whose president, Omar Hassan Al-Bashir, is doing every way to evade the Court of ICC so that the court has given an order to countries that have signed the agreement of ICC so as to remove Bashir and took him to inspect them before the court.
I continued to question that, the western countries have a big resources in Kenya and even if Uhuru and Ruto will be discriminated, that they will make any action that will make any action that will be independent in their resources.
It's not only that but Kenya is expected so much by the districts that are in the western part to fight the international terrorism.
Motorbike riders and soldiers from Kenya have graduated from Kenya where they have a chance to use special military camp for their army planes together with the ones with their wives also get in and from Kenya where often they do exercises.
In short, Kenya and the western countries are from far, they have been cooperating for a long time about the army activities and western countries, will not want this special relationship to welcome him.
I added that or Kenya is not Iran, the government of Uhuru Kenyatta, will not be able to make corrections on the Israel or doesn't have poles, from the western part of those agreements with Iran or Sudan.
Those are the reason especially the ones that do in America and some of the countries in the United Republic of Physiotherapists in Iran and Sudan.
Now Uhuru and Eve did not officially return their seats, one being the president and another is the deputy president and we are saying that we are derived from what we used as Uhuru and Ruto.
However, the United Nations has changed its stand recently, has given a new guide saying that the heads of that union can have clashes "and those who were accused by the Court of ICC.
The Boers Haazu who is a spokesman for the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has said that the United Nations now allow Tanzania is controlling the use of one communication between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta, and his assistant William Ole Sendeka.
The United Nations even so, they have said that President Bashir from Sudan have continued to be shaken because of continuing to cooperate with the Court of ICC so as to cooperate with the court of ICC so as to increase the order to arrest him.
It is important for all those who cause violence in the year 2007 that caused the deaths of more than one thousand Kenyans to be arraigned in court, they have agreed that they have been given the punishment for the punishment they are required and they are forced to have a solution.
Therefore, it is very important that people from Kenya and those who don't have Kenyans, are making noise, to make steps that will be prepared to enable those involved in criminal acts.
But some of the western countries have shown the case of ICC against Uhuru and ornaments has enabled many to believe that those countries had other intentions and not one of those who were affected with violence after the 2007 election.
There is where those political parties in the western region do not have a lesson so as to comply with ethics and use cases of ICC for another previous agenda.
