
It is a dream of Kenya to reach the development.
And Pauline Kasilati.

Schools have been opened officially where students were expected to start studies from yesterday.
But it may be a continuation of the students to go back to school after a half of approximately four months, especially after a report that some schools have increased in fees.
This is happening as the price of books seems to have increased, for more than other years, many students will be blocked from outside the education system in the country.
Without doubt, this is contrary to various evaluation that have been called me in Kenya, one of the nations in Africa has flourished well.
First, it is the port which is used for the development of nations?
First of the economic levels are contributing to be high level to enable people to sustain their primary products like food, fashion, and housing.
But that for many Kenyans have been a dream as the inflation of food prices continue to increase. On another part, the housing sector has been accepted by the government to an extent of giving the owners of the energy to make them love.
When you visit in the middle of the big cities in Nairobi, evaluation of development have not seen especially because of the big number of people that are planning to come from one corner to another they ask for.
Some of them are patients who have been unable to pay for treatment fees and instead he would end to ask for several steps of use.
The others are believed to be a foreign citizen that are coming here in the country without considering that there are children who have been problems not only to the residents but also to foreign citizens, some of them use abusive language and gefarnate that they need for money.
The cleaning issue is not present at the field of supervisors of the city where it is normal to meet a prey in the city of Nairobi.
Remember this is on the eyes of the police of the City Council of Nairobi that continue with their activities without their concern, the aim is to give them the drivers who affect the traffic rules and not to be keen because they are keen on laws but to get a warning.
Mizambitions that are used to test for development is a primary school while the road state is going on to be a sharp object for passengers.
The rains have shown that the traffic road that was set aside from billions of money seems to have gone into the lake due to a poor system of passing water.
