
Social media houses are not allowed.
For another time, Mwanza City has been faced with another incident of people who are believed to have robbers who missed the money and had admitted at the financial shop through the internet.
This is a series of more than five events that took place in that town inside a period of three months.
In all events, more than five people have lost life while several injured were shot dead.
According to the reports of investigation, many events are received, a short time after employees of those shops do not tolerate any money, especially during the evening and the bank will be in last.
Among the areas that were affected by business events or employees of the financial shops through the network being attacked and some of the killing of a shot were shot together with Kitwiru, Nyamkazi Primary School, Cui Jian, in Nyegezi district, Boko Haram.
A series of events and the environment related to it revealed that there is a network of the crime that is running that robbery.
In one of his meetings by the citizens of his region of Misukosuko, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country, Charles Kitwanga, explained to the public that already media stations have noted seven networks that runs criminal acts including robbery in Mwanza town.
Kitwanga said that apart from saying that between those networks, two have already been killed while efforts were continued to break for five years.
Since the era of Mwanza Provincial Commissioner, who was transferred to Mara province in the new appointment, Magessa Mdee and the current President John Mongella said it has positioned itself well to fight against this crime network.
In one of his meetings with journalists, Mongella warned that there is a lot of robbers from Mwanza and now after the government put strategies to deal with crime in weaving the leadership of the state agencies in that province.
In that strategies, Mongella wanted the transfer of former police commander of Mwanza region, Justus Kamugisha and his colleagues of the Department of National Security and Immigration.
Already Mwanza Province has got the new commander of police, Akitanda, who has officially announced to do with the criminals, especially the criminals.
I don't know the occurrence of it where these events are seen since it is obvious that the network involved in robbery in bookshops that are concerned with that service.
Although it is true that the criminals have with their ways to identify or understand the areas of cheating, but it is not easy for everyone who can make any money through the internet after the time of closing the bank to be used by the criminals.
It is a must that the servants who are not faithful or agents of the relevant institutions are able to care for this network by giving information to knowing or not knowing that those criminals have never injured and injured were arrested.
If it is, it is easy for our security and security agencies which by good conditions are crowded with experts with ability and devices to follow up and identify all communication between the network including phone and SMS through mobile phones to identify, they need to bring down this network.
Our agencies have the ability to intervene, follow up and investigate all the communication technology, as a result of the scholars, therefore, as a result of the conflict to follow the crime that is taking place in that way.
Private I urge you to know the view and names of young people and communication experts and technology those employed in our security and security experts with the ability to deal, control and control the media networks through the internet.
I have been saying, what is missing is the legality of the use of these experts who the nation has changed the act of high costs within and outside the country through public funds that are derived from the tax of citizens who don't know tomorrow, due to robbery.
Due to the fear of being attacked and even killed, many business people from the internet shops in Mwanza town are currently getting their activities by 10 o'clock in the evening.
Speaking about the action of the financial shops and other important services in the community to be defeated early in the fear of robbery, Mwanza Provincial Commissioner, John Mongella says it is a measure of Mwanza City to lack the qualifications to be called on international city.
"All over the world, big cities like security and security, leaders and good citizens every time for his position to fulfill the responsibility of God bless Tanzania!
In a special interview with the Citizen's journalists, Mongella said the issue of defense and security is the first priority in Mwanza province, while promising to involve all stakeholders to make it successful.
Like other areas in the country, Mwanza is supposed to be safe and a non-security options.
There are 2 tons of Fly 540 Kenya, + 255 4334 shillings.
