Construction Telecenter.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

There are all signs of corruption in the project of construction of dormitories which were been used by the students of Education College (TTC) located in Nachingwea District, Lindi Province.
News that were found in that college and the verification of some officers of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (TAKUKURU) together with the office of the administrative secretary of Lindi Province (RAS), says that the project is currently prepared due to the existence of those symptoms of corruption.
The construction of those shows that had been done by patriotic companies that was mentioned by the name Nimlaumu Nani, whose headquarters in Lindi Town, which one of its directors is Mohamed Janabi, who has got a member of parliament for Lindi Town constituency and also the head of Tanga province and Iringa at different times.
The investigation of Good Citizen has revealed that the project is required to have been completed on July 15, 2011, but up to now, you have been standing without any explanation that is understood, while the senior perpetrators burned down the ball.
According to the investigation, the construction contract of that project of dormitories, which up to completion would have costed 80 million shillings 54,30666, was signed on June 30th, 2010, before the construction started officially on July 14th, this year.
In addition, the investigation has revealed that until that project is vying for approximately two years now, that company can avoid 2,28,010,00 Tanzanian shillings, which included 10 percent of the cost of the whole project, equivalent to 30,450,000 shillings.
Previously, accompanied by two directors of our company, Masumbuko Kwileka Mohamed, is saying that the administrative secretary of Lindi Province (RAS), Thomas Rwena, said that the Administrative Secretary of Lindi Province (RAS), Thomas Rwena, said that the Administrative Secretary of Lindi Province (RAS), Thomas Rwena, said that the administrative secretary of Lindi region (RAS), Thomas Rwena from that company for the purpose of developing the project, a situation that caused the construction of those buildings.
According to those reports, RAS and removing that payment as a result of what is explained as a violation of the procedures in the provision of the tender to that company, while that company was alleged not to have any financial ability to start that job and therefore depending on the government's funds to be mentioned in the contract of that project.
The letter by the Director of loans of CRDB Bank, Anderson Simon Mwakifamba, speaking at the bank's headquarters, Azikiwe Premier Branch in Dar es Salaam city, going to RAS and Lindi province, claiming that all the two claims by the small-financial capacity of the company can be able to resolve the debts of funds from the government.
In that letter on August 10, 2010, with records with the CRDB / OG289, that bank is unable to carry out a bond of a loan that stated in Nachingwea Ward, Nachingwea District in Lindi province, for a contract of 7,554 million shillings, 31538.
According to the letter, already the contractor had violated the tender process of using his previous payments for other activities that are supposed to be dealt with by the contractor from July 15, 2011, on the required way to be the end of the implementation of that project according to the contract.
In addition, as from starting, the CRDB Bank was ready to provide a previous loan of 30,450,000 shillings per 40, equivalent to 10 percent of all the cost of that project, and those funds were found to be paid through the contractor.
One officer of TAKUKURU, who did not want his name to be touched on claims that it is not the spokesperson of the agency, he confessed that project being faced by controversy, saying that even documents related to the construction of those dormitories are difficult to receive from TTCL offices and outside Tanzania Roads Agency (TBA), "offices which are being involved in the management of the whole project.
"Ras Makunja has said that Lindi province has caused money from construction of the building of TTC Nachingwea Ward and documents related to our protests.
