
Kindamba was appointed as the executive officer.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published today, September 2016.

President John Magufuli has appointed Minister Kindamba to be the acting executive officer of Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TTCL).

The State House statement released to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, said the appointment was after the government's step to buy all the shares of Bharti Airtel, who was the running mate of TTCL and therefore the government own shares to 100 percent.
According to that report, Kindamba was appointed to take the position from yesterday by the former chief executive officer of TTCL, Doctor Kamugisha Kazaura, he will be given another job.
What is the ownership of all shares.
June 23, this year, the government and the company of Bharti Airtel which were signing an agreement of enabling the government paying off the 35 percent of the company in TTCL, being the conclusion of buying TTCL at 100 percent.
That event was held in Dar es Salaam city where the government was represented by the registrar of treasury, Laurence Mafuru while the Airtel Africa company was represented by chief executive officer of that company, Christian and Faria.
Speaking at that event of signing, Mafuru thanked the company of Bharti Airtel to accept to sell its shares and to be given to them the government's ownership of 100 percent inside TTCL.
There are no reason for business and great interests of the country that have been leading to reach this important step.
The chief executive officer of Bharti Airtel Africa, De Faria said that their company has great joy to continue cooperating with the government of Tanzania in improving the contribution of the communication sector in improving the economy and development of its citizens.
The chairman of TTCL board, Professor Tolly Mbilimnyi, said that in accordance with the business partnership between TTCL and Bharti Arnautovic, it gives a great relief to the management of TTCL.
