
Which council will claim to be successful in games?
For my understanding, the council should be in the district, the city, municipality or city, is the one that involves all administrative responsibilities and development to the citizens in the country.
For example, the management and operations of education, health, land, resources, livestock, agriculture, agriculture, culture, sports and other sectors, are coordinated and supervised by the council.
Development funds that are offered by the main government for the purpose of development projects in the budget of every year, is taken to the council on implementation.
To bring up, to expand and supervise all development projects in the district level it is the council itself.
Basically, the only authority that touches the lives of one citizens directly at the district level is the council.
We know, we live and get services through our councils, our villages, districts, districts, towns and cities, but for a long time now, our council has been unable to give citizens better services for sports and culture.
This is as a result of our council to buy sports, he did not see the importance of sports, therefore, they will not give any money or that meets the needs for the purpose of developing sports or raising various sports projects.
The culture and sports sector that are important in the development of any nation in the world are not doing well because they have not started funds and our councils!
The idea of set aside money and to start sports projects and culture in our councils in the country is not true, because the sports projects and culture is being started and supervised by required it will help to provide employment to many youths.
He also give entertainment and will help the health of many citizens because the body has better than treatment.
However, the primary issue is that the council is faced with money for the purpose of sports projects and culture that will need to involve the citizens in the start of those projects.
Our council should not present its sessions up and order to start the citizens, sports projects and culture that will not help them or councils to deal with the council's development projects.
I believe that citizens who were involved in their areas will participate in the good games of sports and culture that can help them in a short time and a long time.
Heaven is looking at a sports issue in details here in the country, you will make many games unable to continue with sure that, there is need to address well the construction of sports grounds and improve the education sector, management, and inspection of time to time in sports issues.
Apart from the issues of sports, there is an issue of culture that and day needs to be dealt with in level of our councils in the country, but it has been not in the same way.
It is something sad to see the way Tanzanians does not use our natural culture which includes Swahili language, music, knowledge, food and fashion designers who need to be taxed.
.
The directors of the council, together with different issues, is required to not understand themselves.
