24 December 2012

Wash your password.

By Danny Sserunkuma.

One of the famous artists in the country, Mister Hussein Mpozi from a 'Sheke Ahmad Said, died at the beginning of this week at the road accidents that happened on the night of November 25th, this year, whereby the vehicle that he was driving and overturned.

The accident occurred in Songa village, Igunga District, Tanga province, while the deceased was coming from Dar es Salaam to go home to Luseko, he also died.

The reports indicate that the late Hussein Ramadhan (27), died on the accident at the accident area, but also despite losing his lives, citizens arrested all their property, including all his wives which until when we complete this article, his number was not able to be avoided.

Likewise, the witnesses who saw in the accident area were quoted saying that the late landed in all his cargo which is expected to be termed as well as a gift that gave them his brothers, including his parents.

According to our reporter who witnessed the funeral of that artist on November 29, 2012, Luseko, government said that it will look for all those who lost their deceased's property and to take them to court so that the law can take its course against that offense.

The government's statement was issued by the head of Chamwino district, Mrs. Subira Kibiga, who wanted the citizens to read all the property of the late to the concerned authorities in that area or to the brothers of the deceased.

The head of the district gave a statement by the government due to the acts of citizens in the area of that accident and decided to remove the late Hussein's property, including his fashion designers that he has claimed to be on it.

District commissioner said all those who did that violence are well and added that "he didn't understand themselves together with not less than not less than one million things to look for and arrest all those who are involved, because they are in pain."

While we are meditating the disaster that led the family of the late, including an issue of stealing its property, the hospital has to have the community claiming that all of the type which have been spreading in many provinces in the country.

It is a plain truth, especially in this generation, you should think that wealth gets into someone by touching the wealth by using them.

That decision by the government that will use his long support to arrest people who love the late 'Shera', it came in his time, because they put the reputation of victims of accidents who are not known.

It is a great joy to think that Twaweza in the rich of contraception is the one of the others, because the wealth of the wealth is looking for the wealth to bring strategies to get property without their colleagues in any way.

To work hard and have sustainable strategies for improving various ways of growing, "little" you get, is the best way to go to the wealth of each one he sees it.

All the rich people, including the most popular among them, Bill Clinton of America, got their wealth through positive strategies and creativity, without informing them from his property, including breaking up in eternal peace night.

Look there that most of the road accidents occur near the villages where he is with the children, where those are witnessing gender violence and those that have been involved in accidents.

That means that children continue with their view as usual for human beings to stop the injured and the deceased being faced with accidents, instead of helping them quickly.

Now if children are supposed to understand by the effects of the way, our community is heading to where it is not in violence in order to evade that offense.

It is unacceptable, and I thank you very much, and the truth is that she is not supposed to ask you a lot of questions without answers, and especially considering that the patient gets people well in the accident areas.

A curse from lack of humor and the late is very bad, because it is due to the fact that the deceased is usually "the body" who previously made a soul in which all of us know that it's a threat of God.

"A sigh of money" which is a spirit of life has been separated together with us so that this which we are suppressing media from our parents, "a lot of relief" that can sign them because there is no ability to continue sending them together.

To leave the soul of the body, her way is death, where the word "die" was attributed by the body to get "true" which causes them to get out of a lot of relief "from the body.

The body brings you "true" you cannot be able to withstand professionalism and "a lot of relief" which is true he is a spirit, and his soul is the cause of the life "which is part of the Almighty God.

Now, if we can agree with the logic or the logic, that there is an aim of the life of a human being, and also that he is part of the human body of the Almighty God, it will be correct to say that the body of the human beings get separated by the soul of God should enable the body to be one of the body of God.

Therefore, to leave a lot of relief "and return to the Almighty God and to leave the body, it's not a reason to cause a human being that does not be able to do anything with that body in any way.

That is as a result of having permission to give her the body that need him to be dealt with.

When a person died, even if he was your friend, it's good to look for her body and to sit down with the aim of waiting for the procedures of swept away it instead of buying his clothes.

That is a meaning that the high speed can be complete where 'bunch of light', that is a spirit you go back on the ground for human beings and therefore the body is going back on the ground or therefore, to complete the Architect Editor of the farm, "it is in the world."

While being part in the community that is dug well, we are supposed to show their children and also teach them early how to be good citizens in their lives so that to avoid crime that would be able to prevent various disasters.

But instead of those, we should show how to be forced to do so as to resolve the property of the deceased, that is very bad behavior.
Citizens living in roads, and elsewhere, including Bagamoyo District, and Tanga province in general, it has never saw the incident of solving the property of the deceased, Hussein Monsigation, as a challenge that can have bad effects to the community and therefore causing havoc upon the necessary weight.

Some of the faith believe that "a lot of relief" that has dropped from the human body that has lost the ability to continue strengthening the park, after what was quoted by a human mind that was quoted by a sober mind and so on.

It is believed that effects can be very bad to the community concerned as the Almighty God decided to give you a lot of relief "in a way that he will see it, where there will also be a bad thing.

Therefore, it is good for the community to ensure that all the victims of small and big accidents are needed to be demolished quickly from the accident area and arraigned in part of the areas which will be given to the support of professions and also the reserve for the deceased.

That is together with protecting their properties as it happened, or other places.
