When we live in Dar es Salaam city, maybe if we help you little, we should help me if we help each other and the human beings will find you, but this human being does not allow someone to go back to the streets where he told my rights and one with joy.
My rights.
What does it mean to be called and to be told that you get human rights.
There is a problem.
So as to remove the drugs that the primary rights of the child is.
You will be educated on the meaning that you discovered and I say only I will continue to know how but because our responsibility to get married.
But you are a whole person like this.
The whole person like a whole person, as a right now, says that I am not in the mainland to say that if you're getting to you, it's true that you should not be able to know that you can't be able to know that you were able to know his promises that are not affected by them.
If you came in, he was the first one on the left side so as to shivered to the child.
Jerry deserves to be right.
Let me know.
The right to get true services think that you are required to know that parents has changed to be.
So other groups when you talk to you, that I am a youth.
The work of work.
If he said from first to sleep or a human being you should be known as NATO are in us because he had a right to live.
The years of everyone to live and get involved in the community is only a community and the government, and the government has also destroyed the loan then someone can enjoy the art of living in a environment.
Of wanting the daughter like the albino killings there are claims that it is against the best constitution that you want him to go and go to a group of someone else.
But also.
There are fish when you like a youth in the world.
We know that it is a normal human being to be able to get a human rights and should be like people.
I don't understand you, when I walk is to help them in political activities to get health care services, the system of good environment to live.
For someone who with disabilities being able to solve without knowing the needs, if you do not know or to know that, there are people living with different types, but you need to know that there are people living with albinism but you need to know that there are people living with albinism so that there is a must for you to know if you are happy and to know that, there is a youth that is in preparation for a meeting.
That is it?
Being buried on breast cancer, there are teachers to maintain are free and that the rights of a human being did not get his needs.
His wedding promise Miss James and that it will also enable him to enter and participate in social activities like that of any restrictions, but also when she is doing.
To know that he is answerable to the district, there is a saying that he will be good, they should know that the condition of a human rights for your water is also available when your colleague has also promised to ask God to do all those rights against them.
So as to get.
