There is no friend and a permanent thing in politics.
Sei-2, 2015.

Until now, Edward Lowassa and Frederick Sumaye, have found themselves together in unity of four opposition parties, popular by the name of Ukawa and all of them were in the ruling party, all of them have already left the party while he believed that the candidate did not have the reputation.
He believed that the party will be forced Lowassa, will have lost the reputation of being keen, and he will be far from that party.
Apart from all being said about Lowassa, good and bad, we have not heard saying that he will not be ready to work with any person, but maybe this is silent about this issue and we've heard saying that when Lowassa was silent, he said that he didn't know why Lowassa went up to CCM and maybe he came from him.
Now, Sumaye, the one that has decided to join CCM is not because of the party to view Lowassa, but against him, he has decided to follow up with Doctor John Magufuli and he has decided to follow up with Doctor John Magufuli and decided to follow up with Doctor John Magufuli.
There are in relation to or even right, or I say now we have witnessed some of the members of CCM, who were champions of breaking people with their families.
We have heard more that seated on the first position for a period of 10 years as the deputy minister without stopping.
Against the ones who left CCM with the aim of wanting to vie for Ukawa through Ukawa, and others failed to contest again and to go back to CCM, as the prime minister, Sumaye, who's moved to Ukawa, it has decided to vie for the councilor seat, parliamentary and presidential candidate, maybe he was appointed later.
When we want to inform me, that he is competing with opposition to put in the headlines, then he can't vie for the headlines, then he is going to vie for a chance because he didn't know that, then he is still waiting for all time to be assisted by people to be assisted by people to come.
We can talk about this saying that there is no good friend and a permanent thing in politics but the one who is careful is a must to think more than that, our nation's ministers and the members of CCM party, he came from the ruling party to join the opposition, it is a new thing.
What's the message know if the change is the opposition to have strength?
The ACT Patriots party in the world of Tanzania, can't read with CCM B, because all of us include the policies, the election manifesto and execution of what is going on in Swahili and live in Africa, they want peace to live in America and Europe.
We also know that those who are still depending on the philosophy of the father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, who are supposed to see our nation is depending on political politics of socialism.
