
He noted that he aims to attract more tourists from Asia.
By Mathias Chikawe.
He said that in Mombasa, Kilimba and others are doing plans to attract tourists from the tourism industry that are in Africa and Europe so as to deal with a huge shortage of tourists.
According to the head of tourism of Same District, Mister Tumbo Odhiambo said that the company aims to attract tourists from Portugal with United Arab countries like UAE, Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
Mister Odhiambo said that he sees that he has a historic relationship with Portugal from Portugal from Spain who built the stronghold of Jesus in the 14 century.
Apart from Portugal, Mister Odhiambo thanked that he had plans to attract tourists from the Arab countries due to the business relationship of many years ago.
"Mombasa is supposed to attract the tourists from Portugal and don't know that there is a historical event that was able to connect those countries and our city," he said.
"The United Arab countries have a good economy, therefore, we have great hopes that we are doing news, we can attract many tourists to deal with the shortage of tourists from now," he explained.
Announcing the same time, Mister Odhiambo said that he sees that he has plans to announce partnership with the capital cities in the country so as to attract tourists from here in the country.
Mister Odhiambo thanked that he had gone to attract private companies where his workers will be attending to Mombasa Island.
He said that he has stated that because, he said, it has plans to encourage the hotel of Mombasa to enable them pay for accommodation and food so as to attract tourists from here in large numbers.
"Recently we will ask for hotel to reduce weight fees for tourists from here in the country so that many Kenyans come to Mombasa," he insisted.
Mister Odhiambo said that there is an importance of the hotel of Mombasa to provide better services to the tourists and that the hotel that have been allowed to be taught.
While holding back to the nation today in his office yesterday, Mister Odhiambo urged the investors to change the tourism to cooperate with the main government and he believes that they should plan to plan great strategies that can strengthen the tourism.
The head of tourism, he from Kilongawima area, Mister Alphonce Tobi said that his company has plans to attract tourists from the countries of China, Japan and Tanzania.
Mister Tembela said that the three countries have the ability to improve the tourism sector in the country because they have many rich people.
He said that he from Kilongo, he told him that for now, it has set aside 25 million shillings which will be used to investigate on the tourist attractions so as to get many tourists.
Mister Taichako said that he has reduced that he will make efforts to attract tourists from the East African countries and even those in the country.
He said that the head of Hai District in the country, Adam Sheikh said that he sees that he is expecting to participate in the exhibition of transport and tourism in the European countries, East Africa and in capital cities in the country.
