
In EAC, it is a strategy to deal with excitement.

It has been written by Makame Suleiman, Zanzibar.

It has been reported, 20 October, 2016.

The countries of the East African Community (EAC), have been urged to put strategies to deal with the conflict between them and the ones that can arise where its effects are big to the nation and the human being in general.

That was said by the member of parliament of the East African Legislative Assembly from Tanzania, Shyrose Bank, while presenting a motion on that the countries of the East African Community are supposed to put a strategy to deal with disaster.
He said the problems of priority as usual will not affect including an earthquake which is important to be the presence of various strategies to deal with its effects by creating an instrument that will work together.
When I arrived in Abijan, Abubakar Katwila, from Kenya, came in collaboration with solidarity of the leaders of East African Community who helped Tanzania during the earthquake that happened in Kagera province on September 10, this year.
He said there is a need to have a high level that will unite people to deal with disasters as an earthquake so as to help deal with the challenges that come out in their countries.
Rwanda's member of parliament, Pro Patria has expressed his condolences to the public where he urged the community of that community to form a high level that will do the work of fighting corruption of the type including an earthquake which its effects are big and lost the nation's work.
Member of parliament, Mariupol City, has wanted the presence of solidarity in dealing with disasters as an earthquake, where he congratulated the leaders of East African countries by showing a great friendship for helping victims of the incident.
Tanzania member of parliament, Twaha Taslima, urged countries of that community to stop depending on the development participants in dealing with conflicts whereby this time the efforts to set for long-term goals are needed.
