
By our salvation, Dar es Salaam.
Minister for Security and Defense, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi.
The Minister for Security and Defense, Doctor Hussein Mwinyi has said the government will continue to cooperate with the international community to cooperate with security and peace in nations with a peaceful problems.
He said that in Dar es Salaam yesterday, when he launched the College of defense and peace training which has been built on support by the government of Canada and aim to provide a special training for officers of the force to protect peace in the country with a peaceful problems.
He said the training that will be built by that university will help reduce the effects of the soldiers who will participate in the security of protecting the peace in those nations.
"The university will have received students who will get these training from different countries that are in the international community including the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Darassa South Sudan, which we have been participating to take our army to protect peace and security in their countries.
"The training that will be built in that university will be related to all security ways and peace to the army in protecting the peace, which they will learn how to deal with danger when they are not in their responsibilities.
"As a result of the training that they get, we believe that even the effects of our army men that go to protect themselves in those countries will open, because they will have more skills, including how to protect themselves against poverty," said Doctor Mwinyi.
He said as a result of the presence of that university in the country, he has urged the army to protect the peace to use that opportunity to strengthen the prisoners so that they can get enough experience before getting into the war area.
On his side, the head of defense and security of Tanzania, General Davis Mwamunyange has said the training of training that will be distributed here in the country as well as some of the friendly nations who are cooperating with security and peace in those nations.
He said the university has already started to take 70 students who will learn the training according to the kind of studies that they took.
He said in ensuring that they should not overlap with the citizens and the university, the police have aimed to start the construction of the scope that will curb them in order to avoid sexual conflicts.
"I urge all those who will get the opportunity to learn this training to be careful, to use this opportunity to strengthen the mourners today, because it will help them when they stop the dangerous areas so as to take a correct decision to deal with poverty," said General Minja.
