
There are some of those who dropped out of billions of our money involve 29 trillion shillings.

In the first part of this article on the previous edition of the newspaper, we saw how the corruption company called "Merkel" was on the areas without being signed, special needs for the country through the Central Bank (BoT) in partnership with civil servants in the country through the Central Bank (BoT) in partnership with civil servants in the country and the corrupt people.
Let us continue with this place of today.
As a result of Merseyside with albinism, the second right now, but after creating all the gold prices of East Africa, East and South Africa, apart from Magunga together with 85 billion shillings from Central Bank, was created a commission of five people to investigate the company and give recommendations in the government.

That commission continued to stop Merkel, to buy gold from small miners, the responsibility which he had already started since the year 2003 and entering itself in the mining and ownership of the mines I mentioned above.

That commission has also started the new company of managing and running the gold mine of East Africa that is owned by the government.

And according to the recommendations of the commission of Batakanwa and his colleagues we have reached there, Merlin Repyson (real) was started by the government, it will also be completed in Tanzania at the same time, if we will be later in this article.

Here there is another problem, that records show that, the old phone company was started in the islands of Mauritius on April 4, 2005, and the other records show that, Government Scottish, NBC branch, Dar es Salaam, January first, January first.
2003) before even the Commission of Kalali and his colleagues has not been made to resolve the problem of Merseyside.

Another report has shown me more that, that company is foreign affairs that is being registered in Mauritius and given a license to Tanzania, February 20.
2005, a branch of foreign companies in the country was started to be given money from BoT on the first of August, 2005 with the job that it was noticed.

So, this means not old since it started in Tanzania before the start of Mauritius in the year 2005, or only a certain kind of unammation on the bank, January first, 2003, and Local old for what was registered in Mauritius on April 4, 2005 with Merseyside with Thehabari.

Although the recommendations of the commission and the statement by the government was that, Government old had been reached by a hundred and the government, its implementation was contrary to the delegates of the commission where those who had been sold or to change the directors of that new company, those who had been sold or to change the directors of that new company, those who had been sold or to change the directors of that new company.
The shivered by Vicent F. Mrisho.

It is possible that, in the view of those days and with the intention, that five are the government itself, but section seven of the constitution of Government Gazzaniga, has raised all the concept of the company to sell their shares to their brothers. "

So, it's true, for old man getting married by a hundred percent government as it was requested for Bonga commission and according to the government's statement, it's true that the government has a private brother!

These are difficult questions, and we believe that it may not be owned by a hundred percent government, but it was a private company that owns Uda.

While unnecessary accidents are going on, and at the same time, already the recommendations of the Bonga commission of five people have begun to be worked on March 18th, 2004, caused another company known as' Deilee to New Zealand.

Shareholders of Duva company was mentioned to be Sovereign, Stella Ndayisenga says he was also a free adviser of BDF of South Africa (whose adviser), Michael Kafando, which has not been completed, if it has not been paid by BoT to pay a total of more than shillings.
155 on behalf of Merseyside.

The three directors of Debwa, Green Houses, who are Remy Ma are also the Chief Executive Officer who is owned by the name Debwa, and Stella Ndayisenga says that finally they won the shares (in the way of moving or buying) at the KEC Company Limited, on April 157.
2004.

As it was for the old old company, which was beaten in accounts on the new year's day, and that is the way it was in the NBC Bank, number 41002 and 248,477,940, this journey was launched (May first, 2004).

There is also a problem about the provision of phone numbers of that bank that, Government Gazette, 4212,283,388 trillion shillings, compared to 711,046 votes, considering that there was a dirty game, considering that there were two consecutive matches, considering that there were two consecutive days.

Since the first of May, 2004, the old-old account was opened, up to July 31, 2005, (more than one year), there was no only one year), there was no one year contract from BoT, Deep Green Resources and Human Resource Mobilization, Imma Mbiku of Dar es Salaam, or elsewhere.

At the time it has been said that, old was started on April 5, 2005 and given a fashion license on April 8, 2005 and to be taken by a new company since November 23rd (5529,500 shillings) and it was able to pay for those funds and it was able to open up and in which way it did?

In a short time, between August first, 2005, and December 21st, 2006, a total of 32 billion shillings were killed from the Central Bank to Debwa, Green Resources and Auditor General, was allowed to ease and make corrections on Merseyside with Fold and not for any other reason.

After the spread of those cases, and seen that the old Taarab project cannot continue the government changed the rights of the Liganga and 100 million American dollars, due to the government to sponsor the debts owed when it was released and therefore it was given the burden to pay those debts.

While you remember about the theft of minerals and regulations of more than 700 million shillings that was done by the Huawei company, the third term government agreed with the workers' loss of 232 billion shillings (232 billion) in those companies.

Therefore, it is claiming that Merseyside with mangoes is the one because it is against the national safety of the nation, is to be careful. We want them to reduce them before saying, then you will explain those that they are given, otherwise we will inform you, the traitors.

At the same time, it's not correct that the issue of Zitto Kabwe, on the handover of 155 billion shillings (232 billion shillings) against 232 billion shillings (worth 232 billion shillings) without stopping or removing that issue, it's easy to prevent or advertise with the public, "said Tanzanian.
