
That is the Sporah Show that she had conned Escrow, and shivered, ministers shivered.

The sun is called Harbinder Singh Sethi, is a business person from the Asian continent, and the owner of the Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL) which has been suspended from Bongo following his company to be involved in Tegeta Escrow Account, from the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).

Harbinder Singh who is a recent music is also alleged to be a businessman who had conned people following various actions of owning the companies and the requirements of the government tax.

Its a short history.
Harbinder Singh has been reported to the sources that he is born in Iringa province since the year 1977 due to 20 years of birth and love in Iringa Municipality there is a popular area in Iringa Municipality there is a famous group in Ruaha Municipality, Kibiga.

Sources have said, Harbinder Singh, started owning a lot of money from 80 years when the family of the president of Kenya at that time, Daniel Arnautovic and it started getting into different business.

In charge of Kenya.
Those sources are saying that in that years, recent music moved to Nairobi, Kenya where he started being a business person with the first child of the president (MOI), Gideon Shoo.

He started electricity in Kenya.
While in that country, the sources of music mentioned recent music that he got the ownership of Vermont Bernie Sanders who will produce electricity of 47 megawatts in Mombasa.
His fellow participants in that project were on the name of Dahi Ward, Kamoga - Pickup, and the Executive Director of KPLC, Mutasingwa John.

Mamelodi has also been reported to have 74 projects that were scored in various parts of East Africa due to being unable to make sure it's not good.

He got the singer of Kenya.
In the year 1997, the report of the Controller Auditor General of Kenya has written the weaknesses of Ruaha National Park, in the tenders for the construction of roads where there were delays, an increase in cost together with the poor implementation.

Following those allegations, he had the supervisor of that project who was mentioned by the name Kitoro that he resigned after refusing to sign the work that is old.

Returns from Tanzania.
It was not known immediately, this year he went back to Bongo, but it was claimed that he had already succeeded in the country while he still has his business in Kenya and later went back to a total due to illegal immigrants.

What is it true?
Infantino has been reported that actress had conned Doe of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) has mentioned that he was involved with actions of the collection of taxes using the ways of buying.
A big example is that a billion has increased from Tegeta Escrow account, it does not pay taxes and that is why the Deputy Minister of Finance Mwigulu Nchemba, addressing the parliament in Dodoma, last Friday at that debate that the tax failed immediately.

But according to TRA and the report of the Controller Auditor General of the Government (CAG), the person has been having a habit of selling shares at a low price with other companies so that he can pay a small tax, an issue that is also to show a businessman who had conned people.

The committee of Zitto Kabwe who is the PAC chairperson, also revealed that, when he was known as the owner of the IPTL company which later has dropped by Pan African Power Solutions Tanzania (PAP), the PAC investigation is saying that the PAP owner is the old man, that is the recent music.

She was selected to be the parliamentary seat of Tanzania.
For the first time in the history of Bongo, last Friday, the parliament was run up to 5 pm, an issue was to discuss a result of the PAC committee after completing the theft of billions of shillings from Escrow to IPTL through PAP owner.

Some of the ministers and veteran leaders in the government whose others attacked them due to the scandal that they had given to IPTL, has said that he has brought in a bad state house of Tanzania.

Up to this newspaper you will go down, speaker of parliament, Ann Makinda, left that parliament up to January next year in the 18th session without informing someone about the scandal.
