Six.
It's no longer.
In peace, the late God rest his son to tell me he told me that I told me, I told me, I am pleased with him, I am happy, I am happy, I am pleased with him for a long time.
When the surprise,, even when I was shocked when he performed well, then he would like to greet the late God, you know it is not the father's father.
He saw it is good to ask him again in the world even if you buy soap to the world, I told me what I told him, but I think you are saying what I did not see you, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him, when I saw him
When I look at I am happy, I don't see a person, but you do not tell me that when I was born here in Nairobi, I don't want me to see what I met with me, I don't know what I would like to see me, I don't know what I don't know, "I don't know what I don't know," I don't know what I don't know, "I don't know what I don't know.
I will go to see if we say if we had seen the late God, I will tell me if we were doing a lot of money we said, the late God bless you do not loose the phone.
Do not get the Almighty God?
Which is the child of Helena has told me he had gone to school the Lord.
Mchaga says there things were there in reading?
Good match, the late God bless Tanzania?
I don't know the Lord Jesus is equal to them, I believe that she has called only recently or still he will change the late.
The late God is not only alone, I don't have faith like Hance, when you have reached there.
The late God rest all the first time for a very long time, you're very close to us, the Almighty God bless you.
There is a truth.
And I was asked the late God or you have reached you.
Work is today.
The late?
Part, I am saying that I am saying I have talked with my brother to ask about that of fees but he added on all the time he started to kill him because even a draw of the speaker here is also joining I was a person to look for him.
You know you are saying that, therefore, and until you know your time, the late does not know how your money is young why we want it to say that if you want it, we will see you what we want.
If you're very happy, right now he is continuing with us with no things that they had been able to do or his things has not seen.
Now if we were all, we were waiting for us to see if we live.
The late God rest.
The late God rest his phones.
Therefore the late?
Do not lie until when you are.
I don't know.
How do you go up to how many hours you have in this short time, Zubeda has failed.
When the anthill is not supposed to do.
But it is not anything related.
It is nothing.
What does it mean?
I love for ten o'clock.
Stories, I say it has dropped by itself more than ten o'clock.
There is no boundaries.
When the late I was trying to ask for him, he didn't know why I've seen me, I told me you will ask you.
Almighty God rest his phone later, I've heard.
Now they tell me the morning.
Almighty God rest.
They don't know!
This now if you have forgotten your friend.
To know.
