
Leading the presidential campaigns of Magufuli in peace in Sei Records, 2016.

New Generation Network Company, Merlin Roosevelt has said that one of its directors is the chairman of the community of parents of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Abdallah Bulembo who died in trouble after it was alleged that more than 227 million shillings from the City Council of Arusha.

Bulembo together with being a famous cadre of the Revolutionary Party which at the moment is President John Magufuli, is a member of the executive committee of that party and is the former chairman of the party, Doctor Magufuli during the presidential election held last year.

The decision to convince him to be involved with that company was as a result of signing a agreement with an agreement with the City Council of Arusha where he cared for him as the director of New Generation Company, Merlin Repyson (33) in the 39th International Container Terminal / 4 in Dar es Salaam.

Reports and symptoms of the contract that is available in Arusha town is saying that the company is alleged that the company is alleged to have an amount of money after being given the tender to collect tax for business posters (not in the year 2009 / 10 and 2010 / 11).

According to the sign of the contract the Rex Energy company entered into a conflict by the council of Arusha City and creates thinking of peace by opening the case of claims number 8 / 2011.

However, the two sides used the right time to end that conflict outside the court and entered into a new contract with New York, Merlin Repyson (WHO) to continue collecting taxes for other four months and also to be awarded a debt of 248,477,980 shillings.

The new contract between the company and the City of Arusha started on July first 2011 to October 31st this year in the year 2011 to submit 55,731 shillings every month.

However, the reports show that New Meadrado was not given a sum of 227,433,580 shillings against the agreement in the contract to end the conflict between those two sides.

The fourth section of the contract between that company and the Arusha City that was signed on July 19, year 2011, explained that the agent will be allowed to continue with his contract that got stolen after signing an agreement of agreements with recommendations of the committee of establishment and council of councilors.

Therefore, the agent will continue to collect those fees starting from July to October 2011 where every month will pay a total of 529,500 shillings as fees for advertisements in accordance with the contract, "you can be read the contract.

But in addition to the agreement aims to align the criteria he wanted to submit the amount of money every month in accordance with the agreement, those funds were not being presented despite giving them from various customers.

Chairman of the committee to verify a huge debts of Arusha City that was formed by five councilors, Ephraimu Mwasanguti, left to his fellow citizens that the company is among the big debtors in the city of Arusha.

The New Generation Network Company, Merkel, has closed down the debt of 229 million shillings through corruption and they will still be added a contract to collect tax for four months of an amount of 227 million shillings which it has already paid all the council has lost more than a half billion shillings. "

"It is a shame for a great leader to pay for public taxes, because he is a big leader in the political party this is a bad culture, we request President Magufuli to be read any time this week according to the session of the sitting of the council of councilors," said aron Nanyaro.

He said among the recommendations of that committee is being put on a stern warning to all the companies which are Black Americans' in any tender to the council of Arusha, and if possible the judgment should be for all councils in the country.

On his part, the mayor of Arusha town, Kalist Lazaro, said there was a huge violation of the procedures and regulations of the local governments as a result of some directors to cooperate with it by sabotaging the city's revenue.

"There is a lot of fear about how the council has reduced from its revenue and the use of funds that was done by politicians and executives in the past 15 years, therefore we will make sure that all funds are paid without caring for the status and the concerned party," said Mayor Lazaro.

Responding to the allegations, the director of New Generation Network, Abdallah Bulembo confessed to be one of the directors of that company that is claimed by the City Council of Arusha.

Bulembo explained that his company was unable to present those funds after getting into business conflict with two mobile phone companies and Zantel for making it to the court.

"Tigo we need more than one billion shillings and the case is still in court and Zantel's case is already two weeks ago, we have defeated them and they are required to pay 40 million shillings and all leaders of the council of the city are saying that," said Bulembo.

Bulembo added that the issue does not have any relationship with its political activities and added that, the councilors committee is supposed to explain the truth about the action that they shall reach because in the case against the city it was a participant in the request of charges.
"You were supposed to be truthful that the council members because we have been allocated a case together with the City Council and the agreement is that we are being paid our money and we are giving their money to the council of the city, there is where the problem is where" said Bulembo.

I will end.
