
In the new service of Arusha, the believers do not been burnt in a fire sin?

It is a small thing that brought up with water of water, the clothes entrepreneur came out a limited position for his bed sheets, one sets of offer and a small table.

But inside this little room, as it is, there are more than 10 people, among them nine women, there are the ones who live in bed and others inside, while one woman has left her offer and who is told to be a husband sitting in bed.
On a small table, there is a food that was organized ready for the purpose of participating in that area, but the activity is prepared for my arrival.
The room is in one house with 10 houses belonging to others in the headquarters of the headquarters, Arusha Municipality, neighboring villages and Nyankoni area.
Your citizens have said here to get information about the new group of request that is believed to use the real fire "cannot get sin" in the bodies of his believers.
The group of this group is Mustafa Panju (55) and his wife whose origin is the neighboring country of Kenya, the mother and her husband who was told to be the leaders of this group of application that was recently caused up confusion that occurred in Arusha town and in its neighborhoods.
Silayo, is known as a famous businessman of selling Ikwililo, Arusha Municipality and is alleged to be one of the sponsors of the group.
The accusations that have been directed to this group is that type of request.
"The fire is a sin" in the bodies of its believers and arrest many attacks as a way of dismissing him and therefore the group wants the believers that the victims of huge injuries arising from different types from "they see the most prowess in those applications.
Among those victims are small children of the age of seven and 15 from various parts of Arusha Municipality, who were taken to the parents or guardians in order to entertain.
Two pupils of Ngarama primary school, is among those who had great injuries while one was being stolen from his hand due to a beating from that type of worship.
Those children also according to the police report of Arusha province, after being operated on by doctors from the Mount Meru Hospital, were discovered that they were raped.
Mwema should talk with the students of Ngarama primary school in the police station with their father who at the moment the name claimed will be mentioned in order to protect their mother who is one of those who took the request to the group in the beginning of this year.

"The first time we reached at the house, we have been burnt in the house, we have been burnt in different parts of our bodies and found in heavy rains," he explains one of the children going into what happens.
He added that the student should be read by the attack, women were doing different songs of praising God, after that, they were forced to get into a small bridge that is outside that station and to continue with their service which they make them in a clothes.
"Pain were very much and there is my small time when I lost consciousness during three hours they started suffering from water and putting it up until when they were waiting to see it is like the law will take its course so that those involved will be taken against them.
After those events now, he says that he has taken the decision of separation with his wife and he complains that after those children have been operated on with doctors from Mount Meru Hospital, he did not be given reports on issues that were so as.
"Still I have not been given a report on the treatment of what happened since the doctor who voted for him to go after it in the news later.
But many people have not survived, the affliction of the sins in this group is said to have many people, especially women, they have been huge injuries due to a result of buying.

In general these things have been done behind the name "freedom of worship" and one of the religious leaders feared in Arusha town, he says there are bribery they get four, that are said to participate in the service of that type.

"There is a rumor that there is robbery such as four where the types of service that are going against the Bible.

One of the employees of that house has made the constitutional citizens to ensure that the group of lack of prayer in the center and added that those acts have had a huge nuisance to others.
"The truth here in a day when doing their application, we did not know because they live and trials in a very high level, but there are things that are not aware we are doing at night which I cannot confirm," says the man.
While talking about the claims that have been directed to his group, Silayo, she fainted saying, "I don't have the church here, I have left this evening and said that you have been sent by our for a long time.
"Our war is not only in the body, but it's a spirit what we did," explained Mama Silayo- information, confirmed the reports of the group came to meet with reading the fire among those two students.

"It is true we have information of this group about the new kind of service and we have already decided to check up to his leaders and get them to court," said Commander Kazuka.
He said the police, even so, they still do more investigations to know people who are supposed to participate in the group which are alleged to have financial ability and positions in private companies in the country.
Kazuka has urged the citizens that have ever been not less than not fit for that group to give information to the station so that more action should be taken instead of doing those things to inform them while many more people were using them.
And the District Commissioner of Arusha, Evance Avena has told Bongo Five that the government on his part has banned the group because it was not registered in accordance with the law.
"The law explains openly that any religious group or even community groups are contributing to be registered, but these were doing those applications contrary to the law because they did not be registered," he said.

He warned that the type of that service will not be allowed to have the government because it goes against the ethics and its teachings of all religion and he added that other organs of the kind are needed to grow in Arusha town.
In recent days we have risen up many denominations here, most importantly have been alleged to be running this service which they have destroyed actions which essentially is going against the love of God.
Among the areas that have a lot of things, the police force is famous in Mererani Town, that is praised to have natural vegetation.
