
The government is being requested for a health center.

It has been written by Arnold Kagaruki, Moshi.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

The government through the Ministry of Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, has been requested to put a system of giving loans to students of diploma level in health centers, the aim being to reduce the huge shortage of experts in health services.

The request was issued yesterday by the head of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT), Doctor Fredrick Sumaye, when he was speaking at the second graduation of the Institute of Health Insurance, where a total of 101 students graduated while getting certificates of lack of medicine.
Doctor Shoo said that for now there is a huge shortage of health experts in the country especially the number of doctors and nurses and he said according to the recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO), one doctor is supposed to serve people with 8 hours.
He said that WHO's information show that one doctor in the country wants to serve more than 200 patients.
He said as a result of that situation, the government has a great job of improving health professionals in conjunction with various stakeholders, so as to end the challenge of lack of experts in the health sector.
Doctor Shoo said the needs of the health services and experts will increase in the coming days especially because of the increase in health centers in various villages, especially from the government's strategy to ensure that every village has reduced, therefore, requesting the government to see the importance of starting to prepare experts of health centers, at the level of diploma for education loans.
"He said the government and the financial organizations to put a system of giving loans to students from high level students, this will help with goals in health centers to be able to fulfill their goals and increase the big number of service providers," said Doctor Shoo.
Moreover, he requested the government to see the way to increase efforts to improve universities that are being faced with corruption, by giving grants to the number of students who are in the period of the past years.
The head of the Institute of Health and Health, Hamlyn Shao, said the government can help to help those colleges to pay some of the teachers, the cost of examinations and medical funds for every student, a situation that will reduce the huge cargo for parents to pay a huge fees, which sometimes they are unable to provide education to the students.
