The city has been planned.
August 8, 2014.

Fear of violence and destruction of property is still ongoing in Simanjiro District, Manyara Region as a result of information that the residents of Loiborsiret Ward Songea, "A" and Lolila, they have planned to attack the farm and the chairman of that district Bron a Mogherini has said that they won the farm and the chairman of that district Bron a Mogherini has said that they had flooded the farm for the chairman of that district, Bron Riders in January third, this year.
The residents of those villages have a long-term conflict that started since the year 2009 with them and the CCM chairperson of the district about the farm which is 48,000 thousand shillings, which is in 9704 kilometers, which is in those two villages.
The reports of the conflict were reported by this newspaper in one of his past issues last year and up to now a permanent solution to the concerned authorities has not been found and involved that conflict, has continued to expand and involved in Mkonga village, which is in Monduli District, Arusha province.
News that came out from Simanjiro District and the verification of several sources noted that on December 19 this year, leaders of those villages met in the session that was held in Nyamilima primary school, Yakary Songea, "A" and planning plans to do an attack in that farm.
Reports are indicating that in that session, they are told citizens of all villages that they do a public meeting on January 3, and after the session put up the farm by bringing in their livestock and build residential houses (Wanging'ombe) inside the farm.
It is alleged that those leaders have also invited some of the cadres of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) from Simanjiro and Arusha town to address the meeting.
Also, reports show that, other resolutions are for government leaders in the villages to raise funds to those citizens, so as to buy important needs like food and others when they go back to the farm.
"Because the situation is not well, they can look like that which happened in Mwanza province recently, where citizens have killed by fining that former chairman of CCM in that province, Clement Mabina," warned our news source.
Mabina who had a land conflict between him and the citizens of Kisesa Ward, claimed that for 15 years, he was killed, after many citizens accused of killing him by shooting the child who is a resident of that area.
While speaking to Good Citizen, the chairperson of Gongo la Moto Ward "A" Yohana Shishi, confirmed that all the two villages including the chairpersons of the neighborhoods meeting to discuss the conflict and they have planned to make demonstrations of peace about the farm.
"It is true that December 19 we met at a good meeting, together with other things we discussed the issue of land conflicts between the villages and our chairman of CCM, but we were not ready to do an attack," said the chairperson.
He said after that meeting they had agreed to take another session in January 3 or another day that will be planned for.
"One of our big complaints are the step by the chairman and its security guards to evade the fine of 10,000 shillings per every head of livestock that are arrested inside his area," he said.
He said that it's true that the chairperson was given a farm through legal and former leaders of the village, but later without following the procedures he added about 3,000 acres and they have been in conflict about the relevant area.
