How do I register?
Sei 12, 2014.

"If there is a country that would have been giving excuses that other development than any African countries are Vietnam having been destroyed by a lot of war against China, Japan, France and America, divided into colonial history and caused a foreign affairs system and he followed the truth.
"This would have been more poor country in the world. Even so, if it has started without anything, it has been able to win many African countries with an income of a person in the year.
"The results has emerged as a way to grow the economy and development of Africa" Hinterland, which is the words of writer Him Mills and the other Jeffery Webb in their book "Africa's fifth term of Zanzibar Mrs Asha Balozi.
I have chosen this part to explain how the country that had to be buried and with a reputation like our colleagues has been able to improve poverty and continue with fast.
Sihana Nkinga, because he believes that he is only the market system only is the solution to the African problems while I believe that dollars should be able to take his position in preventing the market crime (Free Market).
However, Vietnam, and Tanzania have a lot of things that are similar to it, it is good to look for our colleagues that I can be able to find themselves and understand the development of our people.
As it was in Tanzania, Vietnam followed the economy system that is run by dollars in everything that American built industries and took it as it was in Tanzania.
The government of Vietnam built small industries as the main pillar for growing employment to its people, the famous clothes factory in that country is Ambassador Number than 10 people in Tanzania and it had a famous industries known as pneumonia.
My father, Mzee Zitto Zuberi Kabwe, was among the first young people who have been employed in this factory, they were taken from every corner of the country to run a machine and producing salt, sheets and every type of clothes.
Today, Michongo festival is going on to work, this at least I don't have sure that the last time I have heard the member of parliament of Ubungo he wanted the nominated member of parliament about the performance of this factory. Tanzania had a chosen parliamentary committee about the performance of this factory.
As I have been able to write in the previous days, industries recently were thrown out in the center so as to make sure the cotton electricity is added tax in the country and the second to produce employment to the citizens, increase income and eradicate poverty.
As Tanzania, Vietnam suspended the policies of improving their economy including the construction of their industries in order to improve the success of the Asha-governmental factory of May 10 since the year 2001 in selling part of its shares to private individuals.
As a result of investment that took place, at the moment the factory has employed more people and sell it in Europe with a sweater and a sweater with a sum of 40 million American dollars in the year 2015 and this growth is also in the whole sector of clothes.
Currently, Vietnam has 3700 companies of clothes to employ two hundred and a half million people from Vietnam currently, they have a value of 11,02 billion for the statistics of the year 2010.
In Tanzania right now it will sell for all approximately all crude oil in the country like crude oil and approximately two clothes and private industries that are not working and others have been sold at the warehouses.
Those development in the small business sector were going on with development in the agricultural sector of the year 1990, Vietnam, was requested for rice from outside of the year 1990, Vietnam, and the year 2005, that country was the second in the world by selling rice outside the country.
31 percent of rice, that is sold by Vietnam, bought at African countries, with great land and natural fertility so as to make the country be the second largest in the world after Brazil by selling coffee at the world market where Brazil were tested from 5000 dollars in 2012.
In the year, Tanzania brought down 71000 tons only in fish, Vietnam, and not only to increase production but they have changed and sell crude oil and also currently has its technology of iron sheets and sell them outside.
In the year 2012 when I was visiting small industries that were outdated, there were these machines from Vietnam at the Mtwara Town factory run by Oliver Wema from Singapore.
