Doctor Didas Masaburi against the time they were finished, a case against the parliamentary candidate of Saed Kubenea.

The former mayor of Dar es Salaam City, Doctor Didas Masaburi has decided not to continue with the case to oppose the victory of Saed Kubenea (CCM) in Ubungo constituency while there was no high court.

Masaburi during the vying for the seat through CCM ticket, he opened the case of 8th of the year 2015, claiming that Kubenea gave bribery, in different areas, while he also complained to the supervisor of the elections that he did not present justice.

Yesterday, the court was expected to listen to the request of Didas Masaburi during the cost of bond of the case, but his lawyer, Clement Kihansi, presented a request for the cost of affordable prices together with the primary case.

Lawyer Kihansi, requested to remove the court that case by using section 30 (1) of the regulations of the general elections of the year 2010.

The lawyers of the side of those complaints, Nyamiyaga hospital and Fredrick Chihira has claimed that they have no objection against the cost of affordable prices, but they requested for compensation to the primary case.

Lawyer Domayo applauding the claims by compensation saying up to they reach the decision to remove the court in order to eliminate the case, the debtors had not presented any documents to the court which were supposed to be presented concerning that case, therefore they don't have a chance to claim.

However, lawyer Kiroboto has claimed that despite that they were not presented any documents in the court, they have been doing operations including doing research about that case and therefore getting the cost if the fare is going on in court.

While giving a decision after listening to the issues of all two sides about the compensation, Judge Lugiko said that they agree with the request of the debtors that they deserve to be paid for compensation and he decided to oppose the compensation of 50 percent of the cost they used.

He emphasized that even if the debtors were not presented in court the documents are needed in the case until yesterday, the time to submit the documents it has not shown because it is a must the work they had already made.

In that decision, the side of those statements are forced to present those applications for compensation together with the costs that they used for them.

Masaburi was found to explain the reason of removing that case with his lawyer said he received the award from his client, but he was not told the reason.
