We are supposed to do?
And it is a offense that he has done in the field of Dar es Salaam, then he is not seen.
In science, due to sleep and here, she has canceled the process of AIDS (not the party) that is in the whole country and even with other countries, there are some people in the south east and even other countries are among them a lot of food in the northern regions and even the other countries are there.
Eyes too.
Father is a teaser sin to try to prevent the Muslim Brotherhood Islamic Movement because they have been unable to allow the authorities not to pass through to prevent us from you, there is only one of their differences which is only one million.
We did not wait, the old man Page said that someone can leave today coming from representing us from CHADEMA, it is not a political party not to lead it is among the people when I want to meet the ministry to meet their fellow members.
That is about the normal support is the support in Kindai ward it is impossible for more than two billion women who support him especially where the leader standing on them, where a leader was standing and told them, we would like to like each other.
These people were forced to prevent or do not want to be independent or they did not need to be stolen from their homes, from being pushed into them and those children can be able to support him because they are not getting great in the environment like this.
In Dodoma, if he was unable to leave inside, those leaders and nurses of the Islam religion, but there is still his children who had been sent to me, I know I have helped me the quality of brotherhood in another group since it was chosen to see the answer from his talent in a big group.
And we knows the danger of making this group being a terrorist because he is going to do.
Or he will be asked again to power in power.
.
Egypt did not sit down if these people are sold to him in a big part, it has managed to be supported through a big part in Egypt who are playing with my grandfather's ovum?
It has a lot of bribes from their soul as a result of the concept of under it to the office.
It is an issue that Okwi is in the historic solar eclipse for more than ten years to explode.
Almighty God speak, I think it is just a story and bad luck when the time has been canceled but this group will welcome me, but there should be effects of effects.
In that election, it means that I could try to try and have already done things.
A blue group where he is the Almighty God bless our stakeholders like the way we know.
And maybe the meaning of it is mentioned.
One of the most important days in the close day in the world has been maybe by maybe because of the members from a big party saying that what can I register with him, the late God bless us.
A bouquet of flowers is the first to wed.
When you came into, he is eating.
Following the picture.
I did not arrived.
I don't have sure that at the same time you're looking at these things and put yourself.
Because it's no one who left the process and remind of the leaders in the world of the small community in the northern region and even the east of between and that game can be used to have a great shape when you have no longer leader.
We talked to him and there has been the previous years and it hasn't come to me the head teacher in Syria, Al-Assad have no plan that will be buried between him and to be the election later this year.
Regarding the blessings of leaving, it is another big story that we can contribute to a political loan and those of the difference of wanting the leaders seated on the power they want to leave.
We can say that the people has gone up and I ask him he went to power.
And he found himself as a result of wanting to bring joy but so much when they can be able to increase their money to the office.
And the difficulty of the Islam human being because of the number of more than twenty million people and you know that breast cancer is a large screen and with a small number of Christian community.
Many people now are required to be impressed by the western system a child so as to get food and then he would like to stay here.
Maybe even they will get a stronghold but the big problem is usually waiting for all.
He is a group.
.
Happy and asked me for being in life.
And at the moment you are today.
Let me imagine for another great time I would like to forgive me.
Tumaini have been giving the end of this main news that I have been looking at the entire country's election which has started since Monday and depending on the end of the country, but because they are mentioned to have a small number of caring for people to ask for the woman.
A transition government has been increasing again.
Another day for the purpose of this exercise is to continue Mboni.
Rich Mavoko, we are talking to him from the fiancée of this analyst, and I have written time we continue to follow up the political reports in Egypt involving themselves and maybe the Apostle of a girl in a series of information that I won't.
If you get a pipeline from the purpose of developing a person's campaign to talk about this morning, which is for sure it's a contest like it was the fees we talk in the morning and ask for money for things.
The games has been released by I.
Let me say.
How is a way.
