
They have changed the resources, land, now they want to citizenship, it is also Juwes Wang and Good Governance Tanzania.

The government still has an intention to submit to parliament the law bill about the citizenship of two countries (DPO), as it was explained at the session of the parliamentary committee for two years ago.
This request has launched a discussion with President Jakaya Kikwete when speaking to the American citizens during his tour in that country last year (2011).
This bill has been nominated together with the media, that was postponed for the year 2007 in a clean environment, whereby in the opinion of many people, the two bills failed to strengthen and protect corruption in the country.
If the media bill had been presented to pass, it has decided that the criminal offense was to report all the contracts (even the poor) of the government, as part of Richmond Development Goals (IPTL), Cui Jian, where his punishment would have been sentenced because it has not been sentenced.
This donation was as an aim of giving the body's immunity in the nation, it does not reach the media with poor contracts, growth, human resources and the growth of the country so as to enable them to resolve issues concerning the suspects of corruption and who are also a citizen.
Citizenship of the two countries give him a person to live and get all the rights of citizens, the two countries which does not pollute the same time, equivalent to the local and local contractors.
Without doubt this argument has emerged the invention that was addressed by few people of this country, like their secret agenda in conjunction with international corruption, with the aim of employment to the visitors like our new citizens, but how can we ask you to visit capital from them before patriotism?
Our country has the wealth of a big human resources, if you get an international system to desire to look for citizenship, but without the wealth, the agenda to look for instance, the agenda to look for instance, the agenda for today, the agenda to look for instance, the agenda for today, the agenda to look for instance, the agenda to follow the colonial history and slavery.
They give a solution to the Missionaries of today who are looking for citizenship to be close to our resources, to evade them sweating as the hyena that got the sheep on the shoulder, "among the farmers, while he is not for the community of the community of the farmers?
And why this bill is clear to you today, again by luck and the strength of the poor, and not in the previous years before globalization, and not the entire market?
You are where they have a professional network of EALA, a bomb attack, libel and others, who we are confused by the ones that we are getting married and then they were rushing into, where they are also a citizen, they don't get married what they will get in our country?
When you are on the murder of Richmond Development, the medical camp is a citizen of the country, but they got the things that were unable to marry off, but when she left now, she's moved out to stop communication with the citizens that he claimed to be so much?
The Patriots are dealing with defending this bill is a small group of corruption in the ruling party with the government, by supporting international standards.
Let us lose us again to see "Tanzania has a grace,"?
"The best life for every Tanzanian, but they have written with you of theft in collaboration with the visitors who now has called questions of" citizenship of the two countries. "
Their fear is that if you missed the Tanzanian user, they will wake up one day by a point and take a car, "they love them," they don't leave them, "they don't kill them," they don't stay outside, where it is also a citizen who mingled to fear among their cemetery in the current and future generations.
This bill is pumped by the investor and a small group of patriotic and visitors that can rule the economy and politics of this country, and because they should see our resources, we will have all human rights, but we should know that we become a short message of patriotism but what should we be said, "we become a short message of patriotism in a long time?
These will continue the moment because that is the first commandment (center). Tanzania will be the second commandment but they love the country only because they are not seen as their nation, they do not like patriotism in America.
Tanzania cannot be built by a big number of drugs, who is a half to be a girl and a girl whom they do not know it is a animal, "a citizen is proud to be said," a person cannot get two people at a time "?
Experts who come to Tanzania, Tanzania, I don't love you for all the heart, "said their hearts has failed to control the" citizenship of the two countries "?
When you come from and we should be able to cater for what we failed to cater for what we succeeded in fighting for our country's freedom, freedom has given the authority to investigate and supervise our resources and benefit from the foundations of Tanzanian culture.
And that is our natural rights, that it cannot be able to promote international communities and citizenship of Tanzania not to be sold at the business product so as to get married and every one with the money they are forced to get pregnant from outside, what they did is because Tanzania is good than what they joined?
The issue of citizenship is a very important thing that the ones studying history had reduced the Mwalimu Julius K. Nyerere, the position of the prime minister of this country in 1962.
It was recently, women are done before freedom were put in three levels the headquarters of economic and social welfare at the first level that was held in Ziba, where the age of age was the third and last class.
However, despite the last year, most of the age refused to fall down in three steps within the bridge, starting with Msangamkuu and was followed by the law, and the Tanzanian was the last one.
The year 1961, the government presented the parliament (Nyerere) with the prime minister, the bill of law with an aim of giving citizenship to each person (without caring about the origin of a person), only when the person has been born in Tanganyika, and at least one of his parents he has been born in Tanganyika.
That bill was kidnapped by many people, they want to citizenship to be for African people only, while the teacher entered that blood is needed.
"Discrimination is color," maybe bad than (Verdes, South Africa.
The great opposition of the bill was led by the Member of Parliament of Southern Highlands, John Mwakangale, who did not lose his feelings by saying, "the invited guests have gotten a lot for a long time, social, economic and political parties, because of them, the rich people have been tested for a long time, community, economically and the political parties," Tanzania: NCCR party (TASWE Saccos).
Prime Minister Nyerere confessed the transparency and truth this problem, he said.
Earlier, the honorable speaker, because of the condition that we gave them, where the economic groups are similar to the color of people with the same day, although we are not supposed to be there, although we are not supposed to be accountable, although we are not supposed to be accountable, although we are not supposed to be accountable, although we are not supposed to be there.
In that law, some of the invited guests are supposed to work to Tanganyika and continue to work in the country with integrity and integrity of those who are together with Doctor Bryceson Kiwelu, Duncan, and others.
It will not get time Nyerere to say himself that, "it is not every guest he loves Tanganyika," when one white when posting his dog by the national flag and call him "Tanganyika," when he performed with him in the streets has apprehended a holy martyr.
The teacher bought that white at 24 hours to leave the country.
This law was opposed by workers and causing conflicts in 1949 in the year 1962 and the government wants to use the extra strength to visit the union of workers in the country, NUTA Jazz, and finally the explosion was removed by the establishment of the union of workers in the country, NUTA Jazz, even though the series of complaints against laws against the law.
Inside the Tanganyika Union National Union (Tanu), a situation was not well known as party members bought the teacher while insisting that together with other things, economic development, the establishment of the local government, and the end, to give power to African countries in public service and the agricultural sector.
It is this scandal of citizenship, that had caused Tanoh, called a general meeting on January 7th.
1995, so as to be discussed and eliminate the difference of division within the party, where other members were self-employed and form the party of "Doctor John Pombe Magufuli, apart from citizens' issue, he urged the youth to be given priority to own the economy of the country.
Teacher, without expecting an increase in that challenge, from his fellow members, he revealed that once the danger of what he termed as a explosion, "that was facing the country, but by defending his position (not pictured), he decided to resign as the prime minister to allow change.
The Big Results Now ', which he had not accepted, and handed the government of human resources, Kawawa.
Self-branding of the teacher, where up to now is explained (because it is explained) that it was back to the citizens to improve the party, to avoid conflicts inside the party and the government to give him a good position (if you go back to the party) and thinking about the following steps.
Ambassador Abbas Kandoro, who was in the middle of those things, has been quoted saying something when he was saying, "he was born with African authority (to give him power and Oscar Assenga) to be left to Grind.
I explain that they are measurable.
The one who was sent as a lawyer, says that we have benefited from the country's economy, that is in the hands of visitors whose contribution to the national income is poor, such as it complained John Mwakangale in 1962.
Is it not the colonial history and return?
By saying this, we have no reason to prevent good foreign citizens and those who deserve a citizen of Tanzania, to ask and be given priority to the citizens of the Tanzanian community instead of the moment it gives them to join the contest for the citizenship of two countries, with one feet within and another leg.
If they need for this bill a lot of patriotism I have defeated them or it has not been enough, better when he resorted to the country.
