
The member of parliament has been involved with "couples" marijuana since 2012.

The nominated member of parliament on the ticket of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) from Tabora Province, Mystica Mapunda, Abdallah, was involved with women who were killed of marijuana going outside the country, ordinary citizens has been informed.
Our citizen has been informed that one of the suspects who were arrested and marijuana, was arraigned in court, Hadija Magesa and his real brother to Hadija Tambwe and that they were together a short time before all of starting the journey through the Julius Nyerere International Airport, Dar es Salaam.
Reports have been found that Monsigrated to the country on the Emirates plane number EK 726, July 28, 2012 to Italy, a few hours before welcoming him by his colleague, Solo Mnyama, had been forced to leave the plane of Turkey International Airport, 4604 on July 29, 2012 to return to Turkey.
The investigation of Mke Mwema have confirmed that Mpozi who is one of the members of parliament who are inside the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals which was accused of bribery, he went to parliament that he traveled to India, he will take him to his mother for treatment.
The director of the department of Parliament of parliament, John Joel has said in Dodoma that Meshark Bandawe has permission to go for private schools to go out of the country.
"He has gone to India to take his mother in treatment," said Joel.
Already Khadija has said they have already been arraigned in court facing charges of being involved in that business while MFI accounts in Italy is expected to return to August 2nd this year through Dubai.
In a special environment to Hadija Tengeza of Kimara B 151665 while with the name to Hadija Mwambungu during his ticket being the name of Hadija Tambwe, something that has been explained to remove the controversy that is causing the arrest of them before leaving Dar es Salaam.
The investigation of Mke Mwema should understand that on July first this year, Meshark Bandawe, went to travel outside the country and going back to Dar es Salaam through that way that he came from July 28, 2012 at the Emirates Stadium on 726.
The efforts to communicate with MEMKWA centers, as to finish the accusations that were directed it did not give them fruits.
The head of the department of medicine in drug in the country, Godfrey Nzowa he told BBC Sport that they are continuing with investigations to know the new technology of drugs that involve famous people as a result of the information they received.
Mke Mwema has all the reports of the existence of a network of business people who use some of the women transporting drugs to outside the country, some of people with mental disabilities.
Being involved with Benedict Liwenga in these reports of marijuana, contributes to the week which is being mentioned to be very bad to the nominated member of parliament who has been mentioned a lot in the scandal that emerged victorious in the parliament last week being a lot of some of the delegates of the Permanent Committee on Energy and Minerals as the ones for the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO).
The committee has been placed by speaker Anne Makinda because of the argument that was presented by the Member of Parliament of Namtumbo, the Catholic Archdiocese of Vientiane when he asking for that committee that he does not affect the parliament for embarrassing the parliament together with other committees with sharp teeth.
Among the accusations that have been directed to MTVs which together with other things that are being reduced by the parliament, it is his company to do business to sell for TANESCO.
