It is the first examinations for presidency.
Dec 23, 2015.

After allowing the haphazard construction of continuing with more than two decades ago, Mbeya City has now started paying the houses of those houses recently.
Those houses are those that were built on the natural gas ways of water together with all the areas that previously were built as open areas.
The report from the leadership of that town shows that, right now, the process of recognizing all the residents who built in the valleys and the open ones is going on and after the completion of that work, his evaluation will be presented at the decision.
That step by the leadership of Mbeya City to demolish houses that are in the natural resources of water and open areas is said that the first examination of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), who are the ones that lead the government of that city.
That argument is if Chadema members will not be a bone of them, they will be able to supervise the laws that destroy their votes including the destruction of their votes, which will cause pain to their voters, who use elections to prevent the authority to manage its laws.
The real situation of the environment of that city is so bad, and some of the residents have got in addition to the fear of violence in this rainy season or a few years to come, including erosion of soil (Sweden Jide) due to the speed of unplanned settlements in the mountains in the city.
The rains that fell recently in that town have developed the fear of the residents of that town due to the effects that were taken including some of the houses being filled with water and causing them to pass through a house after its natural resources were stolen.
The action was taken.
It has not been clear that if it is a decision by the city's leadership and it is an explanation from him, considering that the demolition is ongoing at the moment in Dar es Salaam city, from time after the government of Doctor John Magufuli got into power.
The acting director of Mbeya City, Doctor Samuel Dyamo, explaining to the presence of the verification process of buildings in various areas of the city, with the aim of ensuring that all the nuclear weapons have been stolen, so as to allow water to get easily.
"What is happening now is to make sure that all angels have not been stolen, so as to allow water to be easily available, put up to resolve issues we shall be disgracing recently," said Doctor Lazaro in his interview with Raia Mwema.
He mentioned the some of the areas they are doing to be together with Solo, which in the past was not allowed the construction of people's residence because it is land, therefore, at the moment it has been filled with a house thus causing a disaster of heavy floods in every rainy season.
The rains that fell recently, spread a new residence, received off by the city, in Isere town area being filled with water to an extent of its residents to start doing the logic of that city to test at the valley areas.
However, according to the acting director, the area is needed to look at the way to build a machine of removing water easily so as to prevent the probability of the floods.
Other areas that are in the danger of facing disasters from rains are together with Simwanza says, while in Kagera where the houses have been built to the streets have been set up to the presence of huge disasters that will be caused by erosion of soil.
In addition to the residents who put up on the natural gas ways of water, including illegal immigrants, the leadership of the city is also depending on all areas that have been set aside as open areas, so that it can take action if the law will be shaken, "says Doctor Lazaro.
The construction?
It is not supposed to be displayed or only about the haphazard use of Mbeya City, it is a question that deals with any official guest when he visited the city through a car from Iringa or Tunduma and those who use the air travel they are not in the sky.
Houses have been built on the junction of IHI (IJA), Simao in Kagera, Lake Region and now broke the forest with government leaders including the head of the province, many people have increased, they are in a forest and build houses including the reserve buildings.
In addition to the shivered out that surrounds the city, other areas that were attacked were affected by the rivers that have built amount of rivers without a period of rain where it is complete.
As a result of the haphazard use, each one doesn't take this law, by making sure they get married, therefore each one does not want to prevent water should not allow you to go to you, and through that procedure, water have failed to get part of the exercise.
The news reporter in the country, Christopher Nyantahe has been among the victims of the recent rains, where in addition to his residence being involved in the areas that were surveyed and found guilty in some of the residents of plots that were not independent and develop them without a procedure.
