Normal things or this event may be the first one of its own kind.
That you do does not be normal, it is a easy step to take the first position but in Makerere University, it has been not something that can help it to be.
Welcome after two months there is a prayer in Makerere University.
It is so much, as it is known as a university that is true you are respected in the African continent but also that is the biggest number of mountains.
Mwasabite said that I don't have a chance to take action against him and I don't see that he is a report to parliament and he would not expect to be a report that in the education sector, it is also supposed to take that step to start his office.
I want to pay a person this month is difficult for only one university for him, Iddi.
Other organizations are also there.
This is not financial and another even when it was also started to talk about cold drinks.
Now, other minister will be identifying they live in areas of that college or at their houses, then I will be criticized and they have already left or they are still continuing to live in their areas.
Or still they live in the university areas but it was explained by the police commander in addition, Tabora province.
There are areas they will not be allowed to reach five, they will not be allowed to live in a house, when you're not allowed to live in different parts of different areas as part that we can claim to use university services and they have not allowed to arrive areas where the police commissioner has mentioned.
The areas of the wife.
And even so I cannot be told any person when you will be able to be allowed therefore, as living in their number is very little.
I'm in many university a lot of time those who are outside or taken into the fire.
The position of students and international editors.
When in Makerere in this university there was their strike that makes them vote or meeting.
For I have not got well, I am saying that international students together with international lecturers, but how it affects it or no?
There's no racial discrimination that he has returned home or once the ones that are still studying are those who do their medical studies that are using a little of the university being involved in the hospital.
But those who died in their step in the university, there's no decision they have managed to rise and leave.
Thank you so much the bus I commend the listener to put in details, that he was our colleague, a case that has come from Kampala in Uganda where he had an entrepreneur.
What is going on after being beaten in Makerere University.
In Uganda we were previously, we were talking to spongers in the country?
Then from here in Boston.
Miss and something to hanjo, the third time he gives out how six months and for the same way.
The Almighty God rest his colleague.
To be able to achieve.
These problems are very close to what I believe?
