Youths do not lose hope.

It has been written by Hanscana.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

How many things have, without doubt, there is still ongoing with the challenges of life.

When you look for example, remember that he will not get married when I did not get married, I got married when I am happy about the news about the woman of India who got the child when he was at 70 years, I remember an ancient attack by her wife because of not getting pregnant.
Youth Stephen Ngila (34) made that brutal act on July 23 this year in a house which he was living with his wife, Jackline Mwende (27) in the Mashada stadium in Kenya, according to details, her husband abused her and that, that man was understood.
Despite the caused his wife disability and huge injuries, the head of the girl, she allowed me to have closed seven years ago and did not get a child according to details, her husband was married because she was getting pregnant.
There is a report that, the hospital in Nairobi has assessed the floods and discovered that, Albert has no problem in reproductive issues but on her husband "there are unknown facts." He has done that brutal act because of a child, I don't see a close relationship, then I don't see a lot of birth.
It's not only that, by considering the age of that girl, even if he has a problem in his family system, the couple had the ability to look for solutions and they could get pregnant.
Although human beings have been considering over the age of a woman in reproductive health, science development, shed opportunities to women with a huge age of pregnancy (IAGRI).
In the year 2008, the main bus who broke the world record for getting a child at 70 years, but later, it is discovered that he had a cancer screening at April this year, another woman in India has lost its own record for getting a child at the age of 72 years.
By considering the age of those women, there is no reason for giving up the child.
A few days will be compensated by Zubeida Malick.
