
Billionaire was happy with his lover.

Story of Wema Sepetu and Makongoro in each other.
The wife of the late billionaire, Suleiman Muhuri said that the word of Muhuri said that he has revealed some secret concerning her husband's death that was found dead in his car in Kisarawe area, Coast.

Speaking to this newspaper the day before yesterday, he said that the death of her husband has been caused by great privacy after her husband was surprised by her mother, a situation that forced him because his mother had succeeded in many days ago.

My husband had a great secret because after his death, I believe that there is a lot of things he did without seeing them.

"Until he was born, I don't know if he doesn't have faith that it may be the source of suicide, she is knowing," he said.

He added that on his husband, the husband gave him a phone and told him a 4 o'clock at the night they gave the phone and that time it was at 2 o'clock.

He said that he told the answer that he will be good but he insisted on how to do so and later he said he is going to suicide.
"At four o'clock at night, I saw him he is where he told me he is between Minara and Kisarawe when he is going to kill a situation that was not worried.

"When I asked me what he wants to do so, he told me all the information that he has left to police.
"We continued to speak with my husband so that I am able to follow it but he decided to follow him but he wants him to listen to her mother where he is.

"I asked me if he is suicide for what he will go to me, he can take the decision by suicide and they shouldn't jump, he sees it a happy to be far from the hospital so that he can be filled with him.
"I talked about the reason of suicide, where he found it, but before all, I asked me when I went to Dar close to her children," said the wife.

The investigation of the newspaper has revealed that the deceased has ever talked about by his wife at the Police Station in Oysterbay, Dar es Salaam that he stopped his life and was opened the case against OB / RB / 12634 / 2013 in July 20th, this year.
However, the incident was scored on August 5, this year after the couple did not agree.

The wife of the late was asked about that he confessed and said in marriage things like that they are there and they had already finished.
Speaking about the property of the late, that mother said that right now there are many words have been said about big vehicles, he said there and has not been lost since it is controlling the number plate T 793 in Cindy, T 159 and T 331st, which was awarded her husband to supervise.

"I am pleased to hear there are people who are saying that if they are the brothers of the deceased, they can also see me for the purpose of being open," he said.
