
It was as a cinema hall in Makinga Village, South District, Moshi District, Kilimanjaro Province, where by a groom having no wonder where it was born and goats.
The goat, who is the supporters of Simon Msuva went, he was born with pregnant and after being locked in order to look at the stomach, that's when he was found with no wonder.
For sure that issue was surprised many and attract a huge crowd to witness the groom after the reports are spread through a human being.
As it is the fees, everyone who witnessed the incident was able to cater for every mid-fielder in the body of the groom and some of they are unsuitable for other animals including a human being taxed.
Because it is a matter that has shown the feelings of each person who witnessed or understood it, it has been forced to follow keenly so as to know if the situation had never happened.
Most of the people with their own ideas and they caught to involved the incident and faith of witchcraft.
The journey to go to the Kimali village started with many questions that have no answers.
When I arrived with Kelvin Twissa, who is a child in that family, he explains how the event was done with him showing faith, especially what has contributed to that issue.
"The goat, when he went to the deceased, while showing the groom (while showing the author) is the one who was found," says professor.
He says two days before the goats will go down and they were shot, seemed to have a problem and that's when they decided to see the doctor of livestock in order to remove it.
"After the doctor came out and spread a two sides, just after two days I heard each other in the body, finally died from his unborn child," he says.
He says that after the goats will die, the family decided to support him and found a wonder many people in that village and the Kilimanjaro province in general.
Speaking about the view of the body of the goats, after being released inside his mother, he says that he had a legs that goes up to rear pigs, hands, the head that was affected by the example of a human being together with mouth.
He says that just after he was found in that fetus, he decided to see the doctor who engaged to him and told him that he is normal.
"The doctor said it is common but me and our family we will not be satisfied with because we did not see and especially considering that the killing of the goats is the second.
"That is when we decided to inform the people to come to witness where they also been shocked by that fetus," he says.
