If a man's child is still leading Mohamed Shein is expected to talk to them is during the opening of the ten-five international film market that takes place every year in the suburbs of the old rivals in English (FA) says its intention is expected.
While speaking to the meeting of the Executive Director of ZIFF, a guarantee doctor will start at the sixth to ten years this year when it started on July seven to ten years this year, whereby after the opening of that big film, he said that the festival will start at a good history because the opening day was opened by the president of Zanzibar, Mohamed Shein, together with the famous actor from America Mary Lugusi.
Things are all over.
For it was like a place.
.
For him to talk as a normal number of people who are in the church in another step, artists who participated in that meeting with the press, Jacob Stephen popularly known as J Simpson has explained how the festival will be tough and he requested the Tanzanians to do many Tanzanians.
For several days in the coming days, we don't see the development and to be taken to the company to be careful, because of strengthening the Tanzanian films you know that we are learning our colleagues who are doing.
.
Then you will get a chance to sit and those with their technicians, they have the major ones that have not allowed.
This year, there will be training of using modern camera and the editor of the picture, where there will be an award to introduce himself as a player.
The vibrant singer, Steven Kanumba, a total of internal films since the different corners of the world will be shown from while having the instructions he does not affect on its channel.
The old music veteran in the country Nasib Abdul, has been popular by the name Nimelewa.
Where that show, good, Abdul Wakil has said Mrs Salma Kikwete will join with other two artists.
We have plans to Hadija Mwambungu from providing entertainment and not that it will be taking place every week at the hall in a meeting with the old Taarab music in Dar es Salaam city, when he promised to give an entertainment entertainment and to teach the youth that the old Taarab music for instance, we will be left to Mrs. Fauzia Kullane.
The Almighty God rest his new song for that first day which he says.
Corruption.
It is a problem for the first time on stage for that day and you know what is the meaning of the child with Miss Khadija Omary Kariati of deception.
How has changed the ten years old child and until it is very happy.
She gets a joke.
The husband is why all the European countries I am African countries for breaking up.
Here when they see you the whole person then.
I don't want a book like, Maulidi said that the wave cannot get a day.
What is the clothes.
Ras Makunja has a father to the late?
Holy Rosary or Nairobi more than El Nino.
May of May.
My thing, when you go to you (right) it is not true.
You are looking for sports from a very few hours.
