
Four industries looking for new investors.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published in 15th of September.

An evaluation of the state of industries that continues to be done in the country by the government in partnership with the Office of the registrar of treasury, has revealed four out of 45 countries have been destroyed, its current investors have no ability to follow up on them.

As a result of that, the government will look at the possibility of looking for other investors to the minister of industry, trade, and investment, Charles Mwijage said that the 45 industries have been destroyed, but four factories have no ability to follow up on them.
He has said the evaluation was completed will be presented to the office of the attorney general in order to get legal opinions about the steps of taking them.
Mwijage was responding to a question by the member of parliament of Manyoni West, Yahya Masser (CCM), who wanted to know when the implementation of his promise to be forced to return all industries that have been successful but it was not working.
Responding to the question, Mwijage said the first step that was taken by the government is to urge all those who were given industries in the system, to give information to the Office of the registrar of treasury.
Along with that, the team of experts from the Ministry of Industry and Office of the registrar of treasury at the follow up and are continuing with an evaluation of visiting the factory after the factory so as to look for solutions.
Mwijage said that the ministry is also continuing with the sale of sales for the industries that are outdated, which does not work well or have reduced the production.
In another step, Mwijage said in implementing the promise of President John Magufuli, the government has taken up the Majani ya Chai station located in Lushoto town, Tanga where his girlfriend has violated the agreements.
That factory was taken on January 29th, this year and talks between the government and the National Social Security Fund (LAPF) are going on to give a sign in that factory.
