
President Ang went to female or click here, for now.
In order of Burkina Faso, Burkina Faso yesterday which occurred a national team one day after moving to the streets of capital city to complain to the attempt of President Bexhill, Competera, will give its time to service as the president.
Carrying posters with stones, the demonstrators were out with police officers in the capital city of Burkina Faso after doing a meeting to oppose the policies of that president.
Police officers were forced to use ARVs like the demonstrators who were forced to break the parliamentary buildings in order of pressuring President Competera, who has served for 27 years to leave.
This was not involved by President Competitive issue and international communities while America says that it will be aired by an aim of removing the period of service to the president in that nation.
"We call on all those who are involved including the security officers of Burkina Faso not to use more strength and ensure this issue has been discussed in relation to peace and involving each person," the report of the head of foreign affairs of America, Pickup, to quote it.
On Tuesday, they should put posters with a message "leave each other," do not affect the 37 section, "by getting into section of the constitution that provides time to service to the president.
Leaders of the parties' leaders have made a great national strike to ensure President Competitions are going to respect the constitution and to release other people to lead that nation.
At the same time the opposition has set up the road leading to parliament buildings while the members of parliament are expected to discuss the constitution to change the constitution so as to give a chance to Competitions to contest for the presidency for another next year.
Schools and universities were closed down since the start of demonstrations in that nation of East Africa.
Senior officials of the opposition in that country Bhebey Ndey from Abdiwawa, said that they are expected to come out for more than one million employees during that strike.
Earlier yesterday hundreds of the demonstrators were directed to the Islamic State House de Gaulle International Airport, in the middle of the capital city but later they were kidnapped by the police officers without being reported with cases of destruction or any injured.
"Our blood have already given them fruits and we are expecting a great victory," said the opposition leader Zekirer, "said our efforts have come in the last phase.
