
This message will be shaken, otherwise.
August 10, 2013.

There is a message that is going on on the internet and in mobile phones, this message has made me more than 20 times, it's my faith that even the others have come, and no doubt even the government has come.
The concerned delegation should be easily read to the church, permanent secretaries and the Constitution of the constitution are Muslims and they have written the views of Christians who oppose the court's court, we need to prepare themselves in opinion polls to reject the draft constitution.
Private, I think that this is a rumor that the aim of wanting to disrupt the constitution process and to bring in our nation in a high court, I know that Christians have no patience, they will thank God to inform us, if they were advised on my last article.
I have been told I am supporting Muslims, I have told me that I am a lawyer of Uknga region, I have decided to fill in order to supervise the benefits of our nation, it's impossible for people with wisdom and wisdom in order to change the views of people.
However, those secretaries will not work alone. They are under the chairman and other delegates, they know that the work they did is for the benefit of the whole nation of Tanzania, can't have a lot of robbery that is explained in that message that he bought at there.
Mzee Salim Ahmed Salim, Mzee Joseph Butiku, Elder Joseph Warioba, Professor Rogassian Mahunnah, Professor Paragigi Kabudi, and others do not know well in our country's history, can't allow the ignorance of people to change their views because of wanting to pass the court's court.
It is possible that there are few delegates who want to get to this issue of high court in the constitution but the work they did is for the government, and not the religious leaders, and not in doing the views of the citizens about the constitution of their nation, and not to do the work of collecting views of some religion.
That Mwanza and Mbeya are the provinces that were parked in the court to oppose the air court, it's a foolish thing, although they can be dangerous and even if they are supporting the court of the disease is operated by the government.
The father of the nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, was asked to do not to make government issues and religious leaders "he told Tanzania not to make religion, but people of Tanzania have a good friend of the Catholic church, he went to the church every morning, but he did not want his colleagues to do if he or doing the Catholic church.
Teacher asked so much in his life to separate issues of faith in government administration. On his part, issues of faith that were private issues, and we did not respect all religious leaders, but he didn't allow religious leaders to meet the leadership of the government.
Safe for us and the brain of today, that Tanzania is a well for peace, it's because the teacher was stable and he did not stop stuttering on primary issues. He saw the danger of uniting religious issues and the government.
Therefore, he did not stop stuttering on how his faith is a private issue, and stand firm as a leader of the country to show a safe way, he insisted and sometimes he took a stern action to anyone who has shown the symptoms of disrupting peace in the government.
We have witnessed all the religion that it did not break the law of the country and to respect human rights, maybe a human being that has barred its believers to respect the government together with the ones that have been banned if the teacher did not stop stuttering on these issues!
It is very important for our President Kikwete, to follow in the footsteps of a teacher and to stop stuttering on religious issues, while playing with him and wanting to send my friends every side and the history of violence will be written on her.
There are three things that without a wisdom of our leaders, our nation will look at huge violence and are greedy for power in Tanzania, religious issues and the war between the elderly and young people all this article on the ability of our president.
