
Lipumba has defeated President Magufuli the same way Asukile has violated the economy of the nation, to control the economy of the world about it about.

Former chairman of CUF, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba has explained his joy by the performance of President John Magufuli in dealing with the economic challenges.

Professor Lipumba gave that statement yesterday before the journalists at the CUF executive office located in Buguruni, Dar es Salaam.

In dealing with the challenges of the country especially the economic sector, Professor Lipumba has advised President Magufuli to look for advice as well as the procedures of building a special market economy from Benjamin Mkapa, retired president of the third phase.

He said, the experience of President Mkapa in building the administration of the government can help do the right decision that we shall help the citizens instead of selling them.

The economist explained that, threats have the duty of President Magufuli can be able to avoid its directors, including ministers and therefore failing to tell him the real situation and that that action can affect the development of the country.

"There are symptoms of some of the government officials especially the ministers, heads of provinces and districts to fail to give their thoughts with the aim of strengthening the country's economy or to explain the real situation that is in fear of threats from the president so as to be shaken," he said.

Professor Lipumba has given that statement while the country being on the presence of sugar availability whereby according to Lipumba (Lipumba), the shortage is caused by the directive by the president of preventing the importation of that product from outside the country.

"The directive that was made by President Magufuli on February 28, 2016, while thanking the journalists, artists and groups that participated in his campaigns of the year 2015 that is the cause of this election," he said and added.

"The statement by the government to prevent the permits for sugar permits in the country is that caused a shortage of sugar, who does not affect the public because it is business people to avoid sugar.

"According to this trend, the country will not continue due to that instead of state agencies to address primary issues in order to bring productivity in the development of the nation, have never been able to look for sugar conflicts."

He gave an example of the action of the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (BMC) to look for business people who follow the sugar business instead of dealing with good issues of embezzlement of those drugs like Tegeta Escrow.

"The business people who receive a permit and those that use the sugar levels are getting great benefits because the price of sugar in the world market in August 2015 was American dollars in one tons," he said.

He clarified that if one million is same as shillings 2000 tons of sugar was sold to 500,000 shillings equivalent to 500 shillings per month and that it added by the cost of transport every month of sugar, it will come at 600 million shillings.

"The big business people and the ones that sell the sugar in the country have a great benefits compared to local industries due to that, the production of industries has cost a great capital and caused the price to be big and causing it to cause the market," he said.

He advised that as a government, it has an aim of protecting the local industries to ensure it cares for the system of importation of licenses so as to give an opportunity for the business people and industries to get licenses in the production and business people.

"Though the issue of permits will affect local industries due to the failure to compete with business people, it is good for the government to give permits to all people," he said.

If the government wants to build a economy of industries, it does not have an increase to investors to enable them to invest in all sectors in the country.

"The president needs to understand the economy of this market, to give them those involved, to make decisions in the political meetings or public," he said.
