Magufuli in the neighborhood, Lowassa.
Brightiles 19, 2015.

The campaigns for the general elections this year was the official start at the end of this week where candidates of the universities that are vying for the presidential position will arrive at their campaigns in Dar es Salaam.
The reports that this newspaper has received from the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), say that two candidates who are vying to inherit the President Jakaya Kikwete from those parties will put in public the manifesto of their party in that day.
President Hollande has been told that the candidate of CCM, John Magufuli, he will launch his campaigns at the Jangwani grounds in Dar es Salaam city as the member of parliament, Edward Lowassa being planned to launch his campaigns at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam.
Magufuli has been planned to launch his campaigns on the next Sunday (August 23) while Lowassa has planned to launch one day before the Saturday of August 22.
However, this newspaper has been told that when CCM has already completed all the procedures of doing the Jangwani meeting, when Lowassa's meeting is not yet confirmed because all procedures are not complete.
Since it was opened a total of eight years ago, the stadium has not been used for any political activities with our citizens, he has told that the concerned authorities have doubt and how it will be able to withstand the activities of that way.
One of the top leaders inside the union of parties that claimed the constitution of citizens (Ukawa), told the newspaper that if they did not get a permit to work at the National Stadium, they will look for another part for the purpose of that activity.
"There are many areas in Dar es Salaam city where we can do a tour to launch the campaigns of Lowassa's campaign and we can do Kawe, Temeke District, but our aim is to build a nation because he is not the spokesperson of Ukawa.
CCM is expected to give a full list of how the launch will be shown any time from today but there are reports that he has been planned to be the launch of its kind.
More than 20,000 shillings per day and different television stations were announced on the radio, citizens of Tanzania who are far from the scene, within and outside the country, they will be able to see that incident through the internet.
Just after the launch of Dar es Salaam, Lowassa, Magufuli together with their fellow candidates, Mama Samia Suluhu Hassan and Juma Duni Haji, they will start a long tour of more than two months going round in the whole country to vote for citizens.
Mke Mwema should understand that the strategies of CCM and Ukawa have already benefited two different teams from one of the presidential candidates and others for the purpose of fellow candidates for the purpose of electing leaders for more than 20 million votes who are expected to participate in that election.
This year's campaigns will be of its kind because for the first time in the competition of competition of many parties, two big parties which have the ability to compete.
That media source has we have to explain our citizens the other day on Monday that Ukawa will not be used in financial and CCM because it has no ensure that all their own needs will be found.
There's no reason that has ever been put in public about the use of money in the last elections of the year 2010, but parliament is alleged to have used more than five billion shillings in the general elections, to the extent that is believed to be left roofless from the ruling party.
"Brother, in the year 2010 we used more than five billion shillings and did you know how our candidate, Doctor Wilfredy has said on how he gave him from President Kikwete at that time, let us think with 20 billion shillings for example we will have a lot of violence to do," said the leader.
The manifesto of the meeting.
When we go back the day before yesterday, this newspaper explained that parties that make Ukawa have already ended the work of preparing a draft that will be used by Lowassa.
Ukawa is made up with four parties which are the Civic United Front (CUF) party, parliamentary, NCCR-Evolution and National Parks. (NLD).
Because all parties have been left wing, experts from those parties met in the city of Dar es Salaam for approximately one week to make one notice which will be used by all parties.
