
Whoever will hand over a bad road.

It has been written by Swaliatu Msuya of Dodoma.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The director of the Municipal Council of Dodoma, Godwin Sharau) has said that he will not pay the contractor who will hand over the roads that is under the level and he will supervise the road safety so as to avoid the status of the country's headquarters.

He said that the day before yesterday after the minister of state, the office of the president, regional administration and local governments (Tamisemi), George Simbachawene, opening the fifth meeting between Tamisemi, the board and the road safety stakeholders and the roads of the local government authorities.
Make sure he said that he will supervise all the quality of all roads that will be built in Dodoma province, to make sure that they get the status of the country's headquarters.
"Signifies will pay an contractor that responsibility for the road under the level," he said.
He said that at the time when Dodoma was prepared to be the headquarters of the country, the roads are supposed to be built at an acceptable level.
He said the plan that is currently is to unite in the villages, wards and estates, to ensure that their roads should be used to make sure that the council has been successful for a little money, that is 30 percent of the budget, while the budget for road agents is 70 percent.
He said that situation has been doing the roads that are supervised by the council to be built in the standards that go with that money.
In addition, some of the directors of the council in the country said at different times that the decision by the government to increase money for the purpose of the council shows how it has planned to bring development.
The executive director of Songwe Council, Elias Namkoveka said that the government has set aside enough money for the construction of road safety and that it is open that the roads will be built from villages, ward, district and province.
"Songwe is a lot of attractions but investment is difficult because of the existence of roads that are not standards," said Nemu.
On his part, the Director of the Council of Mbulu, Kingunge Ngombale Mwiru, said that the road networks at Mbulu have not been very good and it comes to the level of Missouri.
According to the minister of the country, the office of the president, Tamisemi, George Simbachawene, the government added that the funds of road construction for more than 10 billion shillings from 2376 billion shillings, the aim being to strengthen the roads under the councils in the country.
