Like religion, poison or terrorism will also be dealt with.
May 6th, 2013.

This is a continuation of the last article that tried to discuss the direction of political changes in home since it is allowed to approximately 20 years ago.
Together with other things, in the article I heard about the presence of three senior politicians of the ruling party, the Revolutionary Party (CCM), who don't see them as an obstacle to the success of those changes in line with being dangerous for the development of the nation.
I did not mention those politicians as Stephen Wassira, Nape Nnauye and Mwigulu Nchemba on the good luck, between when I heard this article and now it has come out other names of the leaders of CCM with a result of such actions, and that one that wanted to expand the scope of this debate.
But before I am not worried about those new names, it is good to see when I finished in the last article, where he went to journalists and Nape, to look at it Mwigulu Nchemba.
I get a problem to write this politician and his biography shows that it is a person who is dug well but his actions be faced with an understanding of a person of its kind of education.
Among many factors that concern them as it is true he has done a dog by the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), in a public meeting. I don't know that one with a big understanding of our politicians?
But maybe the incident that will be present at the end of our fellows about Mwigulu and her political politics, especially against CHADEMA, it is this one of the accusations of terrorism against Wilfred Lwakatare. "
I wouldn't want you to discuss about this issue because there is already the court (although there are some members of parliament, they have decided to assume that life and we cannot conclude that there is a huge shortage of wisdom among our members of parliament.
Following up on the flow of Lwakatare soon, it is easy to conclude the involved in Mwigulu in addition to making a strategy to build a picture that CHADEMA is a terrorist party or to use that strategy of terrorism.
That Mwigulu has expressed several times having an understanding of the presence of "Lwakatare" even before it has not been put up on the internet it is not a matter to discuss again through maybe, we are supposed to ask him is like the relevant agenda, to give birth to CHADEMA or not the agenda of CCM.
Recently, the leadership of CHADEMA has made a statement to the "4G network of the perpetrators of the strategy, where despite Mwigulu Nchemba, CHADEMA was surprised many other people including senior servants of the National Security Department.

Basically, even if CHADEMA would be named Mwigulu, or even if he would have been seen in the past that he has a video of the video that prove that the video of terrorism is in CHADEMA, or any person who gets well in one way or another one can't know that he is involved in one way or another.
It is easy to conclude that the main agenda in head of Mwigulu is unable to destroy the CHADEMA in a bad way to give birth to the relatives of that politician to CHADEMA is over the biggest of those who were facing us against the colonialist, Kabudi, click here.

But I am accused Mwigulu is good to ask him, "the top leadership of CCM, being together with President Kikwete, they have a lot of work with Mwigulu Nchemba, but I'm only once the requirements and instructions of the ruling party?"
It is difficult to believe that Mwigulu did not support him and his fellow leaders of CCM (if you put aside, Wassira and Nape) because they feel it would have been expected or put it well. "
As it is, the steps taken by Mwigulu and his colleague in making criminal environment (Apimondia), against CHADEMA can have effects that can't have written several times to be supported through CHADEMA results from weaknesses, robbery, carelessness, corruption, and others inside CCM.
What is crossing the CHADEMA close to prevent many from now, is the success of that party to show the citizens here where CCM has enabled the country here and to fight for the amendments of the system (for example the implementation of the constitution) that will benefit from the leadership of integrity and integrity.
