
He retired poor.
A teacher has lived for a grader at a grader after retiring from getting millions of money.
By Mwangi, professor.
Sometimes, Laurence Kabage has retired from employment of the government like teachers in the year 1994 and his thoughts were revealed to fear and doubt of continuing to live in life of having a lot of be stable.
He had an assurance that a certificate of retiring from 90 shillings, whereby he was handed over as compensation to bid farewell to his work and also 2 billion, what he did not have any benefits any time to give him their own life.
"I got only, if I would not accept when he was forced to invest in those money, then I have invited mistreatment and rhinos so they would be sent to the grave earlier," he said.
In his thoughts of using those money as a capital to solidification, he said he fears that his small-final farm has no importance in agriculture.
I talked with the expert of farms plans and who told me that the farm was very big and he told me that it had the ability to save more than 200 livestock by Siwema who believes that it had the ability to save more than 200 livestock by Siwema who said that when I gave them the work of looking for me how to build in Manyara province to save the milk cows. "He said.
A resident of Ndonga village in Mkonkole area, Mister Mighty One, Mister Mistorius said that now they can buy a grader at a grader and which for the purpose of 250 million shillings.
"In a day, when I have removed all the costs of my rearing project, I give them 5 billion shillings per day, an amount that is 165 million shillings per month.
There are no teachers who will be paid that amount of money for a month, "he said.
He says that he does not sell his milk to the farmers of breeders in the morning while taking it to the market at Ndembeji area this evening.
While old saying it is looking for now, he believes that he had already been forced to make it back to its investment after retiring from 73 years he has planned to have now it has been forced into the grave.
"Many are many we have not left, but today we are not there again.
They were tested for a bit of alcohol and when she gets into the streets after they were sent their money to retire from scoring it quickly and they were sworn in in the life of death, "he said.
He also explained that he started its own project of poultry farming that is causing a grader at a grader and which he will produce through modern technology up to reach the quality of high level.
"From the year 1994, I was in those processes of rebuking the cows until the year 2006 where I was surprised to reach a high level of quality," he said.
Following its expertise, livestock and also its reputation are spread in the country, the farmers arise in his farm so as to be educated about how to maintain the milk cows.
"For every farmer that pour out so much, I do not pay their fees of 200 shillings per day, a situation that affects the income to 200 million shillings for one month, which includes the income of 165 million shillings," he said.
He has said.
In our journey in the farm, Mister Mistorius said, we faced with a group of 500 farmers from Benetton, Mkwajuni, Nyami and Nyamiyaga hospital that they have made right to be educated on how to maintain the milk cows.
Apart from those revenue, Mister Mistorius said to sell the farmers to oppose the FGM or who are still in the investment, a grader which its price is between 50, 000 shillings and 1000 shillings.
"For a year, I would like that I have set aside 1 million shillings through the sales, a situation that is testifying in the agricultural sector of cows and you cannot go down here so that they can move forward.
Mister Mistorius said he has bought a lot of machines to decide the cows so as to reduce the cost of production.
"The use of technology in your agriculture will reduce the cost of production.
Technology, it means that you will be able to get a few months and your work will be done easily and fast, "he said.
In that project of 1,341 households that are in a life or 28, Mister Mistorius said, she has employed more than three months which it helps her to help them in giving birth certificates, to give them food and eventually help him in the killing of those drugs that is prepared to be presented in the market.
In order to resolve the needs of the food shortage, Mister Mistorius said that it is at three acres farm which is estimated to be harvested in the rainy season so as to give its livestock an opportunity to make sure they give a lot of livestock.
He is saying that contrary to the fear of many that this work is difficult, he woke up the morning at ten o'clock and a half hours so as to make a cow as they give them a lot of food and when they decided.
It is in those activities where those in the morning are forced to ask for the entrance to his heart of manslaughter, pest and dangerous parasites of diseases in order to prevent the farm against killing diseases and visitors.
Furthermore, he has registered themselves in the government's project to be given production of production so that he can have the ability to follow up production in its project.
In its investment, he says that in December and January the year 2007 / 8, the two months he faced with a huge danger of its investment.
He says that until now, livestock sector needs special policies to deal with the cause of products.
