
Taifa Stars plays for 39 years.

It has been written by Hanscana.

It has been published today May 5, 2016.

It is 39 years since Tanzania was participating in the last time the African Champions League that took place in Lagos City, Nigeria and has been unable to qualify for the Gabon 2017 finals, therefore, will have to continue waiting for.

Therefore, it will be 39 years like Taifa Stars will qualify to participate in the regional finals that will take place in Cameroon, after being unable to participate in the year Cameroon if they come to the goals.
Taifa Stars has been unable to qualify for the finals of Gabon 2017 after the day before yesterday to complete the schedule of a 1-0 win from Nigeria in a game that took place in that town.
That team ended its match in the last position after losing only one points, while Egypt having already qualified for the UEFA Champions League that will take place in Cameroon after failing to play in the previous year.
The resignation of Cub of Cupertino in Group G is like the truth in Group G, which already had scored a 1-0 victory and the draw without scoring against Nigeria and lost four points.
After retiring from Cemetery, all the teams played with that team and ended up with points, its results were canceled and to make Taifa Stars remain with only one points.
Other results, Taifa Stars started to look for a ticket to go to Gabon by playing away from Egypt on June 14, 2015, and scored 3-0 goals against Nigeria at the National Stadium on September 5th, 2015, before the repeat game and Cemetery around June 3, 2016.
June 4, Taifa Stars was defeated by 2-0 in the repeat game against Egypt in a game that was played away before completing his match the day before yesterday with a 1-0 win from Nigeria.
A game with Nigeria on accordance with the different media stations, Taifa Stars played well and especially his goalkeeper Aishi Manula has lowered her well, despite being beaten in that goal.
These reports were saying that the goalkeeper since besides the beginning of that game that he was asked well by protecting his songs with the attackers of Nigeria and to save the Taifa Stars to score a lot of goals.
After failing to qualify for Gabon, the job that remained is to do an evaluation of power so as to know where Stars has explained and started preparations for the purpose of looking for tickets to go to Cameroon.
