
Professor Shivji is a photo with Professor Shivji. 15.

Professor Issa Shivji said that apart from me, he is like my brothers and all of us are believers of the philosophy of some of the African countries and we will defend him through the issue of importance of joining the African continent.
Listen to us what we believe that when we know the community we are supposed to recognize them, because by doing so, we can be able to look for human rights of this world.
Shivji said the is the chairperson of the Tanzania Media Council (MCT) and is also the chairperson of Mwalimu Nyerere Hall in the University of Dar es Salaam, is a person who is inside and out of the country for its contributions professionally, "he wrote a lot and said much about the constitutional issues including the issue of United Republic of Tanzania.
In the past four years, I wrote a book called "Pan African Continent or Yakamatwa kwa makosa ya Chai, Zanzibar Coastal Union." The content of the book was to look at what happened to Zanzibar Islands and Zanzibar and the training we want to learn from that union.
Last week Shivji participated in the debate that was done in Dar es Salaam for the position of media houses in the union while on that debate that he explained and claimed that he represented the Union of Statistics and claimed that he ran into the stage and to explain his position in the article that he wrote on that newspaper that he wrote on that newspaper.
Or I have been explained very much and that he said in the debate and he wrote on the article I was surprised because some of his statements are not happy because she doesn't know how his real stand about the union - this year or the one that she doesn't know about his real stand about the union.
Those before the day before yesterday the day before yesterday the day before yesterday that he wrote on the legality of the union in that country, it wrote that Tanzania would have been a free court then the constitution of the United Republic should be canceled if the issue of doing so could be taken to that court.
Shivji was a reason for a question and because it's possible that the constitution started as a constitutional constitution and he was done by one person, that is the president of Tanzania without even accompanied by the Revolutionary Party (CCM) contrary to the procedure that was accepted by the Revolutionary Party.
The procedure that was accepted is that the Tanganyika constitution will be used to be the constitution for a period of one year and that the permanent constitution will be supported by the special council of making a constitution that will have a large number of representatives of Zanzibar and Tanganyika.
Therefore, it did not benefit us but instead the party was having the constitution of the United Republic, maybe that is why Professor Shivji said in his book that the free court could not run away from the current constitution of Tanzania.
What is looking at the brain to see Professor Shivji said the front line to be the lawyer, a vibrant lawyer, and became a member of the people living in Tanzania Mainland, therefore, he says that they will have a lot of challenges because when he would have gone against them because he would have been expelled and so he would have stolen their properties and being sacked from the mainland?
There are two two things that Professor Shivji said that there is the first commandment where we believe that these days there are rule of law in all the two parts of the United Republic of Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar.
At the same time you have noticed that Tanzanians are still having a lot of resources in Zanzibar.
For example, they are the ones that make approximately all the banks in Zanzibar though the People's Bank of Zanzibar.
Likewise, they use a lot of health insurance and motorcycles which are in Zanzibar, in the neighborhood and farms where there are a three acres of land disputes and the government of Zanzibar and there are some who do work in Zanzibar especially in the tourism sector and there are hundreds of small businesses from Tanzania mainland.
Shivji continued to assure you of all of us by writing on his last article last week that, "we are not being involved in the border between our country's side and we will not be fair through it and it does not have a solution to whether it is close to the people that are done by the people of Zanzibar.
In addition, his statement that the union has brought economic development to all two sides, and that crossing over citizens, they will get a lesson as a joke to them, our economic condition and the system we have to be dependent.
A question that does not be asked include, the citizens who benefited from the union?
It's an indication that many people with their work in looking for livelihood or are few traders and those who receive it due to the rule of administration?
And not it is not right to say that if he was told Professor Shivji said the existence of the union to help them get connected to the two sides of the United Republic of Zanzibar due to the presence of a union in a period of 48 years ago.
Secondly, the truth of issues is that Tanganyika and the Zanzibar islands was not connected although there is one currency and a system of payment of tax and tax.
When visiting the Zanzibar market, we will see that there are many products from China and even the southern highlands like this continent and there is no good business that is being done between him and Zanzibar.
Approximately two sides of two sides involves foreign business, for example, chicken here in Zanzibar are from Brazil, milk from Brazil, coffee comes from Kenya, although Tanzania mainland is a nation of transporting gas and tea time.
Shivji said we change the structure of leadership by putting up one president and another one among them, one of them was coming from Tanzania Mainland and another one who will be given to Zanzibar with the constitution or justice which are given to Zanzibar with all the best constitution of Tanzania and Zanzibar?
We should follow all the rights according to the law that are concerned with the whole process of looking for a new constitution of Tanzania and the guide given by Judge Joseph Warioba that citizens have the right to give any recommendations to what we believe in, we should listen to who Mrs Shivji.
For sure those who want the union of the agreement is not giving an indication that they want to break the union.
When they are saying it is an alternative system of the union, a system that will be an attraction to attract other African countries to support him in the heart of an African continent.
About this topic Professor Shivji said the mistake is claiming that one party in Zanzibar does not plan the CUF party (CUF) "Masau boasted.
This is a shame for the fact that all the universities in Zanzibar is known as CCM has a stand of wanting the current government system to be discussed but to be avoided if the CUF has a stand of wanting to involve the three government.
The aim of wanting the union of the agreement is an issue that is pumped by the citizens in general without caring about their party's stand, but it is not true that those who serve the union of the agreement did not explain anything.
Another surprising thing that said Shivji is that those who want the union of contract have a secret agenda, but how can it be secret, though the whole exercise to coordinate the views of people of Zanzibar and the ones that are ongoing with transparency and calmness?
Let it mean that until now many of the citizens of Zanzibar have been giving the views to select the alternative system of the union of wanting to be a union of the contract after seeing the effects that got their country especially in the economic and social welfare.
Without doubt, Professor Shivji said the use of Zanzibar did not hesitate to see that she does not have a problem with Zanzibar, but because he is praised by getting his analysis of the analysis of the profession that we should not expect that he will continue getting justice to this issue as it was in his behavior.
Or I am visiting Professor Shivji said the issue should have read this issue because I will read again with his book keenly, but on how he changed his views, what I hope is to get married and to recognize her 'book.
