Simba Unguja and Yanga.
May 16, 2013.

The champions of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League this season, Yanga have been seen to return to their home after signing up for a long period as they did not have camp in preparation of the competition with their opponent, Simba, in the first match in May 18, this year.
Previously, Simba scored first in Unguja's camp last week in accordance with the team's spokesperson, Ezekiel Kamwaga, Simba have put in Ugunja camp in a convoy of 35 people, among them players were 25 and 10 leaders including three coaches including three coaches.
As a result of that act that is being maintained in the city, Yanga elders led by their secretary, Mzee Ibrahim Akilimali, who released the journalists and handed over their rivals for a step of putting up camp in Zanzibar and claimed that they are inspiring.
"That is sharp teeth.
Yanga's spokesman, Baraka Kizuguto who is in Pemba where that club has stopped him, he has openly stated that the elders have come from that, but many times the last referee is a coach.
"It is true that the elders said the team will not be released outside the city, but at the time they came to the case it's true that the team had set up a club, but remember Yanga we have the procedure of putting up camp every match, therefore, it is not true we will come to Pemba.
However, the last referee is the issue of a team to set up a camp which is in the hands of Coach Claudio Ranieri, because he has seen it is a good place, there is a good place of an accident, therefore the team is well prepared to deal with the match against Simba, "said Gerrard.
On his part, Simba's spokesperson, Kamwaga said, "Yanga should stop the words they should wait on the 18th of July, the game will become a gift for three goals, but they have forgotten that this season have never been questioned by Simba who have a history of winning three consecutive games!"
Responding to the issues of Kamwaga, Kizuguto, said that Yanga we have never played many goals, it is a thing that we have won four goals once, the match between JKT Ruvu will win four goals in the African Lyon match against four goals.
"We promise to have a animal, on the 18th of May, although there is a saying that there is a saying that many goals some of them last season when they scored the number of goals, they did not say if they wait and let's wait for it.
