
The new secret of corruption the Central Bank was rumored by May 31, 2012.

The document showing secret of corruption in the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT) have been found, showed that, a big part of the suspects who were brought to the court resulted from the changes made by the former Governor, Doctor.
Idris Eliona.
According to the document and details from some of the workers from BoT, the changes were involved in a new team which the big part is that they have been involved in corruption cases.
Some of the workers from BoT who talked to our citizens at different times this week, have said that many events of corruption started in place just after the year 1994, a period in which the new team of Doctor Fauzia Kullane.
"For all the time who were in work we were shocked as a result of business people and politicians who now we ask ourselves as if you will see their relationship with the new team was very big and even the wealth and their popularity started," explains the retired from BoT in a good unit.
Among those who were put in the new team of Doctor Abdu Bonge being announced officially on December 22, 1993, together with the former Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance, Gray Mgonja, who before the treasury at the Ministry of Finance.
Mgonja has said that the two ministers, Basil Mramba and Daniel Yona Afrika, have closed down the mistake of disrupting peace where it was alleged to have lost their positions to destroy the government by refusing to pay taxes, the verification of the mining licenses in Alex Witselfor.
Others who were seen in the new team of Doctor Abdu Hyghaimo, who together with his colleagues has been seen in the case of theft of money from the foreign accounts (EPA).
In that list of the team, Doctor Fauzia Kullane, who later got to change the unit and at the moment is one of the suspects in a case to uplift the economy that are accused of involvement in the remaining buildings of that bank.
Another case that is the former officer in the new team of Doctor.
Mchwaa will understand that regarding the tender application, the one that brought him from BoT in a loss of 104 shillings, the audience did to be in a new team together with another suspect in the country.
Apart from those who died, some of the people who at the moment have been mentioned as witnesses in the EPA case and said that the list can increase or even witnesses were put in accordance with the continuation of investigation and investigation.
Those witnesses who have been caused by the new team of Doctor Fauzia Kullane, Peter NHO, Peter Nicrox, who are saying that they are faithful and some being mentioned to have relations and suspects of corruption.
Officials who spoke to Good Citizen on condition of not being mentioned names because of security reasons, they said that together with the existence of clean directors, they said together with the existence of clean executives who had been involved in the new team of Doctor Abdu Hyghaimo, there were special strategies of business people and politicians who had a special goals in BoT.
Doctor Assemblies of BoT taking the position that was left open by the late Sajilo, who was the governor between the year 1989, up to 1993, he passed away.
