Today I love her daughters here and remember that you want to speak it is an agreement between them.
My name wants.
And let us start keenly I am called Stella.
Some of the daughters, that is due to a big margin and that is due to that many daughters don't like to see the other things that he will succeed in that is its causing them to agree with me when you see your colleague has succeeded.
Give birth to you more.
Why is it is called on things like my view, I agree in our place, that you know you.
We do not lie to be an example of work, maybe when I found her daughter's boss, there should be my friend and then I believe it does not agree with my work and then I am not able to control this work and then I don't have a lot of work and then I don't know what we will agree in one side.
Or another because there is a woman that love you so much to help their colleagues, you find the girl who wants to be assisted and she does not depend on a relationship because you can't understand the girl whether she is better than your partner.
This is a very close person even when I got to you, that is the other you want to do anything that you find a very difficult time.
He has been a manager of all her daughters here they are talking that he decided not to be in a good view.
Hayatou is doing so that for the reason you ask ourselves, we don't know and we are not aware if we don't know if we don't know if we have never been able to get married and we cannot get pregnant in our hearts.
For names I have been called now, the girls we have never been infected with a habit, what we have never been infected with it even if he is a big leader but I think it is only a woman but I think it is only a woman.
To know the truth this, we request that you to get married and we are to give birth to her stomach or remember them?
When the late God bless you, there are some of the field who will remain, that we have resigned, is why you believe that a big percentage is seen to women.
Or those girls that love their daughters, but in a very long time.
It is that we themselves and we have also given the ability to recognize the state house we have and we saw it, then it is the first people to be able to communicate with boys or the men when they feel.
If the girls themselves don't like, Kenneth Kaunda, I don't see a shame, this that we have is not so bad, even to your mother to work hard.
Your daughters Wasagaji, I want to know if they have agreed with words of now but in life, you will also get you.
What are the dangers that is not a result of their daughters themselves because they did not recognize that, I didn't request that, I don't request it, I have not asked you and not true that we have never been able to do.
Because we cannot buy many percent of women we don't know what he will do not true.
There are some people that do not live well and we are partnering well by Ommy I don't see what we have done here in the world without stopping the God not to kill him from heaven so much why I don't agree with them completely.
Because he said that this is not true but it is not true but that habit will come out because of follow the groups that we have or a clean environment.
Therefore, and this is not good to follow up and start living a life alone, we have been able to live hard and eat it very much, but not knowing you just to me.
In a large extent, he said it's impossible because we are doing this things, we do not meet with our colleague you know that their child is supposed to know what he is doing.
The environment.
Yesterday in the city of that, we would like to say that when we see our sister, our mother don't like you, the school is going to ask for his boss at any time when he told his boss.
Because I have no even work hard to see you know what this person has not want to do I get to me.
Or you have you told someone else that there is work here, I finished there.
By me when I get five.
How will I go back to be a person until a must you have.
To see that you know the environment that is being implemented by the ones.
When we want to come from the generation and the generation and this generation, we are doing here like our government, we can make it more changes and more.
It will remove all the ones that are there and it is happening and that is why you feel that there should be pregnant women are causing or they start but also.
In the groups that don't know themselves so as to start a certain issue but it's not first done by us.
Although you're doing something together you're joining with but it is the first to also do even if it's started.
Examples are there.
Where is inside us, I would like to refuse to refuse.
That is my view as my view, it's my view that it is not easy to believe that he does not know why they believe it is possible for you to start doing well from this generation.
To do changes.
And we will depend on you, it is still going to come to the case where we are saying here at the radio, then the radio is high and high.
Has changed it and even our children after a period is to me what should they continue to listen to their daughters here they talk about it, there are many effects there.
A girl is found.
They did not exercised.
On my part I want to see that the police need her.
We do not have a solution to believe that the liberation of a woman cannot be brought by a woman because it is not women?
We did not have good communication now, we believe we are looking for the liberation of a woman we have said.
What is a woman who will do?
It becomes a difference, you find the people that are helping as to bring our liberation.
It's not themselves that it's the reason for bringing peace but due to things we do not, it is not on the end of him, you find the one that we don't think that we are continuing to be under all the days of doing it is that we love us.
When the stomach do not lie?
Because I was surprised to know the hatred that I wrote.
My dear wife I will see that I am the one when I am, what is why it will help even if it has been prepared for my life.
Love will you go round with your colleague.
An outbreak of her daughter wherever you are at home can be at home for you to be in school or your place of work to recognize that it is difficult to get the daughter of the girl and this is.
The development would like to come as a not less in our colleagues.
They were discussing.
Hayatou, I don't have additional information in this section, my name is gold.
