
Monday, January 07, 2013.

When I met with blog of human resource, "Swahili is a sign of my African continent."

The following are my interview with Navy Kenzo Group, together with other things, the issue of African language and the position of blogging in these days.

It started to write here in the year 2005.

I remember when I was a student, I was looking for a good example of the famous writer, popularly known as hanjo, (who is now the editor of Global Partnership in South Sahara Desert.

He is the first blogger in Swahili and it is true I was impressed by his type of journalism, the discussion that he was running on his blog as well as the good use of the language.

My blog that I have seen as a good opportunity and a easy opportunity to discuss issues that concern them in terms of understanding and science and that it was very easy to get a platform of exchange ideas with people without any hindrance that will also be forced to meet them.

Not only I educate you like I who we think, but I am educated about my readers, this issue is difficult through the newspapers and other media stations because the freedom of saying this one do not think about what was important to start blogging in the year 2005, when I was a student.

For now, there is still a efforts to organize my program well so that I am able to participate in more success.

You like to say that you are a lover of Swahili this language, what does it mean?

Swahili is my language, I take it as a gift of God to me and my community. I commend him as the introduction of my culture.

You know we have bad luck, we are Africa we have not care about our things each other and me this is an opportunity to present my thoughts in my community, then I will be able to explain a certain understanding to Swahili, then I will end if I will not understand if I will not understand.

Swahili is embarrassing for education and it's why I believe that among those who believe that among the big problems that faces the education system in my country, a period of 3949 are the decision to use the foreign languages to join our students.

In addition to its shortages, Swahili would be able to help in increasing the understanding of our students from the low level up to the University. It is possible even if we are a type of people not like to inform you and insisted that the people who do not like us like our like us.

Do you talk other language, but Swahili?

Yes, I am talking to you, this is a language of my mother and he has been with efforts to ensure we are communicating with this language as an aim of our small community to prevent them, the host of our country's economy.

At the same time I have talked to English because I know it has been the old man of books and I am a great lover to read it but I am not proud of it.

If a blogger is how you come about the importance of using African language?

The internet network has been a technical bench and if we use Swahili we will also help to save our language and give an opportunity to be an important source in the community of their Swahili language.

It is very important for us to use the network to use this internet, we will contribute to the use of technology in our community because our people will not have to know foreign languages so as to learn and grow the internet.

This world depends on it and it will be a shame for our language with millions of people to miss a chance to be paid on the internet and one day when we found it in the group of languages that are avoided.

Each one of us contributes to a problem and this is the reason I decided to participate in the Swahili and media project by using my own language, I know I have any foreign language to get knowledge and those information on their language.

Do you have a message of sending to our readers?

There is no great honor like to know your origin, I call on Tanzanians to understand and appreciate our culture and among the illustrations that we believe in the way what we use and grow our language was not born.

When you read this real article on your blog, Christian Bella, or his soul in the language of English, Christian Bella of 'Swahili is a commandment of my heart.

It has been written.

Christian Bella.
