
On April 7, this year, Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philipo Mpango presented proposals for the direction of the budget for the financial year 2016 / 17 where he said in that period the government intends to use 539 trillion shillings.
In that budget, 1 trillion shillings worth 798 shillings will benefit from the internal revenue, where among them 10,000 shillings 15105 is the collection of Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA).
Of those funds, 2693 trillion shillings will benefit from non-income revenue, while 665415 billion will benefit from the income of the council.
According to Doctor Mpango the government is intending to be given loans with affordable terms from various countries that contribute to government budget (GBS) of 36 trillion shillings.
It is also used to use 775 trillion shillings for the purpose of internal and foreign loans with a business conditions, 5374 shillings will benefit from within and 2trillion shillings which will benefit from the loans of outside (C).
Mtanzania has talked with some of the policy analysis of economy, stakeholders together with citizens to get their views on the direction of the government's budget for the financial year 2016 / 17.
Professor Ngowi.
The growth of the economy and the lecturer of the University of Mzumbe, Professor Ignas Rubaratuka, says the step by the government to plan that budget is depending on the tax collection is a good aim but the challenge is in the way to get those funds.
"The aim is to be good but the way to receive that money is the same challenge, it is an issue to read it in details because citizens who protect taxes are very few, most of them are needed so as to reach the goal," says Professor Ngowi.
He says the scope of collection of taxes is still important and that it is a must for the collection of revenue to be used for justice.
"Many areas we collect taxes in buildings, although there is a challenge that most of the owners despite collecting tax tax is not supposed to go in a easy way to think about tax standards and that is why I am saying the need to affect the rights and transparency," he says.
Professor Moshi.
On his part, the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) and the expert of economic issues, Professor Humprey in Moshi, says that the direction of the budget is the expectations, and it caused them to be implemented in actions.
"I hope that will be done in different actions and in the past government, this government shows that it is prepared to implement more actions," says Professor Moshi.
He says for a long time he has been asked for the government together with his colleagues that they had gone through the development budget but they were not treated.
"Different from the past phase, the fifth phase has added a development budget to reach 40 percent, therefore, they will give her own and be open that we will get the development that we will continue," he says.
He is saying that although the government aims to reduce dependency soon but for now, it is still leading to at least one year.
However, he says that the issue of the increase in national debt is not a good thing and he advised the government to make sure that those banks and those of the bank had planned to go to get the loans.
He says that the government is supposed to look at its use and removing those that are not a must to save money and taking them to development.
"We have organized the direction of the budget is same but when it comes to the issue of implementation of this budget, it is a disease that is growing up because the government intends to ensure the funds that are being requested by the ministries are going on as required by parliament," he says.
