
Or listening to the HIV infection, by human rights.

Rashid Mkonga.

And, Rashid Mkinda, Mbozi.

At the time women see some of the witch doctors to look for drugs for the purpose of getting children, that claimed that they are playing for, by doing such acts that happened to one girl who was recognized by the name Esther decided to give her a three months old child in a hole that is used by intention of killing him.

The brutal incident happened at the end of the week at the Junction center which is in Mbozi district where the girl urged the soul of that brutal act and decided to implement the violence without even the soul of Jesus.

As it is not enough that the girl person estimated to be 15 years old had gone back to the cotton and decided to destroy the center inside a hole and moved to them.

The voice of cry for the child as they echoed the air without being given any donation where finally his stove is heard until by good Samaritans who are the users of that attack.

One of the artists who introduced himself by the name Mbesa, Kitogo, said that the incident happened at a time at night of 8 o'clock in the afternoon when it came to him to tell him that inside the neighborhood, there is a voice for a child.

He said the neighbors arrived at the scene of the incident and decided to destroy the toilet so as to bring him a foolish thing in which for a long time the body started being surrounded by deception.

Those who missed that toilet with great joy about the child, where the owner of the accident who identified himself as OAFRI, has made a report to the chairman of the area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a report to the president of that area, Ephraimu Mwasanguti said that they did a

He said that they arrested the child at the Mbozi district hospital that is in Mbozi district where he was given the first service whereby in some of his body parts, he started being reduced by an ancient attack, but therefore succeeded to give them treatment and then allowed the mother that took the bond of bringing up.

In addition to another friend of that child who introduced himself as an officer of the community development of the Mbozi district, Philbert Mwinuka has said that her daughter is the one with the child and that she is unable to understand why he didn't understand what's child because he was pregnant without being welcomed by a person.

He said that just after getting pregnant, he gets into the pregnancy as she was alive; until when he gave birth to July, where the child was going on well.

He clarified that before signing up the child where his daughter was chased away by her mother and told him to be his father when he arrived at home and saw her mother and even so on the incident he did not know if his child can decide to do that cause of that type.

Speaking about the fate of that incident, the Chairperson of the government of a paved road in Ighombwe Village, where that was when the incident happened to a police station where even so the girl is unknown until now.

The son of that child, Mister Adria said that he doesn't know about his daughter and that they are doing the procedure to take his child from by good Samaritans who make it care immediately after that incident.
