Mkwasa has sent greetings.
Sei, 10, 2015.

If it was among the viewers on Saturday last week at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam city to witness the game of Tanzania's national team "Taifa Stars" against Nigeria will join and believe that, the coach of the squad, Boniface Mkwasa has said that he has improved since he was handed the team.
The level that they got by Taifa Stars will give an opportunity to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), who all times have been doing foreign coaches who believe that even young people are able to work.
For a recent years, the leaders of TFF, they were seen to have faith in the local coaches and employ coaches from outside the country who even so they did not have any more contribution of being paid well and later to leave and leave our soccer come back.
The last time the patriotism coach for the national team was to Mshindo here who was being taken by the Brazilian, Marcio Maximo, later the was the team after Tanzanians wanted the changes to return to the local teams where TFF did not see if it was a primary thing.
Mkwasa has been handed the team to be handed the team for two months ago he has played two games in the first match against Uganda which was the first game to qualify for the African Union for internal players (CHAUMA) and in a draw of 1-1 away, the second one is this squad which had a draw of nil draw.
Apart from getting victory in the day before yesterday against Nigeria, but the ability of the team seems to be compared to the previously.
There is a need to accept any kind of results for this period of transition, but by checking the level that is done if it has additional new knowledge different from earlier.
Soccer game is not only to qualify for players who are doing well for now, they started preparing to prepare for a long time, something that is expected to take place for now.
Here there is a lot to learn more so as to let the local artists but also to give them enough cooperation in order to implement their responsibilities as required.
Mkwasa together with his assistant, Hemed Morocco has shown that they are coaches who have the ability to restore soccer in this country at the peak of success.
In addition to all that, we must know that the journey to reach the success is still a long time we need to plan and ensure the goals are needed because of sustainable plans, but also plans of coaches should be known as required.
We shall still love their national team and that is why the day before yesterday came out to cheer their national stadium against Nigeria.
Mkwasa has begun to change his team, has contested for many youths who have never been given a chance in a big match like that one and others did not have been called in that squad and those who passed away.
That coach who decided to get blame, but at the end of every day, everyone will know Mkwasa had a good intention after the game ended with a draw of 0-0, while Stars showing the standard.
That shows how Mkwasa is with the intention to change the team, it is clear that Stars has been planned in a difficult group that has the Cemetery, Egypt and Nigeria at the African Cup tournament that will take place in Gabon 2017.
In the normal state, Mkwasa is not supposed to think that, instead it will continue to give knowledge to his youth, while he is preparing to have a better squad for the coming years.
This means that from now he is supposed to be given a long time, a situation that will make him have sustainable and long-term plans of weaving the squad.
It is a time for TFF to continue destroying the headlines and look for sponsors for the purpose of building a national team and as such as there is no one who wanted to invest a place where there will be successful.
That is why one of the statements by the Kilimanjaro Premium Larger festival, Pamela Kikuli, she is impressed by the Stars of Stars explaining that doing well in that team there is giving their good reputation as sponsors.
Stars went on Turkey to set up a one week camp and after going back to the way they were found with Stamina, Nigeria is one of the biggest teams in Africa but Stars have been able to be treated.
What is required to take place now is Mkwasa in his first bench to prepare and look at how they can get victory in the repeat game, something that is possible.
