
URP to start preparing for votes.
The Deputy President, William Ruto, has said that his United Republican Party (URP), that is inside the Jubilee Hall in the next year will put her strategies in preparation of the 2017 general elections.
Without giving more information about his personal intention or his party to be in the biggest authority in the government, the Deputy President Kikwete revealed that, URP party will announce that it was heading to the end of 2015 during the launch of the next general election.
"We have a plan of the parties located inside the Jubilee Hall," he said. "We had promised to put better education for the first two years so that the government can work in order to implement its responsibilities without problems in order to fulfill our promises in the community.
"From the next year, we will now have the ability to think about how to build a party for the 2017 elections." The party has been depending on the end of the next year and the beginning of 2016, "the party has been depending on a lot of joy especially after some of its members led by the destruction of government's stand and support the decision of the decision to respect the constitution.
In the unique interview with the nation on Sunday at his home, Elkana, the deputy president said he did not have any personal difference between him and the leader of Cornell universities, Mister Raila Odinga, and that he is writing a lot about the former President Daniel Sturridge and that he knows the former President Daniel Belair (MOI).
Mister Ruto, who was a veteran politician, Nwankwo Kanu has been supervised by MOI and according to one of the former secretary general of Nwankwo Kanu, he said he wants to respect the former leader because he attracted a lot and Literature in his dream of being a politician.
"Mzee MOI is our father in many ways," said Mister Ruto, who was the assistant minister in the government of MOI in the year 2002.
"We are his political children, we do work under him together with him and in his recent days, which is the respect to him, which he contributed to a good time," said Mister Ruto.
Mister Ruto, similarly, he was a close friend to the head of Cord Raila Odinga during the 2007 general elections before those two from Mister Netanyahu joined President Kenyatta, in the last year's elections.
Deputy President emphasized that, there was no personal difference between him and Mister Odinga.
"I have no different types of personal and Mister Odinga, who many do not know as Agenda.
Our differences are political and we know that we are in different parties and we are following the different ways of politics, "said Mister Ruto.
"We was participating together like the Kenyans, and if the leaders have one country known as Kenya, it is why we have the responsibility of forcing him without considering the place where we are political, inside the government or the opposition side," he insisted that there is a tough competition between him and Senator of Barbosa from MOI to listen to who is faced with a huge conflict in tribe.
