
Fans are important to give a team to change.
Lack of enough fans in the Coastal Region and other parts of Kenya affect the soccer situation in those clubs.
Soccer fans are expecting a great responsibility to pray for their teams that they did to get victory.
Ali Omar who was a big fan of AlRazkazon FC of Malindi, says that for the team doing well in the competitions of cups and league, it is a must for a big fans to cheer them.
Omar says fans are important in all the games because it does not make the development of the team and players are supposed to be dealt with and given within well.
The Jaguar type is one of the big fans that have ever done responsibilities of improving the state of development of the club that supports Alonso minute, which was started to reach the level of playing in the Kenya Premier League in the year 1980.
Omar was one of the fan that supports the team of Razkazon FC, which brought a big step of development.
He said that it is an expert of leaders and players that showed that it caused him to be buried.
Apart from being a big fan of Alikiba's FC, Omar asked to help in different ways to ensure that his team is making a step to win all the competitions that were participating in and especially in matches involving their old rivals, Star TV Online, which has also died.
The fan had a special group of followers to cheer Alonso minute, during their match, a group that was suffering from that team even in the away matches.
Omar says that the big problem in the Coast Club were unable to make development steps or to be permanent, it is conflicts of fighting for the leadership of the club that are doing well.
"The time when the club is at the peak of playing in the premier league, that is what happens every kind and especially the people wanting them to be seen, they can lead the club and forget that there are those who helped the club to rise from several things," he said.
While giving various examples, the veteran says that the torch of Mwenge (Liverpool) and Feisal which were popular in Pwani province, were affected all over the country and East Africa, but they died from people to fight for power.
I think about the way of a business person in Mombasa, Albert Manifester which he bought at the Mwenge club when it was revealed at the level and being in the province of Mombasa and took the regional league but it's close to playing the premier league, he started a fight.
He says that the ones that wanted to make sure that the business person seems to know that the business person seems to be given, it will help the players for their important needs including visiting the equipment for playing for.
"The great desire was to take him to power so that they can get better benefits that the team is in the top league, will get money," he said.
He accused the death of his club Alonso minute, saying there are special people who helped the team to make a big step but just after getting into the premier league, there were others who were shocked.
He said that it has come at a time for the winners of the football game in Pwani province that come out and managed to make sure that their Tanzania Port club is doing well in the premier league in the year 2015 and not to play for the purpose of continuing to remain in the league.
By Abdulrahman Kinana.
