
27th December 2012

More strength are needed to eradicate terrorism.

By Bashir Yakub.

Malaria is a disease that is leading by killing many people in the world especially children under the age of five in addition to pregnant women.
Statistics of the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF), show that in every 30 minutes, one child dies with this disease in the world.

In the African Continent, it is said that, 350 million people are suffering from this disease, where those who die is more than one million people every year, a situation that contributes to the main level to return to the strength of many countries in that continent.

In the country, 11 million people have been mentioned suffering from malaria, and something sad, more than 38,000 people lost their lives every year due to suffering from this disease.

By acknowledging this problem, the government through the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, has decided to start the fight against that disease with an aim of helping its citizens.

Among the strategies that have been taken by the government against this fight is together with providing insecticide nets in every citizen through her campaign 'malaria is not allowed, "Zekij and cooperate in getting malaria disease.

In this campaign which was launched by President Jakaya Kikwete, February 13, 2010, at Leaders Club's grounds in Dar es Salaam, it was aimed at every citizen to participate in fighting with this disease without caring for religion or political ideology.

"For every time that goes more than 10 people who died from malaria, these are very few people because malaria is a big disaster in our nation, but this is a disease that can be avoided," said during that launch.

The ministry also contributes a length of 4200,000 dollars because of the pregnant women and 1,70,081 tons for the purpose of children under the age of 18.

However, together with the government's efforts, there are several challenges including some of the citizens to decide the use of mosquito nets and use them contrary to the expectations that can cause the fight to be sustainable and with success in the country.

Example in Geita region in Geita province, Kagera Province and Mwanza provinces in Ukerewe Town, some citizens have been using insecticide nets in the lake regions so as to protect yourself so that they can be used to you, it's not true and some of them don't have lost or get married.

As a result of this situation, some of the people including various activists, have shown a result of that step that is being done by some of the citizens in various areas of the country as required to return behind this fight.

Close to mobilize the resident of Geita town, says that many people do not know the real use of mosquito nets is why they use them, education of the community has not been given enough training about the correct use of mosquito nets and what we see them here in Geita City. "

"The use of breast cancer and then are used as stew into the citizens, can be dangerous because a mosquito nets are drug abuse, but can be able to have effects on malaria users or the fish that you don't know here," he says.

He said, some of the people are using abusive language as a system because they have money to buy, while unable to rise up on a mosquito like the boreholes that are present at the residence of people and pain that would be able to be for an example of those mosquito.

Another resident, Duva company, in Geita City, says, "these motorbikes have been directed to prevent malaria infections to the citizens especially those who are pregnant women and children, and these motorbikes have been destroyed, so as to bring effects to the users that we did not know."

John Magato who is the chairman of the health committee, education and environment in the council of councilors of Geita District Council, says education is the only obstacle to this fight because it has not been released as required by the citizens in the country about the correct use of mosquito nets.

She knows that those acts are true and they were done by some of their districts in Geita and outside the district, while others see him that they come from poverty, something that is not true.

"The government has lost a lot of money to buy a mosquito bite, but a few people with an aim of delaying it start using them to use it, to prevent us from our citizens so as to stop these actions," he says.

The fishing officer of the Geita Zelothe Steven Mery, says that during the operation of illegal immigrants in Mwalo'clock in the village of Mkonkole area in that district, he has taken out some of them with mosquito nets which were using fish in the lake regions.

"I have arrested three fishermen in a mosquito nets which were using fish, this is a big offence because they are causing conflicts in fish, but also they use the fish that are not supposed to be postponed," he says.

The coordinator of malaria project from the non-governmental organization Scientific Cultural Organization (TELC), Musa Mugenda, says that the fight against that disease in the country have been destroyed by many issues including abusive culture on some of the citizens.

"Some of the people have faith that mosquito nets are forced to ask questions, because they are no help, what they do not use for the intended purposes and instead they are using water catchment areas," he says.

He says that another problem that contribute to the existence of use that is contrary to the citizens living in rural areas, lack of different beds and how it has met the needs of a shortage of beds.

"Another reason is that citizens for example every family being given five hundred thousand shillings, they think that the government will be providing every year, so they see them is a situation that causes now to use bad things like this, this is due to Tanzanians not to care about the things that are set free," says this coordinator.

Speaking about this situation the malaria coordinator in Geita district, Draught and Jorendal has said, "it is a mistake because they have been made as a result of manslaughter, but these use that they use differences can cause effects to human beings but are used as required to reduce challenges and prevent it to a large extent," he said.


He says, statistics show that in the year 2011 there were deaths of children who were issued with more than 125 million people, but in the period of starting from February to October this year, we had 38,907 patients who graduated from malaria which were killed.

"Now if you know you, you will inform you that they have shown a reduction as a result of a mosquito nets together with man's uses of drugs in their homes," he says.

The one who knows the effects that can come out to the citizens by using abusive language as well as well as problems in the kidney, be lit so much and if they were in the diarrhea disease if they can use a big loss.

On his part, the head of Geita District, Manzee, Mangele says that those acts are contributing to return the objectives of the government to fight with that disease.

"It is unacceptable, they are supposed to know that it's a shame to use a mosquito bite of the farmers and fished together, the government decided to encourage the use of mosquito nets in order to save the lives of citizens and not those so, I have ordered the police force to take action against all those who go against this behavior, is required to be left immediately," he says.

He wanted the citizens and the activists of health issues, to come out with all people that sell the mosquito nets as taken by the government in their private activities so that they can be shown.

Health experts say that more success have begun to come out in groups of pregnant women and children under the age of five, which are the biggest percentage in suffering from the disease and eventually lost life.
