
The bible on the press about the attempt was captured.
The leaders of churches, they collided with the news headlines for your soul.
Pasilida Bandari and Cromer, the Lord's home Hebdo magazine, Nairobi, was rumored by being involved with corruption that was was known as planting seeds.
The spider plant that was done by collecting taxes followed it was collecting millions of money from people to pray for.
After looking at the end, the director of public funds, Mister Edom Mwansansu said, ordered "Pasilida Bandari and Arjen Robben.
Mister Rwegashora told the journalists about the arrest of the police after the public came out about its plans of preaching and growing up so as to attract people to fulfill the sacrifice of M-money.
Following the arrest of that appointment, Betty Mkwasa has said that he is an gospel musician, he gives him a letter after releasing his video being done for people to come out due to his request.
Through the money that he takes, Pasilida Bandari and Zakenda, the pastor leading in the television and radio, was living a luxurious home.
Etihad's television witnessed an agreement with his home in his home, saying that his people have not seen their phones from their homes so that he can vie for him in different problems.
It was said that he was collecting 500,000 shillings per day because he had the ability to remove different diseases including AIDS and solve the problems which people are.
Pasquino has claimed that he is going to speak with God and that his running mate, "it was not true.
But the police said they could be arrested because there was no one who complained.
The police of the Parade station that is in charge of the area where the mistakes is claimed to take place said they did not receive a letter from where there is need for investigations.
After they are in the neighborhood to be looked into, the number of believers in his church involve us against a few people who arrived to the church this Sunday.
However, he was talking to continue to urge all believers.
While giving his call on wanting people to give out the money that we are getting, Pasilida Bandari and Meek Mill said that people give birth to power and he will not stop mistakes because they are not living.
He urged the believers to use the popularity of the video that it gets a lot saying that it was bought in large numbers but he told them that they sell him.
By Antoine Griezmann.
