
19th December 2012

We need more explanation of statistics of development in the country.

The leaders and some of the citizens, are using great strength to talk about development by cutting them and increase in statistics of economic growth, luxurious houses and road accidents.
In the years of 1980, the funds have made great efforts to encourage development and increase donations to poor countries.

Basically the efforts are not yet to bear fruit due to the fact that, those organizations have forgotten that they are looking for a way to our economy, but it is a way to make sure that our economy is not less than for development, but it's not a correct way or not the correct way.

The nation can have a big domestic product but its citizens are suffering from diseases, hunger and the conflicts that it cannot find someone living in luxurious houses and visit the vehicle but he does not knowledge on the head.

Another country can have good statistics of growth in the economy, but its citizens have died from suffering from diseases.

The truth is that there is no human being of hunger who is able to prevent statistics of growth of economy and basically the development didn't be paid in one criterion or two.

The community is supposed to recognize that, the development issue should not be able to be looked upon in general when you contribute to statistics of the life of people, capital, community, peace and calmness, access to better community services, cooperation and agree.

Our faith is that, development is the development of the lives of people and the society is supposed to get important needs of living as good food, water, health services, accommodation and education.

There's no reason for people who requested him to vote and be proud because now we have made great progress in development when many families do not affect the important services.

We love development, are supposed to share information and encourage one another to the community so that everyone with his place, give his contribution to its development, family and nation as a whole.
