The shops in Arusha will play the head of the province.
December 11, 2014.

Business people who own big shops in the city of Arusha have complained to the provincial commissioner of Arusha, Magesa Mulongo, due to his action of enabling small business people (430 kW) to do their businesses outside their shops, against the law of the city.
In that letter of December 3, last year, the defendant was signed by the chairman of those businessmen, KitMnishi, and his secretary Hugh Penor, Jamal, they pay him about his decision of "political goals" of leaving their businesses outside their shops.
That letter explains that the decision by the provincial commissioner has aimed to meet the political requirements, he quoted saying that decision is due to what is mentioned to be "political situation not in Arusha."
"The Honorable we the business people of Arusha we have been explained by your decision of leaving (TACAIDS) to do their businesses outside our shops and the political situation is not good," it explained the first part of the letter.
Arusha is one of the regions with big political parties in the country, between the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), competition that is mentioned to have no benefits to the citizens of Arusha.

That letter is continuing to explain that the decision is not same, it will not be good for us because we have already paid taxes paid (VAT) and our colleagues are not good to enable business people, true that is the same?
Mpraised the director of the city.

In that letter, those business people have praised the director of Arusha City, Zuniga scored, for his decision and the plan that he had planned to make sure that it is good and they had decided to respect the government.
"We thank the director for your good intention to help us our cry even if it has not been seen, we have seen your efforts to be a leader," continued to be read this letter.
Those business people are explaining that before the director has not set aside the money they had given research and understand that they are charged money as payments for tax and that's why they are able to do their businesses outside the shops.
"Director, lawyer and Business Officer did a work to end up to the end of getting money and who are arrested a fine and they set a fine and they put a plan that you have (Mulongo has refused," explained the business people.
Mulongo answered Yesuu!

Responding to the claims by those business people in his talks through the phone with Raia Mwema, Mulongo confessed that he was given a letter of complaints.
"It is true I have received that letter and explained the problems of getting into their businesses in the middle areas of the city, but however, I have no doubt and the validity of those who wrote that letter said that we can also happen until today,"
Therefore, the political situation is that the political issues are still being supported and wanted to write a sin which I am not involved in the primary issue is a better way to remove those businessmen and not otherwise, "he said.
While explaining the problem of Chakwama, Mulongo said before that issue, apart from business people, as the chairman of the defense and security committee of the province, he wanted to know yourself, the office of the city has planned to solve the problem.
"In a session of the local government leaders that took place before December 2015, we asked the people of the city (the director and heads of the department) about their plan of switching off the information about the residents of the city, but their answers were only to have reduced," said Mulongo.
He said that the lawyer of the city explained that they have already organized a plan to stop using the police who will have a job to arrest the police who will have the job to arrest those businessmen.
"Here is this one we were affected by people of the city, he didn't expect the police not to get the business people and there is no judgment that is not in the country like Tanzania which is available all over the world by respect the democratic elections," explained Mulongo.
The Provincial Commissioner said Mrs Salma, as the Provincial Commissioner I told them that it is good to see that it is good to solve the problem directly and to give them off the areas of doing their businesses and transferred to the modern technology. "
"Up to now, when you talk to me, the city has not seen any plan that explains the appropriate plan of all the traders in the middle areas of the city through security ways," said Mulongo.
Mulongo said according to his long-term experience in the government, the ways of allowing small traders need to agree and not strength.
