The presidential candidate, Mizengo Pinda has died.
Seasons Hotel, 2014.

The report that the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda has said that he has a plan to vie for presidency, has caused an eruption of things after doubt in how the news came into the media.
The doubt came when the aides were mentioned to vie for presidency through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) when they came to the way and claimed that if the truth, Pinda wants to contest for that position, then the members that were sacked by the party's executive committee on claims of doing early campaigns.
The news of Pinda wanted to vie for presidency this Sunday, August 24, in different media houses here in the country, following the journey and the meetings he made in the prime minister in Mwanza province.
Pinda was alleged to have met with delegates of the general meeting of CCM from the Lake Region, where he announced his intention.
However, since the release of those reports, it's not Pinda himself or his office that gave the report of the commission and agreed about that decision, but our citizens have been informed about that decision from the reports of his office.
"Pinda has decided to be silent on that issue because he knows the aim of preventing those information and there is his private way that is dealing with that issue and the public will know it.
The first commandment prohibits you about the reports of Pinda emerged with the media at a time and one day, it's not possible for five days of one day and it's just one day and again if it comes this one.
Secondly, there are some of the story from the certificates that have been touched up to the system of writing news for example, more than one instrument has not reported that Pinda started working in the State House in the year 1974, though the time he was out of Dar.
Three, there was no efforts to get in Pinda himself or his skill to confirm whether you get this issue, he said one of the high-level officials in the office of the prime minister, who spoke with conditions of not being mentioned by the name because it is not the official spokesperson of that office.
That officer said they know that those reports have been aired from where for now he was not ready to put open the name of the person involved in that event more than saying it's a famous person. "
In another step, the sources of this newspaper have explained to be surprised by them and how the reports of Pinda wanted to vie for the presidency, as he explained him, because he is proud of having a long time, while talking to bribery actions.
"If this is true, Pinda is a vibrant mid-fielder, when he got to meet with a large group of people and he started making bribery actions and this is true" he met another source of this newspaper.
In different reports from August 24 this year, there are big four things that were not seen in some of those reports.
Those issues are about meeting with the members of CCM from the Lake Region provinces to know the State House for a long time, to work well while under the Prime Minister Edward Lowassa, more than them being a leader.
Already, some of the people said that the ones being mentioned to vie for presidency have shown not to sit down with the decision of Pinda to vie for the presidency.
In an interview with one of the biggest newspapers here in the country this week, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Benard Membe, explained about him and some of the issues in the system of leadership of his party.
While giving examples without mentioning the name, Membe said some of the leaders who participated in the sessions that gave birth to some members, the ones being mentioned to vie for the presidency, have also started coming out to vie for the positions.
Pinda is a member of the executive committee of CCM and also the ethics committee of the party, that committee that participated in the decision to suspend Commissioner Membe and his fellow members of CCM from political activities for a period of one year.
The members of CCM who were sacked are Edward Lowassa, Frederick Sumaye, Steven Wassira, William Ngeleja and January Makamba.
Some of the aides of those members, have talked with this newspaper and claimed that what was done by Pinda is same as scoring the speed of the opposition.
Here I see now, it is required to open party members that were suspended with doing those political activities because there is no reason to bring together others and then that they did the decision they started doing their colleagues.
