By garnering a lot of fees, in the beginning of water, it was a lot as a lot and it was out in large numbers and he was the Masasi, but for now, it is true that the water source has come forward.
It is not like the society and we know that we are supposed to learn through water sources.
We should learn to find out the environment that do not get bad trees and make severe pain.
To power.
The destruction of water sources want to reach a bad step because despite the poor construction, but there are citizens who complained to direct the importation of dirty water into rivers and offloading capacity for the use of human beings.
We request that we cooperate together to make water sources because their houses so that we are seen, now that is heading to clean water into the internet.
For sure it is very big effects that is why you go to these hours in the hospital.
They are using this water from this dubiety of contraception is used to each other, are used but all of them do not understand.
We urge you very happy to help as to help them to remove the pipes for these diseases, we would like to encourage the youth that we can have any water problem, you can't help them in our environment and our water work is about if you are going round in our areas.
However, there are efforts that are ongoing because of those sources, by involving the citizens of different areas in Arumeru district.
The experts of that environment will take the responsibility of managing the leadership of the environmental committee and environmental sources such as it has started working after being given education.
And we continue to protect themselves in water sources because they were destroyed many days.
And in these villages, we are saying that we will continue to be no village where it is allness.
A very big problem if you read the phones.
Look at four sources.
And a modem is headed to that because it is why I is not supposed to end in goals.
And close to small laws.
For we have taken those laws in the villages to enable the citizens of every village to her husband, to know how to save the current water.
And now the studies are at the training.
Advertise the good environment especially the committee to urge the education to see and see the villages that use water sources in the procedure, we have seen a very big issue to save the source for the current and of generations.
When we go to Dar es Salaam city, we're doing the environment here in the country being difficult about little, if today's wife does not see but due to the efforts and ideas with different stakeholders and the education that we got and from the Clinic station where we are at the field we are at this area.
There was a lot of problems because during this first time, there was a series of invasions, there are education and efforts today it is not education and it has been a great savior in ensuring that it is heading to the country because there is always the problem of water.
This is to show a community that everything is possible but we need to remove it.
And believe in us to cooperate because we can be able to succeed.
In a different time, if I don't have been running different discussions so that if I don't have a lesson for water and environment, while the resolutions of the organizing committee had already been able to supervise and implement the laws that are asked by the destruction of the environment.
The first reason you believe that it is impossible.
Do not like to talk about the water because she gets a mistake, he has said.
I was in there.
We used that decision as we stop very happy and I believe they help me they ask for someone who would like to endure what they want.
Why is it?
We want to forgive me our lovers.
While they are very good.
