Shakira has asked the member of parliament.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

In one of the opinions, William Vangimembe Lukuvi got a letter, "there are people who are born with the district, while others get their quote due to the things that they made with the others a solution.

A person like the fate of Nelson Mandela's fate, Nelson Mandela or Julius Nyerere were born in heads of people of this way happens inside and for special programs.

Others got the meaning of being unable to go and perform at the profession or responsibilities as a person known as Pingping from soccer, Pablo, Tesfamariam and Vermont Bernie Sanders, in science and Eliona.

There are some who have been big because they have a wall that I'm in, or not in the city without doubt, Shakira said that she was talking to big business people or the rich.

Queen Elizabeth without any efforts to be the queen of England Mister King Msemo and without anything that the administrator of Swaziland and the children's family of Referee has appeared to do anything to maintain their birthday in those families, there were enough tickets to make the heads.

And then there are people like the member of parliament Hazala H. Chana together with all his girlfriend, he could not recognize a politician if he can be put in the group.

He has not done like, Verdes, Pickup, and Pickup, and therefore he cannot be put in the second group when they were born in the second minute when they were born in the third group.

However, this politician is a nominated member of parliament (CCM) through special seats, member of the executive committee of CCM and also the chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on law which has participated in the process of making a new constitution of Tanzania.

So, in all levels the way the name was scored, the member of parliament Hazala Chana used to be sent to the head group in my opinion, no!

For the first time, the time I heard a member of the executive committee of CCM during the chairmanship of retired president, Benjamin Mkapa.

At the same time, Chana was a famous boy who is 30 years old but he didn't have a famous politician but if we were told it is a pursuer of the law and is among the new youths inside the party which was expected to be given great authority in the future.

Today, more than ten years since the appointment of leaving, it is open, Pinda who does not lie!

I will give these examples, according to the research that was done by the private institutions of Twaweza in this country about if the members of parliament are doing the work that he has been sent in parliament, member of parliament who was in position 124 among the members of parliament.

According to the statistics, Chana has been successful by members of parliament like Stephen Ngonyani Maji Marefu (Professor Maji Marefu), Esther Bulaya and others who had gone for a long time in parliament and education.

So as to put it similar to this member of parliament, I request to ask for one question, but there are legendary issues that you've heard of the parliament that was presented by this lawyer, a vibrant lawyer, according to his lover.

Late Amina Chihira has come at the parliament for a period of more than three years but even though he does not pollute the world (God rest his soul), encourage us to see about his motion on drug users.

Halima Mdee has come after campaigning but on the residents of Kinondoni District they know the person going against corruption in the allocation of areas in their area.

Some of you will know that I am happy, because I use this page because of this member of parliament it has been able to do recently due to how this member of parliament did to control journalists and media bill that would like to control journalists and media stations.

Something to giving thanks is that the parliament in general was proposed to protest against that bill that he wanted to have changes to some of the laws of the newspapers in the year 1974.

While the members of parliament like Peter Serukamba, Bulaya, Martha Mlata, Tundu Lissu and John Mnyika addressing the bill, Chana and his colleague, Mwigulu Nchemba (this one I will discuss it in a coming days), they were opposing that bill.

He is a member who refused to bring back and explained how the journalists will be used in polluting the people.

I have never seen or don't know any bad news about this member of parliament who could continue to say it was quoted saying that he has been accused of talking to parliament and agreed that although he has all reputation that had been denied the permit of getting into the forest of Sao Paulo Arena.
