
Journalists and stakeholders giving the draft of the new constitution.

Rashid Mkonga.

What does it mean?

The contributes from the draft of the new constitution in Chunya District, Mbeya Province have continued with the freedom of Uhuru, the laying of the gallery and be part of the bodies of the nation instead of bringing in a cost of the government by rushed to every year.

While contributing in a meeting to contribute to the draft of a new constitution that was called by a non-governmental organization of the center of legal services and Literature in the district, the delegates of the meeting also proposed the torch of the National Parks.

"We request the torch of Uhuru to be in the national team, every year it has been rushed to the national message which it has no implementation, it will cost a lot of money for paying taxes, instead the fruits are not seen," said Bwambungu a resident of Mivinjeni Primary School.

He said that even so, together with the torch being called, the torch of Uhuru has been reported because it was the last year 1961 when Tanganyika got its freedom and that instead the torch will involve two countries of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.

"We should be clear that this is the Uhuru torch of Tanganyika last year, where the freedom of Zanzibar where Uhuru is in the year 2011, if we decided to be the torch of both sides, then the national torch will be part of the national logo," said Mister Komba.

He said among the national marks that are Bendera: The national album that will be being part of the points that will be reserved in the gallery and Kiponzelo is growing up to other parts of our country.

He emphasized that the concept of that torch is to bring peace without hope, to remove their hatred in which there is no problem or any changes which happened just after that torch will end its race since the torch will end up and be put up on history.

And Miss.
A grader at the resident magistrate of Mkwajuni, said that if there is a need to continue having that torch, then the laying of counterfeit drugs that don't do the cost of oil and that the highest cost of oil contributes to be taken to social services like education, health, water and infrastructure.

Miss Eunice Chiume said that many projects that had been built on primary and torch will die because it has not been continued until now and that it is possible the concept of Mwenge is used for the purpose of people to benefit themselves because of starting various projects that have no benefit to citizens.

On his part, a resident of Mangala village who identified himself as Justa Mogherini has said that the bad executives are involving the torch of Uhuru making it more benefits to the citizens and that it is important to the executives and that it is important to the legal action so as to put discipline in good service.

And Mister.
Festo Sakaya the resident of Mkwajuni, said that, there have been the concept of threats about the torch of freedom to an extent that it has developed the fear of executives though the truth is that the torch uses a lot of money for paying tax without the results of the torch.

The contributes from the donations was advised that if the government will make sure that the government will make sure it is a must for the torch of Mwenge to be open about its use including the monitoring of various projects that was opened by the torch races countrywide and the cost used.
