Ministers.
October 14th, 2015.

The presidential candidate of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Doctor John Magufuli, will use a long time to announce his ministers' council if he will win the general elections of this year, so as to be satisfied that the ones who go to the coming elections are those who do not have a scandal, our citizens should be told.
This new report will be in a time when he has already announced to form a panel of patriotic experts in different issues that will help them to do the analysis of important issues that he can destroy the presidency.
The sources of this newspaper that are close to Magufuli have explained that the candidate wants to use the style that was used by the president of Nigeria, in Buharamulo district, who has announced his cabinet of approximately six months after winning the elections.
"Magufuli has decided that he is going to choose ministers who will go with his speed, who do not have a scandal, they will be able to sustain his administration challenges.
"As usual, there is a possibility of people who are supposed to be given a mistake by the security about their history in the past and now.
That delegate who is among the ones who live with him in various provinces, said Magufuli is expecting to form the government that citizens will have faith in starting his first day in power.
In the campaigns of the general elections of Tanzania that is ongoing currently, Magufuli has been saying that he gets bribes and that he is expecting to form a special court that will have been faced with a huge bribery which he has been called "the Court of Ackyshine."
Mwema, something that was the only one that made him Magufuli since she stopped himself from the race, it is worried that the candidate has already taken up a campaign procedure that you can avoid with people who have history with controversy.
This newspaper depends on that Magufuli, who is also the minister of construction, he didn't know that people who do not know or those of corruption they will know or after his campaign meeting that is going on here in the country.
Those new ministers who will be appointed if Magufuli will win in the general elections that was planned to take place on October 25th this year, they will be required to implement various professional recommendations that the panel of Magufuli will be doing that analysis.
The panel that for his terms of reference for the purpose was given was announced at the end of last week by a member of the campaign committee of CCM, January Makamba, at a press conference held in Dar es Salaam city.
Makamba listed for the ten terms of reference for the panel that it is good to investigate and select the areas that the government will also use, including the purchase of public allowances, in order to give the decisions from the first day, he will be sworn in.
"To investigate and select the areas that the government will increase revenue immediately without the first step, starting from the first day, he will be sworn in to investigate and make great improvements in the system of performance and service and efficiency in the government.
"Through tax and tax relief to traders from all levels, farmers, breeders and fishermen if you can be played without considering the government's budget being implemented now," said Makamba.
In those previous areas, Magufuli claimed that he wants to increase the government revenue so that it can provide more services to citizens and also reduce the use of government that are not a must to fund the government's fund.
Other issues in which the panel of experts will look at each other, through all the laws of the country and the laws that are supposed to be used quickly so as to speed the real change and quick changes that he has promised to prevent it.
"Through all those issues and all the problems that involve the government's decision in order to give a decision from the first day, he will be sworn in.
He wanted the infrastructure and the number of ministries to make a draft of contracts for ministers, permanent secretaries and other heads that he had appointed immediately after being sworn in.
I advise the quick ways to end the problems of public servants, especially the teachers, police, doctors and nurses, so that he starts with them work together with the morale of doing true change.
"To make a draft of a plan to work on the implementation of the CCM manifesto and the promise he made by the campaign, especially the availability of employment quickly and reliable electricity.
I request that a structure to start and the appropriate procedure of implementing the promise of giving 50 million shillings in every village and area in the country, "said Makamba.
By looking for those terms of reference to the panel that made up Magufuli, it seems that the CCM candidate has an aim to reduce the size of his ministers' council as he did in this campaign meeting.
