RC is to mobilize the management of projects.

It has been written by Lucas Raphael.

It has been reported, 19th October, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Tabora, Aggrey Mwanri, has urged the council members of the Municipal Council to recognize their responsibilities and to supervise that all development activities that were implemented in that council.

He urged the not to be dealt with by the director, experts of the council and given a little thing and it is used for development projects in the council and their wards because they will be unable to manage that projects.
While opening a guiding seminar for four days to councilors and heads of the council of that council that began yesterday, Mwanri, urged them to stand on their position and not to be unable to be taught in that council.
"Be the stars not to make sure that all projects being implemented in the council and your wards, have shown contracts of all projects and if you have worried about the costs used in the project of controller and auditor general of the government (CAG)," he added.
He noted that the fifth term government led by President John Magufuli wants the value of the quality of development projects that are being implemented in the council and not cheating.
He wanted all the councilor to be careful and not accepting bribes because some of the experts and the contractors of the council do a cheating to some of the projects and therefore, they can try to marry off the councilor so as to resolve the embezzlement.
He urged them to be careful with an emergency meeting of the council of time to time prepared by the directors because they have no agenda of those involved so that they can be used if they have been able to avoid embezzlement.
Moreover, the heads of the department and units in the municipality were reminded to believe that they are implementing their responsibilities and to follow the law and procedures of their work, including providing cooperation with all councilors in order to achieve their responsibilities.
Mwanri said that the council of councilors is ongoing with regulations, law and procedures, and everyone is supposed to follow, and the mayor is the leader of all the sessions of the council who are required to managing the rights for all councilors.
Because all the councilors carrying a bond of the development of citizens, he urged them to help the government in ensuring all development activities continue in their wards and not to oppose good issues that are being done by the government at power.
