
Twaha Mtengera and the Coastal Union, Simba has thrown out Kiiza.

The mid-fielder who gets a lot of love, Haruna Shamte.
He has joined Coastal Union of Tanga for a contract of one year.
Simba broke out of signing up Mganda Hamisi Kiiza of Yanga.

Recently, the leadership of Simba Club.
To make sure that four players including Moshi, Make Me "due to claims.
The discipline of discipline.

Speaking to Citizen in Dar es Salaam city.
Yesterday, the executive director of Coastal Union, Nassoro Bowman.
He has concluded the signing of Twaha Mtengera and now its legal player.

"Boznia was a legal player of the Coastal Union.
It's after me and he continued to deal today, that is in a short time I've sent the ball.
One year contract, "said Bowman.

About the sign that he has given Dinamo Zagreb up to sign the Coastal Union.
Blood poured and did not want to put it open on claims that Swahili plays between them.
It was seen that exercise is not money.

"I cannot mention the amount of money that I had given you.
Because our friendship is the one that brought us all, although it is not that.
Very free, there is an extent that I have given it, "said Bowman.

He said that his club will be ready to send a lot of contract Laudit Mavugo if he will show a low level.

We have begun with him for a one year contract.
We look at his contribution if they will inform us we will increase the other.
We don't jump and then we will be able to have, "said Bowman.

At the same time, Simba's leadership has refused to sign up Yanga striker, Hamis Kiiza.

Previously there was a rumor that Kiiza did not joined.
That team whose residence is in Msimbazi, after finishing the contract.
Its with the champions of Tanzania, Yanga.

"We have not done talks with Kiiza in order to sign him a victory in the next season," said the secretary general of Simba, Evenezer.

According to that veteran veteran recently.
They are expecting to register players who will help the team to win.
The league next season after losing the championship and Yanga this season.
