
May 12th, 2014.

Big Results Now.

Construction at Kinyerezi.
It is complete by 50 percent.

Construction of the center's project.
Electricity production using natural gas at Kinyerezi 1 which is under the plan.
The nation of Big Results Now (BRN) has been completed by 50 percent of the center.
It will have the ability of producing 150 megawatts.
The completion of using the natural gas from Mtwara to Dar es Salaam.
The project of construction of a gas pipeline is going on well.

After the completion of it.
This will be two ways of transporting electricity where one way of shillings.
273 million will collect electricity at the station of producing and distributing electricity.
Gongo la Mboto and industries and the second way of 220 billion shillings will be sold.
Electricity is one of the national grid when this project is being built by a company.
Mchwaa will begin the journey of Norway.

Speaking about the construction, the manager.
That station, Engineer Simon Jilima has said that construction has reached a good step.
And it is expected to be completed at the end of the week.
This year, where the nine month is expected to start testing the electricity generation.
That the machines have been built very fast and even the smoke usually comes from.
That is very little to the extent that you have no effects to the citizens that are living.
The existence of the machine and no noise.

He said this disease has been built.
The government's money has cost a total of 46 million American dollars.
293 billion Tanzanian shillings, the construction of that project also.
To give employment to local Tanzanians where 93 percent of workers are.
Tanzanians, Engineer Jilima has noted that after completion.
That project, the citizens that live in the outskirts of that machine will be able to get services.
Free water.

Engineer Jilima has added that, this machine will also have the capacity of electricity.
Electricity by using fuel which are being built from banks with the ability to take.
One million and a half million shillings, explaining the reason for using oil to be in case.
And the renovations of gas wells in the side of the International Development Corporation.
(TPDC) or repairs on the machine of preventing gas, the machines will use fuel.
So that we can't loose 150 megawatts in the national grid.

The area will have four centers.
1 shilling that will pay 150 megawatts, at 4, which will cost 212,150 megawatts.
At Kinyerezi 3, which will cost 600 megawatts and at 4, which will fall down.
330 megawatts, all the machines will be run for gas that will be sold by TPDC.

The project of construction of the machines.
The Kinyerezi 1 electricity generation is part of the implementation of the projects that are under it.
The nation's plan of Big Results Now (BRN).
