He said.
Why do you do?
It has been given that, then he was not able to convince him to explain your success is bad and the intention to play when I saw Simba and Yanga even when I'll do well with soccer fans who believe that you are doing so that when I will be them about the government's reasons what they believe is.
If you were not ready for sports now, even the success which at this time I get good and it will be successful in competing for blood and also your big generation, but if we put playing two soccer to be in the field.
While we shall look into Simba Yanga's downfall.
Where he is where he is in all the bonanza all of them which have already been taught.
Most of them as they continue doing well then for now even other clubs will go to buy.
Our got Mtibwa given.
Her sister and who like to get the success will have recently been able to come and get success.
Why does it mean that he failed to go to the first fans.
Therefore, will you miss this first?
It has been no I don't think it is taken every year to say that we have got into consideration the delegates, the late God can make you have continuous effort and believe that June well, has also put a modern house to vote in the club to know one of them.
Yes, it will face us to see what to get Simba and Yanga their success or doing.
The words of the human resources I succeeded in looking at the moment because I know that there are many fans in the club, you can help you have come up so that we do not come up so that there are many people who came out to play for many people who came out to play.
How many times you know when we were at the same time there were cement companies that were arrested when there are other sponsors, I was still a lot of time because of the reputation.
So as to do well the second.
A cry for you.
Different of what took success while doing well at the moment are why they will enter into the players and how come there and they will continue to complain or accumulating wealth through some of the clubs.
People in success but for the good time we pray to him keenly.
He has contributed a lot, even those leaders in the clubs be the leader of a person in the morning or in his company, we will be joined Yanga two times in the premier league season and scoring behind a fan that he has with him that we are following up with a fan.
Look, but looking at a member and not something?
This is to them in the decisions they came into power but Simba plays divided until when it is keenly.
66 candies.
For a purpose.
It is not a problem with a person going back to the club.
Simba and Yanga means that leaders know where you are praising God, that is still getting?
Where after scoring one of them, there is still a leader that is in power, that is called 'I look at Simba SC passes away from that leader that is in power, is the first this evening.
But it would be no reason why is it's goal.
Success is success.
Their friends in a way usually do.
We believe that very much, the servants do not have the coalition to get a chance that I will love you in the African continent then the truth is that I will give you to you, but what is the second goal we want to take over the premier league at the third minute.
If the federation wants to close the next day I to win and go to African countries or to go down, what are you supposed to compete with group what are you required to compete now, so many of them have been from.
We shall talk.
After scoring Simba, it was started.
Therefore, he does not know why he didn't know what we are saying, there are some who want to look for it.
