
Do you know that you're going to pray and know about this information.

If you are not seen, the men are praising more than women, different from them is that they don't know anything!

In any community a person with a habit of sin?
You're very happy, you're being used and even when another time is beaten by seen.
It is a source of conflicts and with the religious leaders they saw a person.
That is a teaser sin.

People who like a habit of banana may be.
He got defending champions a report that was released recently about the behavior of people.
They love you to use a lot of time saying the issues of other people are saying.
The website has a health benefits.

That report was given by the researchers.
The University of England of America says that people should benefit.
More than that behavior are those who like to talk about bad things.
Others than their colleagues who like to speak about good things.

Those experts have noted that if someone he will use.
20 minutes talk about the bad issues of other people.
His health by reducing the eyes of ideas, fear and fear.
96 percent of the period of four hours.

However, they were raped.
That meeting spoke to a good issues of other people, he will reduce them.
Thoughts by 72 percent meaning people with talk.
Most of the ones that do not benefit more.

The researchers clarified that situation has explained.
Being a person when he spoke about good news that concern them other people do?
The brains of what goes by a person spoken, while.
What is talking to bad news is against him.

A person that speaking a bad news is taking place.
Not to save what he said, but they are continuing with his things as usual.
While those who talked about good news usually do with me in a period of time.
Some.

EfG officers from the National Hospital.
Muhimbili (MNH), Lusillile so that all human beings do not speak about.
Others, but the truth is more than talk time.

Luseko says origin of a human being is.
Although other times you have found themselves in providing real examples of life.
There are other people and therefore getting into a conflict when a person who was said.
When you prepare.

"You don't know it is normal and she didn't leave at their disposal.
What is in the platform where many times depend on with ideas.
He has, as if he has bad thoughts, he will talk about bad things, "says Mungy.

However, Sallam talked about the concept.
Among the people that a woman is the one that loves you more.
Speaking to other people more than that man.

"There are many researches showing that men are inspiring.
Than women, but they don't know anything and also can't explain themselves well.
Like women, "says Rugimbana, added that as usual.
Talk about the good things that concern them and other people do not want to grow.
One of the person is talked about.

I believe psychologically the author of the book.
"The strength of you," Maria Sharapova, says there is no one who is found.
In eternal peace I advise that someone who does not want to prevent us to say.
What should I know.

He says different experts of issues.
Facilitator, have noted that socialism is an important way in bringing unity.
Solidarity in the community as by doing so in spreading information.
Which community members should not be taught. "It has also been revealed that it is true.
A good thing to train the community is supposed to be a friend and?
Deserves, "says a teaser?

I believe maybe Herve Renay will not be.
It has ever said, "we should never tell you why the animals have never been commanded?
For meat, if everyone is understand that everything is bad, what is he says?
The answer is easy to get in our downfall.

He is saying that everyone is faced with good things.
Being mentioned above, when he knows you, "where you would like them to work hard.
That people do not say anything or well, "he told Millardayo.

The pastor of the Free State Church in the month of August.
(FPCT) the Junction center of Himo Junction.
The research says people who use a lot of time talking about things.
The ones that concern them are not only without stopping.

"People of this kind do not read the head so much.
They think of things that they did not know or see them, then continue with life.
Their thing, "says Ngapa.

I urge you, but these researchers want.
Let us inform us that we are not like to talk about people for how to reduce disturbances.
My thoughts are not known, "says Ngapa.

In his opinion is not correct for people to inform us.
Others are badly affected and that these researchers have not reached the community because.
The condition of the beauty is attacked by different groups of people.

Views of people.

Rodas Mgimwa a resident of Vingunguti says the results.
The research that was done about the behavior of what does not agree with them?
People of that kind do not have fear of something they are doing to talk.

"Sometimes you can listen to someone?
You don't know about a certain person in the bus without knowing if the man is.
What is said that she has his brother or not on how this people can't know.
Arising from the thoughts of ideas, "says Rodas.
