As the hand I was born, I was unable to advice about my fellow artists, we see that artists are important people in the community.
If the artists can enjoy the community she got into the community and she went to do but you can be a catalyst to development development so that we can be able to make sure that we are doing so that we love the United States of London there was no legs.
Tanzania were able to live here and music in the country even if we live and go back home, we see.
All people are going to Nigeria to reach the whole of Bongo Fleva.
Or of us.
In the world, we will be impressed with the era of fish, but when I am seen, but I have not seen but I don't know what we got here and we don't see if we feel it, but we see someone not to see me, but we see someone who are not involved in each other.
The late God rest.
And that is a Bongo movies, an ancient Greece.
When a person is, in the cook of the late God's good Madrid, Mohammed still doesn't know where he knows your.
When you look at an appropriate time there is a very bad days to find a person is called Adam but he has increased the affliction of school.
For someone here at this time I'm in.
He is saying that is called?
God bless TANZANIA.
I wanted to use it a good example.
Before us to add.
.
Paul.
And as a result of my opinion, it does not think about that, Almighty God bless you, I am saying climate change will follow.
We will be able to realize that I have no care!
I thank you so much, Professor for my teachers when the University does not want it so much and I have decided to pay it so that I don't know how many people do not want to do so until when I am happy that we will follow our Swahili as a business.
Therefore, we are preparing to witness.
We look at the use of Swahili language we can be guilty of home, can be able to help us all and we believe that there is very big and I believe that if you were able to marry a swim, asking for other nations to be very difficult but to take other nations.
You come at the activities of where they will be taught.
And I don't see if you can have a lot of problem, Flaviana Matata Cole I believe that I would like to go to greet my fellow Tanzanian songs, we become a good thing and they have a good friend and they do not have a good thing and they are doing my song before you are not present.
Radio Free Africa was before going to record a song that is taking it on the same way and why we are continuing to pay for Adam to see that there are journalists who have a culture, they have a culture of living.
Let us read the books that are why we the Almighty God bless Tanzania together with giving other gifts.
The books are in line with you shortly, but if you see you, I've heard a lot of questions that I have written many books with people with the permits, I heard this in every group we can be.
But they saw and believe that we ask others that have been expelled from the claims, the late God rest his Sunday so that you're seeing him and we help each other to consider the brain among them as they find him, they can fall down.
For us we will increase now on our opinion, we can continue being like France I am happy.
Third number one.
