
We shall continue to honor to small industries.

It has been written by our correspondent, Mbeya.

It has been published in October, 2016.

Tanzanians have been urged to love and to take small industries and to be proud of the products that are produced in the country so as to build the economy. That call was given by the executive director of the United Nations Trade Organization (SIDO), Professor Sylvester Mhagama, at the exhibition of the industry and small business people of Southern Highlands, Mbeya Region.

The six day exhibition is ending yesterday.
"I urge you change views and rebuke products that are produced here in the country," Professor Shivji said the journalists in the city.
While clarifying, he said to produce and use internal products, the only way to reach the country in the economy of industries, the exhibition was attended by 250 participants from that region and from Kenya, the director said the development of the small and medium entrepreneurs is important in developing the sustainable economy and remove poverty.
Despite the presence of big industries, it is clear that the great employment is needed by the small and medium industries, "he said and added that there is an importance of looking at and helping the sector.
He said that without a easy technology and easy to meet the market needs, it will be difficult to afford competition in this period of globalization.
He said that entrepreneurs need enough expertise to develop and continue educating the projects that are produced by the bank together with the availability of loans with favorable terms from financial institutions.
"We cooperate with different stakeholders in helping entrepreneurs to deal with these challenges," he said.
While visiting the area that was specially set by the government for the purpose of construction of industries in Kigamboni district recently, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Charles Mwijage emphasized the use of products produced in the country as a way to help the development of industries.
In order to deal with the other challenges facing the small and medium industries, SIDO has become a strategic plan and now the institution is completing the implementation of the fifth strategy of the year 2014 / 15 / 17.
We are continuing with the preparations to improve SIDO I have a new view including projects and different programs that involve entrepreneurs and other stakeholders, "said Professor Shivji.
Since the start of the exhibition in 2003, up to now a total of 14 exhibitions have happened where a total of 2683 entrepreneurs have participated in that period and get sales and order worth one billion shillings.
The aim of the regional exhibition is to enable citizens to know different products that are made by small industries in the country and thus expanding the markets of products of entrepreneurs and grow the local market.
