
06 / 2013.

RC, CHADEMA do not have?

He has said that the day before yesterday, CCM in Kongwa province.
Head of Dodoma Province.
Who is also a member of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Doctor Rehema Nchimbi.
The Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) has no status of being called me.
Rivals against the ruling party.

Doctor Nchimbi.
He said that in Dodoma yesterday when he was opening a special training seminar.
The work tour of the chairpersons of CCM from all the wards of Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam.
Considering that he said the old rivals in soccer who are Simba and Yanga, all of them are the team.
Many years that are close to soccer but CHADEMA is a party.
The day before yesterday can't be dealt with from CCM.

He added.
That CCM is not a party that will be separated or put in competition and parties.
Opposition but it is a political party but it is not normal but for its presence.
Others what were given by sending, Nchimbi said, the opposition parties are still unknown in CCM.
The party that is leading those dollars he urged the chairpersons to do the work of planning.
The terms of strengthening the party as they are.
One of the soccer teams.
"The greatest job of the chairperson is.
Behind, planning the platform and look at how executives do.
To ensure that it is taking quick changes when the performance are going on.
Badly, "said Doctor Nchimbi.
He added that it is important to make sure.
The leader of CCM and executives in the government, are realizing the party's manifesto.
His competence in addition to taking action against the executives or any leader.
It will be revealed that he is going against.
You will find the executive or a servant.
The government, says that he is not a member of politics when she gave you the work of CCM.
It has been given a bond of building a government, but I know we are leaders, directors.
Servants of the public with a habit of pretending to have no good relationship with CCM.
Make sure that many of this type that you are involved with them without stopping this.
"Do not accept to be at the end of the day.
The government, otherwise if you are sick.
Dealing with Kombo told the blame, because I have left your responsibility of managing it.
The performance and implementation of the party manifesto, "said Doctor Nchemaba campaigning for sending him.
Nchimbi said that he knows that the ethics of CCM is for a long time and cannot go.
Easily as their opponents be heard.
