
Best farming for maize.

Faith in us.

News from these, my dear reader, today I come ahead of you with another subject where no one can be able to have any benefits to anyone who will not be able to do it and to work hard for them.
I was not found.
Maize is one of the food production which has been successful in Tanzania approximately all provinces, the maize is part of the three provinces which is ending, the stem, and Tunda and this product is taking three months up to which is estimated to be harvested for the purpose of food.

Important things are in charge.
Before starting the production of maize, there are important things that the farmer need to be able to do before they start planting seeds.
I have to elect them.
II is expected to prepare a farm on time.
To reach shillings.
IV are inspiring.
You will go and put!
VI of Morocco to win.
To prepare well (books in front).
After that, we consider the important things that we have done on the first step is to prepare well, let it be used to prepare for the farm in Tanzania, to look for him, a device that will use you are required to go through it, a area that has been organized for planting.
You are not supposed to loose the leaves that are in the area while in the ward and take them so as to be patient and that is why you are required to prepare a farm early which is one month (1) before preparing and getting 30 days to go down.
Others also like a hundred and Pharmaceutical Depot (capital), especially for those who are very big areas, you can also set of fish, or from the farm (diseases).
Planting trees (Sei).
This is a step that has been following up after preparing the farm, you are required to climb the seeds that is better and in Ayo TV they can be able to fight with those diseases, then after 30th June, it is better to reduce the internet.
Also it is important to use a motorcycle of planting, P-Square, Tanzanian shillings.
The upbringing is required to get 5-7 to go down and do not be well so as to avoid the seedlings and pest and also care of them so that you are required to do well.
For three seeds! Do not lie!
For one seeds it is 75-30.
If we are one of you, you can use these bags who can baptize?
Listen to your blog.
You are required to keep in two weeks after planting and after that, you will see how you know so as to prevent the weeds to grow and be able to produce them so that they can be able to cater for them and to be.
Put the instrument (JNIA) about the application.
The JayMillions Promotion is supposed to be put up when it occurred and the two weeks time is required to put a yellow card that is needed, SA, Tanzanian P and Undule.

Note 7, for someone who has written all the time you must get out in large numbers.
For one acre, you are required to reach 20 kilograms of 31, according to the area, it is also a must that you are not supposed to grow their lives one years.

I hope that I hope that she is not happy about this article by the help I don't see if he is going to do if he gets to her stomach, and I don't like to make it just because agriculture is not allowed to do it because agriculture is not involved.
