
The Jews are discriminated against the American army.
Brightiles 30th, 2014.

For the American army, it is not a new issue to a new year with a number of more than one million and a half men, it will be difficult to prepare a good image in the community of Americans and the world as a whole, that army has been preparing a good image in the community of Americans and the world as a whole, that army has been preparing a good image in the community of Americans and the world as a whole, that army has been in a good way to manage their problems related to various mistakes that are being done by the army.
However, in addition to those efforts, there was a time that led the love saga of female soldiers to have high-level officers, an issue that resulted from different weight that invaded the army's camp in that area where the scandal emerged up to the army camp of Abijan, Mujahideen.
On November 7th, in the year 1997, one of the high-level officers on the furthin the vehicle emerged and announced that three officers of the force have passed through the mistakes of raping and sexual violence against the squads, and also noted that 17 cases that arise from the squads are still being reduced.
That officer said that it is a big scandal that is facing the camp since the occurrence of a scandal at Taqwah Mosque in Kunduchi Ward, in the year 1991 where more than 100 women who were in the camp benefited from those accusations in order to protect the army.
In order to avoid the mistakes that took place in Taqwah camp, the army announced to conduct a comprehensive investigation on the claims of gender violence not only in that army's investigation that is under that army on the privacy of the army on the privacy of him.
Officials of the high-level officials in that force have been announced after receiving more than 4,000 phones within two weeks, the others explained the mistakes of violence that were done by the army officers during the second world war by more than 100 phones among those phones that were scored in that camp of Abutalebi.
However, many of the 58 phones were not yet to talk about the scandal of threats from preventing them but they explained about the love relationship between the high-level officers in that army and the ones that are in their squads.
That army has a special law that allows the romantic relationship between soldiers at the top level and the top scorer who are under their agenda, that issue can be dealt with, but if they will involve the opposition relationship between the army, something that can be taken as a violation of the law in the army that doesn't have ownership.
The scandal of raping and gender violence in that camp of Abutalebi will be unblocked by the swim, an act that was mentioned by the name Jichunge.'
Something that was surprised by the army officers who were investigating on those accusations is to make sure that among those allegations, a lot of accusations made to one American officer with the African origin, who was the age of 30 years, a penalty of Sergeant Samuel Eto'o.
When they were asked it is why they did not come back early to give those information, the most of the king who claimed will be informed that if they will release a report on the actions that he will do, he will leave.
