
The government wants big investments in sports.

It has been written by Bashir Nkoromo, Kibaha.

I was published today September 17, 2016.

The government has said that there is a must for the great investments to promote sports in the country so as to produce employment and increase the national income.

Those are in the speech by the minister of information, culture, arts, and sports, Nape Nnauye being read by the director of policy and planning of the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Peter Poroshenko at the sports conference organized by Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC).
Nape has said that the government recognizes the importance of developing sports in the country and the national development plan for five years (2016-2017) to ensure Tanzania is still behind in games and therefore, there is need to improve the level of sports in the country.
He said that the success of games in the previous years do not come up, because there was a special program that enabled youths to participate in games like the secondary and secondary school competitions.
He said the former sports leaders at the time of their leadership did not have up of money or power he was given to manage sports as it came up to the club and the institutions that tries to revive sports in the country.
President of the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC), Gulam Rashid said that the games in the country played from the year 1990 compared to 1970 to 80 years, it involves itself with the system of government to be different from contributing to sports in general.
Gulam said that during the time there were various institutions like the Port Authority, Oil Company, Essar said, the officers (JWTZ), Police, JKT, Prisons, Immigration officers and various sports teams that brought a competition and caused to continue with games in the country.
He said athletes are organized from below, where there is no objection that these are schools, where there were programs of higher education for our students.
Contributing to the topic in that conference, the acting secretary general of the National Sports Council (BMT) Mohamed Kiganja said the availability of sports leaders in the country is very bad to the extent of collecting people who do not have patriotism or lead despite having enough education.
The secretary general of the Tanzania Sports Writers Association (TASWA), Amir Mhando has said many leaders of the sports parties have no need to promote sports but many of them, their aim is to contribute to life through sports.
He has said that many have been competing in sports so as to take ways of getting into politics at different levels.
The first director of local sports in the event has wanted the conference to be a catalyst to other meetings that are required to be organized by the government so as to get a great answer in sports.
Abdallah led that office from the year 1995 until the year 1990 when he retired from the year 1990.
Some of the other sports stakeholders who participated in that conference include Leonard Mao, who was the director of sports in the country, the acting director of sports development, Makoye Nkingwa, the Director of TOC School, Filbert Mponzi.
That conference is expected to be completed today, where the solution to what should be done in order to promote sports in the country after losing many years.
