All the eyes too.
Way has been reported, Mister GCompany Limited.
I say very big stakeholders said.
The of the products that are of construction.
Then you know if you need products.
First, listen to them and when you go to Dar es Salaam to know the people they are in the country to get their products that are very good and they are heard seven days but people are there.
In the streets or in another?
Listen to him keenly to get what I went to join the party.
How do you do?
I am very disturbing as a famous name?
He is the director of Jichunge.'
James Mbuligwe.
It is a non-governmental company that we have been able to pay for the purpose of helping that era.
Your slogan, especially which kind of us without considering it is the country of Rwanda?
And we have done two reports with the meaning that these children with a lot of skills, they will be joined by our government and children if they can make it like one day for us to be at least one day in the city I don't know.
Until it is possible for us to us and it is not able to inform things that are the ones that involve the parts of the Southern African countries or it is swelled to here, it is small industries for entrepreneurs who even get into this field is snacks.
Until now there are many benefits that the company will be able to put first employment and you can be able to produce criteria for working because you can bring the economy of the country's economy as soon as possible so as to make sure that we make sure there is enough agriculture.
The great results now, we are ready to carry out and that if we are able to evade a lot of money can be able to ease the work in all the countries in the world to fulfill things without using industries.
Industries is rich in the world in the world, FIFA for agriculture and the small industries is possible and it is possible that we cannot be able.
The dangers that you have done for agriculture is to accept when he has retired from agriculture, it is important like article 10, and so most of them don't know what I don't know and then I don't know what I don't want to continue producing and then even three people in that center can be used.
Because a knee injury will be able to get enough food and extra food out of the country and we do not know a story.
Team so as to promote industries.
Especially more than that, we requested people to get employment in large numbers and we aim to ensure Tanzanians get a good house.
Even when we go through the fight that we can do three bunches on many types, but we want to go to faith in this service and skills so that we can be able to get good houses.
Wanting to know the situation of someone you can be in home to avoid the quality of his house, you know that this is a person.
He has a problem even if it is food, then you know this, buying food but he can give me food but it is not a good place in strengthening another economy of food and other things have the expectations, but we request that we want to move forward.
But we want Tanzanians to have ever received bribes but to buy modern products from now, here we are trying to compete with other countries that can do products here so that we can bring him development in our country.
We will start where we want to start there so that we can also give services.
Do not be afraid that we are being affected from outside the country, we have bought these things or sell in the country and therefore going round with the Tanzanians to get services in the country to take advantage of our country.
Something that when you go through, if you see here is that when we go to Dar es Salaam, the elder of expanding so much but this is different products here in the country, I urge you to know what we made here in this company, I urge you to know what we used here in this company.
You are called a responsibility.
Bye, and maybe.
And wildlife who don't have our ability to use the country to help them that they benefit our brothers in the villages, we believe that they shouldn't understand so much to get the fire.
Therefore, this machine can use the village or you can use any part that does not have electricity.
How is it understood.
That will begin at ten o'clock.
Up to six hours when you are celebrating one of.
But if you start again at eight at ten o'clock at ten o'clock at ten o'clock in the world, most of them came into two hundred thousand shillings which will be given to take (EFD).
In this mosquito, our personal and affordable prices are being sold at an affordable price, but we believe this promotion here at the Sabasaba grounds, we gave the others an issue that will be able to agree well in our company as well.
We are making a machine for masturbation.
Like this, this machine has a capacity to carry out and the ability to celebrate with.
And in use.
Our expert can make sure you use how works.
