
CCM members to collect taxes at the port.

It has been written by Maulid Ahmed, Dodoma.

It has been witnessed, 03 / 2016.

The members of parliament in the United Republic of Tanzania through the Revolutionary Party (CCM) have been transferred to parliament for wanting the tax system in the port of Dar es Salaam to be availed to continue getting business by those members of parliament they want money for government and its institutions to be used in business banks.

The members of parliament are arrested and gave out a donation that, as they contributed the proposed constitution of the national development plan for the year 2017 / 2018 budget which was presented yesterday by the Minister of Finance and Planning, Doctor Philip Mpango.
Vunjo constituency member of parliament, Ahmed Salum (CCM) has said that for now there is a problem of the circulation of money in the country because the bank has started going on and providing an example that CRDB Bank has announced to get losses by the CRDB Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
"We are and the citizens know their condition and we have been growing up until we are communicating with the funds of the Social Security Funds, and the ones who were suspended from BoT has been forced to appreciate themselves by themselves in business banks in the country," he said.
Speaking about the performance of the port of Dar es Salaam, he has said that products have reduced and mentioning things that killed port and caused the revenue that were being transported to go out of the country to be value-added tax (VAT) and goods that are going to go to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to be taxed.
The Member of Parliament for Nzega Town, Hussein Bashe (CCM) has said that 94 percent of the business banks have been arriving in the third quarter of the year and that is due to a lot of taxes and the procedure of finances and the procedure of money to be removed from the business bank.
Maswa District member of parliament, Stanislaus Magesa Mulongo (CCM) has advised the government to give them former government procedure and its institutions to be put in business banks instead of BoT where they live without getting into the circulation, a situation that gives the business people to die due to lack of interest from its customers.
He wanted the government to look at afresh when they err.
"By what you are not VAT on the visitors, this do not affect the port of our colleagues, our daily taxes, and these vehicles have been standing by lack of cargo to carry out and therefore we have risen from six billion shillings," he said.
The member of parliament of Ileje district, Janeth Mbene (CCM), who was the deputy minister of finance, has advised the business environment in the country.
He wanted the bank not to depend on the government's money but to get in the villages to look for money to be directed to their banks.
He said that currently, 20 percent of stem cells are using the bank services, thus a lot of money is in the hands of citizens.
Kalala member of parliament, Josephat Kifu (CCM) has wanted the construction of modern port to take place quickly in Bagamoyo District, Coast Province to attract different business people and now the port of Dar es Salaam has been possible to be careful so that the 3G and 4G network failed to use that port.
The Member of Parliament of Bukoba town, Wilfred Lwakatare (CCM) wanted the province of Kagera to be responsible for taxes in construction equipment so that the price can be employed and citizens put off their houses and an earthquake that can be able to build their houses.
