Police, CHADEMA as they appear.
Frode Dyrdal of 28, 2013.

When the investigation was banned for a bomb campaign meeting in Soweto ward in Arusha town, when the party and the police force have continued to move on the step of Freeman Mbowe claiming that his party has evidence of pictures of the video showing those involved in that incident.

Mbowe gave that statement several times when he spoke to the press the statement that was forced to prevent a lot of discipline in that army and he was responsible for forgiveness and training Paul Chagonja for a long time, otherwise he would have taken legal action.

However, Mbowe and the member of parliament for Arusha town, Godbless Lema, went to police in the middle of last week and gave information but they refused to give the evidence that they are doing.

Those leaders are alleged to have given procedures that they will release that evidence when the President Jakaya Kikwete entered the constitutional commission to investigate that incident that has shaken the city of Arusha and Tanzania as a whole.

Until now, Mbowe and Lema will not be taken against the legal action and internal reports are still following up by close to the leaders and other colleagues in CHADEMA.

"The situation is also critical, leaders of the police force are forced to know if the truth of CHADEMA have evidence and they have been in the process of investigations to know that issue," explained our source.

Reports are saying that the fear of police being built on primary because the accusations of Mbowe made it to the army is to be disgracing in front of the community, but also it can endanger the security of police living to citizenship and their families.

Moreover, on the side of reports of the leaders of CHADEMA which however, they are not yet confirmed that they are waiting to give direction in public at the right time that will have the political benefits "on their side.

Reports are mentioned that "evidence" is a very important issue and it has been a great secret inside CHADEMA and that those who know that issue is not more than three people, Mbowe is one of them.
100 million is not found.

In another step, a gift of 100 million shillings that were given by the government to the children who will be given the arrest of someone or a group of people involved in a bomb exploded at the CHADEMA meeting last week in Soweto grounds, "he has not got himself."

Until Monday this week, according to human sources, there was no any report from any person.

The government announced the parliament through the minister of state, the office of the prime minister, William Lukuvi that it will give a gift of 100 million shillings to the who will give information to the person or a group that involved the bomb attacks.

That event happened in 15 times this year, in a meeting to complete CHADEMA's campaigns to vie for the councilor seat in four wards in Arusha City which was to take place on June 16, but you were postponed by the National Electoral Commission (NEC) from the explosion until June 30th.

Speaking to Good Citizen on phone, the police commander of Arusha Province, Liberatus Sabas explained that until Monday, this week they have received any information with the army that is continuing with great investigation.

"In general there is no any statement made about the bomb incident, but there is still a big investigation about that incident and we will give you once again, we will never take important steps," said Commander Sabas.

That commander added, "flash disk" to the government is there at that time for those who know why they are urging them to give information that will help the arrest of those involved.

In addition, in another step, the reports indicate that police have arrested two party members of CHADEMA, George Gmwaijonga, and has found Njeza, who were being detained by the army since the occurrence of that explosion.

Although the panel of fees as he was not ready to confirm the reports of the being released by those people, but the leaders of CHADEMA in Arusha town, confirmed that those colleagues were soldiers of the red card and was released free at the end of last week.

Police, offices of AG) visits the ball.

In another step, police have been unable to take them to court four leaders of CHADEMA and more than 150 members who were arrested on Tuesday last week in Soweto grounds in a short time of who died in that explosion.

In that event, four members of CHADEMA in brackets as Said Arfi (Mpanda), Mustafa Panju's (Mbulu), Tundu Lissu (Singida North) and Joyce Ndalichako (nominated member of parliament) were arrested after police exploded a mourning time.
