
This is discipline the Morogoro floods is accelerating in front of the case in court.

Furthermore, when the resident magistrate of Mwanzo Kigonsera, Fredy Muguma said that all the cases that were heard in that court which have been requested by water together with albinism so that all of them will start afresh, in the District Commissioner and Morogoro Province are expected to collect data for the victims of the floods.

Huge floods came out in the middle of last week in Magole primary school, which has caused a huge destruction of property and infrastructure and also those floods have requested through different cases in court.

While speaking yesterday, the resident magistrate said that right now all criminal cases that were heard will be heard in the court that will be opened and be read and be heard afresh.

"Police are the ones that will open and taking them to the case to that court, because they are already memories of those cases through the drivers' charges," said resident magistrate, and added.

"There is no case that will be canceled due to the files, the way I said that police will face a case in court, even if there was a case that was very disturbing," he said.

He said that the court will start working after being operated on and set house.

He said the previous step that continues to be done, is to clean up the building of that court in and outside by giving birth of trees and other factors associated to the area and that the performance procedure is going on.

And the chief executive officer of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Morogoro Province, Mwarabu has said that the department of court in the country has been organized by the Tanzania Tourist Board (TBA), in the process of inspection and evaluation of destruction of the court's building.

He clarified that at the moment the efforts of doing an inspection and not to destroy the voluntary contribution which are being held before TBA and giving advice depending on the destruction that happened to that buildings that can be constructed or be built afresh.

He said at the moment the activities of that court have standing, to allow the cleaning of the environment.
