
These are not the era of a deficit of integrity.
Yona Killagane.
For many years, prevent us have been wanting the suspects of misuse of power and the public offices to be taken against them.
Now, that work is being done again without stop stuttering on someone who is the President John Magufuli who for sure we are supposed to support him so as to continue bringing discipline in order to respect the public offices that had begun afresh.
He is doing that President is to urge all those who were given priority to the management of public offices, but they did not make the work professionally and to allow you to take place under their authorities.
These should know that in this past, Magufuli are not safe and will also go with water if we have witnessed several times.
However, together with all that taking place now, we have been the nation of people that we have been infected with great impacts and today those who are inspiring.
Now they have changed the song, instead of beating corruption, they want them to evade poverty, that work will be made in what they intend 'and to respect the rights of human rights.
A good example that you give it is a step by the president to suspend him from the former director of the city of Dar es Salaam.
Since there are different meanings in the decision by the president he made on stage and if he would have made a statement through the chief secretary or the director of communication in the State House?
Let him leave the president to do his work that are inside his authority, as if we did not give him a way to appoint him who will work with him, also we cannot get a way to suspend him from work.
Basically, there is no place where the president violated the borders of his authority for the efforts of President Magufuli of moving their discipline for public servants, all of us cannot support the agenda because many of them are those who previously used to believe that the president is implementing their party manifesto.
Two, the damage caused by corruption and embezzlement by partnering with civil servants who are not ready to see the president being able to see their ways of getting them.
Third, corruption and others before dealing with public property, we will not be ready to see someone who supports the poor citizens, President Magufuli made him to ensure everyone who was given the management of the life of the poor people has no shortage of integrity.
Therefore it's not good when we support these efforts so that we build a community of people with discipline, people with the ability to prepare and build a stable nation.
Private and support any steps that will be taken by President Magufuli in bringing discipline among people who were given bond inside the public service.
It is a must that we know when we know that you will be given a chance to supervise the life of people, you are required to respect and respect your country, to respect the authority that would be accused of being accused.
I will support even when you will be known that these people have found a mistake, then it will be good and even to run its obligations in order to recognize the authorities that they have given a bond of lives of the poor people.
