When you go through your first topic on our first topics now, Ongea will enable us to say when the government's efforts have helped war against all, we want to know a question.
Is the government to help fight against them.
Most of us think I don't know if there is no father and we are making sure that there are statistics that are normal and they can't see what we have written about because there are many people that do not see what is contrary to the areas that many Tanzanians love the strength.
I ask Felicia for reasons and a gift.
Let's love.
Bribery.
To see he can be given.
And at hiding your father will not die with Mister without knowing that they lost their teachers, they are doing what people have not seen in the grounds.
Earlier on.
Fail being unable to buy a house of iron sheets, there is a problem of iron sheets.
On the side of you, you can say that bribery were stolen from the vice president of the public because there is no reason.
People can go to my interview and they want to be seen if the people have done maybe if they are looking for time.
And in those ones, you can't know there that you are supposed to be completely, but the surprising thing for those who have done bad work, we meet the same time when the person get married but you want to know if you are still a loan.
Products are forced to raise us to the child to some of the Bible or no even the school I will look for gold but we were told to do religion because we were seen, we are still a patient who is in the field but we believe it is nothing to know what is no certain.
There was a bad weather.
It was bad, I was very bad, I was in a case where there was one woman to plan with beer and let me look at how to leave it, but every person they got used to Kipre Tchetche, there was no longer.
I had not knowing the issues of outside let me go to see, comes after starting the campaign to go to court, the way you find the name Kiemba has the ability to forgive him and come from the court I have a house.
First.
Therefore, he did not end.
The body is found.
Take it by having the valleys but because it is good to be the first.
Listen to it.
To give Africa.
