
Nape is happy with the ministers being removed from power.

The secretary of NEC, ideology and propagation of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Nape Nnauye has explained to receive donations, a step of four ministers who were sacked from their positions for the consent of President Jakaya Kikwete.

Those ministers, Hamis Kagasheki, Natural Resources and Tourism, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (internal affairs), Minister of Security and Fisheries Development, Doctor Mathayo Suleiman Kova who arrived their positions after their ministry has been presented to parliament the day before yesterday by the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Land, Natural Resources and Tourism, James Lembeli.
"I feel good, because the action of those four ministers will be taken against them, I believe they will help other people who registered their leadership without doubt," said Nape as he spoke to his thoughts in that decision of the parliament.

While Minister Kigwangala when he announced himself to bid farewell to his position, the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, announced the step by President Jakaya Kikwete to destroy the appointment of those ministers after members of parliament to ensure that he resigned from the standing committee of land, natural resources and environment to identify them "in an operation of violence that happened recently.

Under its chairman, James Lembeli has said that the committee explained together with several issues that made them to be bad decisions that came out in that operation, many actions including raping and humiliation were allocated which is contrary to human rights and human rights.

As a result of that incident, the committee through Lembeli has asked ministers who are involved to view as they are continuing to continue with their positions or to when he resigned, also the committee accepted more effort to ask President Jakaya Kikwete to take action of making her husband.

Speaking about more that step, Nape said that together with the ministers, there is need to go back further by considering the systems and laws that are there now because it seems to be among the sources of restrictions in the implementation of good governance.

"For example this today, the ministers have risen up, equivalent to a good thing, I will not be careful, but it is possible that there are systems and laws that the mother gets into a good thing, but the authority to forgive him," said Nape and added.

"The foundation of here is a must that these measures should not be understood up to the directors, so that they should not be silent because of their bond of running politics, while the executives are continuing to attract bed sheets without fear when some of them are part of the problems."

He said that the current step that is being done by CCM to supervise the government is normal because the work is not supposed to be done by their opponents because the policies being implemented are of that party.

Nape promised CCM to request all the parliamentary and councilors seats that are in the country under the opponents saying that after their opponents it has been unable to show any fruits of helping citizens and therefore not the alternative for CCM.
