The sacred bridge is every level of the life of a Tanzanian.
28th of 13, 2015.

Divergence, it is not the deal, I have remained in the main way, this is a very important thing that comes from advertisements and our partners.
Divergence is a word that's an outcome due to the word "Babu Tale and in a easy way, that's a situation of women or men to start relationship outside the official relationship that they have.
There is why using other blogs that are used to explain the concept of the most popular word, especially women and women they talk about three awards, how your impatience will need more than one and social needs to make it.
Being involved in the marriage is the real problem, big and that affects many among the community members, Ephraim Kibonde who speaking at that announcement that involve more than fifty percent of the victims of the AIDS virus, which couples are enough evidence.
Why people do not avoid with different meanings in this issue, there are those who believe that the challenges of modern life have contributed to evade a prayerful person being involved, especially when many of them are doing their work that will place far from their colleagues in a long time.
There are those who believe that people who are in a relationship should stop because they started relationship and they have not found guilty, there is also faith that they get in relationship with any other reason that does not have faith.
Private I don't know among those that, there are my great answer, but there is my good Samaritans who has not affected any relationship between people, religious, politics, business and so on.
The results of lack of ethics is heading to people to move forward to the areas of work, business, religion, community and even political.
The spread of these fields is when those involved will look for human ways of solving their problems, as a patient when she gets her running mate so as to fulfill the sex of money.
A woman that doesn't avoid poverty is same as a road safety police that took bribery because the income is not enough or a young person who sell drugs because she does not have employment.
Kiroboto has said that we're looking at the moment we look at the broader field in the wider area and to respect the procedures that they are part of the conflict and perhaps they do not depend on their relationship and they do not live in every sector.
For example, in the art, we don't understand the real work of art, instead we are getting away from the internet, we are using private themselves and with similar habits, we are supposed to have a shame.
When I go back to my primary issue, people have avoid using a lot of things, but the primary reason is lack of ethics which a person does not know if the guidelines for life 'ethics is lack of boundaries, he says she cannot give them a lot in any situation.
There are many types of ethics, there are religious ethics, traditional and social welfare, community institutions, and so many times we are doing so as to know of ethics and do issues in accordance with the required procedures, but we believe it?
Our religion in a large extent are believed to be aired live and not again, the procedure and the trend of life which we have lived in our country, the religion depends on how many buildings are needed to do in life.
The community ethics is the fact that we don't know each other because our agents gets a chance or the position to enable him to kill him "and then do not like that, I've told the man with a lot of money," you can hear them, "the fee is warned by her mother.
When we get rid of our obligations, be the one to investigate and follow up on its own ways and to follow the same way or the most popular among them, or the whole time we are using them to stop the fear and our weaknesses in fighting with the sources of our problems.
For example, the salaries is not enough, instead of asking him for what it is not enough, what should we do not to do with us because we are looking at how to avoid getting married or even what we do not affect me.
