CCM like Babukege while it has lost its reputation and validity of rule.
Brightiles 24, 2015.

Between 605 - 539 / 539 years (KK) and after, and after, the important thing occurred in the world, an important thing that happened in the world, was discussing the lives of the community here in the world.
Also, the old books have explained that it is this time when knowledge and skills in the construction issues were very fast, therefore people of tribalism and decided to build a factory with tower which will be known to heaven because the aim of building that tower was to prevent them to sit together.
God revealed that there and the soul of the hips that they were facing and in wisdom, discovered that the construction of a house with a tower will make human beings get divided into their union and the strength of the intentions they had said, therefore he decided to investigate it so that nobody would agree.
Therefore, he urged them to talk about different languages in the country that nobody would agree and do that, God will be able to disrupt the plan and also God will make the people of the city at the face of the world.
If it was written about that time, Tanzania had been built in a stable foundation of brotherhood, integrity, unity, solidarity, love, peace and rights for people.
Our founders of our nation tried to prevent us instead of switching off their daughters, they used their soul without stopping the wealth of any kind, the elders do not come, "peace!"
Since the death of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, and on a certain extent, after the era of our old man, "Elder William Mkapa and the third phase of President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, the leaders failed to sing the song" peace, unity, unity and solidarity without considering that there is no peace, nor unity, and solidarity without forgetting the rights. "
Peace, unity and solidarity which is Tunda 'the right, "and there are no fruits or family branches without the bereaved and strong stem cells, whoever doesn't know that" the right is great or small, the farmer or a businessman without caring for the person involved in political parties, or any religious faith.
In addition, inside the ruling party, CCM there was a union of solidarity due to the party to consider the rights of the party being unable to rule.
Now it is clear that the members and the party members of CCM that this party does not have unity and solidarity and has lost direction, CCM is like Babukege while there are groups and tents for the members of CCM and the leaders of CCM.
You will remember that in the year 2008, the chairman of CCM assured the commission that was under the second president, Ali Hassan Mwinyi and the popular commission known as "the commission of Mzee Mwinyi" was given the responsibility of looking for hatred between members of CCM and between them and ministers, then he advised the way to end those differences and to oppose the party in unity.
