The plain truth about the Tanganyika and Zanzibar union.
Phares Magesa, 08, 2013.

There is a big threat to our union because the threat is more in the concept of the intentions of the union themselves as a threat in this period of the process of preparing a new constitution of our country.
The debate of the new draft constitution has been dominated by a big margin and the agenda of the union.
The conflict of opinions on the union is a good thing and it is supposed to be proud of in the conflict that explains how the union is difficult because of the thoughts that we did not have written or what we did not tolerate.
All times we have been saying that if we believe that it is the only people of Zanzibar who live in a union, but the debate you are going, we should also say that even in the debate of the union and the conflict between the union they have given an opportunity to improve the union more than stopping.
It is not right to fear the people discussing their union, or we cannot be satisfied by the debate because the intention of supporting him is good and therefore, the problem can change to citizens, because the problem can change to the expectations of citizens more.
We ilo and it is the one who is capable of switching off this union because of generations to follow up, therefore, the courage to say and managing the truth, but not in front of our leaders not supposed to be availed with the champions of the union in front of the community.
I wish you even a little of people living with our union especially the structure of its importance today and when I get enough reports, there are many reports that they have been destroyed, therefore, this situation is due to our culture of not writing history and events.
Due to the gap of the report on the union, it has been a lot of various obstacles including the presence of any interruptions that is an illustration and a request for a request, and therefore, the request for the investigation is needed because they have sent the opinion polls about the union.
Development is the problem, a solution.
It has built the concept for a long time that the problem of our union is its structure of two governments, the concept of us believe that the solution to the problem is one of the government or third because one government is not stable.
Here, the problem is said to be Tanzania Mainland by lack of its government and others may move forward and said the action of the government of the union being that of the United Republic of Tanzania are making Tanganyika to use the union's resources to benefit.
Furthermore, another side has said, the government of the United Republic as the United Republic of Tanzania that is such as Zanzibar through the production of Tanganyika and Zanzibar, so as to avoid conflicts, there is clear that every side of the government's activities are derived from not knowing the number of government.
