
In all these, where is Kikwete?
Deodatha Makani, 2012

Recently, President Jakaya Kikwete has criticized the former leaders that criticized his government, "he said.
Although he did not mention the names of those leaders, it is clear that when he was talking to Joseph Warioba, Cleopa Msuya, Joseph Butiku, Abdulla al Kitilya Mkumbo and several others who are in recent days they used their constitutional rights to talk about how the country is run.
By deciding to use the word "mystery" (they thank the government "village), President Kikwete mentioned them to make sure the retired leaders, because of his opinion, they don't have a motion.
So, if we are supposed to agree with President Kikwete that the retired leaders are supposed to accept it?
I don't want to talk about what speaking about General Ulimwengu, last week, that our leaders have tried to enjoy the thoughts and see you are only those who know everything, but I would like to read it in what was spoken ("signifies.
I speak, Bakari Mighty One who has announced the government of Tanzania as a minister for more than ten years in an interview with this newspaper, Mujahideen, among other things, that things are not working well because we are using a long time of performance by voting.
Certainly, the statement is not new because it was given out in the past, by Judge Warioba, he complained that the country is being run in conflicts and that instead of leaders in government and in the ruling party to address various development issues, they are involved in fights themselves with themselves.
So, it is not true that what they heard of Judge Warioba and Monsigation is correct, even if they see these things that we see it is now in the three years of dollars, that is the government, court and parliament?
I'm talking about conflicts between the parliament and the government, the court and parliament, and even a parliamentary committee against other parliamentary committee within the pillar.
Certainly, even the fourth pillar (press) will not be safe in these conflicts.
We have ever done a place where two parliamentary committees are under one speaker, they were playing themselves by themselves so that we are not less than we witnessed recently in this scandal of the purchase of solar power plants.
We have ever done a place where the pillar of the court that you were shocked when it is the pillar of the parliament about who of Champion on top of the rights, while every part is using the constitution to legalize the energy that was taken against him.
We have made a dangerous place where the performance of the government is caused by inhalted by Famy, that its statements are not covered by one directly.
Today, Minister (Ngeleja) has said that the government will not affect the victimization of the Dowans Company, but tomorrow the minister has said that the machines must be shaken.
We have heard that President (Kikwete) says there is no university student who will not be able to study because of lack of fees, but several months later children of poor farmers have been expelled from the universities because their father do not have money to contribute to the cost of money.
We have written a place as a young member of parliament for defending the law and rights (Zitto) in defending his motion to defend the Dowans Company, he says that the law of procurement passed by parliament is not a mid-fielder and therefore it should not be an obstacle to the purchase.
While (Zitto Kabwe, he said that, his fellow member of parliament (Doctor Mwakyembe) met again and told the answer that it is happy that the country did not depend on the dark more than to buy the Dowans Company which until today the public has not bought its real owner!
And in the middle of these issues of members of parliament (Zitto Kabwe and Shelukindo), their speaker, Samuel Sitta and him came out in public and joined by Shelukindo to say that if the government will fly the Dowans Company that will be seen to fire in parliament.
That statement without doubt that took the member of parliament for Kigoma town, Peter Serukamba has told the Tanzanian newspaper about the last Saturday's edition, that Sitta and Mwakyembe are enemies of the party because of requesting the government to control the Dowans Company (private sector) according to Speaker Sitta!
At the center of those conflicts, the State House President Kikwete gave a report about the session where the president made a report about the leadership of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, a report that it shows that even the State House has participated in those conflicts of the attempt.
Additionally, "D" of the report on March 3, 2009, it will be easily read about the instructions that were given by President Kikwete in that sitting, "we should be afraid that the proposed constitution is like to be known by Zitto Kabwe, that the constitutional law is not a mid-fielder.
On other words, the statement by the president may be bought using the Dowans Company, even if it is going to the law of the country passed by the parliament.
Director of communication in the State House, Salva Rweyemamu, was impressed by the Citizen newspaper claiming that his report was not involved in the fact of the Dowans Company for it is true, but any human being knows that in the recent days they have been involved in the electronic systems if not the EFD machines?
Or we believe that it was not only once for President Kikwete looking for him, currently, the law for procurement of the Dowans Company?

On my view, it would have been better if President Kikwete would like to come out and explained that the stand of his government about the purchase of the Dowans Company, instead of being easily recognized that the president is the end, and they are not allowed to follow the advice of parliament?
But Funga together in this scandal of the Dowans Company is the statement of the managing director of TANESCO, Doctor Idriss Rashid who made at the end of the week.
He has decided to send himself and release TANESCO in the plan to buy the machines. He has done therefore not on the argument, but by appointing him, he said the citizens will know themselves because the country was caused by darkness.
Doctor Idriss Kihamia to answer questions of journalists, and it was a lot where up to today they are not answers - who's the owner of the Dowans Company because TANESCO wanted to start the quick process (Fast 8) of buying new machines.
Not being stolen from those questions, there are many others to design and know that there is something that the government has tried to bring back the public, and those congratulations are the ones that are doing with this fire outbreaks that are affected by the other in the past.
In short, you can write the whole book of how the government of President Kikwete was dominated by inhaling of conflicts between themselves since it was in power in the year 2005.
I have talked about these a few months of conflicts, and I did not want to talk about the others that got it in the past, including Buzohera, and other people have been successful and therefore as we respect the freedom of expressing and each other.

But the truth is that we have affected the performance of the government and the primary things have been placed on the floor and the pent of conflicts and other social networks are continuing.
And a good example is the surprise visit by President Kikwete recently at the Dar es Salaam port where he found his instructions which he released three months ago has not been implemented as who was supposed to supervise the implementation of those instructions.
Without doubt, the Minister of Infrastructure said that for all the time until President Magufuli was forced to go to, it is a question that I think it gets a question that we are doing the energy of the ICT network in that port.
It is in another issue (for example) of tractors that we were told to have been directed to the third money that were taken back to corruption, they have been bought by if the answer is yes, it will be affordable or if it will be affordable or it will be a price in market?
There's no reason for these questions that, without doubt, farmers would like to know where there is no answers because the leaders that are supposed to give those answers are in the conflicts and those of the internet.
Take another example in the beginning of this year, President visited Mbeya Region.
When he arrived in Mbarali, I was surprised after seeing the investor, that was sold at a price for the rice farms which were given to the public, he has decided to remove it out of farming for preventing themselves (PAD) instead of rice if the contract is said.
By knowing that that action will not affect the amount of the rice bran in Mbeya Region (it gives 60 percent of all the rice bran and like it does not like to buy rice, then, those farms are already released since releasing the directive, which has it taken place?
I am sure that the directive was done in Mbarali District, because the ones that are supposed to make it will be able to fulfill the conflicts of corruption and the social networks!
Recently, the President of the International Monetary Federation (IMF), Kobe Bryant, has cautioned that the ongoing country's economy, including Africa, started affected with the economic growth of the world has come, and therefore start being careful.
So, our leaders in Tanzania have heard the story of striker Robert Lewandowski.
Sitalike, if they did not know, because they are able to fulfill the conflicts of corruption and the social media networks!
But the main question of asking, this is in the middle of these conflicts, and.
If you have tried to do so, I did not believe that he has tried to do that, because even when we have heard, we have heard about these conflicts and all the networks that affect the performance of his government.
Personally, there is a time I have got a lot of feelings like the one being happy about these conflicts and in the economic growth, that is ongoing inside the government, public institutions and within the parliament.
How do I prepare to look for me by saying that, up to that, when that, he will destroy his executives to stop these conflicts and even if he will try to rebuke these issues and he does not try to rebuke this situation to prevent them even if they stop completely. "
It depends on.
