
Sitta thank the former member of parliament for the constitution to fulfill the dream of the president.

Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta has said he will sign up the chairmanship of Special Constitutional Assembly because he believes that she has enough qualifications.

This is the first time for Sitta who was the ninth parliament speaker to put it open that decision and another one who has been mentioned is the former attorney general and the member of parliament for Bariadi West (CCM), Andrew Chenge.

The reputation of a person trying to lead that parliament is to have a degree of law from the university that is known as a result of running the debate such as the parliament.

Speaking with this newspaper yesterday, Sitta said that together with the dirty stations that are spread against him, he will not give up and that he will continue with his stand so that the country gets a better constitution.

"The law on constitutional changes has shown the reputation of a person who is being the chairperson and I have the reputation and I have good plans to make sure we get a good constitution as the dream of our president (Jakaya Kikwete)," he said.

When he was asked about the conspiracy by requesting him to vie for that position, Sitta said, "Haazu taking us people to use a dirty system when they don't have ethics, that is why they tell them but I am not even a little."

Sitta, who is also the member of parliament of Urambo East (CCM), said bad things have been making false words that when he went to the seat, he will supervise the third government plan.

"Say Sitta will allow three governments, now I am surprised because delegates are the ones with those authorities, the ones that follow up having a contract with the opposition is why they support him, they say it's good things," he said.

Sitta said their opponents as they were given other delegates from CCM and other groups, they have been supported because they believe that the seat will run that parliament on the basis of transparency and justice.

"I don't have a contract with the opponents but they like other people to support him because they know I will go right, I have a good record in running the ninth parliament or that does not fear," insisted Sitta.
