Thank you brothers.
When you were in Dar es Salaam, I'll be a penalty without losing time in one line with the topic.
It is saying that the meaning of the Tanzanians love or support the team in the world.
It is true that our team become a terrorist?
The late?
In my personal opinion, here is true that our teams are usually given?
What are you getting?
Our holiday if you check is general of our league do not have quality.
That quality is unacceptable, in various best things, we will highlight the jersey.
By talking.
While talking to the procedure of entering the field on day.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we will talk about the mistake about this example here.
The jersey of the league for us to say the truth is not good.
A good example is the league that has started.
Almighty God rest a lot of jersey and we have brought to two-all pictures, but if you look if you are not true, it does not know if you follow me, if you look for the sponsor.
James.
But if you know about four years ago, do not ever died about my heart that if you will get if you are with while in the middle, the groom did not allow me to take up to an extent that if you visit the jerseys which may not mean?
He does not pollute the cards but it is not true even in an issue that you have been gathered in the market, if we look for, we should not have a quality.
Another thing that we can look at the grounds to say the truth here is at home.
Almighty God rest a bit tricky subject.
The death of the National Stadium and a small field of Azam is little.
You talk to them but if you look at the provinces.
For example the Kaitaba stadium, the Kaitaba Stadium the JNIA airport, the late Mbeya City, the field is very bad, I will hear that today maybe if you join Azam and Mbeya City, I have been able to play a certain field to think that I don't know what I don't know for?
Therefore, he does not say the truth that doesn't have identified himself to look for our friendly matches.
The late God rest another procedure of getting into the field.
These days we have brought the ones that is electronic, through a way to buy tickets who are in who, but for many times you are done in all the matches that started the premier league, the late fans complained.
I have seen again that, we were able to prevent the verses and I don't know what they are getting little more than Antony the other people have gone down.
In the procedure and themselves is not good.
The late God rest another conflicts inside the clubs.
Leadership like leadership where people did not exercised.
Why is that and it is clear that it is very disturbing and also the leadership of a certain club is true and so far the people did not loose.
Why is that and it contributes up to them on top but not in everything that happens, what I want to know you seated on the offices there are doing their things but we know what we are doing, but with us at the field you got that.
It has identified himself.
The conflicts between players and leadership.
You find the leadership maybe for a certain team, the leader of the leader has the players that he does.
And the players who don't love everything in the world will make sure that he will make sure the fare will increase the fare and you can see him or those who proceeded to now.
She has identified himself something that I would not tolerate.
To say the truth.
Ras Makunja has said I don't know our place a day and the radio will open the ball.
You must be little that they need to show.
Better quality that is one of your photos there in large screen.
That we are happy to say that today there is a big match in the Azam Complex and Mbeya City, the late does not see me if he does not know what you are doing.
When you end at this day, my father depends on when you meet well and to an extent that there is a player where a player is looking at home or at any place, there's a habit that goes up with you but when they are born, we're being born today we're going on.
I'll help him to put this one close to the church of Tanzanians, to love the premier league, it is true that our league are usually contributed by a private sector.
.
The first thing of work is looking at home.
This is not an indication that it is available and we are looking at the players who have talents again in the same way.
When we look like I don't see if there is no reason why if you love you and do not see if you are.
There are other teams.
It means it's just one person when I think tomorrow at night, Kikwete's for example, as a agency that has women running sports in our country as we put the law.
All teams that are participating in the league.
Ras Makunja has said that this team is true, who gets stranded, do not try to have a member of parliament because it does not mean that when they get to children from being small at least they were found.
Therefore, as a result of this example, I am very difficult to support him in London because I see many Tanzanians give you.
The purpose of our league is to uplift many Tanzanians and five services later, they come at a problem we should choose players as they are unable.
The procedure of getting a program does not give you for example, there is a certain period to explain the example that her husband can be aired here in Bongo Simba for example, you find the players every time he wants to sell those people you know that the game.
When the two do not go through a phone like this, we cannot reach the second reason why is not a good place.
The life of Tanzanians is being done by poor vision, it was not wrong in the year the day before yesterday, there was no reason why if they were involved, it would have the ability to sell their bodies because I think that there was no need to sell their bodies because I think that they were not the ability to sell their bodies because I think that they were able to get enough money that they would have been able to make it a lot.
I think you will agree with me.
They had been able to register a capacity to have the ability to have the ability to have time and if you check up in our most important team it will be.
There is no need to give people that they can get into interests because it has become men like we will join together with other companies, why do we be given a chance to have more than four companies here in the country, I would have been given a chance to be and to appreciate their grandfather's friend here in the country.
Example you look at the English Premier League for example.
The sponsor of the added that it is my own life that is you to change, but you find some of the other clubs, you don't know what I would like while Liverpool did not see me or I don't know anything because that club is for example Man United to go into the operation of our league.
Why do you know that there is a must they represent here.
People from the schedule have no skills there was said that it has been postponed for Simba and Yanga you know the case he was taken to move ahead of time by seeing how many men should benefit from international but.
Things like that the government we have a we do not see in other countries of our colleagues we do not see if the schedule are changed to you.
Following the schedule of preparations for the match has been canceled.
