
If they intend to destroy the buildings of construction.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been released on 20th September 2016.

The board of registration of buildings, buildings and if they destroy the Majano (ARB) has requested the government to ease the start of construction laws in the country that will help to avoid conflicts between the collapsed building including an earthquake.

It has said that the law that is in various countries in the world including East Africa, will enable buildings and houses to be built according to the concerned areas with the possibility of entering various disasters as an earthquake.
The chairperson of that board, Doctor Ambwene Mwakyusa said that today when he was speaking about the sustainable training seminar to the creative and they affect the stoves that will take place tomorrow in Dar es Salaam.
Doctor Mwakyusa has said that the seminar is special to misuse of buildings, they affect the killings and other stakeholders in the construction sector to identify the opportunities available in the East African market (EAC) and the East African Community (SADC).
Speaking about that law, he said that if the law would have been there in areas with the history of the two earthquills, he would have been built by using equipment that even if it comes from its effects are not little.
"The law is professionally known, it is continuing to be prepared and it is well prepared, so as to be able to reduce the effects in the coming days, considering the experts have explained from the two sides," he said.
He said the big problem in the country is due to many citizens to build houses without using experts it is good to ensure the experts are being used to avoid problems that can arise in the construction.
Previously, the registrar of that board, Jeb Jews said that one day conference is going on to get more than 400 participants where they will also give education to those experts to know the benefits and importance of the social laws in improving their services together and share experiences on their work.
He said that profession in the country is new as more education is needed so as to increase knowledge, but every year, the experts have been increasing since last year they were registered more than 700 experts, and this year they have arrived more than 1000 shillings.
