We are blocking us from searching for a new sin?
APR of 18, 2013.

It's a few times for most of them to take their term and to look at yourself and educate them in accordance with its weight as well as usual, our country is owned by the colonialist.

Those boxers bought tickets will be sent even to give their lives to their honor and for the benefit of their lives and even if we will forget where their decision will not make themselves, there are the blood of the person they love for our freedom.

While talking about a youth that is wrong with patriotic actions, the person who did not want to know what he is called "Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, although she had gone to anyone, let me get married, I don't hesitate to fear anyone, and all the religious leaders even some wanted to be called a holy martyr.

This was a Tanzanian who once said that he had not allowed to lead Tanzania because his vision was very high to the extent that Tanzania was very difficult to understand and agree with them when he refused and asked them to resolve it and he wanted them to answer him.

There are some who saw him because they did not understand what they did not understand, again they put yourself the progress of their hands and they were able to read more than their hands, most of them don't know more than to understand their lives and get out of their toilets and get out of the government.

However, he told me that, when he was going back to home, it's not even planting a tree, he will need to destroy the chest and preventing themselves with the thoughts in the office while seeking a rumor that were able to capture the thoughts of many to stop the thoughts in order to discuss primary issues.

My brothers, this person is very attractive, but this person died, and when she died, there was people they heard that players who are measurable.

These players who broke the field of Arusha and had gone to the end of Zanzibar where up to today, I have not seen the same logic in my review of studying, they won the Julius Nyerere Institute to participate and discussions at Nkenye region, at the University of Dar es Salaam.

After several years, Tanzania started being faced again with the heavy rains with sharp teeth that were cut into the dream of Mzee Kimwana from our country and every day I want to emerge with a new issue of blocking us or any soul of our downfall.

First, the country with peace continued to be covered by the devil of election period, the person being elected because it's not the birth of the person and not the reputation of the person, and at their end, it was not less than the cost of following up on it is better to start the new industries.

Third, when you are started in the war of religion, prevent us who live together with love without being affected, they are expected to get a Muslim so that if you go to anyone, a Muslim can get a food, well as well as well as well as well as a good life.

Let you get a few people because they are starting to bring development policies and remove the union which was built by teacher and glorifying the ones that were renovated and the end of each other, the fact that this person started in public without fear, and that's the one or the one for the reason.
