13 November 2013.

Doctor Mvungi has died.

It was at the rearing of South Africa.
NCCR - Revolutions talks about the funeral.

Former member of the commission.
Changes of the constitution, Doctor Sengu Mvungi, died yesterday in the afternoon.
South Africa, at the Mazimbu Hospital in Johannesburg city.

Doctor.
Mvungi who is also a member of the executive council of the NCCR-Mageuzi Party.
Senior lecturer of the University of Bagamoyo (UB) ceremony, was taken to the country.
That after being attacked and injured last night on November 3, this year.
While at his home, Benedict Liwenga.

.
The NCCR-Revolution party has confirmed about the death of that death and added that.
Full results will be released today at the headquarters of the party in Ilala, from three o'clock.
The morning.

The service provider.
Those news inside the party who did not want his name should be prosecuted?
The newspaper said the late Doctor Mvungi was the biggest leader in the party.
He used that opportunity to make that party be done by many members.

Doctor.
Mvungi after being injured in death, he was rushed to Bugando Referral Hospital.
Referral Hospital in Kibaha, Coast Province and later to be transferred to hospital.
Taifa Muhimbili, the unit of patients who need special seats (ICU).

.
And his condition is not working well in that hospital, November 7th this year.
Doctor Mvungi is being transported to Nyarugusu refugee camp.
Flightlink is going to South Africa for more treatment until his death.
While doctors continue to save his life.

The spokesperson of the unit.
The Orthopedic Institute (MOI) Mister JumAlmas, said they were forced to fly him.
Doctor Mvungi from his health not to improve well.

Doctor Mvungi.
A huge injuries in head of his convoy, was accompanied by a doctor.
The specialist doctors took place at the Institute of Orthopedic, Doctor Clement Mugenda.
Mrs. Juliana Moshi.

The day before yesterday the police force.
In the country through the minister of internal affairs, Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi.
Nine people who were involved in fighting has left Salgo and steal different things.
The late Doctor Mvungi, already have been arrested.

Doctor Nchimbi.
Those people were arrested in different areas of Dar es Salaam at different times.
Previously they were arrested six and the day before yesterday to nine.

The police commander.
The special region of Dar es Salaam, Commissioner Suleiman Kova, who was also there.
The meeting, he mentioned those suspects to be Msigwa (30), "he said.
Leaflets with Hamadi Ally, the famous name 'Foolish Age'.

Others are Zakaria.
Raphael (the driver of a motorcycle), Mlenda Salay, Juma Hamis (the picture).
(Mid-shirt), Paul Jews have been sentenced to another by one name.
FIFA has been released, which all of them are residents of Dar es Salaam.

"The suspects.
Who was found with swords, Kigoda and who have been confirmed to be used in an event.
That has also been found with a mobile phone company, Doctor.
Mvungi, "he said.

Commissioner Kova.
He said that in an previous interview with the suspects, they confessed to be involved in that incident.
It has been completed by 80 percent.

"The suspects are accused.
They have condemned the offense and we completed the investigation so as to be taken to court.
One, "he said.

The deceased was found.
Doctor Mvungi to be vying for the presidency of the United Republic of Tanzania.
2005 to the ticket of the NCCR party.
