The allowances of the broad system of corruption in the country.
Mr, 27, 2013.

Last week the Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta, has been quoted by parliament of East Africa for being unable to attend the sittings that are being organized by that ministry for the first to ensure that they enable them to enable them to make corrections.
The statement by Sitta followed the one that was given by Bob Entertainment, who was admitted to the parliamentary committee of East African Union, who complained in the Parliamentary Committee on foreign affairs that the ministry led by Sitta has been unable to give direction when they attended the parliamentary sessions of East Africa.
All the two statements of these leaders are announcing the statement of a patient that is surprising because it shows that our East African parliamentarians do not know their responsibilities, and that they will represent our country in the East African Legislative Assembly.
Until today, I don't know the women they want to be given the guide by the ministry in making sure that there is a certificate of the East African Community and even so, I don't read the statement of Shyrose up where I will discuss the statement of Samuel Sitta.
When I talk about the statement of Samuel Sitta on the reason he placed a foolish thing that he was talking about a new issue in the political sector and the life of our nation as a whole.
I did not believe that Sitta saw the statement of the previous day. I believe that when I told him, she said that before yesterday's action, he said that before the committee of Edward Lowasa, what he did is to marry Sitta and gave him his political opponent.
For political politics in a group inside CCM I don't be dealt with later to know that she is in the group of Lowassa and maybe he was scheduled for him to talk for him, he said that he cannot work!
Samuel Sitta did not have a reason to inherit the member of parliament of East Africa for being satisfied with the allowances because he knows well that in this country there is no leader, a servant or ordinary citizens who is able to attend the work session without claiming to be paid the allowances.
Our members of parliament are paid allowances for going to parliament while doing their normal work, the leaders of public institutions (Nida), different ministries and other government institutions know that you can get our parliamentarians in any seminar without the importance that there will be allowances.
And if you were prepared a seminar without those allowances, they will go back immediately and there is no explanation and he knows that together with his fellow ministers, they don't accept to open the seminar, even if the speech they are organized by the organizers of the concerned event.
In various public institutions, people were allowances for going on at the half hours when you will find all the delegates are leaders and they have already paid duties because thousands and others even millions of shillings.
Again, the sessions they get used for several hours from their private offices I had a question when we saw the leader of the students why we were doing so that we can decide to do a foolish thing.
Employees in various institutions of the government can't attend any seminar without being paid the allowances, even when the seminar will involve training for their performance and those who do not want to attend to the research so that we are able to attend to participate in the research until we see the allowances for them.
However, the citizens' education is evident that this country because citizens don't want to attend to be given to the allowances that the politicians know how they are visiting their campaigns of elections are alleged to have allowances for internal meetings and Vy of phones.
The people are not satisfied themselves and contribute to social development issues such as contributing to class one, the church or Mosque, but they will be happy if you help their private help.
