Welcome to Mbeya commander.
Mose 21, 2014.

To come to the new police commander of Mbeya Region, Ahmed Msangi, who was accompanied by emerging victorious with the wave of crime of using the wild weapons, the citizens are spoiling their lives.
However, in his report to the media, it shows the absence of criminal incidences in Mbeya City, while several areas in the recent days citizens have witnessed back to the crime.
Apart from the news reporters, however, in his meeting with journalists at the police force in Mbeya Province last week, Commander Msangi has not been on the real death of criminal crime.
Crime, including the ones with using fashion designers who have been in that province, especially in Mbeya City for a long time, however, experience shows that it depends on the police commander of the province that is there.
During the recent years, the citizens of that town have remember more about how he toured the hospital after arriving, he refused to put the presence of a problem and then put up the strategies of controlling it, not a secret, the residents of Mbeya City that he refused to put in crime.
Opinion of those residents about the successor to him is that he knows all crime or it's a procedure to resolve the real situation of crime, he decided not like it, a step that led to the conclusion of the wave of citizens being shot dead.
There are some who believe that the coming up of the wave of criminal crime, is a message to the commander of honor, that he was welcomed by refusing to try and leave the view they believe that he has agreed to be used.
The report of the commander Msangi has been read before the journalists in Mbeya town, in an evaluation of the army about the state of crime in that province for a period of last month, he mentioned the incidents of crime that are in their records as well as well with the killing of raping and killing them.
Other events that he mentioned is together with the sale of children, human transportation, to join the use of weapons that use the strength of the killing, theft, availability of weapons contrary to the law, Kidawa (alcohol) and illegal immigrants.
Other events are those with road safety including accidents, deaths arising from accidents, and violating traffic rules.
Not knowing the crime of using nuclear weapons in the evaluation of the police commissioner in that province, has caused fear among the residents of that city claiming that it is a reason for the leader to resolve the truth of the real situation of crime in that province due to the fact that they have already been facing attacks with that weapon.
Traditional weapons which are popular in that province, especially in Mbeya City, which is used so much in crime, there are many affected by witchcraft even though the few events that arise are the victims.
However, according to some of the police officers in that province, the major use of the weapons in the crime are as a result of several things including surgery, as it is not easy to prevent it, the use and a big cause.
"I was easy to get out and use it by using it, it gives them different work with other weapons, here there is no danger of swords and even a gun," says one officer of the army in that province.
Journalists recording security.
In a result of doubt, one of the journalists in Mbeya town found it was wanted by the police officers on the district level and according to the journalists themselves, the doubt that it has been established and caused by the call by the journalist about the signing of a series of death in Mbeya town.
Some of the journalists came out at the meeting to Msangi, and has built in a call to the journalists that were in his report so that they can consider the ethics of their work of writing news on what he called to avoid misleading the public and to bring conflicts, and in one of his information that can be easily read.
"It is our faith that the media houses that are used well is by following and considering the ethics of the work, our responsibility is to make changes and development to the community, it is our responsibility to build better and stable foundation in general especially youth and children."
