Health of Doctor Slaa.
Mr 11, 2015.

The controversy has emerged about the health condition of the secretary general of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo party (CHADEMA), Doctor Wilison A. Slaa, following the news of a threat in his life.
CHADEMA, at the end of last week, decided to arrest the former mid-fielder of Doctor Slaa, Khalid Kangana, who was alleged to plan the plot to sign the secretary general in collaboration with leaders inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) and the Department of National Security (NIDA).
CHADEMA seems to realize that Kangana who was communication and bad friends "those of Doctor Slaa for more than two years, but investigators have now started a question about the safety of Doctor Slaa.
This is because a private defender is the one that make sure the safety of food, accommodation, and fashion designers who talked with this newspaper with the conditions of not being mentioned by the explanation that the issue is in the hands of state organs.
Speaking about the threat of his health, Doctor Slaa said that although for now he feels well, he cannot remove the possibility of that maybe he has set aside anything or a bad thing in his life.
This issue, the issue (which is being prepared) is needed for more than two years now, you can't know if there is something that is not a problem but for now I feel good.
"But if we think it does not lie on my health check so that I be known if I have already been affected or anything, I'm ready for that party to understand it," said Doctor Slaa.
Who will get the death of Doctor Slaa?
Just after the member of parliament's executive committee, Mabere Marando, announced that about the threat of life of Doctor Slaa, his fellow citizens made an interview with some of the cadres of parliament to get information about that issue.
A person who is in the middle of those accusations, Kangana, is reported to start being a private defender of Doctor Slaa since the year 2007 (approximately eight years) and he was explained as faithful.
"Others have been shocked by these reports of Kangana, many people do not know if one faithful who don't know what to do something like that to Doctor Slaa.
"He has been with her in all times and also you know that he is going out in Kagera province which is also going out in his wife to Doctor Slaa's wife, Doctor Slaa is in his in-law that we were surprised and that is why we were surprised.
"If police want to investigate this issue, I would also request that they look for a possibility of existence for what professional that is known as the Job Ndugai (themselves by themselves) and it must be looked at inside, will benefit if Doctor Slaa will not be affected today?
"We should not tell you that in the past, we did not meet the accusations of the death of Chacha Wangwe, and others until today we don't know where we had reached," we had met with the death of Doctor Slaa?
"At the moment, Doctor Slaa is the one who had a person who came to vie for the presidency) inside the parliament and Ukawa, so many people should enjoy this because we have no people inside here and they can be able to vie for presidency if Doctor Slaa will not lead them?
"In recent days, if you are a good pursuer of the parliament, you will see that Doctor Slaa is not seen in the provinces if it was in the past and it is possible for people to resolve its star inside the party.
"Personally, I have two things that have been wrecking your head on this issue of first, why the suspect was arrested and stopped by the police officers instead of being taken to him where it is alleged to have heard his house which is contrary to the law.
The second one, why did not be taken to the official security guards, Red Nade and instead he was defeated by the CCM's defense officers, "said one of the leaders of parliament who talked with this newspaper with conditions of not being mentioned names.
One of the staff of CCM's headquarters, who speaking with this newspaper said Doctor Slaa is supposed to be dealt with in recent days and it is possible for it is not a normal thing as it appears.
"We need me to do a very quick investigation if there is problems that be known and if it does not be known, I don't know what I don't know if I don't know if I don't know if you will do if you will do," said the servant.
