
"The popularity of the 7th.
President Yoweri Museveni on Saturday was announcing many after claiming that Uganda's citizens are the ones that forced him to contest for the presidency contrary to his love he wants to retire from.
In an interview with one radio station, President Museveni explained that if the Ugandan citizen could not accept when he was happy, he was very happy, claiming that it is very big considering that it is close to Museveni and the opposition.
In the year 1990, Museveni was highly commended all over the world by being a unique leader after losing the nation of Uganda following many years of violence and the deterioration of the nation's economy.
At that time President Museveni got the popularity for his efforts to fight and reduce the cases of HIV in Uganda.
United States of the western countries called Museveni as a leader to be followed by other presidents in the African continent for being the best player so as to benefit from many development donations.
That took place during that time, but up to now, many things about the administration of Museveni have been changed and at large, the reputation of the existence of democracy will be demolished.
Azo African Wanderers, President Museveni, including the prime minister, speaker of parliament and other senior officials who appear to be ready to inherit the presidency, but some of Museveni have changed to become rebels as seen in Zimbabwe.
In September, President Museveni praised the former prime minister Amen Mboma in the ruling party of the political parties that he used his position to appoint Museveni as a veteran politician in the next elections.
Museveni who has been in power since 6 months is supposed to cease giving birth to the opposition party and instead announcing it open his intention to vie for the presidency again.
Already the child, Museveni did not lie in posing with the army with speed, has been named among the people who can inherit the father.
And his wife Museveni, who is also a minister is among the relatives of that family that hold the main position in the government.
It is looking for Museveni to loose our country's family by giving him a lot of people from Uganda since a few years after that President was quoted saying that the main problem of Africa is the leaders not want to step down.
The popularity of the leader is not only the only tickets to fall in power, this was confirmed when the former President of Burkina Faso Bhebey Ndey has been operated on despite the opinion polls to destroy the first to 70 percent for a long time.
