
Mkwasa has written the paper.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published today, September 2016.

The coach of the national soccer team, Taifa Stars, Boniface Mkwasa has mentioned the six reasons for that team to sign him away from the competition to contest for the tickets to qualify for the African Cup finals in Gabon.

Speaking to journalists at the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Dar es Salaam yesterday, Mkwasa said one of those reasons is not covered in its programs because they did not have money.
Stars went on the schedule of that tournament by a draw of 1-0 by Nigeria in a match that was played at the end of last week, Nigeria has also lost a chance.
Preparations to support him.
"Preparations to support the roads, there are other hours preparing a program that you take them to the TFF because there is no money, sometimes it is given because players are in the responsibilities of their team, preparations are required to support enough preparations to bring competition."
The club has a problem / players to come out, that coach told the journalists that the club are supposed to take their players well so that they are called to the national team to have a great contribution to help the country.
"The national team is expecting the players from that club if they will not be prepared well if they expect to have a best soccer team," said Mkwasa.
"Our players don't have a sigh of relief, there are very difficult, if you look at the game (against Nigeria) in the second minute, my players lost their joy due to getting tired of getting a goal," Bado 'we need to get a good time for preparations for the team and also to use it well.
"We do not use his fan not to get enough from time to time, we are supposed to give time for preparations so that we find a good opportunity, but our players are supposed to give exercises for their players especially young people so as to help our nation's team," he insisted.
The players are going to.
"We are doing exercises for two days, we are supposed to know time, the clubs are supposed to ensure the players are fit and go to the gym or passport.
Ethiopia went against Stars on the bench that TFF is supposed to prove to a letter from Ethiopia Airlines Company for failing to give better service to the players who had gone up to sleep at each other.
At-five, Mkwasa gave five players to the youth, especially the goalkeeper, Aishi Manula has thrown out a good level of helping many types of living with CAF Mkwasa, said something what caused the Stars failed to move forward in that tournament is a difficult match against the countries that are in the FIFA level.
We look in a group of countries like Egypt and Nigeria which did not qualify for the tournament for two years now, what would you get into their final matches, we're going on away away. "We will send these coaches to be careful.
Moreover, Mkwasa also said another thing that made him are players of that team to use one jersey where they were forced to play in exercises and in the match.
"Let it reach a place, we change, players jersey, and those who leave and then get married, there should be a modern jersey and even I am pleased with one jersey and we cannot go back to the country in the past years when we come from there.
Atleti a player, Mkwasa said that he is in a trap to continue training that team for what he explained is tired of the environment that is not a friend of doing work.
"Many times when you say the truth seems to be bad, but I am not saying there are things that are proud of and giving me the weight to continue with my work, even if they will follow up and I will not be careful, that will not be ready," said Mkwasa.
Another reason that may have contributed to Mkwasa in a way to see the national team, it has been explained that it is TFF to oppose his agreement in the contract including giving a house, transport although the coach has been defending himself and found himself to work in difficult environments.
June 21, last year, TFF changed the contract with foreign coach from Holland, Mart Nooij, after Stars being surrounded by 3-0 goals by Uganda and Uganda (Ambassador Cranes) in the match to contest for the finals of the African Cup for the local players (Uganda) and appointed Mkwasa to take that position.
