Lowassa set it.
28th of 5, 2015.

Monduli member of parliament, Edward Lowassa, is alleged to buy a dream of some of the cadres of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) who have shown an intention to inherit the parliamentary seat in that province, after he announced his successor to be Noma in Sokoine.
I have released the child of the former prime minister of Tanzania, the late Edward in Sokoine, who died in an accident of on April 12, 1984, in Morogoro province when he was coming from Dodoma for government activities.
In one of his past issues of December last year, this newspaper reported that more than five cadres of CCM had announced their intention to vie for the parliamentary seat of Monduli Constituency so as to inherit Lowassa who has been unable to announce that he will not contest.
Among the cadres who have shown intentions are together with the CCM's Publicity Secretary in Arusha Province who is also the councilor of Monduli Ward, Isaack Joseph, popular by the name Kaduri, the councilor of Llongero ward, Daniel Makandege.
Among those leaders are Lowa Mitego, it is the one who did not want to remain at Lowassa's camp and he has been running his political activities by being supported by the groups of elders, women and youth of that constituency.
However, the information that was found out of several sources within the session are indicating that those cadres have been given, "said Lowassa to remove those intentions and make sure that they make a campaign to have been launched in Sokoine Stadium in their wards.
Those reports are indicating that Lowassa gave those instructions on January 16th this year, when he made a meeting with those cadres and other leaders of CCM of Monduli District, in his office in Dar es Salaam city.
That attended the session that started at ten o'clock in the morning and took place at 4 o'clock in the afternoon by the council chairman, Edward Marks (the councilor of Monduli County), Julius Kalunga (councilor of Monduli District), Julius Kalunga (councilor of Monduli District), Julius Kalunga (the councilor of Monduli District, Arusha Province.
According to our source, others who attended that session are Rubea Tsehai said that the CCM Chairman (Monduli District), Daniel Makoko, (secretary of CCM) District, Coast Province, who is the host of Monduli District.
More news shows that session had one agenda which is to discuss the parliamentary seat of Monduli Constituency, where Lowassa explained to openly that all of them are required to support I have launched the Sokoine stadium to be the member of parliament of that constituency.
Moreover, Lowassa promised those cadres that if they will implement the directive "his directive will be given various leadership opportunities according to the needs of every government which will go into power after the general elections of this year.
A big reason that is being mentioned by Lowassa wants to be a member of parliament is that he will have a nuisance on the primary issues than that the member of parliament for another person.
Previously in the state of the session, it was also critical and those who have agreed to support those on the side but later they have been promised the positions in the government that will come in power, "added our source.
More reports were claiming that after all the agreements made it, "said the area of Dar es Salaam" which is an agreement that all who help him have been in the Sokoine stadium to make sure Lowassa who is reported to vie for the presidency in that election, he went to power at any cost.
According to our report, the cadres have been promised to be given power and work in the government and public organizations according to the ability of education and other needs of each one.
Our source has revealed that Daniel Makaziwe who was promised to be the district commissioner Julius Kalanga, has been promised to be the chairperson of Monduli District Council, while Ruwa Mitego has been promised to be the chairperson of Monduli District Council, while Rubella, has been promised to be a member of the board of one of the public organizations here in the country.
In addition, those reports have added that the current chairperson of the council, Edward Lowassa, has not been promised anything for the claims that he does not have any political problem because of facing various accusations of misuse of power and lack of money for the council of the district.
"After that session, every member was given a thanks of 10 million shillings as cooperation of supporting I have been in the Sokoine Stadium for seeing him in the community groups like the traditional elders, women and youth," added that source.
