And the heart to go to the areas they got into the field while I did not know the work, forget.
When many people are there, there are many people, but we have never happened in the market, but from these Tanzanians who do you visit the press.
I request for you.
When you go to press you know if you pass through you, maybe it is an act of people doing so much and when it comes up to you, I started in a long time when I started a long time when I start with a long time.
Welcome him and I have found a lot of work.
Every time of seventies, they were drugs that the case was to see if the sets, and singing a big capital, we had come to each other and went to work something in the evening it helps several songs.
Prepare themselves to do today, that years had anticipated happens together with this one, Mister through until now we have begun with all and attractive things when they get them.
When you go in Dar es Salaam, I will make it mean?
This work is not open?
It was the first day when I arrived in Dar es Salaam, I was in the first time I was started and asked to sell his pictures because at the evening you can study at a hotel.
Now, as it came to you about the areas where I get money and I saw it possible that, I was in a heart and get a heart to sell the pictures of the man close to when I decided to take time and when I decided to take care of them when I decided to take care of them when they decided to take work to Mister and then they won the Fallness.
In the past many years their husbands even in normal life through and there are four hours.
He has removed many of you a child for your child to make it a lot of great benefits, the late does not bring a lot of great benefits and to them do not like them.
To teach them's work and living with one of the restaurants which resulted to kill I am no.
Anything for the coming activities are only used by these photos that are seen.
Different from the beginning, they will be able to benefit from this small rivers that have been affected so much in the past years, eat at a very much time, and have already opened a lot, not knowing the picture by general Simba.
We will see you.
So, Mister we had his death that their towns invited to be written in plenty, last week was removed.
We are preparing for the new Tanzanians' service to many Tanzanians, I remember that Mister in everything he is very happy, the aim of what I want to follow keenly, the aim of what to take a creativity and there will not be careful.
To look at what you shouldn't understand the answer, it will be youths to benefit from it from a normal Tanzanian, even we will come to get our problems so that we can talk about our problems.
If it was you, there's no problem.
There is no one who is coughing, I think I think of work.
If you are in the body, it is a lot of teachers so much, because they eat the wild animals, most of the Tanzanians themselves don't like you think.
If you go through right you will be able to look at the quality of fellow people and they do not have many to get here between them.
To go to Ngorongoro to go to Chalinze as they are in Mikumi county, while giving them my work that he didn't know what is on the seat.
If it is a frog video, they will do not see the market that will be sent by that person, they were admitted to me when he saw Mister a Tanzanian who is wrong.
This becomes difficult to do a lot of sexual excitement.
We have been asked for slavery, when you take it to five years in that country, they do not say it is enough for the Tanzanians to education because they do not know how many Tanzanians are doing.
The truth is that I think about understanding.
Today.
Let you know, but the truth that every time a few days of Tanzanians from going to and look for a stern warning and does not know if we are not knowing the Tanzanians but the action is not supposed to know or when we get ten tons only.
Most of the residence is a lot of hands being touched by the theft, and you were living a lot of work to send and wait, I think they have gotten a lot of efforts to work, but I think they have gotten a lot for them for them, where he sees you.
In addition to that is mentioned.
