Nyerere's day when he found himself.
October 16, 2014.

There was a match that I have played 74 matches, when I was close to the Saint Lucie Hotel in London City, the hotel is in 4 star but it's a place that is near the British Council and the one at 4 o'clock in the world that is near the Big Sethi.
During drought that were made, the weather had been made in the weather, it was reported that the beginning of June 1997 and there was no weeds, there was no rains.
I was happy, I want to vie for the peak of Shanghai, where Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere was the guest of honor to one community that was faced with relationship between the United Republic of Europe and the African Continent.
Two minutes before going to a hotel in my mobile phone, he said he was silent for his party Omari Matata, a famous presenter in Radio Tanzania, Dar es Salaam, who later wrote him in the Swahili language of BBC, London.
Party did not tell you about the funeral of the death of Oscar Asenga, what I got in addition to sadness and as to as to know the truth.
I met with him for the first time in 1967 when he left Tanzania but for a long time I stopped him and when I saw him, she was tired of the liberation of Africa and even so, he had a lot of time when he was carrying a bag of papers.
Even though he was going to vote and I did not care about it because it's political and it gives a lot.
I like to listen to you when he told the teacher and Vijimambo has been done by many by Siwema who did not tell ourselves that there is no one who did not know what is one of the bank outside Tanzania.
A lot of thoughts about Moscow and Nyerere passes away when I was going on the hotel of St. Erena, the day before June, 1997, I was and the desire to mark Nyerere will come out, about the death of his former friend and the rival sides of many years.
But Nyerere told me that when I was praising him about the funeral, I'm looking at her near in her future, it did not have any feelings of sadness or not in mind.
"He also died as when I met me when I told me that shortly the last time, it was like we have talked about a person who doesn't have any meaning.
Likewise, he was a person who had a lot from him but Nyerere did not show me or he did not show that he told his old friend who died in June 1997.
Although many networks are together with the Wikipedia network, he wrote that Kambona, died in July, 1997, for sure he died in June this year.
That was my second time to meet the teacher at the hotel of St. Erena. The first time was a few years before the first round of the presidential candidate, Ali Hassan Mwinyi.
When I was surprised when I was wearing a hotel in the field I met on the face of Nyerere when they saw it up to his red carpet.
"We are not known, Rajab Mwilima of what you wrote on what I wrote." He followed him and then he went to doing his guards and tell them, "this is here while speaking to write a present.

Why do you ask you? I ask you? I would have explained all. "
He did it is fire by the ones that was and I was surprised and wrote.
I have written about him and Mwinyi. Shortly, he was surprised that Nyerere had broken the heart and Mwinyi and how he used the country.
Several years later I met with him at the Mangaka- Masasi hotel in Nairobi, Kenya and I did not want to prevent us from my day he wanted to give me a red card and when he told me, he wrote on the article I told me that he told me.
"It was a yellow card," he answered, "because I was not saying."
Here I told him that then at least they thank you for seeing that he wrote a few years later, he will be silent.
When the meeting will meet the journey in Nairobi I have seen various habit, we have been invited to the meeting to discuss the future of Africa in the 21st century where he is the former chairman of the meeting, in his opening speech when the opening of a teacher had attacked him in the United States.
After his speech, Danny Sserunkuma one who was the assistant coach, Kenneth Kaunda for he told BBC, "believe that African countries have been sent, I am saying that for sure it is okay and what came to it?
He answered me his question and without putting him a teacher because he mentioned his policies, the teacher claimed that is the reason.
