
Ront the drivers of Tanzania DRC to do anything.

It has been written by Lucy Lameck.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

On the 21st of September this year, the government will also take a series of cement in the country of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), after going back to the country to join together with their families, after several days of having a difficult time due to time to be sold by the rebels of that country.

The 10 drivers were abducted and had gone down in the country while they were in possession of great fear for approximately one week since they were abducted on Wednesday night of September 14th this year.
According to the story of those drivers, among them they are in the scene to evade the rebels and went to them, something that was more dangerous to them, because those rebels have been able to meet with them and therefore they could have lost their lives due to the death of rebels.
The action of those drivers to go back to the country are free without disabilities or any injuries is something to ask and thanking the government's efforts to ensure the rebels are safe and eventually go back to the country to join their families related to them.
In addition, the quick efforts that were taken by all the two governments, that is Tanzania and DRC in order to sell them, but also it intends to strengthen security and security together with other things, business and even other activities between the country to continue and improve more in good ways and in peace.
It should be remembered that apart from DRC, Tanzania is by Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Zambia, Mozambique which together with all the others need security and security, and not destroying the relationship of the country, which is the catalyst to development and growing the economy of the concerned country.
It should also be remembered that there are drivers from different companies that have been selling products through road safety to the neighboring countries where in that event that brought together their colleagues to reduce the pace and help them to build a speed of hatred and hostility.
It's not only drivers who use the road transport systems, but also passengers and even business people who have in one way or another they have graduated from one area to another, therefore, instead of constructing good relationship, but also you will contribute to stop various development activities.
Because the business between Tanzania and the neighboring countries will continue even in the coming generations, it is good to ensure defense and security plans to make sure security and security to those who use the main road from other countries.
It is as a result of the incident, even owners of vehicles that provide transport services and products and business people have not a catalyst to having hostility of any kind but they should know that in efforts that were done by the government of both sides, they will be safe when they see the neighboring countries to continue to grow further.
Therefore, it's right now for drivers who have been affected by the tragedy of having patriotism but as they continue providing services in neighboring countries to continue preaching and showing love, the aim being to maintain peace and security as it is the reputation of Tanzania.
