Only that actress has succeeded to appear in the final stage of the Copa Coca Cola tournament and two and two after beating it has gone to Temeke 2 goals in one and the semi-finals.
That was played in the morning at the Karume Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam city.
Full reports are there.
The star that had a difficult time with the competition was special, Tegete threatened two goals before Dickson Maimu after scoring two goals by scoring a clean goal since the 3rd minute.
The game that was very difficult for all teams since I had been used to get three minutes to get the winner some of those teams from a draw of one goal in ninety minutes of the game that I will be played in a fast rate and managed to increase two goals in the game.
How was found by the national team of youth soccer in the age of twenty years in Ngorongoro, Jacob Zuma, has said that those competitions have been good because he has advised many youths to ensure that many youths are supposed to get many youths whom they can get there.
He can also vote against him that he led him and he has already been highly commended for the most sex events of football.
In the country.
We have been encouraged to see that in the competition, the competition is big weight and it is a very big event that has really terrifying.
For a family of him to talk for him.
It is not all what I met?
So Mister Nice does not have himself.
Somanda Hospital.
You are you.
The late Almighty God bless you in the same time, that coach of the national team, youth, has admitted to send an application of the star who plays international soccer in the English Premier League, while you cannot join his team for the purpose of going to Nigeria.
He has said that they have called the star for the purpose of strengthening energy, but the day before yesterday, his squad after a player Too Much of world being held by his club of TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Jerry as they are seen.
There is work immediately.
He has been impressed by a voice since he was seen in his home that she removed the games instead of having a foolish thing.
