
Tuesday, June 19, 2012

The influx of insects and pest.

The influx of masturbation.
Or in another name, the name 'Thanks, a girl (Thanks), are very small-scale enterprises.
The sim card and color is yellow in color, he resorted or black.
(The picture) is recognized by having its wings to the body of shivered.
Or a black spectacles.
And Mchaga (red) of color.
In the chest it seems to be well using the shivered.

In a long period, the influx was seen in many areas that are tested for farmers, "he said.
His effects were small in the recent years have been seen.
You live in large numbers to bring great losses especially.
The terror attack by Chipa.
In Masasi District, there are also attacks from these diseases have been seen in the district.
Nachingwea and Newala in a small level.
You're being afraid of you.
These cells are usually caused by
Changes in weather.

First round.

The dangers that comes out of eggs in a section under the leaves and eggs are executed after 3 days ago.
Up to 4 and on the village.
Very small businesses (not pictured).
I do not have a very disturbing.
The second step (second round that night).
After 7 days to 8 days.
What are the ones that have a big destruction.
The are the steps of eating and praising him in a high level, after one week again,.
You came for the first step of "I personally ', (NySolo that night) and his second step.
By 3 to 4 days, in these two steps, (a FFGM), the aerial balls.
They won't be shaken or eating food but it usually takes place together.
In land, this step of "I'll be able for 11 days to 12.
And that the influx of big (VAT).
The he asked, is one month and that attracts you so much during drought immediately.
Heavy rains, especially among the month of June.
And in October, that influx is completely eradicated during rains, however we usually swell in the season.
Another like that causes the biggest nuisances.

The attack was taken.

You will care for infants together.
Major ones who fail to go on the lower side of vegetables especially what is allowed.
'Leo's squad and Mashada stadium in the country will make sure that infants are inspiring.
And you have talked about the leaves, where it stopped.
You missed the shivered or a black person, but especially the color of light.
That used to be dealt with and were forced to address the color and having severe pains.
You're with a bag of color of money (given priority).
Later, while talking to having a color of soil (he has hurt me), finally you are avoided.
And the leaves are really terrifying.
That is recognized by those affected.
Affected those areas that are believed to be attacked and were affected.
It does not understand completely that trees that were shocked by because it has paid a penalty in the influx, that can you sell him again.
The month of November and December.

Other crops is shivered.

Mosquitoes get infected with the leaves and even the flowers of various types of crops and plants, such as it doesn't affect the boundaries.
Pamba, a large number of large numbers are because of large numbers of plants which are recognized by the influx, control.
The pests who can be difficult for a certain amount.

The increase of sin?

These diseases are annoyed so much, for you, that doesn't give the weather well, codile and that doesn't agree with any farms which are not served.
General it is continuing especially in big trees.
The influx of drought or drought of a long time.

The spread of.

That influx are spread especially in wind power or at a pond.
The way they have been identified.

Control in urine.

The only way that is used to control the bacteria is use.
The drugs are drug abuse or Karaegypti.
And we have confirmed to control the influx of illegal immigrants.
And one liter of water is enough to control these diseases in a big tree.
The examiner (more than 10 billion shillings) is an important thing to inspect the attacks.
In the month of May.
Or see the pest and return after the third day (21 days).
Taking place using fire machines (Misango) or Michungamano (KMU).
The same way is a terrorist depending on the size of the tree and it is important to start.
Early drugs, so as to be able to control these words, and when they are in their steps.
First, all the growth of their growth (the same time), this is important because it is difficult to learn.
That causes the big number of 2 to 3.
Enough, do not care about these, in one season, if necessary, fruits (central) that received it.
They should be used until after 21 days.
