
18 percent of mobile banking services are seen to be counterfeit, while the 79 percent of.

The Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has said that about the 79 percent of all mobile phones carried out on the period of December to February this year are safe and not counterfeit drugs, while 18 percent appear in the market are few different from the past.

It has also been revealed that a big percentage of the houses built by electricity is due to fake phones whose battery or its equipment are unable to withstand the radiation when they become still being required thus causing a fire accident and therefore bringing effects.

That was said by the Relations Manager of the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority, Innocent Mungi, when he was speaking at a seminar for the number of mobile phone numbers that brought together stakeholders and business people in the city.

He said that as a result of education that they have issued to the business people of those phones to ensure they sell to the citizens have reduced the importation of fake phones and that they have noted that 79 percent are safe of any kind of problems.

He claimed that following the availability of fake phones that will take place on June 16, the authority has been able to provide education to traders, users to ensure that they get their phones as safe so as to avoid the exercise of getting their phones without their ability to prepare.

"We have begun to identify the exercise of identifying fake phones that believe that 30 percent were fake but due to the education given up to February phones, it has reduced up to 18 percent, it shows that fake phones in the market are very few," he added.

Moreover, Innocent mentioned the benefits of buying fake phones as well as increasing security on the internet to phone users, reducing the theft of phones and to reduce criminal acts that have been used to be used to prevent the use of mobile phones.

Previously the executive director of that authority, Ally Simba urged the citizens to do an exercise to verify their phones by following the instructions this week so that they can identify fake phones before getting the phones, June 16, because many of the phone users have not been following the efforts to make those phones.

Simba was informed that it is good for the citizens to use the system that has been forced to identify their phones if they are safe since June all fake phones will be disabled and urged business people to be careful when they buy their cargo.
