But if we go to primary schools we can give out ten students we want to use one of that.
When you go to press here in Nyakato Primary School, which has been made to say that six percent we see when they see.
Jonas ten more that they did not leave one of the ones using Bayport's family, which usually you can get services.
In the past, it is a health center where we get married or the names left, that a student is using one school here and we are searching for twenty thousand percent.
Therefore, everyone have never been able to succeed if I'm trying, we will place at the health insurance fund in the first to say people who are big people have a little ability, we love each other than five students.
Their father is one although we cannot tell me that the father or mother of where five people are in one way.
Truly, help you so much in order to give a lesson so as to give a solution.
In order to ask for money they did not collect us bags.
The Premier has to accept to read issues of know if I was surprised.
Follow up and the vehicles are used to look for results.
You can't know whether you have said that we have brought to you a soccer coordinator also to supervise because.
We am happy that their property is used well and they know that it is true they have learned from this.
And the body is supposed to be accountable about the management of councilors and maybe by other citizens themselves and also to participate in accordance to the supervisor they are getting an opportunity to eat something that makes us need.
It is true that my brothers each other.
First of the council is the district commissioner.
When the union also urged the director for that committee that came out by the director of Iramba district and apart from the European government all workers in using them.
Therefore, I am the first to look for all the things that are happening in the parties because what is the great management in the district in every district.
And on that logic, then hole is the one to be criticized for everything before.
That is also the size of all the things that are taking place in agriculture.
Education, forests and everything.
In the monitoring of funds that are contributed to it is a very important thing and a very big issue because you can put a good control of money for the citizens, I urge the few people to contribute to those contributions.
In that logic, then in the health sector and the committee starting in the district there is a committee.
There are also a certificate of Free Agent that night, at the gate, he will meet the coach to remove this leader, there is his European board in which district.
There are vice president's vice chairman who are told you are not present a certain amount today, we saw there are important plans to follow up on the same level and they know this journey to look for benefits and use because they have never advised the director for that director.
Everyone is going on.
Someone who is supposed to be responsible in public funds must be accountable and am no effects to be responsible.
To play and am playing with the money you need to do with.
Illegal money.
Most of the phones but those of them is thanking you, what does it mean that I have remained money for me, I would like this one when I greeted them that the citizens are required then the construction should use those funds.
To me I would speak to an increase in one party he wrote together with me.
For the purpose of getting rid of urine, it doesn't know that I will told the Straight Outta because citizens are supposed to use well the road and there the councilors must be careful in every issue today is in their joy and not using my joy by all the management.
