These accidents are now like a share of electricity.
APR of 03 / 2014.

"In the nation of" who is an accident like "(A - WHO) an accident which has started the other day of electricity," it is a message that I wrote the day before yesterday in certain social network, after reading the news that two events of accidents have costed more than 350 colleagues.
That message was carrying two primary things and the first one, is the meaning that we are not involved among the most important issues and for their nation, examples are many but here I will make it a few months.
If there are two things that are doing so much in social media, it is complaints that do not produce their services at home, two areas that sell the complainants is the availability of electricity and poor services of some of the mobile phones.
In the problem of the availability of electricity, many of the complainants use a great language and even abusive language against TANESCO, a shame to make sure that the electricity organization will take a shame and to stop the behavior that led to the current permanent secretary to get electricity immediately after one day.
I'm asked himself, recently, these citizens should be able to do it to avoid sexual abuse, but maybe a group that can also be taken to blame despite those citizens, "Masau boasted.
This group is composed of people who know the laws that involve the consumer (SMS) and maybe if they would have been touched by this behavior of TANESCO, it is clear that they would have been opened by a large group of people that are represented by a group of lawyers, against someone or an institution.
For example, the year 2008, several customers of one company of communication services in the United States, AT & T had opened a case against the Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Agency (details) that he accused of rently using communication and to be a pursuer.
Although the complainants won the case they failed to court, but the example aims at showing how to send services to our colleagues, although I am not a probability of opening a case like that type (class seven) against all those involved in electricity connection?
For those who complained about the services that are proud of some of the phone companies (right) there is not one way that is not involved with reports about it, or it does not understand you from you because you are seen as a customer to get to you. "
Therefore, in a surprising thing, known as a film, which is known as' Follow suit '(that is like terrorism was in front) when it comes to another way, and another one and so on, finally the concerned company will make sure that his lives are in danger of reviewing.
A joke is that "the country's film" that is in the home among the customers who don't know how to remove some of the phone companies and the other to do so, and so when they want to learn through any problem wherever you are there.
But if I have explained at the beginning of this article, the topic on this week is about the reduction of accidents and small awareness among the effects which don't be avoided, but the engines has not been shaken, but when it allowed the accident the accident doesn't be shaken. "
That is an example of creates thinking but the fact that a big percentage of the passengers and passengers do not hesitate to carry the leaves of livestock or even they had borrowed.
Two answers is that we are owned by veteran players who traffic police can't ask bribes or if the owner is "normal person" then it is legal for the police to claim that they are supposed to continue with the journey.
They are saying that bribery is easy for justice "but you have been said so much, it is that bribery are a dangerous disaster like AIDS or terrorism, all that can cost the lives of people who are not guilty.
And even when the agency for travel is stable (because it can be able to cater for passengers without problems, another problem is drivers in a normal environment, someone can have a difficult time to walk on foot and do not be able to run a light of motorcycle or even.
