
More education is needed the improvement of NHIF.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

It has been published today, September 2016.

Last week, there was a controversy about what happens at the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) concerning the amendments that performed in the provision of services to its beneficiaries, 33, who receive treatment at 6,400 centers in the whole country.

The controversy resulted from the claims that the improvements that took place at the fund's prices were seen to be small especially for the private hospitals, therefore there is no doubt of those members to lack their services easily.
As a result of that report, the leadership of NHIF was forced to give a clarification about its improvements that involved prices, scope of services including surgery services and fees to see the doctor while increasing the benefits of tests and treatment including surgery for heart diseases in the country.
The management said those changes in cost have been made after they do research and see there is a need to make improvements and involving various stakeholders including the association of private services (APTA).
After the discussions, the fund has started using those new prices in July this year and they have already given time to December this year to continue receiving ideas and opinions about those improvements by service providers and citizens with the aim of removing any challenges that came up during its implementation.
In that improvement, money to pay doctors in the district and provinces have been added as the existence of prices with the ratio in some of the tests and to see specialist doctors between its services and members.
Already there are complaints concerning the steps that were taken by NHIF especially the ratio between the tests and also the fees of seeing the champions, those who can say, the tests have already been used because they want to pay the money they want.
In this, there is a need for NHIF to continue with talks and to reach an appropriate time like them, what said exercise is open and service providers should not depend on the agreement because those improvements were affected.
Nasinsisted that due to the fact that there are some hospitals that have been using the insurance cards to their champions to decide to have a certain number of insurance cards in a total of people who use them on that day while others saying some of the number or drugs are not recognized.
I would like to advise the leadership of the fund to put their people in different hospitals especially private schools to help its members because he is a person to make sure they get medical services and when he is told something that is not in insurance to look and help members to get those services.
I am saying that because it is not all the members who know the services or drugs that they can get according to his card but there should be a person to confirm to him and to look for a member when the process of getting complaints will reduce complaints.
It is true that there is a phone number of giving information or complaints from the fund but it's not all that they can do so, especially in the provinces and villages thus seeing that he is told by the service provider.
But it is good for the fund to ensure that the complaints by its members are not working especially when a problem comes, since there is a shortage of members to remain with the presence of different issues due to the number of its members that many of them are continuing to increase in every day while technology enabled it to use, various communication technology to provide education to the community.
