
Former gospel musician Otieno.
Tuesday, February 11, 2014.

It is possible that having vehicles which do not have a driver, the mobile phone company, Google is saying.

Those vehicles are there and will be led by using computers only, with the great ability to avoid or not using road accidents.

Google builds the use of this new technology, they believe that drivers are doing a lot of mistakes that are not in the road, including a bad luck and that is the cause of a bad road accident.

While the technology of computers when it was discovered, scientists said they have discovered the way of removing human crimes in their accounts activities.

They believed that everyone of them is a person who is a expert in that profession, it is a must that there are two major mistakes but after seeing a computer, thousands and thousands of accounts can be done without mistakes.

Those human mistakes that can be done by someone without manslaughter, is the ones that are supposed to be done by any driver while on the road.

How are those vehicles?

The computer expert at the University of Stanford, Professor Sebastian Thriller ', in charge of the technology led by the engineer of Google, Chris Brown is saying that the technology will help to avoid accidents so as to reduce the level of fuel that were lost because of operation is not fit.

Engineer Sambali is saying that those vehicles will not be different from a great extent and the view or the infrastructure in the moment, as it is not enough to have a solution to a computer or a driver.

Her view.

In the view, those vehicles did not want another one with others, because they have a special device that will help communication and identify areas.

He says that in the computer system will be used on various programs like 348, which will help to lead the vehicle according to the map of the area.

"This means that all the vehicles will be using the map which must affect the system so that it can recognize the roads going on, so as to reach you, an agent or the ones want," he says.
