
Why is the sacred community that protects you.
The Deputy President, William Ruto, shaking hands with Senator of Kakingo, Bonny Khaled who during the festival to make sure he hurts so much in Eastleigh primary school, he from Kakopi Kapama, recently.
The western region has a large number of voters with politicians who are supposed to succeed to get 50 percent of the votes in the first phase. That is why the president and the leader of Geology, Raila Odinga has extended a great campaign in that place.
Politics has been mentioned in the Western Region has continued to be a great attraction to political parties which they had planned to have the presidency in the 2017 general elections.
Politicians from Syria have been accused in that area which was the opposition strongholds in the 2013 elections.
And the analysts of political issues are saying that the main reason to climb the camp in that area is that they're being supported by the hosts, you can decide if the hosts got more than 50 percent if the it is required to take the presidency.
But the biggest challenge will be given to political parties which have gone to voters in the election day, because the history of that area shows many should not vote despite having a big number of who graduated in the elections.
The Political analyst, Mister Tom Mboya, who is also a lecturer at the MasasiUniversity said for many years, the residents of that area have not been able to vote.
In order to be a politician, they have been able to be supported in the area, it must make sure that the big number of voters get the real vote that was played on top 10 days of the politicians like the western part, "said Mister Mboya.
By June the year 2015, he from four of the area, which is Kakingo, Vientiane, Baamar and Bushiri has had 1 million people that are preparing to vote.
In the year 2013, there was a total of 14 million votes that are registered, although they came out to elect the president they were 12 million only.
President Kenyatta got 675 votes in that election, while Raila Odinga garnered 769 votes.
Many votes which are in that area are the United Republic of Busquets and the one of Jubilee have been encouraged to get the best position of winning in the first phase of the presidential election by 2017.
In a period of three years ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that his assistant, William Ruto, leaders of Lufunga led by Raila Odinga, have been going round in the western areas to give him popularity.
In the recent days, the leader of the National Congress Party (ANC) Mister Musoja, has also got a new trend of maintaining that party in that area.
At the end of last year, Mister Messy won the management meeting and scholars from the Sunni society, he urged them to support the party and to help them get popularity.
Reliable sources from the participants who attended the meeting were proud to be Mister Messy won with the community under one party so as to follow up the direction during the next general elections.
"It is good for us to have our party that is where by 2017, anyone who wanted to be supported with us will enable our needs together," said one expert who attended that meeting that we cannot change his name because it will be a threat to his work.
At the last meeting that was led by Mister Netanyahu in that area, he advised leaders to move to opposition and join Diamond.
The government has also tried to send its reputation in that community to elect Mister Eugene Mande of being the minister of water and it will also be remembered by the government that has given 1 billion shillings to revive the sugar industry of El Nino in 2015.
But Mister Odinga has been advised that the community of that area should not accept to have been forced to get a small gift, though the poor is needed to benefit the people of other communities.
According to Mister Mboya, history of how the western votes are vying for their leaders, and also it will not vie for the Diamond's side it will continue to repeat.
It will not be easy, "when we consider the results of the year 1992, 1997 and to a big level in the year 2002, it has never been easy to vote and vote on the government.
This stand was seen to be brought together with Senator of Kakingo, Doctor Boni Yayi who said that it will not be easy to convince the western voters without involved the political leader in that area.
Anyone who does I think will be able to convince election results with conductors of the efforts to support Diamond without involved the senior politicians who will get a big challenge, "said Doctor Khaled.
Lecturer of the news lecturer at the Maseru University, Doctor Charles Nyabudenge said that the issue that can make the Diamond Jubilee votes is how the government is seen to hear the Senator of Bexhill, Mister Moses Sethole.
"We have written the most popular song at the end, this time it will do their work to look for themselves from the ones that are given even if there are some leaders of that community, they are given different responsibilities in government," he said.
While he announced that they have moved to the Diamond Jubilee Hall, the chairperson of New Zealand party, Mister Kenneth Kaunda who is also the Governor of Bexhill, said that area has the ability to get more development if it will partner with the government.
According to him, the step will enable them to fill the buildings that were left open development because of that area, "had become a opposition for a long time to pass."
Opinions like those were also been made by the deputy president, who he told the community of the area that they will have a better position to hold the national leadership authority when they support the party the stable party in the country.
Being interviewed in NTV television on Wednesday night, Mister Mistorius said that his party will not accept to partner with parties that they will not accept to fulfill the government's goals.
"There is a chance for those who want to cooperate with us because we will identify friends that will be very much," he said, and added that there is no doubt in the community to be in one party.
