
Carelessness of TFF, Azam, "Nyoni.
Last week the soccer stakeholders joined the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) for its decision to reduce three points in Azam by using Erasto Nyoni, though he had three yellow cards.
Azam was striped of those points last Thursday after it was revealed that refereed that match against Mbeya City, February 20.
Those stakeholders told the newspaper that TFF was forced to give that decision early and is not ready to wait for a period as this league heading to the day before yesterday.
TFF used the 37th regulations (4) that runs a draw of three yellow cards to play the following game, but Azam failed to be careful even in the last games.
Basically, this issue appears to be given punishment within 72 hours after the concerned game.
Some of the stakeholders asked how it comes today, two months then they would come out to agree with Azam points but there is where people will get feelings that there is a team that is organized for a environment.
Those who were shocked, for example the Mwadui coach, Jamhuri Kihwelu 'Julio "said that the punishment has been released since February.
Another is the African Sports Manager, Abdul a man that says it will reach a step by TFF to change and build a habit of giving complaints on time so as to avoid such a situation.
After that step of TFF, together with that they gave a procedure, we asked himself the time we had asked why all the time they were where all the players are clean, except that the case of Azam and Nyoni?
It took the case together with the right that it is correct, it's impossible because it seems that there is unknown facts.
In addition to that, it is clear that it is a strategic plan to help Yanga or allow them to win the championship because if points will be removed from the championship, there is no opposition to reach points that will be paid by Yanga.
On the other side, it is laziness of the whole technical bench of Azam FC so it is possible that there is no record for players who receive cards here and they believe that they have reduced.
In addition to that the former TFF had a probability of the surprising fact that the team is a certain and one player should not play because it has a card, it is required to have a copy of the technical bench and to have memories.
Accountability in every part, it is clear that it will help to avoid problems that are mentioned or that can arise from the laziness.
Other accountability are for the players, when we ask you, recently, even the player does not understand what once you play but if you know it has three cards like TFF and the technical bench that has been accepted, even a player who failed to discover ourselves?
This truth is carelessness, "Nyoni, as a player of the national team, he did not want to accept this laziness.
We will not see why if TFF comes from TFF to be careful, if they have decided to follow up on cards and other things take him in time, the club will make sure to maintain their record and not the tension that happened.
This is a shame, together with TFF to supervise the regulations, Azam FC and the whole technical bench have agreed to show that even their keenly to manage soccer, they have already given a doubt if this time you have failed to return.
