KKKT Karatu, now they are going to court.
May 15, 2014.

The believers of Karatu region of the Lutheran Evangelistic Church of Tanzania (KKKT) has given a notice to break up the court, the leadership of their Diocese in step that shows that their conflict and the leadership may be stopped in court.

In addition to that, the conflict between the North Eastern Diocese is expected to start a building in Karatu town, this week is also in another step by believers of the Catholic church under the Bishop Doctor Martin Shao from one of the religious leaders in that region.
The believers through their lawyer, Edmund Ngemela has said the company of Equity of Equity of Arusha town, has given a notice to break up the court, the leadership of North Eastern Diocese if the leadership of Diocese is unable to entertain at Pastor Maboya.
The many believers of more than 700 citizens from seven in the streets have been represented by the Secretary of the Council of the United Republic, Thomas Kashililah and 17 others who have signed the notice of wanting to open a case against the Diocese.
Pastor Josephat Gwajima is alleged to have been sacked from work due to his stand of supporting the activities of that region to relocate from the northern region.

In the letter of those believers through their lawyer, going to the leadership of the northern region, are explaining that the decisions that were done by the leadership of the Diocese is going on against the constitution of the Diocese of Diocese of the year 2006.
That letter has memories number EM / 05 / 5 / 05 / 2014 for May 10 this year, the official decision to dismiss the lawyer that was held on April 10 this year, has been the plain truth so that he broke the constitution of the Diocese.
According to the constitution of the Diocese of Diocese of Catholic Archdiocese of Diocese can sack him, if the leadership of the council of state will be involved and he has placed itself from the pastor concerned.
"
That notice is continuing, "legal action will be taken against the leadership of the Diocese if they use the channel that will discover themselves or take place for the appropriate time."
While speaking to Good Citizen on behalf of his colleagues, the Secretary of the Council of Geology, Khajida Kopa, confirmed the decision of the citizens to look for rights in the "house of court as a way to reach the right time in that conflict.
