
The 51 years of Uhuru is happening, Dec 13, 2012.

The years 1960 is known as the age of Uhuru's activities in Africa, that more than half African countries in this continent got freedom in Tanganyika, during the annual meeting that took place in London City, England, different from it was the norm for both countries in the England Premier League.

It is as a result of those talks, two months later, that is May 1, 1961, Tanganyika used to get the government of power, led by the council of 12 ministers under Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere, as the prime minister.

But the big day I was being waited for desire by the great desire than all the previous ones, was to move on December 9th, 1961, where the English Premier League popularly known as "Coastal Union have been forced to take his position, to indicate that Uhuru is needed to take his position.

In his campaigns of Uhuru, Mwalimu Nyerere spoke to insisting on the political freedom and without considering the fact that the state can grow and without considering the victory we got it is the right to work themselves, the right to plan and build our country for freedom.

While talking to Tanaka about human rights and honor to all, the teacher said, "we have agreed that our nation will be free citizens who are same, where everyone will get a chance to use its ability to promote the community and this is a thing that will enable it to implement it," (Nyerere of Unity of Unity of Unity of Unity of Unity of Unity of Unity of Standards (8-1967).

On December 9th, this year, Elisabstain from the 51 years of Uhuru of their country, by evaluating the success of our country's leadership is building and developing a nation with people who are similar to what we want during the process of independence?

When he told the Africa for the first time in 1956, that you will be the first to hell from political, and all the other things are approved, the first President of Ghana, Charlize Theron who believed that in Africa to get political freedom, the way for success in the fields of economy, culture and social.
Yes, royal carpets for political we were given by the colonialist Doctor by supported by the right, but if they came to be eaten by a support of the left.

We hurt them and others ongoing as we get the freedom themselves, the truth is not freedom and growth, but it is not true that we have been unable to investigate it, but we have decided to instill fear among them, we have been encouraged by leaders who do not have a vision.

Look at the western countries a western part in order to promote our policies through its international institution, such as the International Trade Organization (WB) and the World Health Organization (WB), until it has been born with another leader of the world of globalization, and we are trying to look into partnership with rich countries of the new colonial era.

Most of them came to the third phase president, Benjamin William Mkapa, who was appointed and agreed to be the chairperson of the International Commission for Women during the past three years, showing that we can't allow the companies of western countries to resolve our wealth, that is why it is not a solution to our leaders?

Globalization, is a system of relationship that you wants the nations to open doors until they are accused of the end, and we will be able to send themselves themselves so as to prepare to receive the IMF and WB leaders and not to follow up on the liberation of good life through the capital of capital.

Under the flag of the flag, we started waiting to accumulating wealth of the economy and culture, we have been sacked on his neck, as a goat that came out and finally put a knee injury on the past.

In the economy, we started with great development plans to meet the first needs of the nation, while we have already been sacked on the neck, our first phase of the development of five years now, Professor Green Warriors who was given the work with WB and IMF are who was the same as a parent of hunger.

Under the program, WB, IMF and the western countries tried to make our government system that has enabled our government the main responsibility of planning and managing the economy of the year 1965, President of WB, Robert Kachumu congratulated Tanzania for success and being an example to be followed by other countries of the third world.

Today, (WB), IMF and the sponsors are those who want the government to be responsible for planning and managing the economy, and to stop the growth of the economy and capital as well as corruption in the economy.

We know, and they saw them that they would not be able to guide the corruption in front of Mwalimu Nyerere without being told to get married and leave, because the teacher did not loose the words like a teacher and she would have been able to bring a dirty game that usually do, then they get safe!

Under the freedom of flag, we are able to revive our patriotism, traditional and our culture by starting the ministry of culture, special needs for our language, our language, our website, behavior of our nation's ethics.

Since the issue of culture that were allocated to every African countries, Africa, it was able to start a festival (event) of the African continent of every year (Fathers - C), where African countries were able to cooperate and share culture of Tanzania, it was able to participate in the international tourism show (Expo), to announce the culture of his family in the world.

Still we remember at the 70's exhibition, that took place in August 1970, where Tanzania participated in being represented by Elder Kamillius Ansudane Soulaimane while in Morogoro Province, under the leadership of Mzee Mayagilo, who participated in the University of Dar es Salaam, and others, participated in the University of Dar es Salaam.

Today, under the world of globalization, we do not talk about our culture because we are tired of what we witnessed, is where the beauty contest does not depend on yourself if you're getting away with music that doesn't affect the old Taarab group.

In Tanzania and Africa, in order to protect our origin and anything that is in the age of age, leaders in the country created the policy of improving the economy and culture through the meaning of socialism and "Ambassador Charamy, of Egypt, directed Doctor Charamy of Egypt.

From Zambia, the President Shangwe who was called "Jichunge.'

In Kenya, it was founded the draft of socialism by name "SCE will face 10," it is said that he was written by an economist from the United Nations Organization (CIA), who was working under the Minister of Planning of Kenya, Tom Mboya (late).

The African leaders in the first phase, all of them led by democracy of the box for votes, they wanted the African Union to be stable and that's why they were able to start the Union of free African countries (OAU), instead they were able to start the Union of the African Union (OPATA).

All the power depend on.

And so as to show that, the only ones that were involved with the best employer than the citizens that led the system of democracy, "have been approved as well as the executive secretary general, they want them to be completed (it is complete).

For the reason of giving up power, the African Union started to be demolished and because there is no leader who was ready to release his authority to one government of Africa, the idea of building that government has gone down until today, as the regional economy are ongoing.

And because they have a habit of building for the stronghold and protect themselves on the excuse of democracy and national unity, gender violence has continued to rule.

For that reason, among the 32 heads of the country and the African government who added about an agreement for the introduction of (AU), only two presidents, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Mwana old had been appointed by the army themselves (26) since they were beaten, January 9, 1983 in power.

In short, spread in a culture of revolution in the country, follow the system of democracy in Africa, from democracy of the box for votes, going to democracy, gun point, as a way that it cannot get due to the concept of good governance and the administration of the law.
To go back to the system of many political parties in the 1990s, the country on blood pressure, IMF and sponsors, it has started democracy of capital, because those organizations are blocking the power of money in contesting for power, instead of the leadership for the consent of people.

This weaknesses in our country (and other countries in Africa) has many cases, including writing on the privacy of some of the countries, due to non-communicable diseases, a conflict that is being taken as Luvanda, and a conflict of development or priority in the lives of citizens.

Other cases are the parliament that supports the parties and the fanaticism of political parties, instead of represent or accumulate people involved in the foundations of economic, political and social welfare, and even if you see the expansion of the poor and the rich.

And by using the loopholes that are capital, the capital is controlling in everything in politics and the economy, and the poor is expected to buy power, but if the country's wealth, whereby the money has been directed to democracy, good politics which has lost its popularity, which made it on the map of the world, political and culture.

When it is when it is when the government moves ahead because it depends on the contract between him by the citizens (Social Action Fund), a lot of poverty because most of the people are not benefiting enough, except a few people with the corrupt and the country directed without the map or plans of development.

Democracy of capital wants to say it's only those who are capital that are the right to rule and benefit from the fruits of freedom, because of wealth, they are producing politics and power and it is used to use wealth.

Yes, he said that 51 years of independence, different from we started where the country's leadership had every citizen of every citizen, they cannot be removed from the rule of administration and leadership of their country, and to let them get money.

That is the reason, the main agenda in today's elections are money and sponsors of a dirty law that concern democracy, good governance and law administration, if you have ever asked yourself, why all the heavy rains have come close to them or during the main elections in the country?

So, you ask you why the suspects is faced with heavy rains, like Merseyside, Deuogratius, and Government old, it does not be found because of corruption that have caused the whole leadership system in order to have a great rule.
In a small group of the state of Uhuru era, it is cruel, a lot of bad luck more than the colonialists as Nyota Ndogo has seen it better to give birth to power because of your father (WB) because it did not want to give birth to power, to defend that public that is using power.

We have seen the way democracy of the box for votes and abuse of leaders, that were removed and democracy of the revolutionary party was taken out by the system of many political parties (1992), who are now back to pave way for democracy of capital.

In a situation like this, what democracy will be able to make it in searching for democracy of capital, under the security and life of the nation, what would make the management to ensure democracy when they want to be able to save the revolution in the army?
