
An explanation of ACT-Tanzania to be assisted by joy by politicians in the country.

My fellow Tanzanians, lovers, and members of the ACT-Wazalendo party, we would like to communicate with greetings that show change and transparency.

My fellow Tanzanians, there have been a series of people one month, groups of people, political parties are not less because there are some media stations in the country together with big leaders from South American countries, it intends to lead Tanzania and fined other parties for all times, they have not qualified for the reports and complaints from those complaints.

We would like to use this opportunity and those who protect themselves every day that there is no reason for them to get a lot of problems and reduce their mental disabilities, because ACT-Tanzania has already put it that it will give its revenue reports and expenditure in special programs.
ACT-Tanzania, Revenue and uses of the party.

About that there are plans that are done by ACT-Tanzania to ensure that the party is put for other parties fast, and in that plans there are many participants and many stakeholders that are seen and those who are seen, the party does not have it.

About the issue of getting technical and various experts from different areas, this is common for any party to be careful, he wanted to learn from different people in the world so as to ensure that the party activities will have success which has not been seen previously in the history of political parties in the country.

About what is mentioned as the danger of ACT Patriots Party to be supported by the veteran politicians who led to other parties to get into political parties in the country, ACT-Tanzania has no good thing to tell Tanzanians that ACT - Tanzania is good, therefore there is no wonder because the party does not live with people who decided to support the party.

ACT-Tanzania, we like to encourage our rivals to reduce them because this party is still a little party and does not have problems.

The ACT-Tanzania party, through the second time, the day before yesterday and tomorrow.
Changes and openness in the same way.
