
Internal meetings of party members.

It has been written by us.

It has been reported in 23 September 2016.

The country's military police have removed the internal meetings' meeting for political parties as from yesterday.

That step has been taken as approximately one month since the army through the commissioner of operations and training of the police force, Nsato Marijani has decided to prevent all internal meetings of political parties in the country.
Commissioner Msuha has announced to remove the verdict yesterday and said that he is some of the meetings' meetings so that your party will be there.
"Starting today, the police force is removing its internal meetings' meetings by political parties and he insisted that demonstrations and public meetings by political parties have not been stopped, apart from members of parliament in their regions," said Msepwa.
He said that the police force has been following up on the state of security, especially concerning the activities of political parties and now the police force is saying that there is no security situation so as to see there is no need to continue to prevent internal meetings.
The step of preventing internal meetings of political parties in the country, resulted from some political parties to use the internal meetings, to continue the agenda of enabling citizens not to obey laws of the country, to send to hatred in their government and endanger the security situation in general.
The police force said the police force, it will be able to take action against a person or the people that will go against the law and it will be able to return that decision again, if parties will continue developing incitement issues.
He said that they are still continuing with the investigation, therefore if they will sign them in peace and calmness, they will also remove the restrictions on the public meetings and demonstrations.
Moreover, the police force wanted citizens and political parties to respect the law of the country and all of them to cooperate with the army in ensuring the safety of citizens and their properties continues to improve.
The parliamentary information officer, Tumaini Makene, "the police did not have the authority to prevent that meeting earlier, and they were continuing to make it.
"The police does not have the authority to prevent and allow political parties to do its meetings, to be inside or in a public, and that took place is a violation of the law," said Makene.
Furthermore, Makene said that today it will do a meeting with the media, providing information on that police force.
