The speed of SELEKT program that seems to continue Lake Victoria.
Autoworks and 25, 2016.

Sangara is ready for being sold.
In Mwanza town, there is the danger of the SELEKT program that seems to be shaken the Lake Victoria if a stern action will be taken quickly to stop the illegal fishing tools and destruction of water so as to increase at the lake.

Listen to me, is worried that the disappearance of the fish, will affect the loopholes of economy, employment and income to the citizens from the fishermen, chemistry and retailers, but also the availability of an important part in the good environment of the community.

Statistics of the Research Institute of Fisheries, Tanzania (MAGM) in Mwanza province, explains that the fish by the reduction include Sato Band and those of natural resources like knives, Njegere, Benichou who is owned by a bus or a man / a person.

The reduction of those fish could be connected to the use of that resources where those statistics show that the Sato who were kidnapped in that lake have reduced from 70,09 this year.

Also in that period of that period, according to the office of the whole office, the number T.

However, those statistics on the other side show that sardines by 3711,089 billion shillings and 970,046.

In a special interview with Raia Mwema, here at the end of last week, the management of defense and security of the Lake Victoria have mentioned the main reason to reduce the reduction of illegal fishing against illegal immigrants in the lake.

The fishing has been sustainable, the use of illegal fishing tools such as stew, spirits, and small things among the small businesses that involve young fish and destruction of the Lake Region.

High income.

Already the economic effects arising from the drop in the availability of those fish have begun to be seen in the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and processing of processing in Mwanza province.

That situation, according to the manager of TRA in Mwanza Province, Ernest Dahi, has reduced the production of industries and selling of fish, outside the country.
"For example, the Tanzania Petroleum Bulk Procurement Regulatory Authority (NIMR) has reduced the production by 25 to 30 percent in the financial year 2015 / 2016 compared to five years ago," explained the fear in the report that he presented in the session of the Advisory Council of the province (RCC) recently.

Apart from reducing the authority's income, the outcome due to 124 billion shillings per year, that situation has caused the factory to reduce employment and at work hours.

The acting officer in charge of Human Resources and Fisheries Development, the Lake Region, Juma Makongoro, admits that the illegal fishing has caused the fish, especially, Sporah Show of Uhondo program, so as to reduce the amount of income to fishermen, the needs of the fish, sales for fishing and fishing tools.

Efforts are being done.

According to the fisheries policy of the year 1997, and fisheries law and 22 of the year 2003, management, conservation and security of the fishing sector is the responsibilities of all stakeholders.

The stakeholders in that sector include the main government, the local government, the community of fishermen, fishermen, fish traders, are forced to be shaken, fish, industries and non-governmental organizations including religious and its partners in general.

According to Makongoro, different efforts are continuing to control the illegal fishing including doing water and fishing tools, where illegal fishing tools are usually arrested and torched in the court.

For example, August 17, this year, the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Doctor Charles Tizeba, led the activities of distributing illegal fishing tools in the southern region in Mwanza town.

Illegal fishing tools that were listed in that day are together with 74-0 goals, 419 meters for 790, 419 million and four hundred thousand dollars which were apprehended in the 26th of February and August 16 this year.

LMEMP II.

In other efforts, the project of the Lake Victoria Road Safety Project (LMEMP), last week announced to give the government through the Minister Chikawe and the three police officers in that lake.

The type of "mystery" with two engines will be used to strengthen the lake region as well as dealing with illegal fishing tools, the fund that invaded the fishermen and help in reducing land disputes.
