
CHADEMA is a plot to member of parliament.

The secretary general of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
Wilfredy has said that CCM is doing a plot to dismiss him to parliament.
Member of parliament for Singida East, Tundu Lisu speaking to appeal at the case.
The election of the year 2010, that the member of parliament won, contrary to the place.
The law.
Speaking to the press yesterday.
The headquarters of the party office Kinondoni, Doctor Slaa said.
CCM secretary, Abdulrahman Kinana completes his private lawyers.
Appeal against Lisu speaking despite the chief complainants of that case.
Anything about that appeal.

Doctor Slaa said after the speech of Lissu.
Kinana started the process of talking to a lawyer of self-reliance.
Godfrey Ngupula has said that his lawyer Ras Kiduku was admitted to Dodoma and asked him.
Before the appeal against Lissu, Doctor Slaa knows they are involved in a letter.
CCM's lawyer, Kinana completes his previous payments.
The process of appeal for the election case for Singida East region.
Historical number of Tanzanian shillings / 1 / 2013.

However, the parliamentary investigation has revealed.
The chief complainants in the case of Lissu, who is Karrima Carter.
Paschal Masele did not know anything or they are not involved in the appeal.

Doctor Slaa explained that Shabam being attacked.
The oath of court in Dodoma that him and his colleague who is still a secretary.
The county of CCM did not be told anything about the appeal.

Also Doctor Slaa claimed that there is a mistake that is being done by
A big group of CCM has gotten a big amount of money by the judges.
Her to go to the appeal case.

Shabani Itenda, a lawyer of that case.
While being at that meeting, he confessed that she has never been opening a case.
The appeal against Tundu Lissu, says he left CCM and moving to parliament.
Since January 7, this year, after seeing the law it is impossible.
The party.

The minister of state, office of the prime minister, policy.
Coordination of parliament, William Lukuvi required to speak about that he did.
That he does not want to be involved in matters of court, "I don't want you to be careful.
Issues of the court, although I have not heard of those involved with me.
Already in Dar es Salaam, "said Lukuvi.

The Deputy Secretary General of Zanzibar, Vuai Ali Vuai, said the Revolutionary Party can be able to do a dirty game with a foolish thing.

"I know my party, it has Tanzania's strength and in the islands and it does not have fear of anyone again of any party," said Vuai.

This leader of CCM, said his party.
We believe in the foundation of democracy and justice, therefore there is no evidence.
The claims of parliament.
