
Israel has no ability to destroy the Hamas to May 30th.

You are looking at a huge fire in your neighbor's house, then you should know that there is a danger of the fire to go down and even you have reduced the houses of your neighbors.
The worst is that in this act, it is dangerous for the fire to spread and come to reduce your house.

There are all signs that are ongoing in the Israel army in Gaza region not to fear of the terror attacks against Israel and other foreign countries, he believes that it is fighting the fight against Hamas to ensure that it did not have a person through the military university to realize that it did not meet.
For sure Israel can succeed to reduce the police force of Hamas, but Israel cannot destroy the Hamas Group and here is where a big offence of the armed forces in Israel is why Hamas has never been charged with the military police force by using the military police force, Israel cannot get a total goal against Hamas.
And maybe Hamas needs a attacks of Israel in Gaza so as to increase their popularity, the war is three things and the military ability, diplomacy.
Perhaps Israel have won when it comes to the military ability, but Hamas is continuing to get victory in the areas of Diplomacy, but the pictures we thank women, children and the elderly who died and injured due to the Israel attack in Gaza are supposed to perform world war including a violation of human rights.
Palestinians have been found and their brother's brother who is like the nation, Israel and his people cannot live in peace by attacking their neighbors and caused a huge disaster in life, property and infrastructure.

And Israel did not start today to relocate its neighborhood.

Basically the Israel has started a great fire in this central region of Central Africa.
This fire could not be easy following up and therefore stopped even inside the Israel army itself.
One of the administration of Bush who support Israel in his activities against its neighborhood was the presence of a new agenda of America in the Central Region of America, it wanted to use Israel to distribute the countries of Syria and Iran.

America wants Iran to cooperate with its plans of improving the nuclear machines in Iran has also shown to support the state and property activities in Iran that it has also been shown to support the state and property activities and Israel is a terrorist party so that Iran will be used in terrorism.

On the eyes of the Americans, the president of Iran, Mahmoud Ahenkora has said he is a person with the arrogance and the courage to make heavy decisions against the United States, the President of Iran has shown to become a great stand on what he believes has and the interests of Iran.
Without doubt, there are those who see him that he is not bad, "but there are those who have seen the truth saying what others have failed, so as to help the country like Israel in the army of these countries, Iran and Syria have reduced up.

And so that we understand why the United States under the President Bush has decided to put an eye on the evil acts of Israel in the Central Region, we have the need to look for what is called "the Ambassador Ombeni Sefue (HIV) because of faith or regulations of President Bush.

It will also be remembered, after the terror attack on September 11, whereby Osama Greyson Maleko, and Al Mana are involved in one of the American policies where he made a speech of the terrorists' statement followed by the military attack against the investor.

The regulations or the faith of the Bush has come to be an expert of "a great shape of what I used to be careful before he was unable to help America" (pre-shirt) including Beautiful Maua Association (pre match).

It is in the view and policies of this way to America in one way or another one followed the decision to take stern warning and maybe the directives of the United States or even here it can be said to be careful when he didn't put it as an offense.

Among those who came to protest against these policies of preventing themselves as well as the former President of the United States of America, Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has wrote a letter to his girlfriend's former President of America, Lindiwe Ntiga.

You want the president to take advantage of the neighboring country just when they see if he sees it is important to address the attack, and you want him to say it is important for the purpose of sending and seeing the British to prevent them, it is why you will enable them to make it so?

You can told him, "I don't see the possibility of the British to kill them, but he told me" Nyamitwe, "that you cannot succeed, contrary to the people of that area, it is obvious that the strategy of using the military and political problems is a strategy of bringing about more strength among people in the area.

It is now time for Tanzanians who doesn't know, 'el and Palestinians have decided to sit in one table and discuss the way to live in peace like the neighbors, otherwise, the big war in East Africa will not give the winner, all who will fail in one way or another.
