Slaa and now Lipumba, who other intentions will be taught?
Brightiles 12, 2015.

To me, I am getting to the State House, Tunda Man has not seen the use of bribery in this country's ethics and who has not seen the use of bribery in the process of Lowassa to look for sponsors and today I believe that God communicate with us through our intention "(Doctor Slaa - August 3, 2015).
I urge you to thank the members and the citizens who believe in and showing great love to me and my leadership. I have participated in Ukawa offices, we have participated in him here and even so, the commitment and accountability "(Professor Lipumba) August 6, 2015).
My brothers, I've decided to start with those two sides of the former president of Ukawa who released their positions soon after being sacked by their plans on the arrival of Edward Lowassa in that union.
All the two have bought their positions they scored for many years because of being sacked by their plans after Ukawa came to receive Lowassa and appointed him as their presidential candidate through CHADEMA, it is a step that prove that their wisdom, maturity and professionalism, integrity and their honor to the public.
I hope I will respect people who are near him, everything to resign from their leadership positions because of being sacked by their intentions and not the secret that the world has few people with the courage to obey them and to respect their intentions.
In his lifetime - Timbo Kalugira of Hope Program, is fighting for human rights of old people of the United States, Martin Luizio, says if a time when a person takes a step or a position that is not safe or is loved but it is a must to take him because the intention is to be right to do.
On that logic, I commend Doctor Slaa and Professor Lipumba by sitting down, to think and listen to their soul in addition to Ukawa, Edward Lowassa said that the intention could continue to save their lives than continuing with Ukawa Edward Lowassa.
Therefore, the history will come to be written about that Doctor Slaa and Professor Lipumba got their positions after welcoming Lowassa in Ukawa, and even made him to participate in the process of welcoming Lowassa's presidential candidate, that is the one who decided to defend their presidential candidate.
That is the reason to think about their recent steps, I've heard of the language that the youth John Mnyika will help him, Professor Lipumba by taking the step he made by Professor Lipumba, and therefore he would be unable to defend that candidate.
And the adviser of the former mid-fielder of France, Jean-Jacques Lambert, that took the meeting or in the neighborhood about the origin of its own kind in the world (real time). Radhiyallahu An'ha), Herve Renaaha in Mbeya, and for a section of the People's Parish, Feng Gwao.
Furthermore, he says that they had already taken place or among other things, it's because it is against the natural law for a small time to receive or get a great order because it will help me, then I believe it is okay and asked Professor Lipumba!
Those on the front side, should be read to him on the issue of resigning from Ukawa-members of Ukawa - Doctor Slaa and Professor Lipumba be sure, to leave that Ukawa has raised many places with many attitude.
