
Governor Ndulu explaining money from Switzerland.
January 26, 2013.

The scandal of billions of funds with controversy which are estimated to occur in some of the banks in Switzerland, has come in a new chapter, was revealed that for now that they are alleged to have that account is a must to provide assistance from their banking services.
The money approximately 3037 billion are believed to be presented by some of the leaders in Switzerland, collaboration with some of the big business people.
Already the parliament has given instructions to the government to follow up on that scandal and presented his report at the parliament meeting of April this year, with various leaders in the country giving the statement of hunger.
The minister of state, the office of the president and good administration, George Mkuchika, on his side, has urged the leaders who came to visit those funds they will get to names, but many have criticized the government to fulfill its responsibilities in that issue.
This journey, speaking about the process of returning that money in his interview with our reporter recently, the Governor of the Central Bank (BoT), Professor Benno Ndulu, admits lack of returning that money and explained that the process of returning the money will also need information from those funds.
"A big thing in this is that the government is currently in the process of working on this issue because I am going to say that in general, there are international reports that are provided every year to all countries which explain the people of that nation to identify them in which nation.
"For example, Switzerland is giving this report every year, and America is giving its report every year, that says the residents of Tanzania, in accounts of the countries in that country can have a certain amount of money in their accounts.
"But those banks, under their laws, usually don't know (their customer) one person, saying this is a big amount to people to put their money there because they do not give information to their customers.
"Therefore, you will need to do a lot of work to receive, even so as to say we are doing work, themselves and those with their accounts in the country are up to them that they have destroyed the foundation of their business." The challenges are there.
"We work to work, but the challenge of getting information from one person, we want these things," says Governor Ndulu in an interview that was published in this newspaper.
That scandal of billions of Switzerland was presented to parliament by the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, Zitto Kabwe, and said that the parliamentary intention of urging the government to follow up on that issue and return that report to parliament.
Between the other leaders who was quoted about that issue at different times, include the attorney general (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, and the ambassador of Switzerland in the country, Olivier Prentout, who has been questioned saying the government has not shown intentions of following up that scandal.
In his explanation, Judge Werema, was quoted saying that the government continues to follow up on that issue and already it has made a special team.
According to Werema, that special team was created by Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, who did so due to the appointment of President Jakaya Kikwete and that the team will be doing his work on the secret.
However, in his speech in parliament last year, Zitto Kabwe, claimed to have a list of 10 names of veteran players in the government and retirees who are the owners of those funds.
Among them is being mentioned by one senior leader, three retired officers of the Tanzania People Defence Force (TPDF), retired ministers whose some are still members of parliament until now, and the former leader of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT).
According to Zitto Kabwe, in the list that the Minister of Finance of France have said that there are suppressing the government saying he didn't give them the legal way to get that list because many leaders and big business people have an account in Switzerland Bank.
