
Congratulations to the EAC for that decision.

It has been written by Theopista Komba.

I was published yesterday May 11, 2016.

This week leaders of the six countries of the East African Community (EAC) have met in a special meeting to discuss various issues that are going on in that community including the issue of signing a contract of business cooperation with the European Union (EPA).

The discussion of signing that contract that started since the year 2007 and it was signing that contract this year, but due to various reasons, it is complete and decided to continue doing discussions for three months until January next year.
In that special session that sat for a period of more than six hours was released by that decision, despite Kenya and Rwanda had already signed the contract, but due to all the community members, where Tanzania refused to sign that contract for various reasons including the community and also for its reasons.
There is an issue of the economy of industries being a strategy of the fifth term government has been because the country is planning to have its industries now if the contract will be competed among them in Tanzania, it is a matter to discuss and see its benefit.
Another issue is that those countries lack taxes which are available from the European Union, while the community has managed to put restrictions to Burundi who is a member of the community and observing the reasons for England to join the European Union and insisted on those countries to join with them.
Those are some of the reasons that were given by the chairman of that community, President John Magufuli, for those leaders to pay time to discuss more together with many others because it should be satisfied with the losses of signing that contract with those countries, because it doesn't recognize the benefits and loss of our leaders especially in the economy of industries.
Also, congratulations are required to give those leaders because the issue is evident, to bring a division in the community for others to sign him, but it has shown that one thing is a step to be added, because it has shown a stand, unity and cooperation of those countries and never can't be shaken in any issue.
But under the leadership of President Magufuli, the community has shown having a stand by checking more than the interests of their countries without failing to sign the contract that will be able to return to the countries that are continuing to return behind the plans and strategies of improving.
It is clear that the cooperation is important but it is a must to discuss more because in which the partnership will not have a problem in reaching the goals they had put in place as the aim of ensuring that they stand in the country's resources because they have shown it because they stand for the resources of the country because they have shown how they stand for the resources of the country because they have shown how they stand for the resources of the country because they have shown how they stand for the resources of the country.
Also, the leaders of that community have condemned the European Union to stop threats from Kenya which is the only one with the central economy in that community to sign up on October first and if they will start using taxes in production and vegetables that are not sold in plenty, outside the country.
The partnership is to ensure they agree on different issues because unity is required to be sustainable so that other nations will realize that it is not easy to fulfill one country to the community doing an issue that will affect the community due to their union.
