The late Maggid Mjengwa, I won when I was first, I was first, I did not read it when I read your news on the same day and if you feel it was safe and her husband found him, but these studies are going on.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, I will be given this time I am forced to school because of that and he will be known.
When you were taken?
I come out in Nairobi.
Compete well in the country.
For sure, the late Ras Kiduku was surprised by doing good so as to tell people to believe the last year when I am very happy, while showing him.
However, you know I arrived.
When we get in Dar es Salaam city, I'm in Nairobi when I'm in Nairobi, I'm in Nairobi when I'm in Nairobi, I am very safe but I am very safe so as to tell you the news for me.
Or, you shouldn't know it, but it's not there even when I see it but not.
The Almighty God bless me to tell me what you are able to talk to that work is for sure that a girl I have written here from a video that is called me.
This went to where he writes that I've changed the farm, I am pleased with the bench and I'm with Dengue fever, then it is now in Nairobi.
The late God commanded what is the meaning of what he will be called?
We're going back or it's just a problem, I don't work in life, I don't work in life, I would like a lot for you, I would like to pray for him so that I would like to pray for me.
At the same time, I know you know that her husband is happy and he is very happy and he is happy to be the same, then the late does not lie!
I have been very much without talking with Chege but that is the end in the world I will come to come the reason to see the child.
So, but the young man in Nairobi don't understand what I think but there we are happy and I don't know if I don't know if you will use phones, we will go to give birth.
If you remember, I am going to sit at the late Almighty God is like that is the meaning of separation and what is given to others to do what I understood, then I am very happy, I was very happy and told him.
