
How is the meaning of the nation to register it.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
Few days before the take place of the Saba Saba meeting that led by the opposition union of Correa scored in the Uhuru Park Hall in Nairobi, some Kenyans decided to leave the cities they were given and return to their home in the villages to fear of being attacked.
On Monday July 7, business were stuck on while many of the citizens unable to arrive at work, especially in the capital city of Nairobi and Mombasa due to fear that violence would benefit despite the government warned the public servants against not getting to work on that day.
And the governors of the Islamic State of Busquets, Kisumu and Siwema who ordered the workers in his country to put on their homes in Saba Saba and they should not be an official day of looking for the proposed constitution.
These resulted from worried about the possibility of fighting corruption such as those of the year 2007.
This means that various communities here in the country will not like peace and divided into criminal acts despite the efforts to connect many Kenyans, they believe that the records for the violence after the year 2007.
The truth is that many Kenyans have been affected but they are separated by politicians who are at the headquarters and personal benefit, while ordinary citizens continue to rise up in the threats of poverty.
Politicians have heard a union, peace and love in the afternoon and night that offer quills, quills, spirits.
Politicians continue to recognize that despite the presence of that huge challenge in the country, we have taken a democratic step as a nation.
Politics is to bring about violence and fear in the country have no benefits but aim to increase the economic development and to reach the objectives of achieving the year 2015 together with the many years of 2030.
The government is supposed to start the efforts of bringing unending quarrels to the country so as to make sure that there is no community that is evident.
