
Benefits and health care of MO Blog.
The hospital in India has now provide a service to increase the length so as to make the short people to avoid reliable effects, but scientists have warned them about that service.
The length of a person is cultivated in a period from life of man is up to you about the head when he is standing on.
Researchers and social issues are discovered that it can be able to allow a person to get several health services and social welfare, but also it can be able to affect the body and psychology and reduce the possibility of getting success in the concerned community.
Some of the health experts claim that a person can increase or reduce the possibility of getting diseases like heart, cancer or increasing the ability to live a long time.
Other researchers say that many years old people get early due to the disease compared to short periods.
The research that was done for 50 years and the health center for building a health center for the university in America and was sworn in the year 2014 at the POne magazine that showed that very few men are not in danger of suffering from cancer diseases compared to the world.
Doctor Bradley J.
Doctors also for many years have been believing that the world women don't have a broad way that will enable them to give birth easily compared to the short female women who are facing many times and problems of reproductive rights.
Several research show that most of the short people are every time faced with a lot of mental health problems such as shivered and other different effects arising from what they are supposed to be expelled from the community compared to the whole world.
In one research that took place in the year 2005 to Sweden, it was seen that the best men get more compared to the whole world, this is according to the research that was published in the magazine that is known as the Ambassador of Pambani County, a shop number 162 (7).
In another research that was done by the scientists from the University of Oxford, it was noted that very big people with a big level will get feelings are not aware, they are very high people, people do not know themselves in relation to their period.
That situation can be able to build a sharp teeth.
Professor Daniel Freeman that led the research, says, "the length of a person is involved with success in work and the relationship is being taken as something appears to be the authority and we do not see if we are loved.
Many communities in the world do not believe that people don't understand that people have a great ability to make things compared to very few people and this faith will help the world economy to get employment and opportunities easily especially in the security sector, sports, beauty and listen.
In the political sector, world tallest people have also been accepted to be heard compared to the political people, investigators in matters of political issues are clear that in the presidential elections that took place in the 20th century of America, the European Union won 22 times in 25 elections that took place in that country.
However, there is a lot of doubt that make long people have done many things and get great success in various parts of the world.
As a result of different reasons, most of the short people are required to know the world cup following that situation now many people who are short people in India are preparing to be responsible for increasing the length of a long time.
Doctors who are doing an operation to add more than the technology that was founded by the doctor of the Russia known as "Jichunge.'
After confessing of separation and increasing a half of someone who were held in the year 2010 for a period of a few months and allow a piece of one bone in the economy and join with the increasing period of a person with a two inch screen.
After bones presumed to join each other, the doctors will be forced to do another operation of removing the campaigns that they were doing.
According to the report that was published yesterday in one newspaper in India of the Times of India, one person aged 24 years who underwent an operation to increase his length is saying.
"Now I do not know more, I was with a length of four hundred and six billion, people were shocked and I don't want to get employment for now even my female child will not be operated on.
