I was looking for vegetables I will be with each other.
I wanted but where to income.
It is diggers while carrying them?
There should be vegetables because I remember these days to make the value added.
Therefore, it is also a woman.
Give you Mister one.
If we start.
Is it also news that the farmer is a place where Kim has given money.
I have been living in Dar es Salaam.
Peace depends on yourself the box for us love you, listening to God, he has put it or I have touched me.
It is possible.
Faith will go to the fish when it shivered to the economy to the director.
After seeing the attempt failed.
And if I gave birth to a child who is coming out but I will love you that you are.
This hour the business of fish, very difficult, this is a lot of work and if it has gone down.
We had already been found.
The late?
First, business is same as we go with faith, I would have a very high speed and sometimes he is doing so that we can make this work before, we will talk to us so that we can talk about my life before you get my man, but there are two children.
We have decided to come back here is one of the home to our home Captain Komba just because of the house, I will be seven, to get pregnant here in a group, when I get my friend and to be the father to put strategies of stealing their journey in Tanga city and truly very delicious.
I went up there still plans to help me, your right house is using him in the Azam Complex and I was going to go after going to court.
Third, but also the desire to be dealt with this is a work because it has taken you the whole world but it's also a woman to go back in Kigongo Village, brethren, when a woman is close to my friends so that we will also have a lot of things after insisting.
They distributed here in one month for an agreement of five thousand shillings in that because, so it is good to have houses yet to be able to maintain peace and then I got money then I will be happy when I will be happy, we want alcohol like women.
However, others are still still doing so that they are still doing so and those with a dummy check for one hour and that is also farming, he has changed all of all nations and also in a dummy check.
As they went to California.
