
Learn not to run this modern farming so that it can be from PRocky.

Captain by Pius Mutakubwa Lugangira.

My friend and lover of the name of the whole health sector continues to learn so as to improve your life, in our today's article, we will look at how it can run a modern farming so that it can be able to deal with the challenges of life including selling them completely.

It should be remembered that there are two big types of farming because the first type of agriculture is normal for farming because this is farming which depends on water or irrigation, but the farmer has no ability to rule the amount of water or an amount of solar energy that can be used outside as many farmers have we used to see.

The second type is farming for a grader.
This farming takes place inside a special house, made by using special types that are facing him inside.
On the front you came into a special poison that allows them to enter and get out of the country and below it gives a special balls for the purpose of doing irrigation in your life.

The benefits of growing at a grader at a grader, the farmer knows the process of controlling the condition of an example of water that are supposed to affect the standard of water that are supposed to grow and therefore allow the farmer to make production even when the heavy rains are continuing to rise in different areas.

The shivered "is increasing the attacks of insects and pests who live in a special area due to a special environment of production, an example of 8 meters for 15 meters from tomatoes and continuing.

The important thing to remember, having a grader only is not sure that all percent of them have given many crops because it is a must go hand in hand with the tree planting seeds that is special to a grader.
We must also prepare your farm well by growing well and putting the type of fish, it is enough for you to identify the control of insects and diseases.

Many farmers who protect privacy are complaining, agriculture is not recognized by true agriculture that doesn't be able to pay for instance, that is agriculture for the past 11 times, for example people who protect themselves by checking the rains for the end of the month of 11 now have been able to investigate the market.

That is because everyone can be able to sell the ticket easily when the rains of the attempt failed.

When those results think they get tired with the money where the second month or three if the price becomes very high to now, then for this time you could have a grader at the sixth month while those are waiting for farming to check the farm.

Normally Green Houses, there are different types in accordance with the farmer how to be.

An ancient era of the 8-meter from 15 is 45 million shillings.

An ancient era of the 8-kilometer race is 5 million shillings.

The danger of the size of 8 meters from 30 million is 20,000 million shillings.

The death of the 8-meter competition is 40 million shillings and 85 million shillings.

For any farmer that you need the service to make sure that you will not be followed anywhere where he is with our company without any price, to change, the farmer will be given a lesson so that he wants to produce.
Until it is swelled.
