
President Magufuli leads leaders to send condolences.
By Antoine Griezmann.
Politicians yesterday dismissed the difference of parties and joining with other leaders to conduct inspections in the neighborhood of Attribution, Raila Odinga, following the death of her child Raila Odinga.
Condolences to her mother are coming out to the family of Mister Odinga, through social media networks if they mentioned the death conference as a blow after his family and in the whole country.
In his condolences, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that the death of her child was a blow after a lot of sadness and a parent and the country said that they were a young man with great hopes that the country will be touched.
"This is not a great loss to you and your family alone but for the whole country.
On behalf of my family, the government and the people of Kenya and on my behalf personally, "said President Kenyatta to ask God to give God, Mister Raila Odinga and his wife Vanisi Nyandugulu.
The retired presidents Daniel MOI and Mwaura who also use the family of Mister Raila Odinga.
Mister Kibuko is disappointed to be a whole life where he was born with great hope.
"I join the family of Mister Raila Odinga, when the death of Raila Odinga, a youth who had hope whose life can be dealt with suddenly," said Mister Kibiga.
The Deputy President, William Ruto, said that he was saddened by the whole death.
"I hope my condolences to the family and friends of Mister Odinga.
Losing a child is a matter of sadness (anyone, "said Mister Netanyahu and his condolences to the Retired President MOI, said the death of a child is an incident of pain but also in the whole community.
The head of the peace union Musoja, said he had been saddened by the whole death.
Other thoughts were scored by the Governor of Chakwama, Doctor Alfred Mutta, who was a veteran player, Peter Kenneth Kaunda, the minister of land William Nganga, Minister of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela, and the Governor of Lands, Ann Kilango Malecela
The Kenyans have received different classes, others look at the social media networks and also affect the families of Mister Odinga.
And the residents of Nairobi who had a lot of sadness speaking in a child called Lee who died in Nairobi yesterday morning after getting information about the death of Raila Odinga, some of them were shot dead by falling on the scene.
