
The presidency behind the conflict between Tanzania and Malawi launches 16 points.

A group of residents of Mbeya town who poured until getting into the country who succeeded in Malawi where they were going to attend the wedding that had been able to find the preparations for the fight against their neighbors.
Mshenga is one of the residents of Mbeya town due to the fact that in the three days they went to Malawi in that social event, they did not like to hear a statement by the leaders of that country or their citizens.
"The situation was unacceptable, (Tanzania) than Malawi, we did not hear the citizens that it came about, even the president at the meeting he held in there, he said there is no problem by talking to him," says one of the residents who were in that country recently.
Apart from those normal citizens, the previous week, who had been selected to be the head of Karuma district in Malawi, Felix Mkonga who is now has been moved to Mbeya district for a private tour accompanied by his friends.
That Head of Chikwanje from South Africa in the country, is among the leaders and the citizens of Malawi who are normal to come in the country in a walk to meet their brothers from Malawi, which is also a very common thing.
The dispute between Malawi and Tanzania emerged following the step of Malawi has started research on oil in the lake region as one of its leaders giving a statement claimed that the whole lake which is owned by Malawi has a statement that does not measure to the government of Tanzania.
But in a situation that was washed away by many, especially the citizens in Mbeya province, it is a step by the leaders in the country to fail to give a great statement including being ready for war with their neighbors, Malawi, will continue with their research of oil in the region as well as claims of the ownership of the whole lake.
In the middle of that project of up to two countries, there are two clubs to prepare to arrest American dollars in the year 2014 in Malawi and 2015 in the country.
Those statements that were given by three ministers in the government of the United Republic of Tanzania inside the Parliament that is going on in Dodoma, it has 40,000 views by political analysis of this country with great actions as outlined in the end of the presidential race in the next general elections, 2015.
"All of them are in the camp that vie for presidency in the next 2015 general elections, they will use this conflict such as possible for political parties, they are supposed to be trusted by the citizens that they are vying for presidency," says one resident in Mbeya town.
Feelings of the crisis being used as political capital at the coming elections in the coming elections in those two countries, there are some of the citizens in Malawi where some of the president of internal affairs and international relations for foreign affairs in that country.
Musa who is in the Democratic Party in the Democratic Party, is told to vie for the position of vice president of the Central Region of Malawi while his president had no opponent.
In the next elections in that country, there will be the vice president of one president from every area, in the south of South, Central and North.
Already Musa has been reported to have great opposition in that party as explained as the guest of honor to the party, while the ones who were playing for that party was going to vie for that position.
It is in that environment where he is using every opportunity to be able to live close to voters, therefore the dispute that emerged recently is making it a one in Karimjee in his important thing.
Here at home, the Minister of East African Cooperation, Samuel Sitta was the first to give a caution to the government of Malawi about his step of continuing with the research of oil in the Lake Region and that Tanzania is ready to protect its borders with any cost of them.
Sitta made that statement when members of parliament they want to force him to be given the government's statement about the reports that they got from Malawi claiming that the whole lake's research without discussions with the neighboring countries of the lake.
Apart from Tanzania and Malawi, the other countries that borders Lake Nyasa to Mozambique which however, in the ongoing conflict is still in front.
After the government's statement through the Minister Sitta, who was in the position of Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, citizens continued to hear the words with the thoughts that indicate the importance of Tanzania to enter into war with Malawi, something that led by many citizens especially in Mbeya province which are the neighboring countries with the neighboring country.
After Sitta, after Sitta was the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe, who also gave the official statement of the government concerning the conflict while insisting that his statement by going back to three times but bringing to the members of parliament to stop implementing his position.
The cinema halls in the country were continuing with this journey, he gave himself the member of parliament of Monduli, and the chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on foreign affairs, defense, and security, Edward Lowassa saying that Tanzania is ready to enter war with Malawi.
Speaking in the city of Dodoma, Lowasa said Tanzania has prepared himself a mental checkup of going into war with Malawi if it will be forced to say that his committee has organized himself by preparations of the Tanzania People's Defense Force (TPDF).
In his explanation, Lowasa return to time about the possibility of Tanzania going to war with Malawi as the ones that were announcing war with Tanzania.
The determination of the war could not affect the citizens who live in the provinces of Mbeya and Ruvuma provinces which apart from being one victims of one of the war that deals with politicians in the country, have been faced with brotherly relationship and their brothers from Malawi of the century.
Up to now the government of Malawi has not given any statement aimed to symbolize the intention of more war to manage its argument that Lake Nyasa, which is for many years now, they called Lake Malawi, which is their cost by 100 percent.
The government of Malawi has directed that argument using the contracts that had been done during the colonial era, Tanzania expects to identify, but without stopping the foundation stone on the table and instead using threats of the war.
Views of Malawi citizens show to convince Tanzania to move the police force, saying Malawi believes that the right way is to sit together in the table of discussion and finishing their differences.
However, Miss Tanzania has not gave a statement by the government more than saying that there is no problem because it is a matter of discussions so as to explain his thoughts that he is ready to reach Malawi.
The argument of that conflict is to be used as a political capital heading to the elections in these two countries, it is also confirmed that the verification of those leaders to provide services when they know that later at the end of this month, they will meet in town to compete for the issue of that boundary.
Among the politicians that were unable to agree with the statements by leaders who want to maintain peace, include Richard Kasesela who apart from being a member of the Revolutionary Party is the host of Rungwe District, Mbeya Province, who saw the statement of war that don't know the citizens of those two countries.
Richard is surprised to see Diplomacy, is being placed on the side of politicians, again with the presidency of 2015.
"There are levels in talks that have not been already used, they are not supposed to announce the war, not very correct, first people do not live inside and here is used people with wisdom, an issue of announcing the war continues," said Kasesela.
The activities of looking for oil in the Lake Tanganyika on the side of Malawi has participated in two years ago and all of that time he had not involved any statements that involve each other between these two nations in the world.
At the time the conflict is fast, last month, two countries that launched the Songwe airport, which is expected to benefit more than the poor citizens of those countries through its production of irrigation, electricity and fishing.
