
Now Tanzania we have been National Park.

One of the reputation that Tanzania has come out in the international sector in the recent years, is the reputation of being one of the leaders of drug trafficking in the world, different from the reputation of being a nation of peace and harmony, once the reputation of a nation of peace and harmony, once the qualifications to be proud of even a little.

It is a reputation that has spoilt the picture of our country, because right now we shall get out of countries to follow their differences because of this kind that is being done by the government of Tanzania every time when he comes in foreign countries getting a big offence.

Events of Tikrit and those drugs are among the drugs that give the image of the nation that began its own kind in a period of two weeks, approximately four people have been arrested in different countries with those drugs and they have happened in Tanzania.

Last month, two hundred girls were arrested at the International Airport of Oliver Wema, South Africa with 150 kilograms of drug abuse, Crystal Renaissance Dam valued at 6 billion shillings from Dar es Salaam. However, a riddle of how a big cargo managed to play at the airport of Dar es Salaam.

In an event of that kind, there are two weeks ago that was arrested in Hong Kong, China with drug trafficking worth 15 billion and that in the evening the day before yesterday, they arrested another Tanzanian of 45 years from Tanzania with more than 45 years of heroin in the same day.

The problem of drug trafficking here in the country has been huge, because statistics show that there is a big list of those who were arrested, due to those drugs, it has been partnering with the presence of the old legends of trade of those drugs, it has been accompanied by saying that their cases have been opened against them, their cases have been opened against them.

We believe in this, the government is supposed to carry the blame from how to raise them and sell the chest with the old legends of that business, we should realize that stem cells that are arrested by those drugs here in the country and in the country, or the government seems to know.

At the end of last week at a public rally that took place in Mbeya City, two youths who were being used to transporting those drugs was used to transporting those drugs, including some of the owners of those drugs, including some of the ministers and parliamentarians.
