Miners will face the Tanzanite Band.
MTVs, 2013.

Security situation is not well in the mineral quarry.
The Tanzanite that is present in Mererani Town, Simanjiro District, Manyara Region after the presence of information that small miners of those minerals have been forced to register and take three minerals of investors from South Africa to be One One.
Information that was found from Mererani Town, confirmed to the verification of sources.
Different reports of news for two weeks say that the three weeks comes with small-scale miners from Yanda B and D which have gone down to lack of land conflicts in the investors of those investors.
Arising from that attack, the reports indicate that the company is a company.
He has improved and has stopped the mining activities in the mines.
Three that are not known by yours, Delhi and CT scan to the security of his workers.
In addition to invading the mines, it was stated that the small miners have also destroyed all important infrastructure in minerals and steal important equipment in the mining activities and caused a loss of millions of money.
The spokesperson of that company, Dotto Mwaibale, has praised the newspaper reporter in their talks through mobile phone that it is true that the mining activities are standing in the mines.
Three months since January, this year, due to the attack that was done by small miners from Race B and D.
"Since the middle of the year 2012, they started by Romelu Lukaku, and his company is forced to forgive him due to the huge destruction of infrastructure in the mine," he said.
The spokesperson added that she was at the end of last year they started shouting at two other mines, then they will not stop the mining because of our workers being attacked from time to time with different weapons and the bombs made by their hands.
He said as a result of that attack they gave a lot of information.
To write a letter from time to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
Speak about the attacks that was done but up to now, there is no action.
Those taken against those involved.
"We are waiting for media stations to be dealt with and take action against them.
The concerned, every time the government officers are explained to him that most of us are dealing with this matter and we are waiting, "he said.
Speaking about the loss of that attack, the spokesperson said it is great, due to all the important infrastructure as the system of electricity and climate in the mines were destroyed by the purchase of the water to be stolen.
"For now it is difficult to make a loss due to the destruction.
But you can't say it is very big, we can know you.
The real issue after doing an evaluation, "he said.
About the report that the film company is expected to reduce.
The number of its workers from that attack, that spokesperson was not ready to speak about that issue because it is until the board of directors will meet.
"I cannot talk about the issue of reducing employees especially in the mining department because the issue will be decided by the board after doing an evaluation of the real situation of production and other important things," he said.
However, the information was found from the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
He explained that the ministry officers have urged the company.
It will be One One to give information about the attack to another authority.
Government that deal with criminal offenses.
One of the top officers of that ministry who asked his name to be informed because it is not the spokesperson, he said that issue should not be the spokesperson, "said that issue.
They should be dealt with by media stations because it is selling in criminal offenses.
"I don't want to get married but those are the instructions that we gave them.
That they have written the complaints by police because the issue of attack in the mine is an offense of the name and those that are supposed to resolve it.
Police, "said the officer.
Mwema should make efforts to get the Commissioner of Minerals in the northern region, Engineer Benjamin Mchaga, who however claimed that the presence of Tanga province in a meeting and he was not in a good position to speak about that issue.
But more information was found from that office.
The region claimed that the government is waiting for completion.
The talks of getting into partnership with 50 percent of the company and the government through the Mining Organization (Monbusho Scholarship).
The law of mining licenses will be used in the year 2009.
That new law is blocking the company or any person who is not a Tanzanian to buy minerals within and those minerals are required to collect taxes among those minerals and they are forced to sell 50 percent of its shares in Mobolaji Dawodu.
