
DC Muheza wants business people to invest in huge farming in Handeni district.
The head of Handeni district, Tanga province, Godwin Mutahangarwa has urged business people to ensure they are investing in a big modern farming that will have a productivity to them so as to make progress in development and grow the economy.
Moreover, he gave the statement while speaking to business people, religious leaders and other things, he urged them to see the importance of using the opportunity of the presence of natural fertility so that the district can be successful so as to get success.
He said that it is a must for business people to know that agriculture is the only way that can uplift the economy and speed up the speed of development growth if they will enable the party to be released every time.
When I wish you, I urge you the issue of agriculture where you came from a great shape, because this is the only way that can contribute to a large extent in making progress in development in the district, "he said.
In addition, he emphasized the importance of the citizens of that district to put aside the importation of illegal immigrants including sunflower and shivered so as to deal with the problem of dealing with reliable rain for maize.
When you get a car, I think that during this period we should be able in large numbers but the weather is not good and the rains have not been found guilty, therefore we must increase the drought so as to avoid the air strikes so as to avoid the mud.
In addition to that, the district commissioner advised the banks institutions in that district to ensure that they provide priority to agricultural investors so that they can improve economically, but also contribute to the national income.
However, that district commissioner used that opportunity to urge the farmers who had a little produce to ensure they are learning and stop using it because they will be able to cause a situation of hunger.
And the Sheikh of Handeni district, Shabani Mohamed said that they are unable to pray for the head of the district so that God can be able to fulfill its responsibilities as required and help contribute towards development efforts to citizens.
When you get a gift, I wish you Honorable head of your district, we are very happy because they do not work hard because they are doing well at tv station and we believe that his skill will help to improve our economy.
He said that they will move with their public cooperation so as to enable them to implement its responsibilities of giving the development to the district.
News courtesy of social networks of Tanga City.
