
The secretary general is looking at the NCCR-NCCR, Asmara, his judgment and what is what is happening.

Dar es Salaam City, the Secretary General of the NCCR-Revolutions Party, Mosena Nyambabe, has said that he answered that history will make judgment and what is what happened.

Speaking to this newspaper in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Nyambabe, said that he does not have a new issue of speaking because he didn't talk about the future of their party in Ukawa, while insisting on how history will benefit the judgment.

"I don't say that at the moment, I have talked about what is happening inside Ukawa, I said history will do that judgment and they have been issued," he said.

On November, this year, the leaders of that party including the vice chairperson (mainland), Leticia Mosore, the secretary general, some of the delegates of the National Executive Council and other leaders were speaking to journalists and show the doubt of their party to be in Ukawa.

In that meeting that took place at Hyatt Regency Hotel, Dar es Salaam, the leaders gave a statement to what they have claimed that it's impossible for their party to be inside that union of the Constitution of the citizens.

While giving that statement, Mosore said that among the things that they agree in that union was a way to run, including building a committee to solve problems like the executive secretaries, the executive committee and the technical committee and the regulatory committee that it has been unable to work as required.

He said that the leaders have been unable to put policies of operations and to stop doing things that are doing badly, the committee failed to address conflicts between parties, to fail to form and supervise the councils of the provinces and to fail to reach the right time.

That statement made up to complain about an amount of 12 states that he was given compared to 67 constituencies that they had banned the candidates in the year 2010 in the same party.

Mosore also complained about that despite their party to be returned in the past, they are proud because of the party members of other parties that are inside that union were cast and insisted to stop the candidates in some of the regions of the elections.

Speaking at the meeting that we were forced to have no longer the party at the national level, Nyambabe, mentioned other problems that it is unable to agree on some of the issues he claimed that their chairman has been doing an eye on how to get the councilor candidates.

Another issue that was talked about is to show and agree that every party will get the opportunity and how many will face the government, to fail to follow the procedure of getting the presidential candidate of the union and to give them great importance from CCM.

Nyambabe, also complained about the lack of the campaign team of that union which would help all the candidates and will enable them to have great strength in that union including using money that he wants.

Those leaders also urged them to advise their chairman, James Mbatia to confirm the constitutional sessions so as to discuss about the fate of their party.

The member of the general meeting of that party and the former parliamentary candidate for Kigoma South Constituency, David Kafulila, who was unable to told the newspaper that he has no need to say about those allegations because it is not the party's spokesperson.

He said that party will have a meeting with journalists at five o'clock in the morning and all the answers of the future of the party.

The chairperson of that party, James Mbatia, when he was given all two phones that were called without answers.

In the election that took place last Sunday, that party got a only one constituency for Vunjo Constituency which has won James Mbatia, before that election had four constituencies of Kigoma South, Kasulu Town, Kasulu Town, Kasulu Town, but in elections those regions have been lost.
