I have not died.
The secretary general in the ministry of energy and minerals has made an increase in other things saying that he is involved.
That is saying many people do not been mentioned maybe the sun broke down and lovers.
You know there is strength of the name made me look for God, he said that he does not come again with the evidence and he would make sure he said he is a video for what it could make the purchase of people from parliamentarians.
Now it is clothes which have already been done there are no reason for the sea.
The current research has the strength that it will be to go to the origins of the sources so as to evade them as the whites have decided to write the truth about the process of time waiting for you to speak, according to the investigation that was done by this platform, we have noted the following without considering ethics and law.
Thank you so much.
Previously I was talking that the victory in the industry but we need the investors to be a huge conflict.
Because we are led by philosophy of masturbation.
To give the truth and truth is not so good.
Go far from the western media a lot of things like that, but even we get you a good example.
Welcome him.
Recently, this year peace was jailed for his seat again, maybe this is continuing.
But we are following up even how our colleagues try to go back and explaining that we are doing well and insisting that there is true that we are required and we are required to do when we meet with these clothes to talk with these clothes.
But the challenges still do not depend on social media, our systems for investment is true that will enable us to reach there, there is a probability that this is a probability of this problem.
Jesus rest.
There's no reason for internal affairs of the media, but some of the reasons because you get in the possibility will be there in the hearts of their hearts, but we finish with each other.
Why is your life?
One of the countries and the ones that they want to get answers from therefore you want to deal with the things that come at each other.
The length is a user.
It is supposed to look for the short God, when we don't know if I don't know if I don't know if you get through a shame, they do not see if you get any problem if you should have any person known as usual.
Which will enable you to take everything at seven o'clock and when you follow the number of people if we are increasing the success we will have used to deal and know that the goals are now while up to day.
Because I am happy.
Which will be the foundation of writer to walk for the last day that we can talk to him in accordance with the investigation that was done by the television station or to make sure the following time revealed that the money has been taken to try and finish with them.
