

Dubai is one of the cities with its own kind in the world when it comes to the issue of creativity, wealth, good quality, attraction, buildings and its development projects.
The city of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in the south east of Pwani province, has caused more than two million residents.
Even if he said the foundation of its historic economy has been built through the oil sector, royal carpets has managed to change that by using it in the tourism sector in the country, property that are nontransferable for the financial services.
The logo that are being complained at that town is its own buildings that make up to heaven (yellow fever), including a long period more than all.
In that means that we shall take over that country even if it happened in the western countries, they used the high technology to stop the mouth, especially the order and the type of creativity in development projects.
That is together with the islands made by human beings including being an example of a tree with a weapon and its branches, hotels and big shops in the eastern central region and the world.
It is in that city where it is believed to be the only hotel in the world of six star, the star of Al Shabab.
However, there is another side of the rich town in the rich and seen that the rich people do not understand.
Other than the people including the tourists not to understand the UAE authorities are not ready to forgive him, but to erase stupidity, from the map.
Those were able to be removed by our photographer of Iran, Farha Abdulahman Babu, who exposed his webpage from South Africa who came out to participate in another part of the city.
The ones who traveled from their home to Dubai, have hope to make the correct future of their families in the near future, but we have found themselves living in a critical condition, so that small salaries and difficult work in the solar eclipse.
Private pictures have been taken in the Indian Ocean, an official name of the workers' camp, one of the workers in the city of Dubai, has been built very far from the ones that were involved in which the city is rich and UAE.
"The sacred heart" - the name which the Gold 'City "is so much - it is a park for 150,000 students from India, Pakistan to China.
30 years ago, close to the whole area of Dubai.
That photographer has been visiting Dubai just after time and he was able to see how the city was able to change quickly up to that where it is today.
And therefore, they are understand that most of the different classes that live in Dubai, the foreign experts and at the previous years, are the strength of the work that is able to build the city.
Government has explained that several employees have found themselves with their documents of passports for being arrested at the airport and was forced to work for a low cost.
You will be taken to the Holy Spirit which is not in the map which is known as Dubai so as to be controlled by their employers.
