
RC with the criminal silence in Tanga.

June 3, 2016.

The Provincial Commissioner of Tanga, Martin Mmari, has said events of criminal incidences that came out in that province is a threat to the development of citizens and the province because they can destroy the investors.
He said this yesterday after receiving the report of the head of the district of the district of Estonia Davutoglu, before going to attend the special council of councilors of that district council.
That council was discussing the issues of the councils that were cast by the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).
He said the crime has caused a bad speed to the province which is expected to be attained by the construction project of crude oil from Uganda to the port of Tanga.
"This crime can be able to build fear from investors in Tanga, there is no investor who wants to invest a place where it is not safe since the end of the day, he found himself being shot or relocate its property within a short time," he said.
He added that the responsibility of security is supposed to be under the citizens themselves that are the ones who know the criminals, to live with them, at another time citizens help them to escape.
"
He said that crime will also reduce economic opportunities in the province which have a lot of opportunities including the port, railway, roads and now the oil pipeline from Uganda which will have great benefits to the citizens and the nation as a whole.
He emphasized that the ones that do that crime is not a wall but they have decided to improve the economy of the province, give fear to citizens who wanted not to be afraid since Tanga is safe and all leaders including the heads of security agencies and security, have organized to fight with those people together with the citizens.
"Here there is no of Al-Shabaab or Al-Shabaab, these are our enemies who want to return to the development of the region," he said.
Up to now within three months, 13 people have died in that province due to various criminal incidences including the event of April 20 this year, where five people were killed by shot after criminals broke the Central Baker shop.
Those criminals have removed from 27 million Tanzanian shillings, whereby in the beginning of May, this year, the criminals have reduced the village of Kibondemaji, 40 chicken, two goats and a cow.
At the end of last week, the criminals have killed four people of swords in Kibuko ward, Mlangali Village, stealing rice, Undule.
According to the police force, those who were killed in that event are George Mbani Hussein, Mkola Hussein, Issa Ramadhani and the two others were known by one name of Kadir and Mahamed.
