Doctor Slaa swears in Ukawa.
Martti Ahtisari Center, 2015.

The decision by Doctor Wilfredy has promised to leave the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), in that party together with the union of parties that make up Union of Citizens Constitution (Ukawa) in the general elections of October this year, Almighty Mwema should remember them.
The day before yesterday, the chairperson of parliament, Freeman Mbowe, explained to the members of the executive council of parliament that they have requested their secretary general to rest for now until now because they have different opinions about the coming of Edward Lowassa to move to that party.
However, lack of issues of politics and scholars of those issues have made a difficult time to the party after that step of Slaa's action seems to be a sign of integrity inside the parliament.
The party of Mbowe, Zitto Kabwe.
Although parliament was started more than 20 years ago, that party does not have ever been known as the general elections of the year 2010, where Doctor Slaa got more than two million votes while the CCM presidential candidate against President Jakaya Kikwete.
According to the lecturer of the University of Dar es Salaam, Professor Kitila Mkumbo, three people gave him the popularity that was in the year 2010 and to be implemented until now.
"The mother of Mzee Edwin Mtei started the party, but it was not able to grow fast and all days was behind the parties like NCCR-Revolution, CUF and Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (TLP), however, things begun to change after Mbowe got the chairmanship.
"He is Freeman Mbowe is the one who brought in the group of young people with mental disabilities and others inside the party, he termed it and gave them a great opportunity for leadership without caring about their age or experience in the leadership.
"In those youths, there was also Zitto Kabwe who was sent to be deputy secretary general of parliament and later who came to youth like John Mnyika and Halima Mdee who did their work well in the party.
"CCM's popularity started to be aired on the ninth parliament between the year 2005 to 2010, Zitto Kabwe and Doctor Slaa is the ones that had the leaders in parliament by giving a motion such as Isa Buzohera and a list of corruption at the Mwembe Yanga Temeke Grounds in Dar es Salaam city.
"Speaking to parliament and at the public meeting of Mbowe, Zitto and Slaa is the one that has brought the catalyst to change in Tanzanian politics and its results will continue to be a member of the opposition party in the country," said Kitila, who is a member of the national executive committee.
Zitto Kabwe was chased away, together with Kitila on claims of being accused of being accused, a scholar and a scholar who left the newspaper that if Slaa has left the meaning that you will enable them to fight directly in three awards that are in building that party.
"When Zitto Kabwe was chased away, his joy was not seen because I was there that people continued to find out the party on the left wing because of the general secretary general, it is clear that there will be a surprise of him," he said.
Mke Mwema should understand that Slaa has been planned to be the campaign manager for Lowassa in the election because of being loved by citizens but they will have now member of parliament to do another person to do that work.
The former member of parliament of Karatu town is alleged not to agree with his presidential candidate to announce Lowassa as his presidential candidate in the general elections of this year, explaining that the prime minister has resigned from the scandal of tenders for a special mobile phone company, he was to be first to be found in that party.
However, while speaking to delegates of the parliamentary council of parliament, on Monday this week, Mbowe said Slaa had agreed with that issue in the previous steps but he changed later.
In our meetings we have done we met but in the last minute, our colleague has discussed the position of the executive committee of the party to start talks with him (Doctor Slaa), but until yesterday (last Sunday), I have talked to them and we cannot stop the millions of party members because of the requirements of one person to be Doctor Slaa or Mbowe. "
Although Slaa is not one of the chairpersons that form Ukawa, but it was known that he is the one person who had a chance to vie for the presidency on the party ticket before Lowassa went to parliament.
