President XI explaining a citizen of China - his son that deals with corruption in the world.
Mr, 27, 2013.

President of China, XI explaining something, at the end of last week he arrived in the country for a two-day visit from Russia and after Tanzania was heading to South Africa and finally completing his tour in the Democratic Republic of Congo and finally completing his tour in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Life of XI explaining.
XI when he was born on June 15, last year 195348 he is the president of the United Republic of China and the Secretary General of the communist party of China (CPC), more than that, he is the chairperson of the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority (CPC).
He is a Xi-old child, one of the architects of the communist party of China, who had been forced to be defeated in prison.
In short, his journey towards the peak of national politics was opened more on October 2007, he started being prepared as the successor to the president of that country, Ho'clock.

XI is a new leader from China to deal with bribery in his country, to make corrections on the systems of markets and economy, in general he is also forced to strengthen good administration.
This is the second child of Mzee XI Zito from XXL, his father got the head of the film unit, from the communist party of China.
The mother of the president of China is called KMXI when she was 15 years old, she witnessed his father being defeated in prison and that was being beaten in prison and that was between 1968, during the revolutionary party ticket.
XI knows the meaning of normal workers, because it is not only his father got a worker at the factory but he also found himself forced to work in 1969, one year after his father was defeated in prison.
A vibrant singer of chemistry in Tucta, Beijing China in a certain way is not only in the political course but the military course has already been the executive secretary of the National Social Security Commission in China.
It is a person who has the efforts to grow the economy, since the year 1999, he was promoted to be the deputy governor of Fahema county, and later as a full governor, he decided to attract investment from Thai village, line with strengthening investment between those regions.
XI was appointed the president of China on March 14th this year and in approximately 10 days of "signing up" the State House of China, has shaken the world and especially his tour in Russia, Tanzania, South Africa and DR Congo.

For example, in several hours after winning the presidency, XI met with phone and the President of the United States, Barack Obama, they discussed about the safety of the communication system of the network (not pictured), together with the South Korean issue.
The results of those talks with Obama is a tour of the American ministers in China, Jacob Leiria in the Ministry of Finance and John Kerry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

But also, a few days after winning the power, XI started a tour outside the country following the previous day, XI told the Larger to be the former ambassador of China in England at the beginning of the year 1980, Khajida Kopa, the former ambassador of China in England.
However, he left his wife and asked him, the popular musician in China, Peng Lihanjo, in 1995.
They have succeeded to get a girl, XI don't talk about their home life, while some of his wife got her home (XI), I don't know if he is a leader of the country inside the house, in front of my eyes too. "
The wife, Peng Lieberum, he was born on November 20th, 1962, he is a traditional music artist and has got to participate in the music festivals in China.
That wife is among the first people of China to get a doctorate degree in culture, just after the introduction of that degree in the year 1980, China.
Peng is an officer of the police force for the people of China, has the position of Major General, joined the army in the year 1980, when he was 18 years old, he started working as normal police but later he was sent away from his talent in singing.
Their daughter, XI was born in the year 1992.
