
The national income is growing very fast.

It has been written by Halima Kimwana.

It has been published today, September 2016.

National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) has noted that during the second phase of this year, the National Identification Authority has continued to grow fast on 79 percent compared to 59 percent of the second quarter year of last year.

Moreover, he has mentioned the sectors that contribute to growth in the speed of the income as agriculture, industries, transport, construction, minerals and electricity through the natural gas.
Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday about the economic report for the second phase of this year, the Executive Director of NBS, Doctor Albina Chuwa said that due to the speed of economy is going on now, it may be on December this year, in the third phase of this year's income has increased more.
Doctor Chuwa said in accordance to the statistics that are available, the nation's income will reach a total of 105 trillion shillings compared to 109 trillion shillings per period in the year 2007, "he insisted.
Doctor Chuwa said the income at the market prices in the second phase of this year is 75 trillion shillings, compared to 23 trillion shillings in a period of the year last year.
He said the growth of the national income has been contributed by various economic activities whereby on the side of agricultural sector which include livestock, forests and fishing was at a speed of 32 percent compared to the pace of growth of 1 percent in the second quarter year of last year.
He said that in farming, it started with 394 percent compared to 511 percent of last year, livestock increased by 29 percent per year, compared to 39 percent of last year, compared to 37 percent of last year, compared to 37 percent of last year.
He said on the side of activities of economy, industries and construction, the activities of mining minerals, stones for a fast rate of 205 in the second half of this year compared to 11,05 percent of the period as the same year.
He said the speed of the growth of minerals and stones was contributed by the increase in production of natural gas, wheat flour, gold, gold, bronze and minerals of money.
"The production of natural gas was a total of 7,43,000,00 shillings per year compared to 1,067,888 trillion shillings compared to Wembley Stadium the second phase of last year and the Tanzanite mineral companies in this year was 467,888 trillion shillings compared to 1,067,888 offenders.
Furthermore, in the area of activities of production of industries, the director said that in the second quarter of this year, those activities were flooded with a speed of 91 percent compared to 52 percent which were built last year.
"The speed of the growth of these activities resulted from the increase in production of food products, tobacco, clothes, medicine, soap and house production," insisted Doctor Chuwa.
He said on the side of activities of production of electricity production, they were in a fast rate of 71 percent and added that during the second phase of this year a 430 kilowatts electricity project is produced compared to 430 kilowatts electricity which is produced compared to 10,00 Tanzanian shillings.
"The speed of the growth of the electricity production activities resulted from the increase in electricity production that comes from 60 percent," he explained.
Regarding the construction area that involves residential and residential houses, roads and bridges and engineering activities were at a fast rate of nine percent this year compared to 138 percent last year.
Therefore, Doctor Albina Chuwa mentioned the economic activities of the service delivery to be in that second phase of this year they were in a small speed of 521 percent compared to 95 percent in a period like that year last year.
He said a reduction in the speed of the growth of those activities that are facing a total number of vehicles, renovation of vehicles, and other house equipment resulted from a reduction of 2289 percent of products that were ordered from outside the country.
Speaking on the side of the activities of transport and conservation, he said that they were in a fast rate of 6 percent (6 this year) compared to the speed of 94 percent per year, due to the increase in the speed of passengers through the railway and roads, including the air transport buses (DART) and natural gas.
However, he explained that together with that the port activities they were tested in the growth of the area, but due to the problem of the whole transportation of goods in the world that caused many countries, even the port of Tanzania has been affected by the reduction of transportation of that cargo.
"I urge our managers not to remain, so that they can help the government to look for alternative ways to deal with this situation because the country with great port in Singapore which has been affected, has begun to take action by reducing cargo prices which are spread in the country," he explained.
Doctor Chuwa said that the evaluation of the growth of national income in the second phase of this year, shows that the economy is growing rapidly, compared to other East African countries.
He gave an example of Rwanda, which is the only country in the East African Community that had given its annual report for the second quarter year of this year, which shows his income has been built by 54th percent this year, compared to 78 percent of last year.
In addition, the World Bank report has revealed that during the economy of many countries of the Sahara Desert to have reduced the speed, the countries of Tanzania, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia and Rwanda.
According to the report given by that bank, yesterday many countries of the Sahara Desert are expected to rise and reach a total of 16 percent due to the economic challenges that arose in its big nations that are involved in the selling of products outside the country.
That report explained that many countries for now are being faced with those problems due to the drop in the price of oil and facing a difficult financial environment.
The head of the economy unit of that bank, Albert Sanga said the analysis of that bank doesn't recognize that those countries can affect economic empowerment if they will have reliable economic and clean environment environment.
However, he explained that due to efforts that are done by many countries in the Sahara Desert, the nation of those countries is expected to grow and reach 29 percent in the year whereby in the year 2018, it is estimated to reach 6 percent.
