When the Almighty God rest the mother Florence he does not know what I don't know who can prevent it by that mother, what does it come to do?
When I come to then, traditional and it is not good and it's not good and you know that a girl even do not know then they will look for people who have identified himself and no one can hope.
I have planned to tell people that I have met even I believe today.
He told me inside you, I have told him that I would like to say that I've heard that I would like I told me, then I saw him, then I saw him, then I saw him, then I don't see me, then I have been told me if you have been denied those things, he has been denied him but even so.
I haven't identified himself if there is no worries at anything which I got only when your brother wanted to say even but it's not good he will go even when I see I will decide.
You know that he is taking that, and I think I think but not I don't know the mother of Kevin De Bruyne, there is a mother here in the country.
That was saying the first time he will be able to pray for me, he will get a young man from the one that was buried the day before yesterday, the late Adam's mother comes back and went on.
I don't know.
.
The late God bless you know the body and I was only when I was shocked.
Ras Makunja has said that there will be the first to take him to the Indian Ocean, this one who had gone down?
As a friend, but he went to President Jakaya Kikwete even.
Dilesh Solank when he is looking at that award he can do this sister.
And you know what?
Something has given Mister Pengo.
And the expectations is?
His friends of Sengerema said that if it is not his service is it true that actor went to me.
The late Adam and still the sun is very few people, even when the girl in-law, you know what I believe is the mother for him, what I don't know what the mother gets to him from the neighborhood and I don't know what we get to the neighborhood.
You came to me in one of us.
Now you love you an indication that tomorrow.
If you feel extremely honored but I see no one I don't see you just on his right on behalf of the Almighty God bless you, I don't want to go for there like?
Most of the public, I know who there is no union of the class, I told me that there is something that has gone through, I don't know what she does not have money even when it is not bad, I will be a bad life, I'm in Dar es Salaam.
