"it's more dead in the Philippines" by Jeany Lacorte
September 3, 2016
newspapers of the past few days contain the complaint of former jueteng star witness Sandra Cam, that she revealed back then the connection of Senator Leila de Lima to the drug menace of New Bilibid Prison (NBP) but supposedly three lawmakers stopped her from doing so.
these lawmakers are Senate President Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel, Senator Franklin Drilon and Ilocos Norte representative Rodolfo Fariñas who are all members of the powerful Commission on Appointments (CA).
supposedly when the confirmation of the appointment of De Lima as secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ) was served, she was not given a chance to speak of what she knows about De Lima.
in the investigation to be held by the legislative chamber on the distribution of illegal drugs in the NBP during the time of De Lima, Cam said she will submit a copy of the tape of the CA hearing proving what she is saying.
but CA secretary Hector Villacorta immediately stopped her.
"Sandra Cam was given more than enough time and was not prevented from blocking the confirmation of Senator Leila de Lima as secretary of Justice before the Commission on Appointments in June 2014, based on the record and transcript of CA deliberations."
"Miss Cam was given ample time to expose the alleged illicit drug scheme and meth factory inside the NBP during her testimony at the 2-hour CA hearing on June 4, 2014.
but she did not do so," Villacorta stressed.
maybe Cam was hungry when she set off a bomb because she is blocked just by the CA secretary.
maybe she needs to eat a lot in the senate lounge so what she is saying will have content like what she used to do before.
it looks like someone is directing the moves of Cam today and the office of Pimentel felt it.
it seems De Lima is not the real target of Cam but to slander Pimentel for President Rodrigo Duterte.
it is known!
the Department of Tourism (DOT) will supposedly replace the slogan "it's more fun in the Philippines," narrated Secretary Wanda Teo, they will launch the new slogan in the middle of 2017, a few months after the Philippines' hosting of Miss Universe in January 2017.
in 2002, the slogan of the DOT was "wow Philippines" popularized by Senator Richard Gordon, former DOT secretary.
when PNoy took seat, it became "it's more fun in the Philippines".
Teo wants the future slogan of the DOT to fit the campaign promise of President Rodrigo Duterte that "change is coming".
the slogan of the DOT truly needs to be replaced.
"it's more fun in the Philippines" is no longer appropriate and instead "it's more dead in the Philippines" due to the more than 2,000 people that have been killed coinciding with the government's campaign against illegal drugs.
how can the DOT encourage foreign tourists to wade through the beach resorts in the country if dead people are floating about?
maybe the DOT thinks, tourists are safer now.
celebrating her birthday today is Senator
Grace Poe, daughter of deceased king of Philippine movies Fernando Poe Junior
and Susan Roces.
yesterday the senator was in Pangasinan, home province of her deceased father, to head the feeding program for the youth - an advocacy she is currently pushing for in the Senate.
Senator Poe is the author of Senate Bill Number 160 for students in public schools to have free lunch.
this will be a big help to parents because they will no longer spend for the packed lunch of their children.
again.
happy birthday to you Senator Grace Poe!
