the revolutionary forces are now ready to commemorate the 44th anniversary of PKP.
bureau of information
communist party of the Philippines
December 24, 2012
translation: revolutionary forces are all set to mark CPP's 44th anniversary
the Communist Party of the Philippines (PKP) announced that the revolutionary forces in the whole Philippines are now ready to commemorate that 44th founding anniversary of the Communist Party of the Philippines on December 26.
like before, there will be hundreds of small and large mass assemblies in more than 110 guerrilla areas in the whole country, even the gatherings and study groups in schools, poor communities, offices, parks, housings and other places to consolidate the ranks of the PKP and the activist mass by assessing the current state and identifying the responsibilities of the revolutionary movement.
"the activities will serve as an occasion for the anniversary of the PKP to announce its support to the millions of needy and mediocre farmers, fishermen and ordinary citizen in the north, middle-east and northern Mindanao, even to the few provinces in Visayas that greatly suffered flooding and destruction due to the strong storm that hit early this month."
"amidst the wide scale calamities and crisis in the society, the PKP will commemorate its anniversary by celebrating significant victories last year, even the accumulated victories of the previous years in all the fields of warfare."
the activities in the anniversary of PKP will also serve to commemorate the 20th year anniversary of the second great rectification movement back in 1992-1998.
PKP conducted the rectification movement to criticize and to overcome the major mistakes and weaknesses.
"the accumulated success cannot be achieved in the previous years if not for the second great rectification movement."
the PKP criticized the AFP by tightening the construction of checkpoints and other barricades on the road in estimated places where the meeting of the citizen will be help, to stop the flow of the people, to scare and stop them from attending the gathering.
the PKP called the attention of the armed forces of the Philippines (AFP) to obey the agreement of a cease fire and to respect the rights of the citizen to attend the activity for the anniversary of PKP.
