Arci, outshined by Gelli by Alwin Ignacio.
December 27, 2016
there are dramas where stars need to look poor and dirty, but what's mind-boggling is that their bangs and hair are dyed, their faces are plump, and their arms could pass for laundry paddles.
thank goodness they already ended the hair-raising Oh My Mama, which, chances are, was not even watched by Maricel Soriano.
if she did watch it, she surely got stressed with what she saw that she could not help but dance Shake, Body-Body Dancer.
in Until the End, Arci Muñoz cannot be a damsel in distress.
you should be put to shame by Gelli de Belen because of her extraordinary talent in the soap, she had to be killed and thrown off a building so it won't be obvious that she is really outshining and overpowering Muñoz in the scenes.
this Christmas, which is chaotic for some but cheerful for many, having wider hips and bulging baby fats and belly cannot be avoided. may we have less and less of these.
dramas about people afflicted with mental illnesses that are presented in full melodrama overload.
thankfully, the actors here are good.
you are both to blame, The Greatest Love and Someone To Watch Over Me.
dramas that have themes of revenge and the villain is always smarter and wiser than the hero.
enough, the stupidity of the stars of Doble Kara is already too much.
what kind of luck does Maxene Magalona have that she always evades the police and justice?
less of commercials in top-rating daytime and primetime shows.
usually there are more advertisements.
it is as if only 15 minutes are left in the program.
less of the artists, who are always thanking their hair & make up ex-deals, stylist and clothing sponsors whenever they say goodbye in musical variety shows.
less news about backstabbers, traitors and other sorts of vile behavior (especially rape, massacres) on primetime news.
less of Mocha Uson, Cynthia Patag, Teddy Locsin Junior
and tactless and politically incorrect statements from President Digong Duterte.
less of the extra-judicial killings, campaign on drugs, the obsession with the complicated relationships of Senator Leila de Lima and the grandstanding and holier than thou attitude of some of the men in power during Congressional and Senate hearings, who are pretending to be in aide of legislation.
less traffic, electrical, telephone, food and basic services bills.
Less of the too much emotions of Kakai Bautista.
many admire your talent but there are more who disapprove of how you aren't acting according to your beauty.
less of the stars who act cute, especially those who are in their 20's or are of young adult age.
you know who you are. I will not name you anymore.
just learn to be good actresses.
less of Xian Lim's modest, demure and prim and proper ways.
less of musical CD's from recording artists, who are not singers, and less singers, who have super auto-tuned voices or are indirect and off key during live performances.
less of Aljur Abrenica who feels that his last movie, Hermanong Puli, is a really huge artistic contribution to Philippine cinema.
less of denial kings, especially those who have a video and photo scandals.
if the merchandise is huge, man up!
admit that it's yours!
less of starlets and studlets who are begging to be noticed so they will be talked about, so let's just cover the mouths of Mo Twister, Mystica, Keana Reeves and the rest of their ilk.
less of Baron Geisler.
no explanations needed.
less of Kiko Matos.
the love teammate of Baron.
again, should this still be memorized?
less of corruption, discrimination, greed, hunger for power and homophobia.
