Hundreds of coconut farmers attack the NAPC, were not addressed by the 'coco levy fund mafia'
during the third attack on the National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC), Secretary Joel Rocamora refused to address the coconut farmers who insist on the immediate distribution of coco levy funds.
hundreds of farmers from Bicol, Quezon, Aurora and Cagayan either jumped over the fence or went under the locked gate of the NAPC in the hopes of speaking with Rocamora.
guards barricaded the door to the NAPC and blasted the coconut farmers with fire extinguishers.
one policeman relinquished an M-16 armalite, which angered the demonstrators.
(view the images below)
according to Senior Superintendent Richard Albano, director of the Quezon City Police District, Rocamora allegedly suggested that the coconut farmers should "write" in order to schedule a dialogue.
however, according to Willy Marbella of the Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), they have long been avoided by Rocamora, who is part of what he called the "coco levy fund mafia."
he is referring to the Presidential Task Force on the Coco Levy funds formed by President Aquino which was supposed to manage the use of coco levy funds.
the NAPC announced that the funds, P56 Billion of which was already remitted to the National Treasury last year, will be used for the Conditional Cash Transfer and Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program.
coconut farmers opposed this.
"Noynoy Aquino and any agency of his has no right to use the coco levy funds for any of their programs or for any other reason.
the coco levy funds are the coconut farmers' money, thus only the coconut farmers have the sole right to decide on what to do with it," says Nestor Villanueva, Southern Tagalog coordinator of the group Claim (Coco Levy funds Return it to Us).
"the coconut farmers are uneasy knowing that their money lies in the hands of a wealthy, landlord president. That's why we no longer expect to take back the coco levy funds merely by means of dialogue, but by insisting on our rights," adds Villanueva.
meanwhile, the KMP disclosed that Rocamora asked for a P1.6 billion "advance" from the coco levy funds.
it was allegedly for the "anti-peasant poverty reduction roadmap" of the coconut industry.
however, according to the coconut farmers, there is already regular funding for the programs of the NAPC.
they fear that the funds will be used in the upcoming election, particularly in the campaign of Akbayan Representative Risa Hontiveros, who is running under the senatorial slate of Aquino.
Rocamora was a former chairman of Akbayan.
"they are fattening not only their own pockets, but their party's campaign chest as well," says Marbella.
KMP and CLAIM are calling for the distribution of coco levy funds through "social benefits" such as pensions and health and education benefits.
they are promoting House Bill 3443 or the Coconut Levy funds Administration and Management Act of Anakpawis Representative Rafael Mariano.
the purpose of HB 3433 is to form a council that includes the coconut farmers themselves.
meanwhile, in a statement to the media, Rocamora said that the proposed HB 3433 and the NAPC Roadmap had "many similarities".
he said he welcomes the vigilance of the coconut farmers.
"let us work on our common goals," he said.
