'insider' in BFP being haunted!
posted by: Almar Danguilan
on March 7, 2017
in opinion
leave a comment
the office of the Quezon City Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) is hilarious in their efforts against us exposing the travel allowance for fire safety inspectors (FSI).
this past weeks, we have discussed and asked on how true is the issue regarding the travel allowance for FSIs that are not (allegedly) being given to the FSIs in spite of them signing the voucher as proof that they received their allowances.
for the information of those who have not been following the issue, the allowance for every FSI is given whenever the FSI will conduct an investigation on the establishments.
in every errand and inspection of the FSI in every establishment, this has an equivalent of P60.00 travel allowance.
if you will look at it P60.00 is a small thing but if you will put them all together or sum up all the allowance, it will reach about hundred thousands or millions.
for example in Quezon City, if 1,000 establishments will be inspected within one day, the total of the allowance will cost P60,000.
meaning that for one month... how much is it?
it's big isn't it?
but I don't say that this is a practice in the QC-BFP and instead we are asking how true is that the travel allowances for FSIs are being pocketed.
but, does the BFP National Capital Regional Office have something to do regarding this travel allowance?
anyway, we will know if it is OK for the FSIs that they do not receive their allowances because the replacement of the missing P60.00 is a thousand as they say.
yes, because the replacement for it is not only double but 1,000 percent.
where do they get the replacement?
from their target establishments - they earn P3,000 up to P5,000 or even more in every establishment that they will falsely accuse of violating the fire code.
aside from selling fire extinguishers that is strictly prohibited.
now, here is what's funny in our revelation or we're asking if there is truth in the corruption happening in the BFP.
what's funny?
because the QC BFP management, instead of taking action regarding the issue we are raising (if it is true), is out there hunting who our source or confessed 'insider' supposedly is.
an angry official wants to know who is our source.
why do we exactly know what is happening inside BFP.
ha! does this mean that what we're asking regarding the pocketing of travel allowance is true?
the official orders his greedy FSI pets in sleuthing for the insider.
the official believes that the source is inside the bureau.
the said official is hilarious, he is really affected.
why?
is he benefiting from the travel allowance?
probably!
that is why he is really mad.
the question: is he benefiting from the travel allowance only?
this is only if he benefits from the pocketed allowance or if it is true that for an FSI in every job or inspection order (IO) there is allowance that can be pocketed.
the official is from QC PFB.
what could be the intention of the official in ordering an investigation on who is our 'insider'?
to get fired from his job?
its ok if he gets fired.
what if the guilty official plans to do far worse than that?
I didn't know he was scary?
sigh, when the discussion is about money, a lot panicked.
it's because money can move and make the world go round.
there's a saying in the English language... "money, money makes the world go round."
he he he...
