on the 43rd anniversary of the New People's Army: people's war is the answer to the intensifying poverty
Fortunato Magtanggol RCTU-Southern Tagalog March 29, 2012 highest revolutionary greeting is being sent out by the Revolutionary Council of Trade Unions - National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog on the 43rd anniversary of the foundation of the New People's Army (New People's Army)!
high honor to the red commanders and warriors who untiringly serving and offering their strength, intelligence and life for the countrymen and the revolution.
in the current times, when the citizens are facing severe poverty and violence caused by the rotten and eventual fall of the capitalist system in the global scope, there is no other path but to fight through the armed revolution.
our people's army is needed to be strengthened more to fully advance the armed struggle that will clear the path to build a society with fullness of freedom, justice and care for its citizens.
the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) founded the BHB last March 29, 1969 as its primary revolutionary mass organization.
as a military force, political, economic, and cultural, the BHB is comprehensively advancing the duties of the current chapter of the national democratic revolution until the next chapter of socialist revolution.
since the foundation of the BHB, more lives are given up to build the iron and high walled tower of the revolution in the villages.
because of the unceasing launching of the anti-revolutionary programs of the past regimes, the paths trodden by the BHB and the revolutionary forces became complicated.
though there are times when wrapped with mistakes, the BHB corrected and again it tightened its grasp in the Marxist-Leninist-Mao Zedong Thought as an ideological guide; launched an armed struggle according to the suitable strategy and tactics; and organized and strengthened the organization from the unceasing criticism and criticism to itself and obedience to the centralized democracy as a primary organizing principle of the whole revolution.
through the continuous organization and recruitment of the new warriors, the membership of the BHB slowly gets stronger and expansive.
the farm bases and guerrilla zones are built in huge villages.
currently, the red government being built reaches to a relatively expansive scope through the armed struggle led by the PKP.
different from the reactionary government and its armed forces, the BHB is humbly accepting mistakes and learning from experiences.
unlike the police and military who are involved in the syndicates and spreading terrorism to the masses, the BHB remains serving for the interest of the oppressed masses so therefore it continues to reap support from the larger society.
though complicated was the path trodden, the BHB yet again and continuously strengthening.
in the midst of the most severe global crisis which pierces through each homes of masses of children of the sweat, the citizens have no other recourse but to fight.
in the continual exploitation of the US imperialist and its local puppets who are the huge landlords and big bourgeoisie buyers, the Filipino citizens have no other solution but to advance the people's war.
more than half of the special economic zones (SEZs) in the whole country can be found in Southern Tagalog.
in the chase of the capitalists for their super high interests and to save their companies from the global crisis in capitalism whom they themselves have created, more workers are experiencing an intensifying poverty.
long has been massacred are the regular livelihood, lack of sufficient wages and benefits, and suppression of democratic rights on creating unions and rallying.
while the capitalists are savoring from the cheap labor force of the workers, raw materials and government incentives such as tax holidays and 100% ownership in the Philippines; face to face, the government also denies from the workers the right for housing, land to build on, health, education, and other social services.
result of the incessant sipping of the strength, intelligence and livelihood of the working class, their future is withered like a leaf.
nevertheless, this withering is the basis to quickly ignite the fire of the revolution that will end the poverty and will begin the authentic change.
to revolt is justifiable.
because of the continuing exhaustion, more workers and citizens are aspiring for a revolutionary justice through armed struggle.
more workers, farmers, youth, destitute and other citizens continue to join and perform in the BHB.
through the continuous implementation of agrarian reform and building of the walled towers of the revolution in the villages, the government controlled by the US imperialist and locals of the reigning class will totally be toppled down.
only the involvement of the workers and citizens in the New People's Army, and in leading the revolutionary movement in the cities that the people's democratic government will be built through the leadership of the proletariat class.
long live the New People's Army!
New People's Army: real army of the nation!
complete the duties of the people's democratic revolution!
workers and citizens, join the NPA!
