one of the biggest problems of education of the country is the lack of teachers .
the search for qualified teachers to guide our children is difficult .
in the data of the Professional Regulation Commission or P_R_C do you know that for those who are getting their licenses to become teachers those who have passed have not almost reached fifty percent in the past nine years .
so more than one hundred and forty thousand -- forty-five thousand teachers are lacking in the whole country last two thousand ten not half is addressed .
the question now are all the new teachers hired to teach are licensed by the government ?
Hadji Rieta looks closely .
<no-speech>
year two thousand nine when the first series of Real Travels featured this young teacher .
only in second year high school and teaches voluntarily to a group of grade ones in the town of Datu Odin Sinsuat in Maguindanao .
more than three years have passed but the problem of Maguindanao before is still its problem now .
really difficult .
too many students -- our teacher is insufficient .
in the whole country here in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao or A_R_M_M has the largest insufficiency of teachers teaching elementary .
for each teacher it reaches to fifty-nine students she handles in one class .
<no-speech>
stated in the Philippine Teachers Professionalization Act of nineteen ninety-four that only those who have passed the Licensure Examination for Teachers or L_E_T at least (()) and only P_R_C can teach elementary and high school .
but because of the insufficiency of licensed teachers in the provinces the volunteers are allowed to teach here .
in one hundred and three teachers who are teaching in fifteen schools in Kabuntalan for example thirty-seven of them are volunteers .
like Teacher Normina who finished an education course but has no license in teaching .
but every year I take the exam since I graduated last two thousand I have always been taking the exam .
I have not only taken the exam for two years last two thousand and then two thousand three .
Ma'am Rosas Sulayman a former Overseas Filipino Worker have not finished college but a facilitator now in a pre-school in Kabuntalan .
financial problem so I was not able to continue in college .
I have not yet graduated .
I'm an undergraduate .
although they're volunteers they're very diligent in teaching .
whatever our permanent does they're also like that .
because of the shortage even the licensed teachers are forced to teach subjects outside the scope of what they've studied .
Teacher Jomari for example majored in Technology and Livelihood Education .
but he's teaching Values Education now .
(()) of course there are things you need to study but at least somehow you've already done that .
in the latest record of Department of Education or DepEd public schools in the country lacks more than one hundred and forty-five thousand teachers .
but this problem is gonna be solved soon .
the budget to hire teachers is only enough for ten thousand to thirteen thousand sixteen thousand .
you might say even lower .
now sixty-one thousand five hundred ten teachers .
this January almost thirty-five thousand teachers was hired by the DepEd as new teachers .
and before this year ends this will be added by more than sixty thousand new teachers .
this does not include the approximate of five thousand teachers that will be hired by the local government .
but it seems like there is another problem .
many of the teachers in the country are almost gonna retire %incomplete
