<no-speech>
lead by mayor Edgardo Pamintuan and the Angeles city office for persons with disability is the opening of the twenty fifteen national disability week at Angeles city .
the theme of the celebration is centered this year in strengthening the capabilities of our fellow countrymen who has special conditions through good health and body .
as an opening to this week long celebration showcasing their talent are some selected students of Angeles city special education center .
some offered a song interpretation number .
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
<no-speech>
these kids coming from Francisco G Nepomuceno memorial high school danced to the famous and very hit dance craze the Nae Nae dance .
<no-speech>
who would have thought that behind the skills and agility of these kids is their disabilities .
that is because behind every dance of these students are the SPED teachers who were standing beside them .
just like teacher Canon Bulanadi .
for me even if they are not hearing the music as long as they know that they can feel the beat of the music they will be able to dance and dance .
meanwhile teacher Lanie Cadavid of Francisco G Nepomuceno memorial high school is named last twenty fourteen as regional most outstanding special education teacher .
this is because of the support he is giving to special education student .
they now have plenty of livelihood program at school they are basket weaving they do nail care .
then they also do water bonsai .
depends on the skill known by the kid .
if if there is whatever disability they have it would be no problem what's important is having diligence and perseverance only those .
according to mayor Pamintuan there is now complete acceptance to persons with disability .
in fact a number of employees at Angeles City Hall right now belong to this sector .
this is because it was endorsed by the administration of Mayor Edpam is the equal treatment and providing opportunities to our fellow countrymen with disabilities .
.
like every else they are normal .
these are the new normal (()) .
they have (()) some of the previous activities of the city are the forum about autism and A_D_H_D held at the city hall .
aside from these conducted at Barangay Cutcut was a P_W_D medical mission and a sports festival in partnership with Central Luzon federation of persons with disability .
for the (()) .
