31 councilors of OrMin, honored
July 29, 2016
Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, July 29 (PIA) - to thank and honor their service as municipal councilors, 31 3-termers of the municipal council of Oriental Mindoro were awarded in the Philippine Councilors League-Oriental Mindoro Federation (PCL-OMF) End-Term and Recognition Activities 2016 held at the Provincial Assembly, City of Calapan recently.
the activity was headed by PCL-OMF president and ex-officio member of the provincial council (SP), Board Member Gideon B. Abuel.
focusing on the theme "integrity and social responsibility: commitment of the councilors to its constituents in the province of Oriental Mindoro", the outstanding councilors of the town received plaques of recognition and their own copies of the resolution passed by the SP recognizing them for their contributions to the field of local legislature in the province.
Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Provincial Director Maria Victoria J. Del Rosario became the guest of honor of the event.
in her speech Del Rosario emphasized giving honors to the municipal officials.
also, she encouraged the officials to lead in supporting the local government and legislature to answer to the true needs of their constituents.
from the councilors honored, those in high-ranking positions in their own towns were also recognized.
included in these are former councilor of Calapan who was elected as member of the provincial council from the first district Board Member Edilberto Ilano, Junior and former Roxas councilor and now SP member from the second district, Board Member Ramil O. Dimapilis.
former municipal councilor who was elected as Gloria mayor Bitoy Rodegerio was also honored as well as the former councilors who now serve as vice mayors.
Calapan City vice mayor Engineer Gil Ramirez, Naujan vice mayor Sheryl Morales, Victoria vice mayor Mel Callo, Puerto Galera vice mayor Marlon Lopez, Socorro vice mayor Roy De Claro, Pinamalayan vice mayor Rodel Magsino, Bongabong vice mayor Richard Candelario, Mansalay vice mayor Lhay Postma and Bulalacao vice mayor Ramon Magbanua.
in the said event, the officials of the city council of Calapan and municipal council of Pinamalayan also formally accepted the P75,000 reward each as the outstanding council in their category.
recall that it was November last year when these towns were formally recognized as the best council in Oriental Mindoro.
(CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
