dressing formation: my 1st day as a PMA plebe.
my first day as a plebe is one of the milestones of my military career that I will not forget.
the breeze was cool on the 1st of April 1990 but my body was very hot because of severe exhaustion caused by our reception ceremony.
all the cadets assigned to my group seem to be brave.
their eyes were wide open and were often shouting when giving numerous instructions.
"starting today, you will be called plebes!"
"you are not allowed to speak in Tagalog, but in English, at all times when speaking to seniors."
in our utmost "war shock", we often answered, "yes sir!", with a shout.
the vein on our necks would bulge and our voices would come from below the chest to be louder.
my group was called a squad and is formed by 6 plebes, one yearling (2nd year cadet) and one squad leader.
we marched towards our barracks area, which is called New Cadet Battalion (NCBn), to prepare for our very first dinner, which is called "mess" in cadet lingo.
many restrictions were taught to us.
when in the formation area or when marching, it is forbidden to speak to fellow cadets.
no rolling of eyeballs.
no moving in ranks.
the instructions of our SL (squad leader) were strict, as if stating the Code of Kalantiaw.
his warning was scary.
"it is forbidden for you to connive.
if we catch anyone, you will kiss each other on the lips!"
upon arriving in our room, I saw that we were all together in there and our double-deck beds, called "bunks", were next to each other.
we each had one duffel bag that is full of uniforms and accessories.
there were many pieces of underwear, handkerchiefs, shirts, sweatshirts, jogging pants and many more.
our very first uniform was an olive drab, which was called a drill B uniform, partnered with combat boots that seem to be waiting to be worn by us.
"those are your things as cadets.
take care of your things and do not make a mess. how your things are folded should be neat and your room should be clean at all times," said SL.
we individually took our uniforms when we were given an order to get clothes that are needed for the next duty, the "evening mess".
"gentlemen, all our duties are being timed.
it is not allowed to be slow and to move like a gay boy," instructed by SL, who was always looking at us sharply.
"now, I want all of you to wear your bath attire in 10 counts!"
"one! ... two! ... three..."
each of us took off our civilian clothes and scrambled to wear the bathrobe and towel.
SL laughed because of our individual appearances.
how could this be when even in tying the bathrobe, bringing the towel and toothbrush, needs to be in order according to the command.
"the towel is folded in half and is tucked under the left arm. carry the toothbrush and soap on the right hand!"
that was how confused we were because it seemed like all activities had "rules".
we followed all of them and always shouted out our answer, "yes sir!".
"plebes, we have 20 minutes remaining before our first evening mess formation. I want you to take a bath in 10 counts!"
I was confused with what he said.
how could you take a bath in just ten counts?
I was lost in my thoughts when I heard the voice of SL again.
"in 10 counts, you are already done bathing! 10! ... 9! ... 8!"
we all scrambled to our feet.
once I have hung my towel and bathrobe, I already made my strategy.
on my left hand is the dipper that pours water.
the right hand is used for brushing my teeth.
I made sure that my whole body got wet and to brush my teeth too.
the voice of SL echoed in front of our room.
"7! ... 6! ... 5! ..."
at only number 4, I was already able to wear the bathrobe while making a mad dash back in front of SL who was grinning.
"tsuuuunnnnn!"
I don't know what his command is.
I was busy fixing my bathrobe while still panting.
apparently, it meant "attention!".
it was a shortcut!
how would I know that?
sorry for the classmates that I caught.
there is already a punishment for them.
so that's what you call a "dressing formation" in the military.
it is irritating but makes one sweat.
