I don't know .
introduce it right away Zarwina .
yes with us here live in our studio is Lieutenant Colonel Reynaldo Balido Junior Philippine Military Academy spokesperson .
and we will talk about Ka Francis the upcoming entrance exam in the P_M_A okay .
good morning Sir Balido .
good morning Zarina .
good morning Ka Francis .
good morning to those listening to watching us this morning .
okay Zarina maybe Colonel Balido is already known by everyone .
now they will be surprised that he is already a P_M_A spokesperson ?
but where did he come from ?
do you know him you know ?
yes .
where did he come from what institution ?
N_D_R_R_M_C .
according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council .
you don't get to sleep okay .
no sleeping .
not -- this person really did not sleep anymore .
anytime you call him .
anytime any given time he will give you an update oh he has something to say .
but Ka Francis Zarina I don't want that we only get worried when there's a disaster so like this one a -- new experience again a new challenge to -- give service -- service to the nation .
when did our Philippine Military Academy recruit you ?
they took it like %incomplete
they got you because they saw the %incomplete
transferred sir transferred .
<no-speech>
twenty fourteen of June I was already in the P_M_A .
and the first post was the P_M_A spokesperson already .
right away ?
yes yes .
although I also hold other positions I am the concurrent spokesperson right now .
what could be next ?
but you don't want to anymore ?
won't you -- don't you want to recollect your past in N_D_R_R_M_C .
like you said it seems like he's no longer sleeping .
the position we're coming from is very challenging we all know that .
our former boss Undersecretary Benito Ramos .
good morning to you Sir .
oh yes .
Sir Ramos that's also one .
.
whatever time we call perhaps we got it from there our alertness when it comes to news .
before we go Colonel Balido this that you want to inform the town in regards to the upcoming test right ?
it's worth it here in the Philippine Military Academy how did you find your new job now as spokesman of the Philippine Military Academy ?
like what I said earlier to Francis this is just my concurrent job .
my main position or job is -- although civil military operations is also related to our friends in the media .
so --in engaging with the civilians with our partner stakeholders .
<no-speech>
I already started in O_C_D in the Office of Civil Defense and we're continuing this .
there it's really %incomplete
yes I should be able to P_R you .
right .
when I say P_R that means chatty .
you are verbose approachable .
and also accessible .
that accessible .
that is really what is vital there .
his accessibility and his lines are open anytime any given time .
now anyway what is this announcement of the Philippine Military Academy Colonel Balido ?
yes Ka Francis I want to grab this opportunity to announce to the public especially to our youth the upcoming P_M_A entrance examination this August twenty-one already .
your -- intro a little while ago Ka Francis Luzon Visayas Mindanao we will also have examinations there from Luzon Visayas and Mindanao thirty-nine examination centers we put or -- establish all over the Philippines .
okay do you quite remember which places those are so that %incomplete
<no-speech>
we could say it one by one if -- our time would allow .
oh .
of course Metro Manila we have two -- we put up three here .
in Manila area University of the City of Manila .
Quezon City in U_P Diliman .
Mandaluyong in Jose Rizal University .
okay that is here in Metro Manila ?
yes Metro Manila .
okay in Luzon the whole Luzon ?
in Luzon we have Baguio City of course because P_M_A is there .
there is one in Laoag .
Cagayan Mountain Province Bayumbong Nueva Vizcaya Tuguegarao Cagayan Cabanatuan City Tarlac Pampanga Lipa Los Banos Laguna have recently .
Los Banos Laguna Palawan Lucena Naga Legaspi .
according here in Luzon .
so what you got is region four region three region five ?
all we make sure we cover it all oh our Visayas ?
there's Visayas in I'm on my way to Cebu .
that's why I'm asking if we have Radyo ng Bayan there in Cebu .
D_Y_M_R Radyo ng Bayan Cebu .
I'll try to contact them when we arrive .
I was already talking to Elena earlier actually .
no coordinate with our connections in the network division .
for you to be given a good access and good accommodation there for that announcement .
okay .
I'll continue Visayas we have Bacolod .
Bacolod Tacloban Tagbilaran Dumaguete Kalibo Aklan there are .
<no-speech>
there .
all major cities in Visayas .
and Mindanao ?
Mindanao we have Zamboanga Zamboanga City Ipil Zamboanga here in the northern part of region nine .
we have Butuan Cagayan De Oro Osamis City Davao City Genera Santos City Tacurong Iligan Cotabato City in Bungao Tawi-Tawi you'll wonder we also -- conduct examinations there .
and Kidapawan City .
I said %incomplete
in all major cities almost through out the country ?
yes .
and August twenty-one .
it will be just open for one day yes just one day .
the places I mentioned are all simultaneous .
in your estimate Colonel how many can do we have a list of those who signified intention ?
a lot has already signified .
many have -- because sending of applications are year-round .
okay .
however -- only if you can remember K to twelve program was already implemented because %incomplete
there I'll just enumerate the qualifications .
should be a high school graduate .
those who will take the exam should be high school graduates .
the age should be -- seventeen to twenty-one years old or -- more specifically if he'll come to school on April one next year he -- should already be seventeen .
seventeen and not older than twenty-two years old .
so if he's April one and he's still twenty-one that's still allowed .
basically it's seventeen to twenty-one .
I mentioned earlier that they should be a high school graduate .
single and not yet married .
of good moral character of course .
and %incomplete
physically fit mentally strong .
yes .
and the height should be at least five feet .
and his general percentage average in high school should be eighty-five .
now you mentioned that they should be high school graduates what if -- won't they question the K to twelve .
what you're asking is the expected applicants .
there I'm just relating it to K to twelve because the last graduate of high school was in twenty fifteen .
and the K to twelve curriculum -- was implemented no K to twelve our first graduates of grade twelve will be in twenty eighteen .
that means it will affect our recruitment because we can't get any applicants that are fresh high school graduates .
so for your question of -- how many or if there are applicants many have already applied but because of the implementation of K or twelve -- the first graduates will still be on twenty eighteen we're already expecting a decrease of applicants .
hmm .
does that mean it's not allowed if you're just a junior high school graduate you should also finish senior ?
yes .
(()) what do they need to prepare for those who will take the exam ?
exams are the scoop of supposedly what will be the exams they should study their algebra .
okay basic Math Algebra Trigonometry Science the likes .
then -- for English there's reading comprehension and grammar .
part of the exam is also (()) abstract reasoning on how you think .
how about physical fitness ?
do you really need to be fit ?
well you're expected to be fit because %incomplete
how about if you're thin ?
when the training comes you won't be -- Francis there is before you can enter after they undergo the exam that is the first stage if they pass they will be called for a physical and medical exam .
that's the second stage .
where to be checked the condition of their body and if -- just there they will be tested already if they can do the physical rigid training .
there will be a -- there they'll check the body on push-up and sit-ups .
in -- those are pull-ups .
so basically their abilities are looked at .
oh my .
(()) it's really dangerous if they're thin .
what is the passing grade ?
according to Helen of Calbayog .
passing grade of the entrance exam no the machine will determine this .
there's no .
the question is not very clear .
your -- your scholastic standing does it have a requirement ?
that you graduated high school to -- qualify for the entrance exam .
that was what I mentioned a while ago Ka Francis that one of the qualifications or one of the requirements is his grade in high school must be eighty-five percent .
minimum eighty-five percent .
yes .
that one .
okay .
what will happen if one who passed is discovered to be gay ?
does it still qualify ?
you know what Ka Francis we are not discriminating .
even during the application we know that already -- we could see it already .
or in case that we don't -- find out and discover that he's already inside well the truth honest truth came out the true one revealed .
we don't discriminate for as long as he follows all the regulations .
-- he can catch up with his classmate .
with all the requirements he accomplishes we don't discriminate .
Anthony could he is just thin .
right even if he is found -- where is Anthony ?
there .
<no-speech>
there you could see in your camera .
anyway sir if I may ask for those who passed what are at stake or what are the sacrifices when one becomes a cadet ?
at stake or maybe the benefits first ?
okay benefits then to be sacrificed .
of course if an individual qualifies to be a cadet that will be a full government scholar .
he won't pay for anything his accommodation will be free .
allowance will be given for his training .
his uniforms and other expenses will be free .
basically if he gets in he will just wear his clothes .
yes his clothes .
once he is received %incomplete
anyway another thing Francis Zarina- -- once -- this batch we'll recruit from will become members of class twenty twenty-one that will start this April .
once they get in they won't worry about anything everything is free .
(()) .
