Saturday, April 21, 2012
one Filipino: a stable stronghold don't ask what our country can do for you, instead ask yourself how you can help free our country.
this is what you need to fulfill.
more than 90 percent call themselves Christian in our country.
according to them, they know Jesus Christ.
if the sect of their religions will have a widespread acclamation and show of protest against the government, tens of thousands of them unite and fill the national park with their number.
I am clapping for the leaders of these religions for their sentiments and intention regarding their teachings to their followers.
including the rights to sacred voting is subject to their wishes
their heart for the poor and the merely desperate among our countrymen is clear, to save the soul and go to heaven
it's the same in a religion, blow oneself up and involve many lives because there are 77 virgins waiting in paradise in heaven.
the same, different only in method.
if it were not only, being religious people in our country, questions cannot be avoided: why does severe poverty, wickedness, abuses, and gloom continue in our country?
though majority of us are Christians and our religion teaches only good manners, helpfulness and belief in Jesus
where is the mistake, or if something right was overlooked that should be taught?
even if the state and church are separated, that billions and billions of money earned by the church in its schools and universities won't have taxes imposed, so it will be tame and won't meddle with the state or government, they continue politicking, meddling and mucking in our government.
is this not the cause?
there are those who became governor, representative, with different duties in government, there are those who repeatedly desire to be president of the country, those who always meddle with our constitution, and there are paid consultants of the reigning president from these churches.
they are believed to be living saints who use their idolized god and blesses candidates every election.
and if their desires are not met, they use their followers to unite in persuading everyone to overthrow the one who reigns in Malacanang
this is the true events in our sorrowful society.
is it not the cause?
could this be asked: why is it that the Communist China, which is not acknowledging any god, is progressive and continues to progress without end?
why is Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia, and Indonesia, and even communist Vietnam, that are not Catholic countries are more prosperous than us?
they are not Christians.
they do not know Jesus Christ, and we are the only Catholic country here in Asia that believes in Jesus Christ.
why were we left behind in livelihood and progress?
are their gods more powerful than the god we idolize?
is this not the true God who is all-powerful?
is this not the cause?
is it not true, you become what you believe in?
is it not also true, that if you are suffering, it seems your god is also suffering?
and if powerful over all, and is the one who created everything that you can see, everything that you can view, wherever, in land, or sea, in heaven, is his, very rich, unparalleled riches, richest until the end of forever.
this is the question, why are you poor?
a small earning that is just enough?
sad, because there is not much savings.
because ... it seems the one you are idolizing is wrong.
isn't this the cause?
what is the reason why it happened and why it continues to happen?
and if we cannot change it will continue to happen, again and again, and without end.
is it not about economics?
we cannot have a powerful and stable government if our economy is not strong and stable.
we do not have the ability to have a progressive economy if we do not have healthy communities who help each other, energetic and bursting improvement, and above all, having good model families.
instead of accepting the separation of church (faith) and government (politics), is it not effective to combine them?
anyway, the church is continuously politicking, why not make it a part of the government and make them pay taxes?
so that it can be used by us and it will not go to the Vatican of the Holy Pope in Rome; and they can use this money to continuously deceive us and allow us to suffer from our own faults in their schools and universities.
this has been proven before by the Ilocano Gregorio Aglipay when he established Siwayawaya Nga Simbaan ti Filipinas or the Philippine Independent Church, back in 1902.
even before, many countries imitated it, one of them is England that spread protestant followers up to America, and even world wide, as protest to the pope of Vatican, in Rome.
we need to have principles that show not only beliefs with morality and integrity, they also need to agree with the free trade or market, therefore what goes together - now and forever - are the real Christians and those who are pushing for reform and freedom in the economy, not pressure from the church and the reigning kind.
we need to unite and work together in changing our country so it can become absolutely free.
if we can do all these, and be diligent to become skillful, with humility, frugal, and definitely focused on progress - to push to give value to lives and human rights, it is just to fulfill and protect the election, choose only those rightful for the job, value the dignity of marriage and traditional family, and freedom of spiritual knowledge of every one.
this is the true Philippines and a country we can be proud of.
not the Philippines who is last and criticized by neighboring countries to be always a beggar, hanger-on, and blind follower of America.
only one true spiritual relationship with the great spirit is appropriate, no church or religion in between, and what each of us appropriately follows is not coming from the dictates of the church.
even in politics, and not in the family of politicians, like butterflies that constantly change parties and allies in the Balimbingan party.
these are not questions of right against left; or of the government against the rebels; or Christian against pagans; this is right against wrong!
the unity that will cause understanding to everyone and those involved citizens of the Philippines with faith in Jesus and practices his teachings, without imitation, dogma, or commandments of the church, dictated or instigated by others, but only from his own knowledge.
our fellowmen are continuously deceived, crushed and divided in lack of knowledge.
knowledge is damaged if not crushed if it does not have awareness of the true events in our society.
behind the big religions of Christians in our country, hacienda owners and the ruling kind are hiding who continuously prey on the blood and sweat of our poor fellowmen.
only in unity can a strong and stable stronghold be established.
one defense that will support and spread being a true Filipino to us all.
and here is one Filipino, in mind, in words, and in action.
thank you very much.
Jesse Guevara
city of Balanga, Bataan
