Janella is coming back to Marlo by Abante Tonite Entertainment Staff September 16, 2016 is the red string connecting Sam (Janella Salvador) and Kevin (Elmo Magalona) still strong? will it be finally cut?
tonight will be the live finale of the love story of Sam & Kevin on the television series, Born For You, at Kia Theater (Araneta Center, Cubao, Q.C.).
after this, it will be Marnellla (Marlo Mortel & Janella Salvador) again in the new Mano Po by Regal.
while ElNella (Elmo Magalona & Janella) will be seen on Wansapanataym.
as people joke, "why not try the ElMar (Elmo-Marlo) tandem? who knows? it might work."
did the producer of Kakai Bautista have a problem in her launching film because she is demanding to have her own choice in her leading man, which is different from what the production wants? and did she threaten to back out from her own movie?
the producers remain indifferent.
the concerts of Noel Cabangon at the Music Museum, Lani Misalucha & Ai Ai de las Alas at the Kia Theater and Jason Dy at the Skydome, will all be held at the same time this weekend.
Ako Si Josephine is still ongoing at PETA, while the favorite of Jeff Fernando, Emma Cordero, is busy with corporate shows. they're on the same level aren't they?
it is already the press conference of Siphayo, which is top billed by Nathalie Hart together with Luis Alandy and Joem Bascon, whose last partner in a movie was Judy Ann Santos in Kusina. they are also leveling up, aren't they?
said one official of the Dangerous Drugs Board about the news on showbiz personalities who went to be tested first and posted negative results of drug testing: "a blood test is more important than a drug test. there are artists who get tested on their own but a test done in front of the authorities is more important. there is a system of getting tested after not taking it after some time, but we know he is a heavy user. there are also some who take another medicine for the drug test to turn out negative. the truth will be known in the end".
