known useless Marinduque police Marinduque is known as a quiet and peaceful province, so it is not strange that it is one of those with lowest crime rates in all the provinces of the whole country.
aside from the famous Moriones Festival visited by tourists during Holy Week season, Marinduqueños are also known for being friendly to their guests.
in this province, it has become a tradition to welcome guests through a ritual called putong.
here the women give flowers to a guest while dancing as a sign of welcoming them.
in short Marinduqueños are naturally kind, but as years pass it seems that this image is changing because of the consecutive incidents of criminality happening in the place.
just an example is the town of Santa Cruz which is becoming notorious because of consecutive incidents of theft in different barangays there.
thefts often happen in the barangays of Lipa and Landy and other nearby areas where majority of the residents there have relatives working in other countries.
and many OFWs who are former residents there built beautiful houses to be used as vacation houses even if no one lives there.
and these are the kinds of OFW houses that are usually targeted by the burglars who suddenly appeared in the said town.
what is strange, is despite the consecutive and frequent incidents of theft the police have not conducted any investigation at all.
and because there is no investigation there is no one apprehended, not even one of the suspects, so the burglars become more confident.
and aside from the lack of investigation on the incidents, the clowns do not even increase police visibility and no police officers patrol especially at night.
in other words the police stationed there just grow their balls because it looks like they have been used to not doing anything because their place used to be quiet.
so I am calling for Philippine National Police chief Alan LM Purisima to shuffle the management of the police in the province, especially in the town of Santa Cruz, before it is too late and the crimes there are not just burglaries but end up in killings.
