lottery style*
by Mary Joy Capistrano
revolting. disgusting. if the use of capital letters in each word can cause death, perhaps I would have many victims already.
my classes finished early today because we just had a consultation with the professor, so I went straight to the dorm to hopefully start on papers that I can't seem to finish.
but when I had faced the word document for only five minutes, I lost interest already. so there, I ended up on Facebook.
the article about the capture of former political detainee Ericson Acosta first presented to me. he had just been released, but the former culture editor of Kule is back in prison again.
he is my idol not just for his skill in writing but also for his skill in writing and singing his own songs.
aside from him the executioner police officers also apprehended his two companions Anakpawis party-list representative Fernando "Ka Pando" Hicap and - I was more worried about - our fellow student as well Karl Mae, whom I got to know in the UP Writer's Association and was also a former classmate.
whenever we encounter each other outside he always greets and smiles.
the group headed to Hacienda Luisita to conduct an investigation on the "lottery" system or lottery scheme of distributing hacienda land of the relatives of the president and the decrease of overall size of land that should have been distributed to the farmers based on an earlier decision by the Supreme Court.
I could not help but be completely angry when I read the comments of some people on the capture of ComradePando and Karl Mae.
according to the comments, the hacienda is supposedly a private location so it is right that they were apprehended.
they were supposedly just causing trouble and were even joined by a congressman who is using his power in order to enter a private property.
if I could just cross the virtual space to muzzle their mouths so that they will not embarrass themselves, I would have done it - like my long-time goal of muzzling the mouth of Kris Aquino whenever she speaks on television.
with the number of minor issues in her life, she almost cannot see the infuriating issues her family is involved in.
how many decades have the farmers fought for the land of HLI?
how many lives have been taken from the ranks of the farmers because of the cruelty of the state and overuse of power and money by the Conjuangco-Aquino family?
considering the court has long released a decision about the distribution of land to farmers but the reform process in the hacienda runs at a turtle's pace.
considering, the supposed distribution of land is in exchange of the forced signing of the agreement or the Application Purchase and Farmers Undertaking (APFU) between the farmers and DAR about the payment of very expensive amortization and tax.
who really will not sign if you are surrounded by a number of military while land is supposedly "distributed"?
it is just proof that this lottery system is just a fake reform and now it is worse because of the threats on people actively siding with the interest of the farmers.
it is clear that the Conjuangco-Aquino family will never let go of the lands that made them powerful and rich.
history is witness to the farmers sacrificing their lives for their right to own land that they themselves cultivated, but up to now they are not the ones benefiting from their investment of sweat and blood.
while I am writing this I kept looking at my newsfeed a bit for new updates about those captured today in the hacienda.
I just have two wishes today - their safety and justice.
