left behind: lawyer, engineer, doctor what would K+12 do to raise the Philippines' rank which is always left behind at the QS world university ranking?
we are asking this because surveys of universities in the past 10 years, my beloved Philippines is always on the fringes meanwhile, during graduation rites, guest speakers would brag how we are world class.
whatever those smooth talking guest speakers mean, we cannot fathom.
hehehe!
here, President Noynoy Aquino and Department of Education secretary Armin Luistro, is the Philippines' record in the QS world ranking of universities and you can ponder about it.
lawyers, Philippines is not listed in the top 200 law universities, colleges or schools for the year 2014-2015
China and Hong Kong, they have nine which is why they have best lawyers.
what if we lose the case for the West Philippine Sea at the United Nations tribunal because we are not in the list of countries with good lawyers?
we might have a summa cum laude in doctor of civil law but they got kicked out through impeachment due to possession of hidden wealth.
he got kicked out by prosecutor-congressman and judge-senator by virtue of bribery from the Malacañang from P10-million - P100-million each.
engineers, we also looked for the Philippine flag in the list of countries which has the best engineering schools.
for civil engineering, the Philippines is not there and the same goes for chemical engineering.
maybe this is the reason behind our easily damaged highballs, schools, and churches whenever there are earthquakes and the frequent poisoning in our food and us experiencing extreme pollution.
among the top 300 on mechanical engineering, the Philippines is not included; but the traffic on our roads due to the number of vehicles is puzzling.
one more thing, most of our cars are imported and majority of these came from junk shops, with engines thrown away but salvaged and is imported to us labeling it as brand new.
included here are the flying coffin helicopters and airplanes of the military and police and ships of the Philippine Navy.
computer science, let us look for the Philippines into the list of computer scientists.
son of a bitch, we already reached the 400th rank and the Philippines is still not there.
what happened?
isn't the Philippines the text capital because we can consider cellphone as part of computer science?
ah, can't afford to buy load which is why we can only text.
our computers?
used only for games raved about by kids until they get addicted to it and would no longer study and then stop schooling?
ah, computer scientists are the ones who spread online gambling and cybersex and that is where we are good with computers and when we are annoyed, we go on hacking?
doctors oops!
good news for doctors!
the University of the Philippines is on the list within the 251-300 bracket and number
we are 45th from 251.
son of a bitch, is this the reason why our hospitals are closing down or not accepting those heard carrying Ebola or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome-coronavirus?
what about the complaints of our policemen that doctors get ahead of them in contacting the mortuary about people who died in hospitals?
apparently, our doctors are number one in issuing prescriptions and agents for medicines made by multinational medicine factories because of huge commissions from these.
and if you are poor needing an operation, the doctors' schedule would accommodate you this time next year.
its like the mortuary will get to them first.
but if you have the money, specialists will compete and cluster to take care of you.
a P80,000 fee is nothing for a specialized doctor for an operation of a complicated vein, heart, kidney, etcetera.
for food oops, apparently, the Philippines is included in the top 200 for agriculture and 44th in the 151-200 bracket.
just a question: is this the only reason why we are the largest importer of rice in the whole world despite our very fertile rice paddies?
Department of Agriculture secretary Proceso Alcala, answer!
top 85 in corruption in the record of Transparency International, it is bad too.
according to TI, our rating is poor with the country being 85th in 175 countries.
and our poor rating is a sign of a widespread bribery, lack of punishment for the corrupt, and being indifferent to the needs of the populace.
hey, corrupt and indifferent, stay away from the government.
