Paragila
by Tomas U. Santos - January 29, 2016
it was already past nine when Ernesto was able to lie down, and his open phone was the only thing that was giving light in his stuffy room.
he carefully slid his right thumb up and down the screen to catch a glimpse of his Facebook: videos of mischievous Corgis, memes of Bill and Juan and angry complaints about taxi drivers.
"same thing over and over," Ernesto said to himself.
he already felt heaviness in his eyes, and the light from the five-inch screen of his phone slowly disappeared from his sight.
Ernesto remembered his older sister, Estrella, who was working as a nurse in Singapore.
"how is she?"
Estrella only posts on Facebook once in a while about things regarding her life.
he felt like he was somewhat falling from his bed.
his fall through a passageway was continuous.
Ernesto fell on a street.
the place where he fell on was familiar to him.
he was certain about this because of the signage that he read on the corner - Laon-Laan.
he looked at his surroundings.
he saw a 24/7 eatery on the other street and went there.
"hello, sir. what is your order?"
said in greeting by a man in an apron at the entrance.
Ernesto was scared.
the man looks familiar to him.
his round eyes looked familiar.
he was wearing glasses with thin lenses, was somewhat tall, had army-cut hair and had a body of medium build.
I can never be wrong, said Ernesto to himself.
"who are you?" asked Ernesto to his look-alike.
"Ernesto.
what is your order?"
asked the man.
what is happening?
he went out of the eatery.
the surroundings already changed upon his exit.
he was already standing in Luneta.
he can clearly see the monument of Rizal.
across this, there was a group of men who were scrambling to take good selfie angles.
he was surprised with what he saw. they all looked alike.
something rang in the pocket of Ernesto.
he rummaged for it and took it.
it was apparently his phone.
"how did this get into my pocket?" he wondered.
he turned on the phone.
he had a number of notifications on his Facebook.
Ernesto added a photo of you.
Ernesto recently liked a post you are tagged in.
Ernesto tagged you in his photo: "with Rizal and the national photo bomber!"
Ernesto seemed to have gotten his tongue cut off with what is happening. he is thinking of an explanation for everything that is happening.
he glanced to his right, where there was a group of men again.
one man, another Ernesto too, was being mobbed by people.
the other men, who are also Ernesto's, are taking a selfie with him.
Ernesto attempted to talk to them, hoping to gain clarity with what is happening.
but he suddenly felt ground tremors.
then came a loud thunder.
he was forced to close his eyes and he already felt his legs shaking.
he opened his eyes and the surroundings changed again.
the electricity posts and telephone lines seem to be made of hologram.
shown on the posts are Ernesto's statuses on Facebook, tweets and pictures on Instagram.
the clouds were replaced by his pictures with the most likes.
the road turned to blue, which changes its appearance - showing Ernesto's arrogant words on Twitter - each time it is stepped on.
"luckily, on Twitter only 140 characters can be said.
my mother can say unlimited things!"
"what to do?
#banyomoments #tronokoto"
Ernesto was going crazy with what's happening.
he noticed another look-alike who was just sitting alone on the grass.
he approached him and attempted again to find an explanation for what is happening.
"hi?
hello?"
he did not say anything.
just a stare.
"what is this?" Ernesto exclaimed.
the wind suddenly blew heavily and carried away the phone held by Ernesto and by other Ernesto's.
"OMG!
I haven't posted our groupie yet!"
"shit!
my status was cut off!"
it might get misinterpreted."
"wait, my tweet is excessive by 5 characters.
I wasn't able to tweet it!"
the Ernesto's had a commotion.
they scattered and ran to the posts, where they tried to use Facebook but it did not work.
others fell to their knees on the street and slammed it.
the tweets shown on the street kept changing.
as they simultaneously slammed it, it suddenly turned black.
"oh no!", shouted everyone.
the scene at Luneta became distressful, with the people protesting about their problems in social media.
in the middle of all this, Ernesto stood.
not speaking, not moving.
"am I like this?
like them?"
he asked himself.
"no, right?
I'm not like them!"
the wind blew strongly again.
the phones fell from the sky.
the men who were hanging on to the posts let go of their grasp.
ran away.
pushed each other.
Ernesto looked up.
as he looked up, a phone fell swiftly on his face.
"ugh."
Ernesto felt numbness on his face.
he fell asleep last night while on Facebook, so his phone was left lying on his face.
at the exact moment, the nurse came in to change the contents of the IV drip.
"good morning, sir.
your mother went out to supposedly buy breakfast."
Ernesto opened his Facebook.
he had twenty-three notifications and several messages.
most of them saying "like" to the last picture he posted five days ago about a newly bought blue car.
he clicked on the messages next.
one is from his classmate, Pete: "dude, Ma'am Ethics is already looking for you. you'll already get an FA (failure due to absences) in class."
Estrella also has a message.
"the car, don't think about it first.
insurance will take care of the damage of the impact.
I'm sorry I cannot come home. you know how it is here in Singapore."
a chat box popped up.
"dude!
have you been discharged yet?"
the chat box was from Pete.
