this February the Bureau of Fire Protection or B_F_P launched an annual inspection to the offices of the government .
and it shows that in more than thirty government buildings they have already inspected there are still offices of the government which have discrepancies in occupancy safety inspection .
but what is more alarming there are government buildings which are fire hazards already or severely dangerous for fire .
we really have seen violations or discrepancies regarding the but we are also seeing that in the compliance because somewhat will have difficulty because on the -- compliance .
do you know why those government agencies are still relying on the budget .
some of those pointed out as fire hazards government buildings are the two floors of this city hall building .
this was built on October twenty-six nineteen forty-nine and until now is still utilized by the local government .
the City Permits and Licensing Division is taking an office here every day which has hundreds of transactions .
is it really true especially that there are a lot of papers a lot of people a lot of documents in the storage room even there -- even this my office looks like a storage room .
the B_F_P GenSan also consider the GenSan public market and the GenSan hall of justice as fire hazard buildings .
so twofold care should also be done .
he said the lines of electricity should also be inspected .
because this is commonly the cause of fires in the office .
those occupying there are different classes different products of of (()) them so very hazardous .
because the piles and piles of their papers are just everywhere .
there in the hall way if sometimes we can see that file file are the documents there .
so one of the hazard -- we will also recommend lecture seminars drills to all employees .
there are other government agencies that are in a new building but then lacking in fire safety equipment .
the B_F_P recommended to the B_I_R GenSan to add fire extinguishers .
for their three floored building .
very first that we -- conduct an inspection on those agencies that are really bulk -- those people going there like for example in B_I_R (()) there is a computer because all those are encoded .
those others those new those because the encoding is all there in the region .
but even if not yet complied the offices of the government also cannot be closed because the service to people will be then affected .
the government buildings are important to be fire proof because this is the storage of public records .
the B_F_O even added there are also many public schools in GenSan that are also considered fire hazard .
May of last year ten classrooms burned in Cahilsot elementary school estimated to be at seven-hundred and fifty-thousand pesos is the value if the burned classrooms .
<no-speech>
but apart from the schools the B_F_P will also inspect the barangay halls in the city .
they will allegedly find out how many more of these can also be considered fire hazard building .
