the clothes to be worn by the family of president-elect Duterte for the inauguration are already prepared .
the barong to be worn by the next president is Mindanao-inspired by the undershirt is still fit to the masculinity of Digong .
JP Soriano has a report .
<no-speech>
the short-sleeved serpentine gown to be worn tomorrow by Honeylet Avancena the common-law wife of president-elect Rodrigo Duterte is simple but elegant .
it colored green and will be matched by a bag made of Paua shells and beads with embroidered accent .
the youngest daughter of Duterte Kitty will wear a champagne-colored pencil-cut cocktail dress with a back slit tomorrow .
Chardin Davao who makes the barong and pants of Duterte before designed the clothes of the mother and daughter .
she would always tell me (()) I want it simple even if she would attend a wedding like that .
so now the president will have his oath-taking .
same -- still the same what she said was only simple .
the clothes were fitted last night by the mother and daughter Honeylet and Kitty and they were already placed in their boxes a while ago to bring to Manila today .
together with the seven barongs for the president-elect which were designed also by Chardin .
the barong is Mindanao-inspired the design is close neck but the inner garment is still coordinated with Digong's masculine form in his style .
we provided the shirt inside his inner shirt is v-neck .
it is not round neck that if you have to open the first button (()) it cannot be seen .
Davao City Mayor Inday Sara will wear a royal blue Filipiniana-inspired gown .
she sticks with something very simple ever since .
no thrills .
it is as if she would live up with the idea like if there's a formal occasion she will dress up for that but not -- not really like the gown speaks like look at me like she is really the center .
Baste will wear a simple barong made of Mindanao silk .
with embroidery based on Mindanaoan tribe designs .
the set to be worn by his girlfriend Kate is made of piña .
the child of Kate and Baste will also wear a barong .
J_P Soriano G_M_A .
