Tokbang, election is searched for the Catholic Bishops's Conference of the Philippines has declared their position about the ongoing war on drugs.
the Bishops said that they will not keep silent on the ongoing killings in relation to drugs and encourages the citizens to speak against it.
they released a pastoral letter which was read to all Catholic churches last Saturday and Sunday.
although there were some who agreed to it, many also wants the war to happen and continue, especially since there are still a lot of those who are not punished for spreading drugs that ruin people, family and community.
continued talking in their letter to believers of the faith, the Bishops said that they will not stop criticizing the government regarding the thousands killed because of the said war.
they also encourages the citizens to speak against the said killings and to not keep silent and look like "accomplice" or as part of the killings.
more than 6,000 are killed due to the war but only more than 2,000 were admitted to be victims of legal encounters.
in an explanation, others were results of killing between drug lords, pushers, and addicts, and also involved in drugs are dishonorable police and other authorities, with them are those who kidnap and ransom people like the ones related to the case of Korean national Jee Ick Joo.
contrary to the bishops upon exiting the church after the mass, a different statement is coming from many citizens compared to those said by the Bishops.
many of them wants the return of Tokbang or killing and not just Tokhang or just encouraging for change in ways of those in the drug list.
there are still more to be punished with Tokbang and Tokbang is not enough because it does not have any effect anyway.
they wanted to Tokbang those they know as notorious pushers and drug lords in each of their towns or barangay.
if they do pity anyone, these are those addicts whose lives were ruined because they end up staring into space or mentally damaged and incapable of getting a job and live in a normal state.
action versus corruption. if they supposedly see something important.
which is - exact action against corrupt police.
those fed-up with the corrupt narrate, whenever they arrest those involved in drugs, a lot of those are later released.
apparently, they mooch off of those they arrest forever.
including the innocent ones that got involved in arrests, got mooched off too.
those who have enemies in the police are terribly scared because a lot of them are set up with drugs or are registered as involved in drugs despite being innocent.
it is now the responsibility of PNP chief General Roland "Bato" dela Rosa and President Rodrigo Duterte what they would do to police who kidnap for ransom con Tokhang.
they want those people get sampled with Tokbang.
election again in the stories of parishioners, did you know that they wanted to have an election again even if it has not been a year since the election took place?
even in the level of mayor and captain.
only now did they see that the government is capable of doing something against drugs.
those who are useless, negligent, and scared of drug lords, pushers and addicted captains and mayors became obvious in the middle of the war.
tarpaulin nailed to trees or hung on electrical wires is the extent of the war against drugs by captains and mayors.
they are scared to lose votes from clans controlling drugs and there are also those who won by getting funded by drug lords who are members of the family and other relatives or friends.
already peaceful. many barangays and even churches have become peaceful as a result of the war against drugs, said churchgoers, even if the problem has not been fully solved yet.
in the past, parents were terribly scared that their children would reach night time on the streets because of numerous rapists who murder and seize cellphones and hold up cars who also murder.
it has also stopped house-climbers, numerous teenagers who get into fights day and night, teenagers who get involved in group sex and disrupt and steal from their family, all because of drugs.
which is why they presently like the "no talk" opposing the war against drugs and approves the quick action against those involved in drugs, even if they get called as "accomplice" in the killings.
