many parents are still complaining against the assigning of their children to the home study program of DepEd .
they're asking how are they supposed to keep track of the studies of their children if they themselves cannot understand the lessons ?
live from Quezon City Haji Rieta has the report .
Haji ?
yes Jessica the Home Study Program is again being implemented by the Department of Education this school year .
however a number of parents and students still don't understand this program .
there is another one .
<no-speech>
yesterday sir Jessica Balmaseda was in third year high school at Batasan National High School in Quezon City .
but she will not yet be with her classmates at school .
because she is already in the home study .
so that's why her mother Mary Jane is too angry for words .
it was said to be against rights law of her child not to be accepted in a regular class .
the thing here is sir if he will be doing home study what will he learn ?
if I for example I did not finish anything who will -- who will answer my child's question ?
what is -- because I also do not know what to do with that if it is not being taught .
we do not know what to do also -- how to answer .
because no one is teaching us .
in this office of the assistant principal of the school we came upon some of the parents who are complaining .
because my child is also in fourth year .
when I transferred him he did home study .
I said the child even failed in daily ?
what more if the class is only on Saturdays ?
in case this my child took summer classes .
I spend little for my child now when the enrollment came refuses I will still be transferred to -- to that is not nice .
when these students and we accepted in a regular class and reached ninety to one hundred on hundred two is the largest I think or whereas it was one hundred eight last year it is really proven that a student does not learn anything because of the volume or the qualities quality education is no longer being searched for what a student gets .
because now their enrollees have reached eleven thousand .
if they will force to compress everyone in the classroom it could be possible to lose the students' concentration in their studies .
<no-speech>
if you will notice the students here in (()) each one of them has his or her own chair .
the space is also wide and ma'am can teach properly .
if this is the said setting in a classroom the student could understand their lessons much better .
<no-speech>
in the list of DepEd Quezon City Batasan Hills National High School is one of those with the biggest student classroom ratio of one is to sixty-three .
this is not far from the situation of Judge Feliciano Belmonte High School .
and at Commonwealth National High School .
the situation is even more intense in Holy Spirit High School and Justice Cecilia Muñoz Palma High School .
its just a matter of getting out of the box .
because there are more and more children .
the lot of lot of classroom does not increase though .
so we are thinking .
under the home study program the students will be given modules for the subjects of Math English Filipino Science and Social Studies .
everyday they need to finish the set lessons .
and when Saturday comes they will be facing their teacher for eight hours .
here they can ask things that they cannot understand in their module .
yes there is also a curriculum they will follow .
they are not neglected .
however now it is good that instead of five days of going to school it is just one day they saved on fare on provisions right .
sir also the children should also be self directed .
needed that -- that intense desire of theirs to learn by themselves .
because .
