no joy for employees of Coca-Cola
by Macky Macaspac
March 19, 2012
happiness for Coke workers in the Philippines from mayday multimedia Philippines on Vimeo.
contrary to the slogan "100 years of spreading happiness" Coca-Cola is proud of, Filipino employees of the multinational soft drinks company are sad, and hot happy.
Coca-Cola Philippines Incorporated denies to give additional wages and other benefits by attacking the employees' rights through the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) and heading to contractualization, reveals the union of employees of Coca-Cola in a press conference recently.
in their CBA, the management of Coca-Cola allegedly insists on the new scheme called 3P.
under the 3P, each employee goes through appraisal or evaluation every two months based on their presence, performance and participation.
this evaluation will be the basis for any salary increase and benefits they will receive.
furthermore, any employee who does not pass the 3P may be fired.
no joy in Coca-Cola?
the employees of Coca-Cola oppose contractualization, bargaining their salary and destroying the union in the new scheme by the management, 3P.
(Macky Macaspac)
"we strongly oppose and condemn this scheme of individual performance-based appraisal forced on us by Coca-Cola Philippines Incorporated," said Alfredo Maranon, head of San Fernando Coca-Cola Rank and File Union (Sacoru).
according to Maranon, 3P will cause job insecurity, bargaining of wages, and dissolution of their unions.
"it is the company's way to conduct mass firing in our ranks and crush our unions," said the labor leader.
Sacoru shared that the head of two separate unions of Coca-Cola in Meycauyan and Ilocos have been fired after agreeing to the 3P scheme.
"what will happen to the employees in these plants? it's like there is no longer a union because their head was removed," Maranon said.
there are 45 unions inside the Coca-Cola plants spread through the entire Philippines.
"if we well accept this 3P in our CBA, it may be our last CBA," according to Faustino Aguillon Junior, head of United Coca-Cola Workers Union (UCCWU) in the Coca-Cola plant in Imus, Cavite.
Aguillon reveals, the management of the company talked to the employees one by one and encouraged them to accept the 3P offer.
"they threaten the leaders and employees. supposedly if we do not accept the 3P, it will result in the loss and closure of the company," he said.
the management supposedly also says that if they accept the 3P, the company will grow and advance.
"it is true, they will amass a very large profit because it is we employees who are sacrificed, we will be deprived of rights and benefits," said Aguillon.
the employees of Coca-Cola supposedly have not received any bonus in four years.
currently, Sacoru's negotiation of the CBA is in a deadlock while there is no progress for the negotiation of UCCWU.
"the goal of Coca-Cola Philippines is outsourcing or contractualization," said Yolito Fadriquelan, head of Ilaw at Buklod ng Manggagawa-Kilusang Mayo Uno (IBM-KMU), a federation where the unions of Coca-Cola are a part of.
contractualization is already widespread in large companies, factories and plants, and is gradually being implemented by Coca-Cola.
IBM-KMU calls to the public to support the employees of Coca-Cola in their fight against impending contractualization.
"the image of a company like Coca-Cola is important. it is also important for the people to see Coca-Cola's treatment of its employees," said Fadriquelan.
the employees of Coca-Cola encourage the people to watch and spread the video about their situation, and write to the management of the company to stop 3P.
