MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19490695 watch and attack. it is really difficult now to trust others. even the people that you have been in company for a long time and you have almost given your own food so that they will get hungry, could still make it to become a traitor against you. we have experienced a lot of that where you could be still put in harm by your own friends just because of the small amount of money. in the dire difficulty of the life here in the Philippines, many of us have forgotten the importance of dignity when money comes to the discussion. what they have not known of, these types of tactics are only momentary. not later, your style will be exposed and surely, those people who can help you will lose their trust in you. that is exactly what happened to the Art Gallery Philippines which was victimized by its own supervisor. the supervisor of the AGP Rita Orr seemed to have been blinded with the glitter of small sum and now she needs to be accountable in law. recently, she was formally filed a case of qualified theft in Makati City Prosecutors' Office. this is based on the complaint of the AGP that she has taken away the P250,000 payment for the two pieces of artworks. according to the complaint of the AGP, Orr stood as the supervisor of the art gallery which sold two artworks which cost P250,000 from its two regular clients last September 16, 2013, but instead of returning it to the case, she put the said amount in her pocket. after the incident, Orr suddenly made an AWOL (Absent without Leave) and disregarded the plead of the AGP management to return the money she has taken away. in the resolution of the Makati City Prosecutors' Office led by Makati City Chief Prosecutor Jorge G. Catalan, Jr., it is clear that there has been a grave abuse of discretion on the side of Orr so it is justifiable to file a case on qualified theft. until the present time, the police is still searching for Orr who hid after she made the crime.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87628340 (()) to everyone who's watching you . how is your assessment of day one of back-to-school sir ? <no-speech> you know I am somewhat behind with the real events in Metro Manila and other parts of our country because I preferred to go here in Maguindanao to check what is really happening here . so what I often got are reports and in general it's somehow all right there is the occasional problem in different schools but I am thankful to God that in general it looks like the first day of classes is okay . yes . -- Brother Luistro please excuse me but I know that last year you said that we don't have a shortage of classrooms . something that is somewhat difficult to believe for many because when you see the average classroom size right -- the number of students per classroom exceeds fifty . so what can you say to that secretary ? <no-speech> Jessica you know when you look at it overall because we we look at it in general for our country . our classroom ratio now reaches up to thirty-eight or maybe forty-two right ? our real problem is there in the cities wherein our residences are too congested especially when we have illegal informal settlers or relocatees that were not really planned right ? but you know wherever in the N_C_R we can say that when we started we still had schools with three shifts . but now I am sure that the worst is only two shifts or we have one left in the N_C_R with three shifts but only in grade four and we are building a classroom there right ? our shortage that we noted in twenty ten of course every year we have new students . we have classrooms that break down and of course we were also hit by Yolanda . we have other problems there but what's important is that we were able to solve the shortage we were working for in twenty ten . do our schools have new needs ? more . we also have programs for that . yes . Secretary Luistro the transferees from private schools that went to public school because of high tuition uh ? that one you were able to input that because -- there seem to be schools whose number of enrollees blew up because many transferred . maybe that's the one not included here in the input of our classroom ratio ? <no-speech> maybe these are the late enrollees but they were not %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_92372617 #forwardmarch: groups marching forward against pork barrel by Pinoy Weekly Staff September 15, 2013 even if this was smaller compared to the previous gathering on August 26, more or less 15,000 people in Luneta still loudly demonstrated their opposition against pork barrel. placards, banners, streamers, flags, effigy and other visual forms of protest were not prohibited but were encouraged by the organizers of #ForwardMarch. there was a solemn prayer, and loud music from bands and musicians were also heard from the stage. because of this a colorful, creative and vibrant protest was demonstrated by the people on September 13. of course, organized ranks of the people joined the protest. militant groups, their allies, and progressive individual citizens and netizens of the Abolish the Pork Barrel Movement (#AbolishPork) organized the protest. aside from these, various schools from public universities to exclusive and Catholic schools also joined. while organizations under the New National Alliance (Bayan) were assembling in Liwasang Bonifacio, priests and the religious celebrated a holy mass in San Agustin Church in Intramuros before marching to Luneta. going to the park, they met with fellow religious people from the Protestant Christians along with whistleblowers headed by Jun Lozada. the religious Protestants was with former Chief Justice Reynato Puno. click the picture to enlarge it. #ForwardMarch in Luneta Park, 13 September 2013. (pictures attached by Pher Pasion) in Luneta, an ecumenical service was again held by religious Catholics, Protestants and Muslims. it was ended by a speech from Archibishop Emeritus Oscar Cruz who boldly called for prayer and action. "let us pray," Cruz said. "but let us also act. "prayer is good but prayer is not enough." he said that these two are powerful - prayer and action - to object to the immorality happening in the country today. he also mentioned the anticipated belittling of Malacañang and the media about the protest of the people that day. "if someone says that people who are not present here (in Luneta) agree to your pork barrel system (President Aquino), you are mistaken," said Cruz. people who did not participate in the protest might have no fare or have an empty stomach. "but it is impossible that they agree to the things happening in our nation today," the Archbishop concluded. towards the end of the program, there were speeches, performances and a concert titled "Rock and Rage" of musicians who boldly declared disapproval against the pork barrel system, corruption in the government, and exploitation by some of the majority of the people. they promised to continue the protests. one is set on September 21 but before and after this date, it is expected that expression of opposition will continue against all forms of pork barrel until it is abolished or its promoters removed.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_80610910 what ? <no-speech> Rolda and others ? them . <no-speech> so how's your father -- how does your father feel ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> are they okay now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> slap . <no-speech> still the same ? <no-speech> what about -- does this mean that it's always your mother who's always travelling now ? no . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? yes . really ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> now it's always her who (()) . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> really ? what is your father feeling anyway ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes ? yes . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what things ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe -- maybe -- he's just asking for affection . I don't know about him . <no-speech> not really . <no-speech> <no-speech> but what is your observation ? what ? (()) . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what do you think ? what's your observation ? (()) to you . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it looks like you are late . oh just like me . <no-speech> really -- what ? yes that's it it really took you long . I can't understand . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> the wind here is strong . I said you seem to be late . <no-speech> <no-speech> like me is that it ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no you seem to be late . <no-speech> you seem mad at me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> late . <no-speech> <no-speech> what did you say ? what did you say ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> the words that I'm saying to you seem to be transmitted late . <no-speech> I can't understand . <no-speech> this kind of thing is weak . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you should -- you should take a bath immediately after lunch . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> where are you taking me ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what ? where are you taking me ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Pikachu . <no-speech> he already taught . taught . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? ahh no no there still is . <no-speech> hello hello I thought it already got cut off because there was a sound . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> well it's only been eight days . what ? <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_45588714 have you already tasted pizza in a doughnut ? or doughnut ensaïmada ? this is just some of the thirty distinct flavors of round breads featured in a doughnut store . it's a lighter doughnut and less sweet hence you'll be able to try plenty in one sitting . you can really eat lots of donuts . <no-speech> because the mother outlet of this store is from Indonesia it was intended to give this doughnut to popular Asian flavors like green tea and avocado . <no-speech> bracelet-like or more known as Pon de ring is the masterpiece of this doughnut store . they even use special dough . filled with chocolate and green tea before putting toppings . this kind of shape and taste of doughnut has long been popular in Japan that seems to be a hit too with Pinoys . it is not that sweet because there many donuts now in our industry that is really slightly too sweet . when you bite you will really already perspire .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_70297271 the celebration of the seventy-seventh anniversary of the Armed Forces of the Philippines at Camp Aguinaldo in Quezon City today was led by President Noynoy Aquino . and Ian Cruz has a report on the spot Ian ? yes Pia . cooperation and readiness the straight path towards peace . it became the theme of the seventy seventh celebration or anniversary of the Armed Forces of the Philippines that year indeed . Pia some of the anticipated parts of the program were the skydiving exhibition of the Philippine Air Force . but Pia the anticipated flybys of the airplanes did not happen because the A_F_P is becoming frugal . the Air Force Man showed their skills by playing and even dancing to Gangnam Style by Psy . aside from A_F_P commander-in-chief President Aquino former president Fidel Ramos former officials of the Armed Forces and even relatives of the soldiers also attended . the A_F_P also commended their members regarding the aid for those affected by typhoon Pablo . and the A_F_P also cancelled their Christmas Party to add the funds for those devastated by the typhoon . according to A_F_P Chief of Staff Jessie Dellosa a lot of reforms are being implemented to the A_F_P to become more prepared and modernized and more trustworthy Armed Force which is not depending on others anymore . hopefully all soldiers choose to do what is right because this is also heroism such as the refusal to accept a bribe . President Aquino greets a an early Merry Christmas to the soldiers and thanks them what they are doing in ensuring peace in our country . the soldiers are done being poor and old-fashioned because of the modernization that is going to happen . the modernized vehicles for air sea and land of the A_F_P are coming . around twenty-eight billion pesos Pia is allocated by the government this year for the modernization of the A_F_P . and this will have the following seventy-five billion pesos within the next five years . here is the statement of the President and the A_F_P Chief of Staff . <no-speech> we have immediately allocated more than twenty-eight billion pesos for the A_F_P Modernization Program within one year and a month . from being poor and old-fashioned we pushed the A_F_P as modernized and dependable defense . the B_R_P Del Pilar has docked and B_R_P Alcaraz is coming . our Hamilton Class Cutters in its partnership with the reforms and programs which will move to a more prepared more modern more steadfast and more trustworthy Armed Forces of the Philippines . so Pia that is our latest yet %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12405373 announce may I ? sure go ahead . during -- during July fourteen -- this coming July fourteen there will be a free seminar one whole day to be given by the P_C_A Philippine Coconut Authority . yes . in Kapampangan Development Foundation building that is a new building there in San Fernando . <no-speech> there in the M_B_P building behind the behind McDonald's there at the old g road . those who like coconut who have themselves listed or are still going to be listed anyway just residents of Region three . region three (()) because we cannot distribute there to those who are not from region three . yes . Pampanga and the rest of Region three you Sir can ask for free coconut seedlings to be planted . and the seminar to be given by the P_C_A on July thirteen that is for a whole day Sir then we will be taught how to plant seedlings how to take care of it and how to intercrop . there . is that a one day seminar ? it's just for one day because we will list them down if they haven't enlisted yet . they will make a small drawing of how to get to their place because we will go to them . uh huh . then they will say how big their farmland is so we can tell how many they can plant . you're that (()) . then the speaker of the P_C_A will -- will say what type of intercrop is possible . <no-speech> okay that will be on July fourteen . July thirteen yes thirteen thirteen . okay . thirteen . July thirteen there at (()) building . fourteen or thirteen ? fourteen . <no-speech> one three ? one four . ah one four fourteen . fourteen . okay there at (()) building sir . there at our new building K_B_L Livelihood Center which is located at the back of beside McDonald's on the old (()) road . at the exact intersection of San Fernando ? yes at San Fernando (()) crossing the intersection between old (()) and -- and McArthur highway . this is a new building given to us by our chair (()) . (()) . yes so that's why we call it M_B_P building . then (()) we will inaugurate our (()) clinic on July fourteen . and the services there are good sir . this is the first time for the entire Asia Pacific to have this . the name is Disability Clinic . but %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_57149572 Muntinlupa continues to progress. the recognition given to the City Government of Muntinlupa, headed by Mayor Jaime Fresnedi, continues after it got the 10th overall ranking in the National Competitiveness Council's City and Municipalities which was held in the Philippine International Convention Center last July 14. included as bases in conferring the award are the three categories such as Economic Dynamism, Government Efficiency and Infrastructure, managed by the Regional Competitiveness Committees, and assisted by the United States Agency for International Development. meanwhile, the city hall conducted an extensive clearing operation on the streets of Alabang to make the flow of traffic and pathways of people orderly. this step by Mayor Fresnedi is in response to the order of President Rodrigo Duterte to clean all roads so the constructed footbridges in various parts of the city can be utilized. his goal is also for all motorists and pedestrians to be safe in their everyday travel on the main streets of Muntinlupa City. Mayor Fresnedi also led the inauguration of the MRH Multi-Purpose Covered Court in Soldiers Hills at Barangay Putatan last June 8, 2016, which can be used by beneficiaries of the socialized housing project of the local government. in the war against illegal drugs, 257 drug pushers and users surrendered to the police department and promised to completely change their lives and to never return to their vices. included among those who help each other in this program are the Philippine National Police, Drug Abuse and Control Office and Barangay Anti-Drug Abuse Council, and some 264 houses included in their intelligence report have already been visited. meanwhile, representatives of Maynilad Water Services, Incorporated explained to the Muntinlupa City Council regarding customer complaints because of the loss of water supply in the city and other neighboring areas in the Metro Manila South area. according to the MWSI Business Area Operation head, this happened in the Metro Manila South area because of a problem in filtering water coming from Laguna Lake. they also promised to the City Council that they would do everything that they can so that the loss of water supply in the said city and its neighboring areas will not happen again. bustle/ Alvin Feliciano
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50116668 worth of honesty heed the message and do not judge the one who said it. although most people nowadays have their own personal desires, there are others who are very selfish and do not care about what will happen. some overcharge the price of their service or products. there are those who replaces the materials with low quality ones and does sloppy work. oftentimes you will get abused and cheated in return even though you have paid the agreed price. it is very fortunate if you are able to meet a worker, carpenter, mechanic, doctor or a businessman who is honest in their work with others. a man who is soon to wed went to a well known tailor and asked if he could make a set of clothes for him with the clothing material he has. after the tailor has finished measuring the cloth he said sadly, "I am sorry mister, the cloth you brought is not enough." it is not enough to produce a set." the man was shocked with what the tailor has said and immediately took the cloth and went out the of tailor's shop while shaking his head. he was on his way home when he passed by a small tailor's shop. he quickly went inside and asked the tailor if he could make a set of clothes for him with the material he has. after measuring the cloth, "I could make you a set of clothes with this!" the tailor answered. a week passed and the man returned to pay for his set of clothes. he put on the clothes and he felt that the size was right for him so he quickly paid the remaining balance. but when he was about to leave the shop, he noticed a young boy wearing a pair of pants with the same type of cloth he has. when the tailor saw how surprised the man was, he was embarrassed and explained, "please forgive me, because the cloth you brought was too much for a set of clothes and it would no longer be of use to you, I decided to make a pair of pants for my son." even though the man felt a bit angry because of what the tailor did, he decided not to mind it at all because of the nice set of clothes he made for him. the man went back to the first tailor to show him the beautiful set of clothes from the clothing material, which as per the tailor, was not enough. the tailor took a closer look on how the clothes were made, he pointed out the size and how it was sewed while the man goes on telling him that instead of the material being short, the material was more than enough and was even able to make a pair of pants for a child out of the excess. the first tailor was not even impressed and did not even blinked with what he heard from the man, and arrogantly replied, "no doubt mister, the material you had will have an excess for one child." "for me, this is lacking in size because my son is a young man and is already 25 years old."
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_81525007 eroticism in words and images by Rolando B. Tolentino May 5, 2012 a review of The Dance of the Two Left Feet (Alvin Yapan, 2011) in indie cinema, usually there are only two models-commercial, which follows the template of the genre and narrative development, that has a calculated brilliance because it is in indie cinema, and a higher production value, similar to a commercial movie; and neorealism which is a day-in-the-life-of that has a capacity to give a bold social commentary, be gritty in everyday details, and is open-ended in concluding the narrative. Alvin Yapan is introducing, perhaps, what could be the third model, in his The Dance of the Two Left Feet, the literary mode. on the other side, this is on the level of abstraction and metaphysics, or has the capacity to discuss the universal and trans-historical truth and the theme is about life and love. on the other hand, because the chosen literature is rooted in Filipino culture, this is anchored on the societal and historical condition of the country - in film, the contemporary nation. the literary mode has the capacity to temporarily unload the baggage of indie cinema - as anti-thesis of the commercial cinema, the marking of the contrary possibility of the indie even if the trajectory or/and the formula to give social commentary is commercial - and discussing the aspect of citizenship and nationhood which is not yet in its shadows. it works and succeeds because the bet is in the level of idea and concept, similar to if and maybe, something like this will be talked about. in the exploration of Yapan, as a scriptwriter and director, in the literary mode, the characters and their conflict in life are shown as figurative: a theater teacher and dances to live alone but gathering strength in the imagination of a forced but temporary community of classes; a rich male student who is aspiring to gain points from the teacher and used his ability to enter her dance classes; and a poor male student who has desires for his rich classmate. they are only able to talk in literature and dance, or double-speak. using the utterance and discourse of feminist poems, the eroticism of words and images are utilized to express the real feelings for each other. in the movie, the double-speak happens between the parallel editing of the two scenes: the scene where the poem is recited, and the scene which is the context of the recitation of the poem. Jean Garcia and Paulo Avelino in the film, "The Dance of Two Left Feet" cannot tell their true feelings for each other. in the poem, this is expressed, and through dance, this is seen. abstraction contextualization abstraction until the last scene of the movie, the unrequited love of the poor man, Dennis, the insensitive rich man, Marlon, has a connection to the epic dance of Humadapnon - the matching of strength and war which ended in a close-up shot of the two without movement, aside from the Marlon's one tear flowing out. there are some issues pointed out by the film: the class issue of the different individual agencies of Marlon and Dennis, and the different recourse to their predicament and feelings; and the queer utilization of the feminist poems of Rebecca Anonuevo, Joi Barrios, Merlinda Bobis, Ophelia Dimalanta, Ruth Elynia Mabanglo and Benilda Santos as deep mental reservoir of real emotions, especially of the homoeroticism of the two men. the power of the literary mode is its capacity to make abstraction of the conditional narrative, and if it is, it will have a space to breathe from society and history. its limitation is closed with the possibility to go out of the cage of the literary mode, literature and arts itself. this is also observed in the film through the one-dimensionality of the characters, and the rendering of its subtle acting and transformation is chased in the last minute, which only happened in the last two scenes of the film for the two men. I am not saying that the actors are not good, but the foundation of their character in the narrative is based on the figurative level - as a way of mental conception of the universal and trans-historical theme. in the film, poetry, dance and arts are the repositories of real feelings. the moment of eros and eroticism happens effectively through seeing and observing, in the sociability of the characters reverberated through poetry and dance. eros is signaled through a slow motion as a rhythmic tool to lengthen the sensation of the moment. Yapan knows, as a teacher of literature himself, the limitation of the literary mode. therefore, in the closing credits, as a Brechtian self-reflexive gesture, he included a production footage. to connect the dismissed social level, then, a reminder that the what has been witnessed is only a film, that the context of the literary mode is society and history itself, including its creator, the author of the film. the film of Yapan is an important intervention because it has an offering of something new, and from here, the potentiality of the literary mode can be enriched. additional effectiveness of the cinematography of Arvin Viola, editing of Mai Dionisio and music of Christine Muyco and Jema Pamintuan. the Dance of the Two Left Feet truly glittered, and it can be said that this film is important in the golden age of indie cinema.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_55778911 Yassi, found an excuse for her absence in 'Sawi' July 17, 2016 weird was Bea Alonzo's feeling on her first day of shooting with Gerald Anderson for How To Be Yours of Star Cinema because they had a relationship before. "at first, to be honest, it was so weird. the feeling was so weird on the first day but now very comfortable with each other and hopefully you will see that in the film," Bea said on the press conference of How To Be Yours. Gerald said he had no reluctance or hesitation when he accepted the project. "well, on my part, our meeting had not lasted twenty minutes yet, I accepted already. I said yes at once. of course, this is a blessing for me," Gerald stated on his first movie team up with her ex-girlfriend. Bea added it had been planned for some time for her and Gerald to work together on a film but it always did not happen and maybe, the right timing is now. Dan Villegas is the director of How To Be Yours. Dan denied the news that there is competition between him and his girlfriend, fellow director Antoinette Jadaone. in fact, according to Dan, Antoinette and he are each other's critics, after admitting that his girlfriend is a better director than he is. Irene Villamor, friend and co-director of Antoinette Jadaone in Relaks, It's Just Pag-Ibig, also has a movie project. Irene is the director of Camp Sawi, the film of Viva Films starring Yassi Pressman, Kim Molina, Andi Eigenmann, Arci Muñoz and Bela Padilla. Irene feels lucky because she was chosen as the director of Camp Sawi. the characters of the aforementioned actresses in Camp Sawi are unlucky in love and like them, Irene who is still single up to now is also unlucky in love. "I was assistant director to Director Joyce. even back in college I was cutting classes to join her. the reason I met her, is because I was chasing a crush. I was in college, doing OJT (on the job training) on her movie. I was supposed to go to another movie. but, my crush, he joined Viva Films. he was really my crush. he was able to join Kailangan Ko'y Ikaw, the movie of Robin Padilla and Regine Velasquez. my crush was able to join that, so I chased him. I called Director Joyce." "but I didn't have papers. Director just said, 'you are hired, go! come here!" Irene is unlucky in love because she and her crush who is now a teacher in UP did not end up together but they are friends. "we're friends. he knows fabulously that he is my crush," Irene added. yesterday is the last shooting day of Camp Sawi in Sampaguita Gardens in Quezon City but the main cast is not complete because missing is Yassi Pressman who entered the Pinoy Big Brother House in Vietnam as a housemate. Irene shared that she was surprised by the leave of Yassi because they just found out about the singer-actress joining PBB, two days before she entered the house of Big Brother. because it was Irene who wrote the story of Camp Sawi, she found a way so that the absence of the character of Yassi will not be noticed in the scenes shot yesterday in Sampaguita Gardens. "two days before Yassi entered PBB, that's when I found out. I understood a bit, because, that was confidential. I was just shocked but it seemed manageable. because this, this is the ending already. this was easy. majority of her scenes, are done," stated Irene." YES editor-in-chief Jo-anne Maglipon confirmed that the most beautiful 2016 issue of the said entertainment magazine will have a reprint due to high demand. Maine Mendoza & Alden Richards are the most beautiful stars of 2016 of YES and the unveiling of the magazine was only on Monday (July 11) but the publisher immediately decided to reprint copies because of the large number of buyers.
query1686 I don t understand you
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_71090874 disaster preparedness of Antipolo City, bolstered by the provincial government and barangays. August 31, 2016 City of Antipolo, Rizal, August 31 - the city government of Antipolo recently held a "basic orientation on health emergency management seminar" on August 19, 2016 in Antipolo City Hall. the seminar that aims to prepare the people for any incoming calamity this rainy season was attended by more than 100 officials from 16 barangays. "the safety of each one is our priority that is why we tirelessly offer a free seminar to widen our knowledge on the preparations we must consider during periods of calamity. let us ensure that our accommodations are safe and far from landslides for the safety of ourselves and of our loved ones," said Antipolo City mayor Jun Ynares. the responsibility of the barangay to immediately inform the authorities of accidents that happened in order to be given quick and appropriate action was emphasized in the seminar. barangays were also reminded that it is their responsibility to ensure that evacuation areas and temporary accommodations of the victims during periods of calamity are safe, clean and orderly. also pointed out were the importance of having enough food and drink and maintaining proper hygiene to avoid illnesses. the program explained the roles of the offices during emergency periods and the importance of quick and orderly coordination of the barangays with the City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO), City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWD), City Health Office (CHO). the CDRRMO ensured that it is ready anytime to respond to rescue operations. the CSWD and CHO are also on standby to manage the relief goods and medicine needed by the victims (Antipolo PIO/PIA-Rizal)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_36501201 rising and fighting of the victims of Yolanda it is still fresh in the memory of Anna Patricia Monteroso, 23, of Santa Rita, Samar the fear from the ferocity of typhoon Yolanda when she shared her experience over two months ago. she also does not how to begin and how to take care of her family after the typhoon destroyed their livelihood. "no relief goods came at all, even one." it is saddening that instead of helping each other, the price of rice increased. 60 pesos a kilo, we don't have money. "what sustained us in one week were the banana and sweet potatoes we planted," according to Anna. Anna added they still did not get any relief goods from the government even when their barangay asked for help. and until now, they still have not gotten any help from the government. it is difficult for her husband to get a job in Manila (where they are now) to raise their family. Anna is just one of the victims who shared their own experiences at the gathering of victims, relatives, friends and supporters of typhoon Yolanda which was called Day of Solidarity led by Tindog People's Network (Tindog) and Task Force on Urban Conscientization (TFUC) which was held in Quezon City. Aquino administration, not prepared and was negligent at the said gathering, the victims shared what they said was slow, if there were any, help from the Aquino administration despite claiming readiness before the storm came. before the typhoon hit, President Aquino himself announced that the government is ready for Yolanda's arrival. there were allegedly 32 airplanes and helicopters from the (Philippine) Air Force and 20 navy ships from the Philippine Navy positioned in Cebu, Bicol, Cavite and Zambaonga City. the relief goods were ready in places where the typhoon will hit. but countenance of Malacañang's readiness was different, according to Brother Philip Michael Benavide, Nicodamus, member of TFUC. although the government spread information through the internet, it failed to explain how big the effect of the typhoon will be. "the people do not even know what storm surge is," according to Benavide. in Benavide's presentation, there were no search-and-rescue operations made by the government in the crucial days following the typhoon. it took six days for the Aquino administration to say they have an adjusted disaster management plan. "it took more than a week to have a workable system in the distribution of relief goods. but this is only within and in nearby places of Tacloban. it will be more difficult if not for the help of the private sector and foreigners," Benavide said. but according to the victims, the help they got from the government was really lacking. when they brought us relief goods, they were only 40 bags. there are about 600 people in our place," said Anna. according to Joven Pagupay, 27, from Eastern Samar, he cannot blame the people who allegedly looted out of their desperation to have something to eat. "it is heartbreaking to see something like that." "it is pitiful to see the business person whose store was entered at gun-point, but the people who have not eaten for days are also pitiful," Pagupay said. apart from the problem in the distribution of relief goods and corpses not collected immediately, President Aquino pinpointing the blame to the local government because of its unpreparedness for the coming of the typhoon also became an issue. until now, there are many who need help and medical services. "there are still many hungry and unemployed survivors," according to Benavide. many of them are still in discomfort because of the calamity and do not know how to recover especially when they do not get any help from the government. "we do not how to start" we do not have jobs, my husband over 50 years old so no one accepts him. we do not know how we can support our three children. we need a job or a livelihood," according to Lilia Singh, 44, from Magallanes, Tacloban City. Lilia and her family are temporarily living in Barangay Corazon de Jesus, San Juan City. they are fearful because they do not know their neighbors. it is also the site of a previous violent demolition, so Lilia also fears that the government will forcefully evict them from here. they reached Manila on board a C130 airplane after lining at the Tacloban airport for two days with only biscuits as food. corruption, lack of aid for Mark Lui Aquino, convener of Tindog Network, the treatment of the victims of calamity by the Aquino administration is inhumane. he said even government agencies with control over the facilities for the victims are involved in issues of corruption. particularly the news about the overpriced and sub-standard bunkhouses built by the government for the victims. meanwhile, Aquino also considers the treatment of the casualties as inhumane: more than two months have passed but the remains of the dead victims have not been buried. this is how the Aquino administration treated the victims: victimized by the typhoon, robbed of the help intended for them, according to Mark. according to TFC, the poverty in the region itself caused by the government's incorrect policies make the situation of the victims worse. the agricultural sector which is the primary livelihood of the victims is slow. they are also blaming poverty to the environmental policies, like mining that destroys the environment in the interest of the income allowed by the government. Aquino administration, to be charged TFUC said the Aquino administration should be accountable for its neglect of the victims of typhoon Yolanda. they are pointing to the lack of preparation of the government before the coming of the typhoon and the slow response to aid the victims. politicizing and corruption in times when help was badly needed aggravated the suffering and poverty of the victims. "while it is true that passing and pointing the blame can only add to the damage and slow the process (of helping), we should not confuse ourselves with what is right." "we are told to do what is just," TFUC said. this negligence of the Aquino administration is allegedly a crime, according to TFUC and Tindog. "the lack of preparation of the Aquino government before the typhoon and the not immediately responding for the relief and rescue of the victims was the disaster done by the regime worsened and afflicted the victims of the typhoon," according to Benavide. according to Benavide, instead of the providing relief operations to the hungry victims were done by the soldiers, they prioritized the maintenance of peace and order more than the growling stomach of the people. rise and fight for Tindog, someone from Aquino government should be accountable and charged for its negligence. there are still issues of corruption and cover-up of liability and that is what they will not allow to happen. we will not allow to be continually victimized by the Aquino government. we will join all victims to call for justice and to assert our rights from the government for us who survived and for those who died," said Mark. some of Tindog's appeals are to have a 40,000 pesos subsidy for the victims, livelihood for the devastated, a proper burial place for the casualties, and to ensure the basic needs of the victims of the calamity are adequate. more than two months after typhoon Yolanda's destruction on November 8, but it seems the damage it brought to the victims has not yet ended - whether alive or dead. but for the survivors, they will not allow to remain victims.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25323570 Saturday, November 14, 2015 the end of time and right time: reflection for the 33rd Sunday in ordinary time year b - November 25, 2015 - year of the poor is the coming of "the end of time" necessary? is it similar to "the right time" which no one can say when? many of us are scared of the coming of "the end of time." why do we really fear it? is the "end" truly scary? in a large mall, where many people flock to because of a fast-approaching Christmas, someone suddenly shouted. a person dressed differently and holding a sign with "the end of the world is near!" he was shouting loudly "it is the end! it is the end!" when suddenly someone answered: "idiot! it is just the fifteenth!" do you see... not all ends should be feared. there is an end that is anticipated! I am not referring to the "end of the month" because of the monthly pay that is anticipated. to us Christians the end or the end of time should not be feared but instead we should even anticipate it. actually to the first Christians they really looked forward to the coming of the end of time. what they always said was "maranatha!" which meant "come, Jesus! come!" what they assumed was his arrival was immediate so many of them sold their possessions and no longer worked. but Saint John corrected this mentality. this kind of preparation is not the one expected by our Lord. the end of time is scary if our preparation is wrong and perhaps especially if we are not preparing. what is the right preparation for "the end of time?" first, remove bad habits and if it is necessary to go to confession we must do it. there is no better preparation than having a pure heart. second, let us make our prayers and church-going realistic through doing good and helping the needy especially the poor. the "year of the poor" or "year or the poor" is about to end, have I done any service to them? let us not reason that we are poor as well. for Saint Theresa of Calcutta, it is not necessary to give big she said: "if you cannot feed one hundred people, you can feed one!" so what the church said is correct that there is no person too poor to not offer help to others. our helping our neighbors does not end in the year of the poor. every day we have the chance to do small acts of kindness for our poor fellowmen. in our gospel the Lord warned of the coming "end", not to scare us, but instead to help us prepare for the coming of this day. true, no one knows the day, hour and place where it will happen. it is no longer important when and where. in our faith we announce the end of time. actually we always say in mass that "Christ died! Christ has risen! Christ will return in the end of time! meaning, we believe what is called the end of the world exists and we also believe there is a God who is just and loving who will not abandon us on that day. the end of time is only about to come... the right time is now! let us act today and prepare for his coming!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65078224 <no-speech> Commission on Higher Education approved the increase of tuition of more than three hundred universities and colleges in the whole country . more than eight percent or equal to forty pesos per unit is the average of the tuition increase . Sherry Ann Torres is a witness . <no-speech> additional tuition needs to be prepared by those who will be enrolling in the three hundred and forty eight colleges and universities in the country . this is because the Commission on Higher Education or Ched has approved their petition to increase tuition and other fees . the resulting average increase just this year is about eight -- eight point three percent right . now translated to pesos this per unit is less than forty pesos . according to CHED the tuition rate increase that they have approved now is lower than the ten percent average tuition hike in twenty twelve . most of those who were allowed to increase tuition fees are in Metro Manila followed by Calabarzon . there are no tuition hikes in state colleges and universities . before they were allowed petitioners were required to consult with the students' parents and the faculty as well as school organizations and prove that seventy percent of the surcharge will go to the salaries and benefits of teachers and staff . for now the Commission on Higher Education is still completing the list of schools and universities that they allowed to increase tuition . they will announce this in the coming days . those who will question or complain about the decision to the schools which will increase tuition are (()) and can file a complaint at Ched . according to working student Reynaldo Carillo the unstoppable increase in tuition was the reason he didn't enroll in a big school . he is a dishwasher at a restaurant that's why it's a big deal that the five thousand peso tuition for the Hotel and Restaurant Services course remains permanent . if it sometimes gets hard I fall asleep at school because I don't have enough rest . once I graduate I also want to start my own restaurant . but a number of the parents we spoke to were dismayed that there was no final list of colleges and universities that will be increasing tuition . it's really unjust . <no-speech> because of the very high tuition of course . the salary is just right . that's my logic Ma'am I'm obliged to bring my child to school but the case is what I'm doing is Ma'am to request first if my child has no tuition . I'm Sherry Ann Torres your witness .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_68185514 "it's more dead in the Philippines" by Jeany Lacorte September 3, 2016 newspapers of the past few days contain the complaint of former jueteng star witness Sandra Cam, that she revealed back then the connection of Senator Leila de Lima to the drug menace of New Bilibid Prison (NBP) but supposedly three lawmakers stopped her from doing so. these lawmakers are Senate President Aquilino "Koko" Pimentel, Senator Franklin Drilon and Ilocos Norte representative Rodolfo Fariñas who are all members of the powerful Commission on Appointments (CA). supposedly when the confirmation of the appointment of De Lima as secretary of the Department of Justice (DOJ) was served, she was not given a chance to speak of what she knows about De Lima. in the investigation to be held by the legislative chamber on the distribution of illegal drugs in the NBP during the time of De Lima, Cam said she will submit a copy of the tape of the CA hearing proving what she is saying. but CA secretary Hector Villacorta immediately stopped her. "Sandra Cam was given more than enough time and was not prevented from blocking the confirmation of Senator Leila de Lima as secretary of Justice before the Commission on Appointments in June 2014, based on the record and transcript of CA deliberations." "Miss Cam was given ample time to expose the alleged illicit drug scheme and meth factory inside the NBP during her testimony at the 2-hour CA hearing on June 4, 2014. but she did not do so," Villacorta stressed. maybe Cam was hungry when she set off a bomb because she is blocked just by the CA secretary. maybe she needs to eat a lot in the senate lounge so what she is saying will have content like what she used to do before. it looks like someone is directing the moves of Cam today and the office of Pimentel felt it. it seems De Lima is not the real target of Cam but to slander Pimentel for President Rodrigo Duterte. it is known! the Department of Tourism (DOT) will supposedly replace the slogan "it's more fun in the Philippines," narrated Secretary Wanda Teo, they will launch the new slogan in the middle of 2017, a few months after the Philippines' hosting of Miss Universe in January 2017. in 2002, the slogan of the DOT was "wow Philippines" popularized by Senator Richard Gordon, former DOT secretary. when PNoy took seat, it became "it's more fun in the Philippines". Teo wants the future slogan of the DOT to fit the campaign promise of President Rodrigo Duterte that "change is coming". the slogan of the DOT truly needs to be replaced. "it's more fun in the Philippines" is no longer appropriate and instead "it's more dead in the Philippines" due to the more than 2,000 people that have been killed coinciding with the government's campaign against illegal drugs. how can the DOT encourage foreign tourists to wade through the beach resorts in the country if dead people are floating about? maybe the DOT thinks, tourists are safer now. celebrating her birthday today is Senator Grace Poe, daughter of deceased king of Philippine movies Fernando Poe Junior and Susan Roces. yesterday the senator was in Pangasinan, home province of her deceased father, to head the feeding program for the youth - an advocacy she is currently pushing for in the Senate. Senator Poe is the author of Senate Bill Number 160 for students in public schools to have free lunch. this will be a big help to parents because they will no longer spend for the packed lunch of their children. again. happy birthday to you Senator Grace Poe!
query366 elitist
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_92890681 many have said that when courting do everything for the beloved . but the twenty-five year old who is Nelson David of Quezon City even risked his life . according to his cousin David was only supposed to get mangoes from the tree to give to the girl he is courting but instead of mangoes his gaff struck an electric cable . he asked permission from me to get mangoes . he went here ? actually he is our gardener sir . the electricity sparked in the place that is why his cousin went out . but the burnt body of the victim appeared to him . his head was even slammed on a rock . the rope and supposedly the container for the mangoes were still beside David . when I heard the um of the electricity so I peeked I opened the window from there at the second floor . then I really saw him . then when I went down I saw him already fell sir . David has not able to survive . he was sent directly to the funeral parlor . the owner of the compound decided to cut the hooked electricity wires so it will not cause accidents anymore . Jacque Manabat for the Morning News .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16552079 change in 2014 is getting worse and worse. is there change to be expected from the national government this year? and even in the local government? according to one survey, 94 percent are expecting a big change when the new year, 2014, comes. but with what we see, there is nothing. if there is, maybe all of them would be more like misfortunes. look, dudes, when January 1 came, oil companies immediately raised the prices of petroleum. the reaction of the government of PNoy? nothing! the price of liquefied petroleum gas was rolled back a little, but if for instance the LPG Marketeer's Association did not do a rollback first, oil companies would probably not do a rollback too. one more thing, dude. fares at the LRT and MRT would go up any day starting this month. how much? there is no definite amount yet but it would take quite a huge chunk from the daily wages of workers and students. at first, it was said that the government would build LRT's and MRT's so that the commute of citizens would be light on the pocket and fast, and the environment in Metro Manila would be free from pollution. now, its lightness in the pocket will vanish into thin air. and it seems like they are making the trains break down constantly on purpose to have a reason for increasing the fare. this is hopefully one convenient service that the government can give to the people, yet the opposite is about to happen. the government does not want to spend for the citizens and what it wants is for companies, like owners of the MRT and LRT and oil companies, to profit all the time. never mind if the citizen's lives go in disarray. like the chaos being experienced until now by farmers and workers at Hacienda Luisita. isn't it that the crops of farmers and workers at the estate were bulldozed when they were about to harvest recently?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_14668812 good morning senator . good morning miss Cheryl . okay . you have heard the side of the administration . what is your reaction to their answers ? you will see the answers of -- of Malacañang not addressing the issue directly right . and in this case President Duterte himself is hiding right . that's how it is . you will notice on the small issues the president pays attention to these . he is cursing . but like this when he is faced with the truth then he stutters . hiding behind his underlings . mm . how are you convinced or why are you convinced that what Lascañas is telling is true ? you know us people we know how to -- scrutinize if one person is telling the truth or not . so aside from that we have really seen those his stories right . because this is not only a gossip of Lascañas you have Matobato and other -- more -- more circumstances right . mm . just the fact that this person has just retired from service so this can -- live peacefully you know . but he has exposed himself and -- he is risking his life . is this a joke he is matching against the president here he know he's a killer but he still did it because he is tagged by his conscience right . mhm . but senator now his reversal is being glimpsed at now . if -- but if its said that he is contradicting his previous statement his credibility will be more questionable now . well as I've said however he faces the senate again he will be criticized by the people . it is known by our people if -- if your stories are only made up or really you turned in because of your guilty conscience . so let's compare this to those of prison convicts who are used as witnesses against senator De Lima . those people are basically already imprisoned and if credibility is what's being discussed a convicted drug lord then the Malacañang will believe them right ? mm . this is a policeman . he is newly retired so it can be seen by our fellow countrymen . the question of many right now I'm just not sure if -- if you can answer it it was not discussed at the press conference what really is his reason ? -- why this time why did he suddenly go back on his word ? that was it . when the hearing comes that is one of the first he will answer . he needs to convince our fellow countrymen that this has no streak of politics no personal motivation or personal interest . so it will be seen . mhm . okay -- here as far as senate is concerned what is the plan for Lascañas ? starting soon will be the hearing under the committee of senator Ping . yes . mhm . <no-speech> last night -- I had a privilege speech and I referred my speech to the committee of senator Lacson and senator Lacson said once it was referred to him -- he will schedule the hearing probably next week . okay . mm . -- let's talk about this because it happened at the same time with this issue the mentioned bank accounts of President Duterte . what's the update ? okay I have all the bank records here . yes . what's our update here Senator ? okay . I exposed this during the campaign however they didn't address it . President Duterte even hid from this issue that's why I reminded him again that it has been seven month since he promised to disclose the bank transactions and until now they still haven't done it . now that the the noise of the campaign has subsided at least you can see the people that really have problems with this and I even challenged them that if I'm wrong about that I'll resign as senator . but you saw their reaction they hid on technicality . now he's saying that he ordered the AMLAC to be opened . yes . so now on this day I'll write to the AMLAC in order for me to get the reported transactions under the name of Rodrigo Duterte . in other words I'll call that . I won't loosen up about this . mhm . until we learn the truth about this . at the same time I already filed this case of plunder against President Duterte to the ombudsman . yes . I used that as evidence . this was still last year huh May twenty sixteen . so what's being said if you have an evidence you file in the court . I have already filed . now the ombudsman is investigating that is why I also called for them to expedite the investigation . yes with regards to the AMLAC if -- although one professor is saying um who is an expert here that any official cannot just simply order as to whatever AMLAC should do . but not %incomplete wouldn't it be easier for -- in the camp itself of President Duterte that they -- to reveal these bank transactions ? that is already what I have been saying that the easiest is they voluntarily reveal or perhaps he will sign a waiver %incomplete but then they do that before the -- during the campaign period . that is exactly what you will see -- that this was said by -- by Panelo right . you know he is a liar . when we went to B_P_I he did not give a waiver . was a copy of that waiver given to the media ? you do not have a copy because no -- that waiver was only for him . when we met here at B_P_I Julia Varage what we talked about um um he should we will meet . he hid . well he was said to be brave but then he hid . well I even said when -- you present the truth Duterte is hiding . so anyway he sent his lawyer . they said they have a waiver . I asked the B_P_I officials or there is a waiver you should give the document . he said not the waiver for the lawyer of Panelo . yes . I asked the lawyer or will you give the document if the B_P_I gives it to you ? he said no . the waiver is for me I will give it to my client to Duterte . so they deceived the people . that is why until now it has been nine months but there is still nothing right ? -- so what is your challenge for president Duterte that will come from him himself ? yes . should -- if he is not hiding anything he should volunteer the information . and that he has said to be that -- his bank history yes his transaction history in that way he can humiliate me and instantly I will resign . he will no longer have a critic in the senate so it is done . but the case is he won't do it because he has hidden wealth up to two billion pesos that is deposits and transactions only . okay . direct question and that is also what he is saying that he will resign as president if you proved that he has two billion pesos . can you be able to prove this sir ? yes . that two our mode there . -- if he cannot volunteer a waiver or he will disclose the ombudsman case we will wait and those in AMLAC we will also wait . so if one those -- because that institution will give confirmation regarding these accounts not we will collect payment from him through resigning . mm . let us clarify . what -- that -- that two billion which we are talking of as in one time transaction of having two billion or are we talking about that that if -- you combine will reach two billion at one point ? yes . it is like this what all of -- here in the documents here %incomplete yes . it was entered that transaction those deposits if said deposits or credits the money to enter . if you sum from two thousand six until two thousand fifteen over two billion peso apart from the hundreds and hundreds of million that are put in the name of his children . so those are like my allegations . and because on our end I am very confident that this is really true -- I am putting my being a senator on the line right . yes . and that is not only my life here . because I also know the president kills people . why will I do that ? after the document is manufactured . that is why he cannot face . and you know even if I prove that president Duterte will not resign . like what he said that is three to six month he will also solve the crime corruption and illegal drugs that already passed but did he resign ? no . he does not have word of honor . he is a joker . yes . so what -- what will happen there ? he cannot possibly be filed a case -- because it is during -- when he was a mayor . well we will see . if -- we prove all of those along with the other potential cases we can him filed for impeachment in that way he can face this in the proper courts . if we say impeachment even if it said -- what let us say it's a numbers game . would you have the numbers ? well that is the obligation of our fellowmen right ? for example they can see that their president kills people and at the same time also corrupt we with the problem as Filipino if that is just okay with us right ? senator Antonio %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_34887210 the beautiful floats of the entries of the Metro Manila Film Festival are featured in the annual parade of stars . take a glimpse of that in this report . <no-speech> people flocked the annual parade of stars for the thirty-ninth Metro Manila Film Festival or M_M_F_F held yesterday . this is participated with the eight entries in the said film festival who have truly prepared for their respective floats . first among these is the float of the movie Kimmy Dora the coy prequel starred by Eugene Domingo with a seemingly futuristic theme . the movie ten thousand hours too the fans are disconcertingly shouting for its lead star Robin Padilla while the float of Pedro Calungsod Young Martyr is a combined boat and church . the float of the action flick Boy Golden Shoot to Kill isn't outlasted which is seemingly a set of a theater play . the dance film Kaleidoscope World used an air con jeepney for their float . the floats of the movies Girl Boy Bakla Tomboy and Pagpa Siyam Na Buhay are also present . and of course the float of My Little Bossings won't be missed where a cute house is used as a design . the star contestants in the film festival are happy for the reception of the people for their floats . and the viewers can expect to enjoy in the movies that they have starred in . of course we have prepared this for a year . and uh very excited and very proud of My Little Bossings uh Bimbi and Raiza and of course my original Little Bosing who is Aiza . my sisters said that it is already a fact and six years old he already made that first movie and they said all of them when Bim is crying they are also crying . this is what is really called as complete entertainment . merry Christmas there is something to make you laugh and there is also the movie ten thousand hours which will awaken you . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_89940620 PPP launched in SOCCSKSARGEN Region September 27, 2016 City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, September 27 (PIA) - the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) in Koronadal City launched the initiative that will advance the cooperation of the local government and private sectors for the implementation of the infrastructure projects and public services. the program is called Public Private Partnership for the People Initiative for the Local Governments (LGU P4). in one interview, DILG 12 Regional Director Reynaldo Bungubung said that the launching of the LGU P4 in Koronadal City last Friday was the first regional kick-off of the said program. explained by Anna Liza Bonagua, director of the Bureau of Local Government Development (BLGD) of the DILG, objective of the LGU P4 is to advance the concept of the PPP in barangays, municipalities, cities and provinces in the goal to help in the advancement of economic progress in the local governments. explained by the official, under the program, the local government may approach the private investors to offer in funding the projects which are waiting to be funded by the national government and other donors. the private sector may also offer to fund and implement the projects that it perceives to be needed by the LGU. insisted by Bonagua, there is no limitation in the smallness or largeness of the project that can be implemented in LGU P4. the important is, according to him, the two parties will be able to agree in their partnership and assure that both parties will gain profit. few of the projects that can be implemented are the management in the collection of garbage on the roads, bridges, facilities that will give public service and many others. (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_98826236 it was in eightieth decade when Julio Diaz or Mariano de Leon in real life entered the world of showbiz . <no-speech> ninth of April twenty sixteen one event put Julio in the brink of danger . three days before the I was socialized in a you know whatever prohibited medicine we say . <no-speech> there was an argument between Julio and his staff . <no-speech> his head was getting hot followed by weakness of his body . <no-speech> he thought it was a simple ill feeling there was already a serious reason . he had a condition called brain aneurysm . <no-speech> Julio's condition in the intensive care unit or I_C_U became critical because of the eruption of his aneurysm . brain or cerebral aneurysm is the swelling of weak parts of walls of the artery or veins where blood flows to our hearts . factors that can increase its eruption with the increase of blood pressure or or high cholesterol or blood sugar because it weakens veins right ? <no-speech> with the continuous development of the aneurysm or swelling of veins the artery walls become more thin which can eventually lead to burst eruption or rupture . <no-speech> in the case of Julio his aneurysm burst which caused the bleeding of his brain which we call subarachnoid hemorrhage . that means Julio got a stroke . his aneurysm is in the anterior communicating artery . so it's relatively in front but it's still in the middle of the brain . if it bursts in other words the blood covers the -- covers the surface of the brain . brain aneurysm is usually asymptomatic or has no certain symptoms . but according to experts if aneurysm bursts the patient usually experience severe headaches high blood pressure dizziness and vomiting and loss of consciousness . Julio was in comatose for ten days and to save his life he underwent an expensive and sensitive operation called endovascular treatment or curling procedure . usually we inject on the common femoral artery which is the vein in the groin area . in the insertion of tube or catheter it will be bridged inside the vein and that small catheter will be extended up to the inside of the aneurysm . . if you are inside the aneurysm I will draw out a coil through that catheter that to clog the aneurysm from the inside so the blood will not enter it . <no-speech> according to studies most of those who have aneurysm are those in the age of thirty-five until sixty but children are not also safe from this . women have more chances to have this than men . in whole world an estimation of half a million every year have died because of this illness . <no-speech> four months have passed life goes on for the fifty-seven year old Julio . we have reached him while he's busy with the house he has put in construction . oh Mister Diaz how are you huh ? have a seat first . the advise of the doctor to Julio he should continuously turn his back from the vices he had . <no-speech> Julio also ensured in eating right and regular intake of medicine . <no-speech> he will also finally turn his back from an unhealthy lifestyle which is the root of his aneurysm . the moment we live is %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_47798389 <no-speech> from CHED Jessica headed to the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority or TESDA . <no-speech> actually it's my first time here in TESDA it's only now I'll try to inquire about vocational courses . so I will find out my future here . it was year ninety ninety-four when TESDA was formed under Republic Act seventy-seven ninety-six . it is in charge of training Filipinos who want to learn different skills and technical abilities . it's like they assume that the only key to succeed in life is you must be a college graduate so there is an option available . this is the technical education and skills development . <no-speech> while CHED schools give out diplomas TESDA and its accredited schools give certificates to its graduates . in their training centers no tuition must be paid . with TESDA accredited schools the usual tuition is around eight thousand pesos . supposedly with all things considered TESDA is cheaper if you don't like a diploma and you will get certificates . first consider in college you are really required whether you like it or not you really have four years there to earn a bachelor's degree . second probably because of the long time you allot there then you really have to spend more . you will pay higher even your everyday fare etcetera . please don't get me wrong I'm not saying it's no longer important it's still important right . but I'm saying is there's an option available . some of their training are food and beverage services information technology language household electronics and other technology-based skills . at present two hundred eighty-five thousand five hundred eighty-two students are enrolled in all the delivery modes of the TESDA programs . two hundred twenty-six thousand two hundred forty-nine graduated from January two thousand one up to April twenty twelve . but viewers don't be too impressed . because these courses can range from as little as three days and as long as six months . but in spite of the certificate program <foreign> a graduate of theirs can supposedly earn from eight thousand to twenty-five thousand pesos in other countries depending on the job and country . our average is about one point one to one point two a year . these are our graduates . twenty percent of our twenty ten graduates are college graduates . just do the numbers and then the twenty eleven is eighteen percent . they are all college graduates . one of those whom TESDA already helped is Rolly . he studied refrigeration in TESDA back in ninety ninety-eight at a cost of three hundred pesos for the whole course . Rolly was in first year college taking up a computer course when he decided to transfer to TESDA and get certified . first of all I find a job faster with TESDA . college is somewhat for me a long time to study . my uh is to earn immediately for the family . because I tried college for me it's too long . I am not slandering college it's different when you have an education . because it's really my priority to be able to work immediately . TESDA supposedly helped Rolly to get a job . he worked in Saudi and Dubai where he earned fifty to sixty thousand pesos a month . he is currently applying to the maritime industry . if you are resourceful and you maintain what you -- you learned a certificate and degree holder are almost the same too right ? because if you are a degree holder with an education but you don't use it it's useless too right ? if you have a certificate and you use it and you stand for it and use it for life that's greater than a degree holder because you use it even if you only have a certificate in hand . so it's more -- almost the same . what he earned from his job fed his family pay the bills and built their house . in some way it's good that uh it's like I no longer worry for them that eventually they will have no livelihood for the family because they already have a job that can be said to be permanent even if they are just skilled uh their uh . here in the Manila Philippines Skills Institute a TESDA accredited school household courses are the most popular . sometimes ma'am it depends on the batches . sometimes there are thirty . sometimes it reaches fifty . there are twenty too . usually they really come from low level standard families here in the Philippines . but sometimes there are some where there are a college level as well as college graduates as well . majority of those here want to be a domestic helper in different countries . life is hard in ours and then it is little the salary in the Philippines . as my profession there's really nothing -- nothing saved or earned . money is difficult here salary in other countries is much higher . it's difficult really difficult but enjoyable . why is it enjoyable ? because the equipment they use to train are good new . and then their training is really high tech . <no-speech> Jessica was given a briefing about TESDA . Jessica wants to take up welding . the one you're saying (()) is here . but hopefully (()) Jessica if you can undergo what we call youth profiling for (()) career . this is one of the programs of our secretary Secretary Villanueva . so that (()) our courses for the youth really fit the job they want -- so sir is it free if I want to hopefully pursue it here . I said (()) this is a scholarship program it is definitely free for the youth . to give you a way to enroll in the course you want . Jessica was toured in the welding section of TESDA . will you become a welder ? yes . it's somewhat far from a management course . why welding ? I still don't want it as much as I want to ? really ? but for us classmates three took up (()) when we were still fresh graduates from high school . now they are in other countries it's what they finished . in other words you want to take up welding so you will have a chance to go abroad . like that ? and then you will live there . is that what you're going to do ? yes . huh ? where are they ? the two are in Macau . and the other one ? Singapore . are they three women ? two men one woman . okay who is in Singapore ? that one guy Sir . where is (()) the woman %incomplete the woman is in Macau . that is your ambition to go to Macau ? yes . how much is their salary ? maybe you know ? maybe you were told . right ? yes %incomplete what did they say ? is it already converted to peso ? yes how much is that ? forty to sixty thousand . if there's a will there's a way if there isn't there are many reasons . that's why if you really want to learn and get an education get moving . don't be hardheaded .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87461139 editorial: push peace forward! December 22, 2016 numerous chaos in various parts of the world now is saddening. many lives are lost because of the differences of ideologies and faiths. many citizens are evacuating from their only home and country just to preserve their lives. refugees without shelter. many take chances in travelling the seas but not fortunate to cross safely. more saddening that not all countries are receiving them in welcome. until now, while many nationalities, similar to us, are busy for Christmas and meeting the arrival of the New Year; they, who are driven away by war from their own homes, have no new homes where they can celebrate these occasions. some of them might not have Christmas because of a different faith, but the parting of the years is celebrated by everyone, whatever be the race and religion. we are so fortunate here in our country that we do not have this kind of chaos. no suicide bombers, no war created by ISIS and Muslim extremist. if there is a part in Mindanao which is tainted by this kind of chaos, our armed forces ensure that they are in control of the situation. at simple glance, we do not count hundreds in each explosion or severe firefight of bullets and mortars. the airstrikes have not been disrupting our sleep. hope that we learn how to be grateful for this big blessing. but as creations of the Almighty God who have compassion for others, it is our duty to become instruments of peace, not only this Christmas and in our own society but at all times and to anyone. using social media, we can spread peace and love, not only to our fellow countrymen but also for other races, especially to the victims of war in their own country. if we cannot do anything for them, a prayer is a big thing for their safety and for peace in their country.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_55598335 Rachel Ann Go feels sad because the famous musical Les Miserables has only one week left here in the Philippines . she needs to return to London to continue portraying the character of Fantine in its West End staging . that is the story of Lar Santiago . <no-speech> today is the last week of Les Miserables in Solaire Theatre so Rachel Ann Go who portrays Fantine feels sad to leave . the Philippines again and return to London to also portray Fantine West End staging of the famous musical . a mixture of sadness and happiness . because first of all it will be over -- go home -- I will return to London again . I will miss my family again . and then of course happy because -- I shared with Filipinos what I'm doing in London . Rachel is also so thankful that the one she had long prayed for buying a house has been achieved . it is just simple . what's important there is of course we're all together and of course there is a music room and also with some touch of London . with London vibe -- the house so I can feel that I came from London I'm here in the Philippines . Rachel Ann is also thankful that two she consider her closest friends in the industry watched her in Les Mis . Regine Velasquez-Alcasid and Sarah Geronimo . that day they visited my dressing room at night so -- we chatted until it took us twelve midnight . <no-speech> it feels good that they were able to watch it . yes here in the Philippines . Lar Santiago updated %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78389504 Hebrew Series 31: do not let go! by Zayith Hebron November 12, 2016 "what else should I say? because there would not be enough time if I would narrate about Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jefta, David, Samuel and the prophets; who through their faith, they conquered kingdoms, administered justice, obtained promises, shut the mouth of lions, extinguished the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, gained strength from weakness, become mighty in battle, make foreign armies retreat." (Hebrews 11:33) we continue with our analysis about the message of the Letters to the Hebrews which can be found in the New Testament of the Holy Bible. we already said in this letters the writer explained the superiority of the son of God who is Jesus - superior above all, including the angels. he ended the need for animal sacrifices of the Old Testament. Jesus himself is the only offering for the sins of the world. the writer is convincing his original readers. do not go back to Judaism. a new testament between God and man already exists, and this is because Jesus ended His mission on the Cross of Calvary. and if they are afraid of what might happen to them because they carry the name of Jesus as Hebrew Christians, the writer strengthens their courage. they should remember the faithfulness of Abraham. he was ready to offer his son Issac to God; he was greatly blessed. they should also remember Moses; faithful deliverer of the early Israelites from the slavery to the Egyptians. likewise, he strictly obeyed the Lord's instruction to him, so he saw God who is Yahweh act in a powerful way as a Holy Protector who cared for the people of Israel. and now, here in chapter 11 of his writings, the writer to the Hebrews say they should not think they are alone in their journey. there were many ahead of them who showed how to be steadfast to their faith through the power of the Holy Spirit. he cited the names of the saints they know from the Old Testament: Rahab, Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jefta, David, Samuel. each one has a unique story of valor and victory shown in the midst of a difficult situation. the writer also mentioned examples of faithful believers who seemed to be defeated in their lives on earth but were considered by God to blessed ones because they will receive in heaven the promises of their faith. "others endured mockery and scourging and even chains and imprisonment." they were stoned to death, sawed, slaughtered with the sword, they wandered wearing sheepskins and goatskins, suffering, persecuted and oppressed (of which the world is not worthy)... "and all of these, though they were praised because of their faith, did not receive what was promised, because God prepared something better for us..." (Hebrews 11:36-38a, 39-40). brothers in Christ, the clear messages are: God is faithful, he is dependable. his promises are certain. sometimes you feel that you are alone in what you believe in, have courage. you can overcome trials with the help of the Lord Jesus. just look at the list of saints in Hebrews 11 and Hebrews 12. you will remember you are not alone and the God who kept their faith is your God, too. do not let go. Jesus' second coming is near. it is a joyful and victorious day for all His children, but a day of horror for those who continue to renounce Him and His reign. while there is time, let us search our hearts. let us ask for the power of the Holy Spirit to repent from our sins and to live our lives faithful to Jesus. I pray for all our salvation on that great day. shalom and God bless!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_10577777 <no-speech> who's with you there ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? just me and the gay friends too . <no-speech> oh I thought -- oh Jan-Jan is absent ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> he went to work so he'll come home later . <no-speech> hmm . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> so just those ones . <no-speech> tomorrow okay . <no-speech> yes who's that ? are you going home on %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> Sister Letty and Sister Che we're here . why ? uh . <no-speech> ah ah . <no-speech> what ? what are you doing there playing rummy ? <no-speech> nothing chatting . <no-speech> how about in (()) . how are you ? <no-speech> like this . <no-speech> <no-speech> fat . <no-speech> I'm losing you again . hello ? <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> (()) . hello ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> where are you are you still there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm here standing . hello ? hi I can see you clearly how are you ? fine . hello you're wearing what color are you wearing pink red or green ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> whatever they just laughed . what (()) . if I have money on May Princess and I will go home . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . if we have money on May Princess and I will go home . <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20425735 dressing formation: my 1st day as a PMA plebe. my first day as a plebe is one of the milestones of my military career that I will not forget. the breeze was cool on the 1st of April 1990 but my body was very hot because of severe exhaustion caused by our reception ceremony. all the cadets assigned to my group seem to be brave. their eyes were wide open and were often shouting when giving numerous instructions. "starting today, you will be called plebes!" "you are not allowed to speak in Tagalog, but in English, at all times when speaking to seniors." in our utmost "war shock", we often answered, "yes sir!", with a shout. the vein on our necks would bulge and our voices would come from below the chest to be louder. my group was called a squad and is formed by 6 plebes, one yearling (2nd year cadet) and one squad leader. we marched towards our barracks area, which is called New Cadet Battalion (NCBn), to prepare for our very first dinner, which is called "mess" in cadet lingo. many restrictions were taught to us. when in the formation area or when marching, it is forbidden to speak to fellow cadets. no rolling of eyeballs. no moving in ranks. the instructions of our SL (squad leader) were strict, as if stating the Code of Kalantiaw. his warning was scary. "it is forbidden for you to connive. if we catch anyone, you will kiss each other on the lips!" upon arriving in our room, I saw that we were all together in there and our double-deck beds, called "bunks", were next to each other. we each had one duffel bag that is full of uniforms and accessories. there were many pieces of underwear, handkerchiefs, shirts, sweatshirts, jogging pants and many more. our very first uniform was an olive drab, which was called a drill B uniform, partnered with combat boots that seem to be waiting to be worn by us. "those are your things as cadets. take care of your things and do not make a mess. how your things are folded should be neat and your room should be clean at all times," said SL. we individually took our uniforms when we were given an order to get clothes that are needed for the next duty, the "evening mess". "gentlemen, all our duties are being timed. it is not allowed to be slow and to move like a gay boy," instructed by SL, who was always looking at us sharply. "now, I want all of you to wear your bath attire in 10 counts!" "one! ... two! ... three..." each of us took off our civilian clothes and scrambled to wear the bathrobe and towel. SL laughed because of our individual appearances. how could this be when even in tying the bathrobe, bringing the towel and toothbrush, needs to be in order according to the command. "the towel is folded in half and is tucked under the left arm. carry the toothbrush and soap on the right hand!" that was how confused we were because it seemed like all activities had "rules". we followed all of them and always shouted out our answer, "yes sir!". "plebes, we have 20 minutes remaining before our first evening mess formation. I want you to take a bath in 10 counts!" I was confused with what he said. how could you take a bath in just ten counts? I was lost in my thoughts when I heard the voice of SL again. "in 10 counts, you are already done bathing! 10! ... 9! ... 8!" we all scrambled to our feet. once I have hung my towel and bathrobe, I already made my strategy. on my left hand is the dipper that pours water. the right hand is used for brushing my teeth. I made sure that my whole body got wet and to brush my teeth too. the voice of SL echoed in front of our room. "7! ... 6! ... 5! ..." at only number 4, I was already able to wear the bathrobe while making a mad dash back in front of SL who was grinning. "tsuuuunnnnn!" I don't know what his command is. I was busy fixing my bathrobe while still panting. apparently, it meant "attention!". it was a shortcut! how would I know that? sorry for the classmates that I caught. there is already a punishment for them. so that's what you call a "dressing formation" in the military. it is irritating but makes one sweat.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_84372784 <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello Che ? oh delicious -- delicious yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> fresh air here . so that what is for us there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> which one ? <no-speech> which among these ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what was that ? so what about our drinking ? <no-speech> <no-speech> no drinking . later . <no-speech> <no-speech> no I won't drink I have work . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> if there is work drinking is not allowed . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> oh . what about basketball aren't we going to play ? agree ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> no I am not playing that . <no-speech> I might run out of breath . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? just wait for me there I am going to you later . <no-speech> yes I will wait for you here . yes okay -- okay -- okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> I will wait for you here . <no-speech> but who is crying ? <no-speech> Amboy's son Ken-Ken . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> is it okay already ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? is it okay already -- okay already ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it is okay -- already okay ? (()) you are already near . <no-speech> oh okay already ? <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26779565 Monday, August 29, 2016 because we are only poor. as long as you say these words nothing will change, and the world will continue to bring this upon you. you can say instead that, "we are rich, problem is we don't want to act and get the blessing that are destined for us." why are we poor? and whatever state we are in, is it not nice that we are calm about it? even though we are continuously bothered by our needs in life, everything is still good. there is no longer excitement to take risks, to try and fight in life. we are comfortable with that we have in front of us. we are at peace and we have reasons; "endure when the viand is anchovy." "curl when the blanket is short." "even if the roof has its patches and walls are made of cartons, we will make it through." "we could get by drinking alcohol" "whatever" useless words that are really off the mark and do not align with the goal to succeed in life. the most dangerous for all of us is not that we have aimed so high and failed, but worse is that we aimed low and succeeded, and there in the ground where we step on, and only the worms are what we are left with.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_13012474 adaptation (adaptation) draft (draft) adaptation (adaptation) to the ongoing change in climate by Gregorio V. Bituin Junior prepared for the Committee on Adaptation of the Philippine Movement for Climate Justice (PMCJ) due to climate change, many calamities that the people do not expect happened. cities, villages, and even the mountains, were submerged in water. I remember when one of my colleagues said the City of Baguio itself was submerged in flood. Baguio is too elevated to be flooded. but it flooded because garbage clogged the sewers. there are many concepts of adaptation or how we are going to adapt to this ongoing calamity. there were many scientists (scientists) and professionals who gave different meanings or definitions to what an adaptation really is. let us look at each one. a. adaptation - adjustment in natural or human systems in response to actual or expected climactic stimuli or their effects, which moderates harm or exploits beneficial opportunities. various types of adaptation can be distinguished, including anticipatory and reactive adaptation, private and public adaptation, and autonomous and planned adaptation (IPCC TAR, 2001 a) b. adaptation - practical steps to protect countries and communities from the likely disruption and damage that will result from effects of climate change. for example, flood walls should be built and in numerous cases it is probably advisable to move human settlements out of flood plains and other low-lying areas. (website of the UNFCCC Secretariat) c. adaptation - is a process by which strategies to moderate, cope with and take advantage of the consequences of climatic events are enhanced, developed, and implemented. UNDP, 2005 d. adaptation - the process or outcome of a process that leads to a reduction in harm or risk of harm, or realization of benefits associated with climate variability and climate change. UK Climate Impact Program (UKCIP, 2003) if definitions were summarized, adaptation are the steps to adapt to the changes happening in the environment taking into consideration the safety of lives and to reduce the risk of disaster. for the common people, these scientific terms are very complicated but they can easily be understood if they are explained in simple words. what adaptation means is just simple - adjusting to the condition. it means, if your position is low, go to a higher position, or raise your position. if the materials of your house are already weak or dilapidated, you make a way to make it durable! you may replace the already weak and dilapidated with new wood, or make your woven bamboo walls concrete. for example, it is always flooding in Dagat-Dagatan, what the people did was make their house higher so when it floods, it would not reach their flooring. the time also came when low-lying lands were filled and were cemented care of the local government. however, this is not so easy especially when survival is at stake, and not only ten people are being talked about here but millions of people. so it is deserving to receive attention, to be studied and prepared for, not only by the government, but by the very people who will be directly affected. it cannot be birds who will decide the fate of the fish. the people themselves must be involved in deciding their fate and safety. in 2009, the Climate Change Commission (CCC) of the Philippines was created through Republic Act 9729 (Climate Change Act of 2009). this is comprised of 23 government agencies, local government units, and representatives from the academe, business sectors and NGOs. the Commission has the mandate to implement an official National Framework Strategy on Climate Change (NFSCC) and the National Climate Change Action Plan (NCCAP). the president of the Philippines leads this commission. the NCCAP was created to promote a reasonable program of action to address adaptation and mitigation on the issue of climate change. the seven strategies should mainly address the following issues. 1. food security (food security) 2. water sufficiency (water sufficiency) 3. environment and ecological stability (environment and ecological stability) 4. human security (human security) 5. sustainable energy (sustainable energy) 6. climate-smart industries and services (climate-smart industries and services) 7. knowledge and capacity development (knowledge and capacity development) it is also the mandate of the CCC to provide assistance to local government units in creating these LCCAP (local climate change action plan). what is our role as an organization? first, the committee on adaptation of the Philippine Movement for Climate Justice (PMCJ) is the acting representative of progressive organizations to ensure that policies of the government in connection with the issue on adaptation and climate change are properly implemented. second, to be critical and discerning that what the government is doing is not enough unless rich nations are charged with their responsibilities. third, the climate change happening is due to a system that does not prioritize the welfare of society but the interest of the few, some nations, some sectors (business sector), a few people (rich), a system that does not consider future of the vast majority. fourth, writing and extending through mass media the stand and criticism of PMCJ on what are happening like the threat of blasting (blasting) of households in danger zones to transfer the people to the death zone. fifth, for PMCJ to coordinate and be a part of NCCAPs and LCCAPs or to monitor (monitoring) the activities of the government.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_14279710 almost three hundred colleges and universities wants to raise their tuition fees the next school year . nine to ten percent is the average of those who wants to have tuition increase . but according to the Commission on Higher Education or CHED a consultation is first needed from the students and parents before increasing the tuition fee of a school . live from Quezon city Lala Roque has a report . Lala ? Jessica now is the season of graduation but it seems that parents need to think and save because there are many schools that has already advised a possible increase in tuition fees again in the next school year . I am telling you tonight %incomplete Kay cannot help but to cry while telling her experiences . Kay is now a third year mass communications student in U_P Diliman . but instead of worrying about studying she is worrying about her tuition fees for the next semester . only one year left so that she could finish her schooling but it seems like this chance has become blurry . she is tutoring as a side line to help her parents but their income is still not enough for their whole family . as a proof she still has debt in the school . I personally loaned in (()) and I haven't been able to pay now . I am not sure if I will still be able to study next semester . this should be a basic right which is not being given to us . it seems there are a lot of those like Kay who struggles with the dream to graduate . because currently there are almost three hundred colleges and university which notified the Commission on Higher Education or CHED to increase the tuition fees next school year . an average of nine to ten percent was said to be their requested increase . but according to CHED this does not mean that they are allowing all to increase tuition fees . not all schools are allowed to increase right ? because some of those that already increased last year could not increase for now because it could affect their enrollment . but he admits that it seems that their strictness lack especially with private schools . well let us appeal to that as much as possible if they can still delay that they should do that first because many families are somehow struggling financially . <no-speech> CHED chairperson Patricia Licuanan has released an order that from school year twenty thirteen until twenty fourteen schools should conduct consultations with the students not only about the tuition fee increase but also the miscellaneous fees . it could be remembered that there are some schools which use miscellaneous fees to increase the matriculation . state university usually people should be expecting tuition fees to be cheap but now it is too expensive . they should not really increase annually . why ? because it is also hard for the parents that what that if where else can they get the payment to the what to the school . (()) . (()) Jessica CHED executive director Vitriolo has explained that in April is when they will be knowing how many and what are the schools that will really increase matriculation for the school year twenty thirteen to twenty fourteen Jessica . Lala could it not be possible for an earlier announcement or their announcing of having the intention to increase the tuition fees . because now when the school year is almost over -- everybody is now busy . those children think that the semester is ending . the parents are not %incomplete there's not enough time I think to consult them because the school year is ending . (()) Jessica but we have some schools that has already talked to now that the school year's ending they already advised the parents that there's a tuition increase in the next school year that's why there were reservations in some schools . rather it depends on what the school will do . Ched explained to that there should be a consultation for the students even the parents in the school soon so they know what they will face in the next opening . March is okay seems like too late . you'll meet the parents the students that'll be difficult . mhm that's right Jessica . many are literally crying as we can see because of what they're experiencing . some of the ones I spoke with earlier still have debts and are problematizing how to pay . and now there's another probable increase that's why they have a really big problem Jessica . thank you very much %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17968443 Dayanara, will meet up with Aga, Cesar and Ariel posted by: Timmy Basil on January 30, 2017 in showbiz not leaving the Philippines just yet is Miss Universe 1993, Dayanara Torres, one of the judges in Miss Universe, even though the pageant is over because she still has a lot of Pinoy artists to meet up with who she worked with during the span of her career. Yari (nickname of Dayanara) wants to meet with Cesar Montano, Aga Muhlach, Pops Fernandez, the group Manouevres, Ariel Rivera, and Martin Nievera. Yari worked with Pops, Martin, Ariel, and Manoeuvres in ASAP. on the other hand, Dayanara remains beautiful and while I was looking at her recent photos, she has similarities with one Brazilian model who became an artist in Manila, Daiana Meneses. for sure, flattered and excited are those who previously worked with Dayanara in ASAP to meet and talk to her. Dayanara and Aga got together in the movie, Basta's Kasama Kita and Type Kita Walang Kokontra with Cesar.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_98111858 work in congress there is no doubt that the ferocity in the ring of National Fist Manny Pacquiao has returned. he made American Chris Algieri roll on the canvas six times. even if the enemy knockout desired by the fans did not happen, his victory was still very impressive. yahoo! applause! - boxing analysts said, no one can equal the skill of Many, aside from the undefeated Floyd Mayweather, Junior. Floyd is the current pound-for-pound king that was also formerly held by Pacman. but Floyd is all talk, always avoiding the wish of boxing fans that he fight Pacquiao. supposedly the styles of the two are really a good match on top of the ring. Floyd as a "master" of speed and evading and Pacquiao is also very fast and hits really hard. - when Tim Bradley defeated him via split and he knocked out Juan Manuel Marquez, many said that Pacquiao-Mayweather is unlikely to happen. but after getting revenge on Bradley and recovering the WBO welterweight belt, pounding the taller Brandos Rios and Chris Algieri, the former ferocity of the fighting congressman supposedly has returned. great! great! let us applaud it again. - Pacquiao is already back in the country. okay, let us let him rest first. let us make him enjoy first the honor he received. but hopefully after he rests properly Pacman will return to his job as representative of Sarangani in Congress. - it is already the second term of Manny as congressman but he supposedly has not passed even one law. his colleagues in the Congress are trying to understand his absences in the sessions because he needs to practice and win the fight for the honor of our country. but now that boxing is over, hopefully he works as a congressman. lawmakers are worried that after resting, Manny will focus his self on the Philippine Basketball Association as coach and basketball player. if that happens, his role in congress will no longer have meaning. he should not run in the next election. Kanto't Sulok/Nats Taboy
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_76334889 <no-speech> in the midst of the military's operation against the forces of the B_I_F_F or Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters an improvised explosive device exploded on the highway of Mamasapano in Maguindanao while the convoy of the military and the media including the team of G_M_A News were passing by . luckily no one was hurt in the explosion . meanwhile the M_N_L_F or Moro National Liberation Front and the B_I_F_F in North and South Cotabato have allegedly joined forces following the signing of the last annex of the Bangsamoro Framework Agreement . live from Cotabato City Chino Gaston has a report Chino . Jessica an improvised explosive device exploded again in the province of Maguindanao and despite -- we believe that its real target were the soldiers our news team as well as our other colleagues at work were almost involved . (()) . together with the other members of the media we accompanied the convoy of the Second Mechanize Infantry Battalion of the Philippine Army in Mamasapano . this afternoon they were heading to Rajah Buayan one of the areas controlled by the military and where they will launch an offensive against the B_I_F_F or Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters . but in an instant %incomplete back it up back it up bro . wait wait wait wait . don't -- stay here . stay here . stay here . -- what what ? back it up . following the sudden explosion we carefully moved away in fear that there will be a second explosion . <no-speech> we are following several soldiers who are entering here at Rajah Buayan when this explosion happened on this stretch of road . and you can see that there are black things in the middle of the road which are bomb particles that were thrown and part of the road that was destroyed . luckily nobody was hurt in the explosion of the suspected improvised explosive device which allegedly used a one hundred five millimeter howitzer bullet as its main charge . according to the military this is already a desperate tactic of the rebel group . because they want to send a message that they are still a force to reckon with but in a very those those -- those terroristic activities terroristic ways indeed . they don't even have military capability anymore . at the same time they want to retaliate right ? but overall this is a very desperate move on their part . before this there was also an explosion of an I_E_D at Datu Saudi-Ampatuan last Saturday wherein six soldiers four civilians and two journalists were wounded . despite the consecutive explosions the military is hoping that the situation in Maguindanao will go back to normal . allegedly they already besieged the hideouts of B_I_F_F .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37686681 <no-speech> preparations for the feast of Black Nazarene this Saturday is continuous . because more than ten million devotees are expected to attend the procession . Rommel Lopez is taking action . the inside and outside of the minor basilica of the Black Nazarene in Quiapo Manila is being painted . this is part of the preparation for the parade of the Black Nazarene this coming Saturday . hosts are the men who guard the stand for the saints in the procession . our devotion our vow is what we need to do . tomorrow the final route of the procession will be released but this won't be any different from last year . from Quirino grand stand the parade will pass Jones bridge on the way back to Quiapo . that's the road around Quiapo which is under construction by D_P_W_H . especially because the influx is expected to not be less than three million devotees. every year we have an increase of twenty percent . the feast of Black Nazarene will be an international pilgrimage of the Black Nazarene . we're international now that's why we're expecting more foreigners coming in . the Manila police district has also prepared and started to roam for security . at present we haven't received any threats for the celebration . the men has reminded those in bad condition to not join the crowd . also avoid the filing on stands . because sometimes accidents happen there . the Nazarene is always here right ? hence all chances are there for them . hopefully not the procession . on Thursday procession for replicates of Nazarene will start . this Friday on the other hand Quiapo church will bring out the Black Nazarene to take to the Quirino grand stand for the kissing and overnight vigil . Rommel in action .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95695380 (()) aside from volleyball what do you like doing in your past time ? if you have any past time . in Tagalog past time %incomplete what do you like to do ? I blog . story short stories anything blog (()) . located in my twitter account is my blog . and also I like to watch series T_V series like the revenge vampire diaries gossip girl glee those kind . <no-speech> really girlish right those ones okay ? yes a real girl outside the court . because before -- I was accustomed in La Salle of not having T_V there . it is not allowed because you really need -- to focus with your studies and the laptop only . what you entered isn't that a precinct ? you are not allowed to have a boyfriend no T_V . it's like a prison probably %incomplete no sir . huh ? okay (()) . okay with us . for -- for us it is really okay having no T_V . ah . indeed even %incomplete there's a cellphone right ? cellphone . is there also something where you get to call once every day ? what is the %incomplete none . if we have a game there is a need to confiscate those phone . why what is the philosophy behind having no T_V ? because if you have T_V and then you have -- you have lessons you cannot focus in your studies . even now when we are only talking and we kept on studying it is already hard to balance really . and your level in Candy Crush will not increase if and you cannot play -- move away from Crossy Road . <no-speech> <no-speech> the mailman seems to be taking long . that -- that's it . from Jeff or . that is hard to answer because well we are not allowed -- to well choose sides well because they are both my friend and my teammates . they are like my sisters those two . Ate Cha really she became my team mate for three years in La Salle so she is one of the seniors I look up to . she is like a mentor %incomplete she was also my team captain for two years so it's really there it was built up our the sisterhood for the two of us . okay . Phil on the other hand we're teammates in Meralco and Petron . I knew him better as I can prove the people that what they're saying is wrong what you're saying to -- the athletes that we're arrogant persnickety snob because we like what happened to Phil you can really -- prove that this person is kind I'm really happy that we're teammates because it's not -- not just in La Salle that you'll meet friends . outside outside La Salle you'll have -- meet plenty of people that will be your teammates like Phil . kind person good to work with to play with in the court and -- a good athlete that will push you to be the best in your field . another question do we more questions ? okay how is Ara Galang and Camille Cruz ? there so far Ara and Camille I can say that these -- two girls are strong hence don't worry because they are fighters not just in court but in real life as well . whatever they're going through now they're really fighting it . and -- they have big faith on God God is working on something better for them . and now I don't know when's Camille's surgery but I know that Ara's is if not this week maybe next week she'll be undergoing -- she'll undergo -- surgery for her uh . Camille ? for Camille three on the right knee are A_C_L or L_C_L I think and bone bruise . also I mean they're still young healing process is faster . I had A_C_L before I was just nineteen then . nineteen . but at that time there was no arthroscopic surgery yet . not yet . <no-speech> no doctors yet ? <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65012727 <no-speech> what did you say ? oh will Macky come -- come in today ? <no-speech> <no-speech> no . ask him if he's not coming I'll go home later . he's giving Yuri a bath . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> giving Yuri a bath . where's Timmy ? did you go to our sister ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> ah . <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> is Yuri taking a bath ? did you go -- go to miss ? still taking a bath . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? who ? you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> eat -- nothing just eating here . did you go to our sister ? <no-speech> yes . huh ? <no-speech> well at ate's I wasn't able to go there <no-speech> <no-speech> you didn't go . I wasn't able to go to miss . <no-speech> well I really want to go there in Parañaque . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe before my birthday I'll go there . I wasn't able to send a birthday card to Girlie yet . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . maybe -- maybe later when mom gives me money I can buy a birthday card I'll send it . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> go there . maybe within one week it'll arrive . <no-speech> it'll arrive by April twenty-six . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> go to miss' place . <no-speech> is it getting hot there ? here it's hot without rain . <no-speech> (()) . perhaps you've already cooked rice right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's already afternoon . <no-speech> did you cook rice already ? yes . maybe you're still waiting for me . <no-speech> you're expected . I'll go home later . <no-speech> <no-speech> even you're awaited (()) . already there . <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> was asked to live . what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> asked to live in Anda . <no-speech> who ? <no-speech> there . I thought you were going to bring . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> preparations of Totot the ground meat that's really spicy but I can eat it . (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and now I was asked to cook tofu . just tofu tofu without pork . ah his appetizers . I said I was good at making sauce before . <no-speech> <no-speech> hey I really did make sauce . %incomplete for %incomplete I put a lot of salt . <no-speech> what I did is I put a lot of sugar . I put raisins to make it delicious because the saltiness was too much . really ? <no-speech> it increased I put a lot of vinegar . <no-speech> yes it really did become delicious . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and then they were really happy and there's also pork rinds . <no-speech> <no-speech> oh there is menudo that only . but it's satiating . who was first -- (()) doesn't get drunk . what I can bring there is just stew . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> stew seems like they were satisfied they even brought home the grilled intestine . Dodoy got drunk . <no-speech> your answer's really far . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> so who got drunk ? <no-speech> <no-speech> which ? huh ? <no-speech> last night who got drunk among you ? who ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes (()) . <no-speech> huh ? huh ? <no-speech> later I'll go home . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> oh no . but maybe mom and I will go to Parañaque just maybe . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you know miss she's mad . she wants you to come to reconcile -- so she can reconcile with me . she doesn't want to be just called . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> of course . (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> my birthday is upcoming . why don't I call ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I need to greet her . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? call her . no of course that's also difficult that's resentment . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_49407027 focusing is the start anything we pay with attention and make a habit of improving is the one that decides our actions. our joy and grief are based on this habit. whatever of these two is chosen will decide our fate. it is much better to have a positive outlook every day. teach yourself to care for and treasure a cheerful heart, maintain a bright and happy temperament, and your life is a non-stop celebration and full of prosperity. only one thing is needed to be changed in ourselves; to discover and enjoy happiness in our life. what makes us happy is wherever our attention is focused on. because if not for it, we have long stopped and focused our time on others. as long as we continue with our habits or likes, it is what entertains and what we do. your situation and personality now is a reflection of things you are accustomed to and continue to do. if you observe yourself in the mirror, and examine deeply the person in front of you; what attitudes does this person have? are they helpful or destructive? a solution or a problem? selfish or with concern for others? happy or sad? only you know the answers. because whatever you are doing now; it is your world that makes you move. remain focused on desires so your actions will have direction.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_45108420 abandoned typhoon victims after an interview about the livelihood assistance project for farmers in Surigao del Sur, I joined the team of CBHP (Community Based Health Program) in revisiting some areas devastated by typhoon Pablo in Surigao del Sur and Davao Oriental. we left Tandag at one o'clock in the morning and arrived at the first village served by CBHP at around 8 o'clock. although I have seen images of the damage caused by the typhoon on television, I was still shocked as I myself faced the scene of destroyed homes and crops. immediately, dreadful images of Hiroshima, Vietnam, and Iraq after being bombed by America entered my mind. in that moment, I deeply felt not only the immense damage brought about by typhoon Pablo on the houses, livelihood, surroundings, and well-being of the people, but the serious effects of climate change, corporate greed (mining, banana plantation, et cetera), and government neglect as well. in my anger, I didn't even care about the numbing of my feet from more than three hours of riding on the back of a motorcycle called "habal-habal." there were four of us riding on it and I was squeezed behind the driver. many of the victims lived far away from the heart of the village and the city, and could not access government assistance, media, and civic organizations. these areas were prioritized by the CBHP and its allies, including the farmer movement in the region. we also went to one of the areas most affected by the typhoon in Davao Oriental, the town of Cateel, which is situated right next to the affected areas in Surigao del Sur. The damage was so great, it really seemed an atomic bomb had been dropped on the area! all the buildings and plants were utterly destroyed, especially the coconut trees. The town of Cateel is often shown on television and many government agencies and civic organizations have since visited it. However, the assistance they provided remain greatly insufficient for the victims due to excessive damage and the lack of a proper distribution system for assistance from various groups. at around five o'clock in the afternoon, I left the team of CBHP in Tandag and rode a bus going to Davao City to join the medical mission of BALSA Mindanao, the multi-sectoral organization formed by progressive groups to help victims in these types of calamities. as I rode the bus, I still saw many devastated homes along the way that did not get any assistance. by the time I arrived at the UCCP (United Church of Christ), the center of BALSA Mindanao in Davao, it was already past midnight. our team traveled at four o'clock in the morning so I had little to no sleep at all that night. we arrived at Laak, Compostela Valley around 10 o'clock in the morning. The area was also greatly affected by the typhoon and it was incredibly difficult to get there due to the damaged roads, and we even had to cross a river that was chest-deep. good thing we rode a fairly large dump truck. we ate brunch first before the medical clinic started and we distributed food and relief goods. only two of us were doctors. I was with Doctor Lynn Redoble, a former student of mine who is now a full time medical practitioner at CBHP-Southern Mindanao. most of those needing medical assistance were children with cough and colds, flu, bronchitis, skin disorders, wounds, et cetera. there were two patients that needed to be brought to the hospital, which brought about the problem of how to transport them to the hospital (ask for assistance from the local government and other organizations because BALSA Mindanao couldn't shoulder the expenses). we had more than 200 patients. we stopped taking in patients at 5 o'clock in the afternoon because we may no longer be able to cross the river back to Davao. my feelings were quite heavy when we closed because there were still a few people from far-off places who wanted to catch the consultation. however, we needed to leave, since we couldn't stay any longer in that area according to the organizers. it was almost midnight when we arrived in UCCP Davao. due to fatigue and lack of sleep, I couldn't bring myself to take a bath and went straight for the bed. however, I had a hard time sleeping due to the severity of my cough (which started in Surigao) and also due to the constant emotional and mental distress brought about by everything I had seen and experienced. The rooster was already crowing by the time I fell asleep after I drank lagundi tea and beloved. I just rested until I headed to Davao airport on the way back to Manila.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_45279019 <no-speech> the image of Saint Mary that is claimed to be tearing up is the headline of local news papers here at Macrohan in Southern Leyte . <no-speech> <no-speech> since this news circulated just as expected the devotees and curious swarmed all over the parish of Baranggay Ichon where the crying Saint is . <no-speech> Mary mother of God pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death . (()) in grace (()) the talked about icon is the Mary Mediatrix of All Grace . this is inside the Orna or glass case . with a height of seven feet and made of fiber glass . on the right cheek of the Virgin you can see the mark of liquid that is assumed by many to be the tear of the Virgin . you can see what seems like dried drops of tears . I believed that it was a miracle because I felt inside of me that she was indeed crying . I became happy I became sad . I can't say . (()) me . <no-speech> some of those who came wiped their handkerchiefs on the case . some were even taking selfies . <no-speech> to show the said tear of the Virgin they lighted up the face with a flashlight . <no-speech> but many of those who came are hoping to be blessed if there is any with miracles brought by the Virgin . like the couple grandma Anunciacion and grandpa Porferio who bore hours of travel from Cebu in the hopes of having the crying Virgin treat the acute arthritis of Nanay Anunciacion . (()) . (()) . (()) . grandpa Porferio wiped his handkerchief on the glass of the icon and wiped it on the calf of his wife . <no-speech> <no-speech> seven year old Mila not her true name shared that she offered flowers at around four in the afternoon last May three when she saw the Virgin tearing up . I was scared because it was my first time to -- see -- only people are crying . Saints don't cry . I saw that it seemed real but there was no light I didn't even hear a sound . her eyes seemed alive and she's crying . <no-speech> it reached Father Ervin the Assistant Parish Priest of the parish . what I really saw were drops of water falling from her eyes . seemed like tears I really saw personally what the children were saying . questions were added on the doubts and wonders of Father Ervin on the tears of the icon of Mary Mediatrix in their church . we placed the icon here on the second week of January . so the people who are going to church on the ninth day of novena mass before the feast will look here . it's an open glass or not easily opened because we have the key . <no-speech> according to Father Ervin no one can easily open the orna of the Virgin because it's locked and the key's hidden . there's no caretaker that cleans the icon as well because it's inside the glass which can't be easily dirty . I even told the children that maybe it's just a joke . but when I personally look at the icon while I was going there I felt guilty . I tell myself why is she crying ? what did I do wrong ? what did -- what did really happen here why is she crying ? it leads me to pray more right ? it leads me to reflect the beauty of faith . if humidity or sweat is suspected liquid why would it appear on the cheek ? nevertheless they're not in the right position to say if the tears are true or made-up . Father Ervin and I have no authority no capacity to declare this phenomenon as we recall right ? it's the task where all of the Bishop to initiate an investigation (()) it's an investigation that will tell if it's worthy of belief or not . in the records of the catholic church only one Virgin has been certified in the history . <no-speech> this is the Weeping Virgin Mary of Our Lady of Akita in Akita Japan . it was in year ninety seventy-three when Sister Agnes saw the weeping Virgin and after fifteen years the statue was known as miraculous . <no-speech> the statue of Virgin Maria of Ichon visited by tourists was given by a group of devotees from Davao in the year twenty twelve . it came from Lipa City in Batangas . <no-speech> this is not the first time the statue of Mary Mediatrix of All Grace was talked about to be miraculous . <no-speech> in year nineteen forty-eight in the convent of Our Lady of Lourdes of Mary Mediatrix of All Grace in Mount Caramel in Batangas it was said that the icon appeared successively in front of a nun Sister Teresita Castillo . according to them the Virgin of Mary Mediatrix has showered fragrant leaves or petals of red roses multiple times . <no-speech> but it was year nineteen fifty-one when this testimony of Sister Teresita was declared as non-supernatural or not considered a miracle . <no-speech> because of the controversy the convent was temporarily closed . it was in year nineteen ninety-one when the case of alleged apparition in Batangas was reopened after it was learned that there were irregularities on the investigation before . until now it's an ongoing investigation of the Vatican . <no-speech> meanwhile we showed the weeping Virgin of Ichon to some experts . in the long time that I've been making saints I have never seen a weeping icon unless it was faked . it was showed how it's possible for an icon to weep . they can drill a hole in it just really small . they can let the tear fall whatever they used -- fell on the Virgin they can put a hose inside . <no-speech> and put water for her to tear up . <no-speech> second put petroleum jelly or whatever we'll use a blower for it . this will serve as the sunshine . the heat of the sun right now is so intense that it drips . melt drip . because of intense heat . <no-speech> but according to Father Dennis and Father Ervin . it doesn't mean that this phenomenon although not yet declared may not be declared as a miracle would not be able to evoke in them and in us a feeling of the -- of the presence of the Holy right ? that's why I said here after having seen the tear you may be lead to pray . well and good . lighting a candle to pray for people you love but do ask for your prayers . as I've said many places are under persecution ethnic violence that we do not know but if you pray for them at least we'd be able to help them . I don't know . we'll face the issue as it is and as it will come right ? when it's gone it doesn't mean that our faith would be gone . no . our faith does not rely on the tears . <no-speech> right now the bishop of Leyte has appointed someone to lead the investigation they will conduct regarding the alleged crying of Mary Mediatrix . in the history of the Church there were many claims about the crying of the statue and then the experts with the Bishop form a team and team would investigate the incident and they -- they would find out later on that it was a fake . <no-speech> if they needed to conduct a thorough and more scientific investigation . he called a commission in order to -- to deal with this incident whether it is supernatural or or -- or not . <no-speech> although this has not happened yet the believers stands firm even now .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_81499018 Wednesday, August 14, 2013 relocation plan of the government, condemned by the squatters press release relocation plan of the government, condemned by the poor squatters suspend it yet until there is no guarantee in work, livelihood and social services "the housing project of the Aquino government in his Philippine Development Plan (2011-2016) is sculpted on the quote, "life is beautiful with a house and livelihood," believe it or not but the poor agree in their theme but it seems that the officials of the government involved in Oplan Likas are turning their backs," statement by Jhun Manlulu, President of Pinatag Neighborhood Association (PNA), an organization of residents beside San Juan river in Tatalon, City of Quezon. Manlulu, a former OFW who is travelling in his tricycle, reacted when he heard that the first group transferred to Muzon, San Jose City, Bulacan is obligated to endure the insufficient supply of water and electricity. "if summed up, the lack of water and electricity is the welcome to their miserable situation, because the lack of opportunity in work and livelihood where they are transferred. surely, agony is expected to all residents which the government wants to transfer to these relocation sites," warned by Manlulu. Manlulu added, "no debate, the riverside is a danger zone and no sane person is going to choose that place for his family but the government has no other plans aside from transferring us from a dangerous place to a more dangerous place, where in fact, this is killing our livelihood and family." the residents of Tatalon are believing that the government needs to suspend the eviction and relocation programs yet because it has not been giving work guarantee, livelihood and even the bases for public service and infrastructures are insufficient to say that the relocation sites are decent and humane. the residents also believe that they are only going to reconsider the relocation if the Department Department of Interior and Local Government, National Housing Authority and other agencies completed the basis of requisites for a decent and humane living. "a faltering failure is waiting the whole housing program of the government not because they rushed the implementation of Oplan Likas but because they have not given value to the most important part for us to live, the livelihood because we need to live.. even the governor of Bulacan issued a moratorium in the entry of poor families because he knows that the local government does not have the capacity to accept numerous people while nothing goes into the business to create livelihood and opportunity for livelihood. do not be shocked if there are reports that those who are relocated have been transferring to Manila to search for jobs there," Manlulu explained. Manlulu criticized the quick implementation of Oplan Likas in San Juan last week. "the scheme of Secretary Roxas, Soliman, Singson and other local officials in San Juan to look handsome is revealed to be a scheme to become ugly. all smiles in front of the cameras as if they have done something good but the only thing they have done is to force the residents to relocate to a more dangerous place to live. Manlulu is calling to his co-leaders for the poor in various organizations not to fear the statement of the government officials and join forces to strengthen their voices against the corrupt relocation program. supported by other organizations for the poor, Manlulu pleaded and other residents of Tatalon to join in the protest if the government will not suspend their program.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_39095529 quarrel on the WPS, drop in oil, fight against Zika virus there are three international issues that are troubling the Philippines I love right now. the struggle for the possession of West Philippine Sea territories, the possible derailment of many overseas Filipino workers on Arab countries and the spread of Zika virus. what are the things our government is doing to solve or just to alleviate these, and to make the interest of our nation prevail? quarrel on the WPS the quarrel on the WPS is being heated up by the closing in of American warships on the islands which are being claimed by both China and the Philippines. these past days, the guided-missile destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur came close and was sailing within a 12-mile radius of the Triton Island. according to the Americans, they are not seeing any Chinese ships in the vicinity but this is in contradiction with what China said that they made the ship go away. last October, the guided-missile destroyer USS Lassen closed in on the islands manufactured by China for their military forces and settlement for their men. China supposedly only warned the Americans before they complained. based on China's tone, they owned the said islands and no one should come close or enter even on the seas of the islands without asking their permission. until where? where will this quarrel end up? will there be a bloody war? in case all arguments lead to the firing of military arms, what are the preparations of the Aquino government in this situation? will it remain dazed and depend on the result on their case in the International Arbitration Tribunal in the the Hagues, Netherlands and not challenge China's fencing of the islands. will it send military arms and troops against China's intrusion? remember that even the islands stationed by men from the Philippines are being claimed by China. Saudization one of the causes of the derailment of overseas Filipino workers in the Middle East is the Saudization program that hastens the economic fall of the said Arab country. according to Saudi Arabia, they are able to replace the foreign laborers, including the estimated two million OFWs, with their own citizens, and the only remaining jobs are those that can't be done by Saudi nationals. the economy of Saudi Arabia is declining because of the recession in the oil industry, which is its main source of income. equivalency certificate professional workers like engineers and architects OFWs in Qatar are now having problems. there is nothing else but the treatment of engineers and architects who only finished "two years" in college education. so, the mentioned professional OFWs reaching 12,000 - 23,000 may be disqualified. although it is not mentioned by Qatar, is it possible that their questioning of the educational attainment of the OFWs is also connected to the economic fall of the said country? and the expulsion of the professional OFWs is one way to lessen their burdens and the money they are shelling out for foreigners? what are the different solutions being thought up by the government for the possible derailment of the lives of thousands, if not millions, of OFWs in Qatar an Saudi Arabia alone? what happens if other Arabs appear in the country who will regulate further against the OFWs? style against dengue assuming that we can't stop the Zika virus from entering our country, what are the things that we can possibly do? is guarding the airports and harbors against possible carriers enough against a disease with no vaccine or medication which may cause the destruction of the body and the head, and death of the victim? or the dissemination of information that whatever cleaning we are doing to our surroundings against dengue will be enough to fight the Zika virus? in the news, there is already one OFW infected by the Zika virus. how about the other people who may possibly come home to the Philippines carrying the Zika virus? how about the rush of foreign tourists who are possible carriers of the said virus which are anticipated to reach millions in numbers and reach thousands in numbers day and night in our airports and harbors? remember that foreign tourists visit the Philippines not only for the beautiful sceneries but also for our prostituting countrymen. the foreigners are taking advantage of the country's poverty which pushes a lot of men and women to enter prostitution. are they resorting to illegal activities? oOo any complaints or suggestions may be sent to www.remate.ph or through text message to 09214303333. ultimatum/Benny Antiporda
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_80980286 "Independence Jobs Fair" in Koronadal City, already set June 06, 2016 City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, June 6 (PIA) - all is set for the "Independence Jobs Fair" to be conducted here in the city on June 10. according to the Department of Labor and Employment 12 Director Albert Gutib, the activity is part of the celebration of the 118th Independence Day of the Philippines on June 12. this will be held in KCC Mall of Marbel from 8 o'clock in the morning until 5 o'clock in the afternoon. according to Gutib, various local and overseas recruitment agencies will join in the jobs fair. the officials are reminding the applicants to prepare the documents that will prove their abilities such as transcript of records, certificate of training, employment certificate and others before going to the job fair. it will also help to bring several copies of documents because there are many companies that can be applied for. the interested applicants can also pre-register in Koronadal City Public Employment Service Office or PESO to have their qualifications matched to the jobs which are offered by the various companies joining the jobs fair. the Independence Jobs Fair is one of the three biggest jobs fair that is organized by DOLE every year, included are the May 1 Labor Day Jobs Fair and DOLE anniversary jobs fair held every December. the 118th celebration of the Independence Day is centered on the theme "Independence 2016: Unity, Contribution, Advancement." (ORVRivera-PIA12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_98876308 who would think that in this cold place in Baguio ice cream is also popular . but not just simple ice cream because it is accompanied by nachos partnered with favorite souvenirs from Baguio like strawberry peanut brittle and with bonus blueberries . look I already posted it in Instagram . insta-hit . it is an ice cream sundae that is called dessert nachos because they have gimmicks like this . because usually right for nachos the first thing that pops it's chili salsa . so for a twist let's make it something sweet . which is why we thought why not with vanilla ice cream and the fruits available here in Baguio . yes . it has caramel sauce right ? yeah with caramel . how tasty . the nachos it's deep fried . was able to meet . thank you . the strawberry and blueberry is rightly mixed . and then the two sauces I don't -- I thought it was caramel only but it also has blueberry sauce in it . what do you use for your chips ? the chips is homemade . yummy . yummy . the chips and the extra text -- texture that's what makes it good . the one that has texture . every time we go to Baguio we probably don't think of looking for ice cream . but I promise that this sundae I've tasted is one of the best .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37776823 <no-speech> Liberal Party standard-bearer Mar Roxas will continue the changes initiated by the Aquino administration . but there are still many things to do to uplift the lives of our fellowmen who are poor . the whole interview can be watched later tonight on G_M_A seven as part of the series wanted president . news brought by Mel Tiangco . <no-speech> <no-speech> in his job interview in Wanted President of G_M_A News and Public Affairs Roxas will continue the things P_Noy started . first of all job . second is hope future . we will ensure the next generation will be able to start in a more organized more beautiful level instead of what we have arrived at present . and third all those support services . and for these to be achieved . let us lower the electric charges . we will flourish the agriculture center through investments . I will broaden this Four Ps Program of ours right support for each family right ? in healthcare . though there are successes already reached in traversing the Right Path there are still challenges that need to be overcame . why are there still many left in dire poverty ? you know in the lowest -- lowest rank of society . with the gravity of the problem we can never finish all of that . now we have reached far and we can even reach farther we still have many things to do . the controversy caused by the encounter in Mamasapano . the President mandated to coordinate . <no-speech> no coordination happened so in your question if I the President I will also mandate that . Roxas was also stormed with criticism when the super typhoon Yolanda lashed out . the response was slow and -- of help by the government . that even came from ah at United -- at Rapporteur for the Human Rights right ? but the Rapporteur also said that the government response was outstanding relative to the size of the problem . even before Yolanda arrived I was already there to help in the preparation . back when Yolanda came I was there I did not leave . but despite the issues he said he can be proud of the more than twenty-two years of service in the government . we reached this because our system is we are solving the problem and not only putting on a face or photo opportunity only . you are pictured what is that you is you at the marketplace carrying sack of rice and many more . which begs to question are those sincere ? if sometimes we are there at the market the photographer tells you sir can you do this or how about this can you do it ? but I can do it . maybe -- it was only misinterpreted by the people . there was nothing -- I was not pretending to be a porter of -- of sacks of rice right . (()) already clear where my beginnings are . <no-speech> Mel Tiangco %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65166299 miss Rose Marie's goods were wiped out in Balintawak market so she could not stop to raise a brow to those members of the N_M_I_S who had confiscated her frozen meat goods . we bought freezer . we were told to buy freezer we bought . but still like that they are still going to do that to us . handling -- your handling the tray where the goods are put has a water . this is from the melted ice because the sold meat is frozen . this is what is dangerous to the health of the public . this should be in the freezer . then in -- will be packed there in the cellophane that is food grade . then it could maintain the ten degrees centigrade . more than ten meat inspectors have surveyed Balintawak market and meticulously confiscated the meat which is being sold in the wrong way . they'll do this again and again until the vendors learn a lesson . more than three hundred fifty kilos of meat were confiscated and will be brought to the rendering section of the office .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87331823 militarization in Quezon and the struggle of the Mercy Mission by Pher Pasion July 4, 2012 the citizens of Southern Tagalog assertively objected to the militarization in their place. (Pher Pasion) March of this year when the intensified militarization in Southern Quezon began. this is the first time when this huge number of military troops was deployed in the said place, more than Martial Law, according to Save Bondoc Peninsula Movement (SBPM). around 4,000 soldiers from the eight battalion are scattered now in the province of Quezon where they are concentrated in the two districts of Southern Quezon which has a scope of 22 municipalities. this has pushed different organization, party-list, and other individuals to join the eight-day Mercy Mission and Peace Caravan in the province as an answer to the worsening cases of violations of human rights brought by militarization. the goal of the said mission is to give services such as medical, dental, relief operations, fact-finding, cultural and psycho-social therapy and ecumenical services to the estimated 1,500 residents in Southern Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula. warm welcome a warm welcome through a public forum of the delegates of the Mercy Mission in the University of the Philippines in Diliman. (Pher Pasion) after their eight-day mission, the Mercy Mission revealed what they had experienced in a public forum in the University of the Philippines before they went to Times Street in the house of President Benigno Aquino III. after this, they also protested in front of the Department of National Defense (DND) to condemn and expose the Oplan Bayanihan. according to the Mercy Mission, they have recorded up to 128 cases of violations of human rights, including 16 killings and three forced abduction. this has not included those who do not want to be recorded due to a fear that the military might get back to them. "by just going there, we are already met black propaganda and they hooked this mission as part of the New People's Army (NPA). told by the citizens who witnessed, the military had linked this, distributed flyers which are destructive to us. and the soldiers blocked us three times. had put nails on the road to pierce through our vehicles," according to Orly Marcellana, spokesperson of SBPM. some which are recorded by Karapatan are cases similar to Mylene Santua, a mass leader who is forcibly abducted by the military. even in going home, Mylene was trailed off, where her children experienced threats. similar to what happened to Dominic and Mark (whose identity is hidden for security) who are kidnapped by suspected soldiers after they attended a wedding. those who abducted them have introduced themselves as NPA and was looking for "Ka Jun" from them and asking where the M16 was hidden. when they could not press them because they were innocent, the two were released and asked to whom they would take side: NPA or soldiers. they answered that they would take the side of the soldiers because of fear. last March 30, the Philippine National Police (PNP) summoned about 14 people through the barangay. most of them did not go because of fear. others are visited to their houses and searched them out, have been looking for a criminal. "the farmers are afraid because they could not stay in the farm until dark or go earlier because of a fear that they will be suspected as NPA. these are summoned to go to the camp and if they would not, they would be put in the Order of Battle. if you do not want to become a CAFGU (Civilian Auxiliary Geographical Unit), automatically an NPA for them, stated by Marcellana. while the Mercy Mission itself is trailed off by the military, taken with photos and videos especially the mass leaders, according to the SBPM. "the soldiers threatened the citizens that if they would go to us (Mercy Mission), chaos will happen. they are preparing to sabotage us," Marcella added. according to Marcellana, the military even took their equipment to be used for the medical and relief operations, and the military suddenly had their own medical and relief operations. kid, kid, the one who will be caught, a pawn the Children's Rehabilitation Center (CRC) conducted a psychological therapy to children who experienced militarization in Barangay Talisay in the municipality of San Andre and San Francisco, Quezon. about 200 children aged five to 16 years old from elementary to high school have undergone counselling. most of them are victims of forced evacuation because of militarization. "the children are acquiring fear if the soldiers are mentioned. shown in their outputs such as in drawings are their worry and fear of the military. some of them have experienced direct violence where their houses are entered by the military and have been asked if their parents are NPA and if there are guns hidden," according to Jacqueline Ruiz, executive director of CRC. Ruiz added, the utilization of schools are causing trauma to the children where the soldiers go while carrying their guns. some of the children are commanded by the soldiers to buy cigarettes, liquor, and to fetch water for the soldiers to take a bath for P5.00. "the children are afraid in going to school due to this. children fear that similar to their playmates', their parents will be gone, might be abducted or killed. even the soldiers are still far, already afraid and hiding," Ruiz added. where the Mercy Mission itself was held, there are military who are surveying to observe the groups conducting the said mission and even took photos. "the military does not look at anyone even a kid. five children have died under Aquino, an evidence that the violation of human rights especially for children continues," Ruiz asserted. mask of the Oplan Bayanihan according to Marcellana, the deployment of military to Quezon is a protection of the interest of the local and foreign ruling class. "the huge hacienda are here in Quezon such as those owned by Danding Cojuangco, Victor-Reyes and James Murray who is a foreigner. their hacienda and ranches are close to each other," Marcellana stated. Marcellana explained, a loss of farmlands for the farmers brought by the outright claim of landlords and foreigners, so, the people's struggle continues for the genuine agrarian reform. the intensified fight of the people is one of the bright reasons in having battalions of military in the place. Marcellana added, the goal also of the military is to protect the interest of the mining companies which is surely be objected by the citizens affected by the destructive way of mining. "what we need is not the military, but a genuine agrarian reform and public service," Marcellana asserted. a successful mission despite the violent welcome of the military to the Mercy Mission, this is still a success, according to SBPM. "despite their threats and black propaganda against us, the citizens of Quezon will not be stopped from going to the Mercy Mission. a lot of countrymen are still served in medical and dental as well as children who have undergone counselling," according to SBPM. according to the group, this is only the beginning in helping those who are destructed by militarization and revelation of the real face of Oplan Bayanihan of Aquino which is also targeting the civilian against the NPA. the group still fears the continuing violence in the stay of the military in the place.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31755121 confrontation: Presidential Clarification Office by Ellen Tordesillas December 21, 2016 the Presidential Communications Office (PCO) of the Presidential Clarification Office should be replaced because of what they are doing now is to explain the disrupting words of President Rodrigo Duterte. usually, their explanation is the opposite of what the President said. seems that "clarification" is not fitting because usually, the conversation becomes more muddled with the explanation that they have done. could be a Presidential Obfuscation Office. I am pitying Press Secretary Martin Andanar. he is actually good. when he was interviewed by Rico Hizon of BBC about what the President said that he himself ordered the murder of those caught in illegal drugs, he almost said not to believe the President, he does not know what he is talking about. similar to what he said that he will disregard the decision of the Permanent Court of Arbitration favoring the Philippines against China in the disputed part of the South China Sea including the Spratlys and Scarborough Shoal. Duterte is actually licking the ass of China now. opposite to what his predecessor President Benigno Aquino III had done who quarreled China and became America's obedient follower. China snubbed the case filed by the Aquino government against the map of China which covers the whole South China Sea and includes there the territory of the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan. last Monday, Andanar said that the President has said several times that he will not go out of the four corners of the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal and one of these is the illegal nine-dash line map of China. one thing that Duterte also said that his spokesmen have been reversing is about the excision of relationship from the United Sates. because he was criticized by President Barack Obama and other officials, he has cursed them and said that he is going to cut the relationship with America. he will cut the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) and send home the American soldiers who are in the Philippines. but there is no official order. just for words only. last weekend, the U. S Embassy in Manila said that their government decided to postpone the release of aide to lessen the poverty in the Philippines because of the violations on human rights of Duterte in his campaign against illegal drugs. of course, Duterte went amok and we said we are going to send home the American soldiers here in the Philippines and they should befriend China and Russia instead. Presidential Communication Assistant Secretary Marie Banaag also said that this is only a warning of the President. he does not actually have an order to cut the VFA. for us to just wait for his next step or words. of course. perhaps, tomorrow, it will be different.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_73891141 <no-speech> lead by mayor Edgardo Pamintuan and the Angeles city office for persons with disability is the opening of the twenty fifteen national disability week at Angeles city . the theme of the celebration is centered this year in strengthening the capabilities of our fellow countrymen who has special conditions through good health and body . as an opening to this week long celebration showcasing their talent are some selected students of Angeles city special education center . some offered a song interpretation number . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> these kids coming from Francisco G Nepomuceno memorial high school danced to the famous and very hit dance craze the Nae Nae dance . <no-speech> who would have thought that behind the skills and agility of these kids is their disabilities . that is because behind every dance of these students are the SPED teachers who were standing beside them . just like teacher Canon Bulanadi . for me even if they are not hearing the music as long as they know that they can feel the beat of the music they will be able to dance and dance . meanwhile teacher Lanie Cadavid of Francisco G Nepomuceno memorial high school is named last twenty fourteen as regional most outstanding special education teacher . this is because of the support he is giving to special education student . they now have plenty of livelihood program at school they are basket weaving they do nail care . then they also do water bonsai . depends on the skill known by the kid . if if there is whatever disability they have it would be no problem what's important is having diligence and perseverance only those . according to mayor Pamintuan there is now complete acceptance to persons with disability . in fact a number of employees at Angeles City Hall right now belong to this sector . this is because it was endorsed by the administration of Mayor Edpam is the equal treatment and providing opportunities to our fellow countrymen with disabilities . . like every else they are normal . these are the new normal (()) . they have (()) some of the previous activities of the city are the forum about autism and A_D_H_D held at the city hall . aside from these conducted at Barangay Cutcut was a P_W_D medical mission and a sports festival in partnership with Central Luzon federation of persons with disability . for the (()) .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58459532 Hebrews series 29: Abraham, amazing faith by Zayith Hebron November 8, 2016 "by faith Abraham, when called, obeyed to go to the place he will receive as an inheritance; and he went without knowing where he will go." by faith he migrated to the promise land like every other lands, and settled in tents with Isaac and Jacob, both heirs of the same promise. "for he relies on the city with foundations, which was planned and built by God." (Hebrews 11:8-10) Abraham is brave, courageous. he did not doubt the promises of his God. and sometimes he displays weakness and fear, his faith that God is faithful and will not neglect him remained. how can he doubt God? is it not that his wife got pregnant at the age of 99? normally, Sarah should no longer be able to give birth because of very old age. but they were chosen by God to give birth to the people of Israel, and by his son Isaac the promises will be fulfilled. "I will make you a great nation, I will bless you, I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and curse those who curse you; and with you all the families of the earth will be blessed." (Genesis 12: 2-3) from the descendants of Abraham, to the people of Israel, the Messiah who died on the cross for the salvation of all mankind. that Messiah is the Lord Jesus; son of God in the flesh, born of Mary, born in a manger in Bethlehem and grew up in the town of Nazareth. Abraham had no idea that his role will be great in the plan of salvation that God has laid for the whole world? with the exceeding love of God-Adonai for man, he did not allow the descendants of Adam and Eve to remain submerged in sin. to stay in that state would mean to stay in under the curse of eternal death; eternal death in hell; eternal separation from the true God. God needed to send a Savior; Jesus was the one who played that role. and all those things are in the heart and mind of the Creator when he ordered Abraham to "leave... your land, your relatives, the house of your father, and go to the land that I will show you." (Genesis 12:1) how about you, friend, what do you think? will you obey God if you were in Abraham's position? packing your things to travel to a place you don't know? naturally thinking, that is difficult, right? there is more amazing in the faith of Abraham. when God commanded him to kill his beloved son Isaac and offer him in Moriah mountain. child sacrifice or human sacrifice were being done by the people of Canaan. there is still no declaration of the commandments of God through Moses so Abraham probably thought that God really wanted him to kill his son. but how about the promise? God said that through Isaac his descendants will multiply. this is the reason that the writer of Hebrews speaks of regarding what is running in the mind of Abraham at those times: "he believed that from the dead God can bring back a man to life..." (Hebrews 11:19) Amazing faith. the reward: God sent an angel to stop Abraham from making the offering. Abraham died without seeing the completion of the promises of the Lord to him. this is because he only considered himself as a foreigner and wanderer in the surface of the earth. his true home is in the presence of God. friend, this is an eye-opener for us; one important reminder. if the writer of Hebrews gave Abraham, Abel, Enoch at Noah as strong in the faith they should precede, God has the same message for us. Abraham did not rely in his material possessions, in his country, in his own family. he relied only in God and he succeeded in his journey in this world. let's check ourselves: is that the kind of faith we are thirsty to have? how much do we love the Lord Jesus? does it mean our everything? hard questions; only the Holy Spirit can move our lives to give us the faith pure in the sight of God. draw near to Jesus to be saved, and to know the true God. Shalom and God bless!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_68994301 Filipino hero in foreign land Filipino - guardian of peace in other country! when I went to Chicago once, I met a Filipino police there, Detective Edwin Dantes. Edwin's family is raised in Cabanatuan City. his mother is a nurse and his father is a police in their town. when a hospital in Chicago petitioned his mother to work there, their father followed. in the year 1969, at the age of seven, Edwin reached and started living in Chicago with his two siblings. they are petitioned by their parents. he studied on the said country and grew up there. and even though at first, he had a difficulty in adjusting with the language there, not long after he became used to it. Edwin did not have a plan to become a police, but somehow, it is already been in his blood because when he was in college, he already thought of entering the military as member of the security police in air force. "in the beginning, I was in the air force, I was at the Clark airbase for four years," he narrated. he chose to be assigned at Clark Airbase Pampanga because he wanted to go home to the country. after his assignment at Clark, he went back to U.S. there, he thought of becoming a police. in the past, he was assigned in suburbs as a patrolman, but he was transferred to Chicago. from Edwin's story, I realized that the experiences of a police are not a joke, because aside from studying and entering the academy, various physical exams and training need to be passed. "when I went out of the academy, there is an FTO (Field Training Officer). within three months, you should be accompanied by an FTO before a one-year probation," he said. he has entered different departments, included here are the street crime and fake program unit and tactical team, with a goal to remove the gangs, drug and guns on the streets to lessen violence. from being a patrolman conducting preliminary investigation in a case, he became an FTO and shared his knowledge and became a guide to new policemen. not long after, Edwin's hard work bore fruit because from being an FTO, he was promoted and became a detective. Edwin needed to undergo training and studies again from detective school to gain more knowledge on the job that he would be handling, and because of perseverance and hard work, he surpassed those challenges. the work of a detective like Edwin is not easy, because, aside from the possibility that the criminals he has arrested will go back to him, a heavy duty is also put on his shoulders - to serve the nation and make sure the citizens are safe - but if there is a heart and compassion felt for the service of the people, whether on his own country or not, no matter how heavy the duty might be, it will become lighter.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51344745 an award for nutrition will be held in Quezon. June 17, 2016, Ruel Orinday Lucena City, June 17 (PIA) - an award ceremony for nutrition is scheduled to be held at the Quezon Convention Center in July as part of the celebration of Nutrition Month in the province of Quezon. Provincial Agriculturist Provincial Nutrition Office Roberto Gajo said at the recent meeting that prior to the awarding ceremony there will be an assessment of the projects of the municipal nutrition action officer, barangay nutrition action officer and municipal nutrition council in their respective areas to implement the nutrition programs by the provincial government through the provincial multi-sectoral council. Gajo also said that the winning municipal action offer will receive the prize of 20,000 pesos while the winning barangay nutrition council will receive 40,000 pesos and 100,000 pesos to the winning municipal nutrition council which will be given at the awarding ceremony. the goal of the activity is to strengthen the nutrition program in the towns of Quezon province and to lower or solve the malnutrition problem in several towns through the implementation of various programs such as weighing-operation, feeding program and others. the theme of the Nutrition Month this year is "give value for the 1st 1000 days of the baby for a healthy future." other activities lined up by the provincial government of Quezon includes the launching of the national nutrition month in Lucena on July 1, hosting of the flag-raising ceremony of the provincial multi-sectoral nutrition council on July 11, mothers' class in Quezon Medical Center in Lucena City on July 15, celebration of the 2nd barangay nutrition scholar provincial convention at the Quezon Convention Center, Lucena City on July 25 and the awarding ceremony on nutrition. the promotion of the nutrition program is one of the programs advocated by the provincial government headed by Governor David Suarez. (MCA/RO, PIA-Quezon)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_71308597 Ombudsman: Makati most transparent city December 13, 2014 written by Attorney Jay De Castro published in Opinion Read: 1170 this Thursday, the Office of the Ombudsman identified the administration of Mayor Junjun Binay for its success to eradicate or minimize "red tape" in setting up a business in Makati, that gave its investors an easy and fast registration of new businesses or renewal of business permits to the city. the Ombudsman gave a Blue Certification or the highest grade to Makati, as recognition for a fast, systematic and no bribery in giving out business registrations and permits to those who are venturing into business in the city, considered as the primary financial business district in the country. the award was given by PACPO (Public Assistance and Corruption Prevention Office) of Ombudsman that studies and seeks for a solution to anomalies, corruption, and wrong system regarding setting up businesses, so it can be eradicated and have a decent and successful business venture in the country. in the three cities compared by Ombudsman (Taguig, Marikina, and Makati), the city that was formerly governed by Vice-President Jejomar Binay, was chosen as the most efficient in issuing relevant licenses to new businesses in the richest city in Metro Manila. the bases by the Ombudsman in choosing Makati are information technology, level of customer convenience or satisfaction and its system that guarantees approval of license, wherein investors do not need to bribe fixers. Assistant Ombudsman Evelyn Baliton gave the Blue Certification Award to Mayor Junjun Binay in its office in Makati, where the mayor said that doing business in Makati is transparent and he is happy on the recognition by the Ombudsman itself about its systematic and no corruption involved in putting up a business in their city. the systematic business creation in the city of Makati that brings it progress is also the fruit of the diligence and honest work of its administrator, Attorney Jun Mendoza, who serves tirelessly, together with Mayor Junjun, for the welfare and goodness of the people in their city. - in relation to this, the said award that was given by the Ombudsman to the city, can be regarded as a positive news for the people of Makati, because as everyone knows Vice President Jojo Binay was criticized unabatedly by three senators, Alan Peter Cayetano, Antonio Trillanes and Koko Pimentel in the past months about the alleged anomalous contracts and business ventures in Makati. it is not unknown from our fellow countrymen that ever since, every time the 2016 presidential elections is discussed, VP Binay is the only one leading the presidential surveys. because of this, two of the senators of the Nacionalista Party, Cayetano and Trillanes, who signified their intention to run for president and vice president in 2016 did not waste time to let their name be known by ruining the name of VP Jejomar Binay. based on the results of the previous surveys, it can be said that the three senators were successful in their ruination of VP Binay, because there was a reduction or decrease in the rating of the Vice President. on the other hand, their vilification also proved something. their rating did not increase or improve in the previous surveys of SWS and Pulse Asia, in fact both of them who leads the defamation of VP Binay, got the lowest positions as candidates for president and vice-president in 2016. VP Jejomar Binay still remained ahead in the latest survey for president candidates in 2016. the presidential election in May 2016 is still more than a year and a half away. when it comes, our people would tire of hearing about the accusations against VP Binay, because they know that these accusations are from the mouths of the candidates in 2016 and therefore, it is clearly just politicizing. when that time comes, what will be talked about are the statistics like the award given by Ombudsman, which proves that no corruption is involved to have a business in Makati and because of this it is the richest city in the whole Philippines.
query1884 provincial council formal syn official
query1330 cat leftover food
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_23037759 our guest for today . together with us today friends the deputy administrator of the Philippine Coconut Authority Mister Roel Rosales . good morning sir . good morning to everyone who listeners and also viewers of this program this truly widespread program . (()) thank you deputy administrator Roel and you have visited our RadyoBisyon for you to make it as a vehicle to send your invitation particularly the Philippine Coconut Authority to our returning O_F_Ws who are thinking where they can venture their savings . Christmas time more O_F_Ws are going home in various parts of the world and to feel again the love and lifestyle here in the Philippines . this is also a chance for us to invite all the our heroes who are in other countries who are working while they are there we can actually allot some of our money and we can think of businesses that we can enter here in the Philippines . though you are there you can trust a relative friend to help you to invest in agriculture particular in coconut industry . that is okay we already know this deputy administrator that this coconut industry now the programs are intense -- you are giving the emphasis now right ? especially this planting of one million coconut trees plus the inter-cropping everything is all there . so they can coordinate with the P_C_A anytime in your department if they have interests in this venture . yes our O_F_Ws are very welcome to coordinate with the staff of the Philippine Coconut Authority . we have twelve regional offices we have employees in the municipalities and we are encouraging everyone to go back to the farms particularly in coconut plantations . there are many things that we can do that though you are in abroad we can continue it here to prosper and become the source of income of your loved ones here in the Philippines . and similarly when you come back you already have an expected work to do here in the Philippines a business can also be for retirement your activity O_F_W work . there deputy administrator what are the various types of business which has something to do with the coconuts which is more promising this time ? well if it is up to me let us start first with the simplest . you have an empty lot here in the Philippines a coconut plantation or else still without any plant why not have it planted or change the crop those which are slightly older so we can make restore our coconut plantation again . be given new enthusiasm . the Philippine Coconut Authority is distributing though of course that is only limited free crops for those who want again to enter in agriculture particularly the coconut industry . <no-speech> and in coconuts what we are doing here in the planting we are giving incentive to those who want to plant . all right if you want to plant we are actually going to pay you or wow in two phases . (()) . that that you will get from your own farm . our field men are going to help you . will determine that this is a good crop and we are going to make it alive . we will grow it . if we have seen that it is already a good seedling we are going to pay you eighteen pesos . per ? per seedling . wow in one hectare our requirement is one hundred . so that means you have one thousand eight hundred somehow . uh huh . that will be your crop then you will have a small profit from your labor . uh huh according . okay Vivs that -- that one hectare you got there so have it put with what yes have a coordination now . then after that our seedlings have grown we are going to plant it in the land . uh huh . and make sure it has stabilized in the ground umm the P_C_A are going to inspect if we have seen that again the -- is good the after it has grown after six months we are going to pay you two thousand aah but two one -- twenty pesos for each crop for each (()) so two thousand two hundred it means in one year you can have an additional income of four thousand per hectare . you have already planted you also have something to expect -- incentive for the future for the coconuts to bear fruits which goes to you to your loved ones here in the Philippines . uh huh that is our coconut planting program umm okay so if interested just go to the Philippine Coconut Authority at the Philippine Coconut Authority . to ask for an assistance from your officer yes of course we are going to evaluate your farm if this is suited for planting coconuts . umm . and if you have coconuts planted already standing we are also allotting fertilization . okay . and we are using salt here . if you have noticed that near the seashore very prolific umm the growth of our coconuts because saltwater yes so this salt is the most practical and cheapest fertilizer to a plant and this is suitable for coconuts . so two kilograms each tree tree so four sacks per hectare . is this part of Bulacan in Vivienne's though coconut is still slightly scarce ? coconut is still scarce but many are desiring and going to our office who also want to plant coconuts . Vivs ? sir any kind of soil could be planted with coconut or is there a specific kind ? the suitability of coconut is somewhat large umm though somewhat sandy . usually no other kind grows in a sandy place yes coconut can be . %%umm and the area that needs minimum area if for example the Philippine Coconut Authority will be asked for help what should be the area that you need to present so coconuts can be planted ? ah even only a half hectare will do . um . we also give some for those who only want residence at the back of the house . those at tab -- for coconut milk noodles umm noodles yes for coconut juice we allow that . Vivs your -- your -- your one hectare half of that is a swimming half of that you put coconuts yes it seems like you are in a resort aah yes so there is a resort that we can umm take a stroll with the Radio Vision family umm . huh ? for coconuts even Nueva Ecija is a plantation of umm rice . there are many who plant also grow coconut . Rizal . uh huh . we expanded to Rizal province yes um . sir I will just ask for an update on this coconut scale insect . is this still existing or we have already -- did remove those coconut scale insects ? well it is a good news here at Southern Tagalog where it is really -- umm a widespread problem before uh huh on coco scale . well practically the whole of Calabarzon today the infestation is already contained there is no danger anymore although we are continuing with the monitoring umm on this damaging insect . what is somehow problematic is only here in Basilan . umm . because they went through a long dry season we somehow had a problem like this . now what Vivien has been mentioning a while ago what are the by-products that can be started so it could be a source of extra income of our coconut farmers ? yes for those who really want to invest allot small amount we are talking about somewhat big here . uh huh . oh there are coconut investment is line which can be ventured in but this is the coconut sugar . umm this coconut sugar sugar made from coconut is said to be a sugar for diabetic . uh huh umm because of its lower glycemic index though you eat a lot of this your blood sugar will not rise though expensive so this has really a demand from abroad . already expensive and somewhat costly . so a good area for our investment because there are only few who are really investing here and that makes it good especially for those farms which are somehow low . umm because you need to climb the tree many times to get the its S_U_C made as coconut wine . umm . so we are going to make this a coconut sugar . the technology is very simple . and the requirement is very simple but the investment is large aah investment return . umm . will you assist there in the technology that will be used to produce this kind of coconut sugar ? the P_C_A is helping in the technical and even in the marketing aspect . umm we are going to search a consolidator for you if we cannot directly export uh huh . to help you look for a good price . because the real problem we are going to have there deputy administrator Rosales is there might be a lot who are going to venture for -- the immediate question is there a market yes umm we might not have a market . how about those we have invested ? uh huh . <no-speech> the prospect for the market looks good and we already have many consolidator . that are ready to help to improve the return of investment because our U_S merchandise are good . there also in Japan . umm where is the coconut industry in the dollar earners of our country ? among the top five major export earning product is the coconut and particularly coconut oil . in fact we're still number in the world wow umm . good news okay your final message sir for the public yes a Christmas message for our coconut farmers okay . Christmas day is just two days from now . the reason that I called all of you let's continue to push entrepreneur ship here in the farm and let us look also to our prospects in Philippine agriculture . let us help the coconut industry let's again (()) return to its former glory by funding coconuts . let me ask this one before we end good A_M I just want to ask mister Rosales how about us here in Mindanao Zamboanga del Sur ? <no-speech> our land is really red . red pale and it takes long for the coconut to grow . what can P_C_A do about this ? from our listener in Tagbilaran Bohol . aah yes in Bohol . our land there looks like limestone . please coordinate with our men here in Tagbilaran we have an office there okay . Jun Lago is our regional manager there go there in the office and we have men there that could go to your place and help you . let's do a soil analysis first . okay and recommend what are still needed %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_40460685 80th birthday of Doctor Bienvenido Lumbera, teacher and artist of the people, celebrated by Rommel Rodriguez April 13, 2012 Doctor Bienvenido Lumbera, National Artist for Literature a renowned writer and scholar of culture and literature, Bienvenido Lumbera was born on April 11, 1932 in Lipa, Batangas. he studied in the University of Santo Tomas in 1950 and in Indiana University in 1967. he also became a professor in Osaka University and University of Hawii at Manoa, as well as in different universities in the country. Bien's contribution in the field of art and literature cannot be discounted. he has published landmark anthologies, written different plays like Tales of the Manuvu, Nasa Puso Ang Amerika and Hibik at Himagsik nina Victoria Laktaw. he was awarded as a National Artist and earned recognition from the Ramon Magsaysay Awards for Journalism. despite a life of art, Bien did not forget the value and connection to society and the country of his being a scholar, teacher, and artist. his contribution is recognized in the areas of establishing organizations supporting national democracy. aside from being a professor emeritus in UP Diliman, he is also chairman emeritus of the Concerned Artists of the Philippines and Congress of Teachers/Educators for Nationalism and Democracy. he became the spearhead of the establishment of the Alliance of Concerned Teachers, Philippines that cares for the welfare of teachers in the Philippines. Bien has also been a part of national protests many times. he continues to join the movement for fair wages and labor rights. he included in his writing the lives and revolt of farmers. his experiences during martial law became a vehicle for his poems and songs. in all of this, Bien is a distinguished proof that art should serve the oppressed class and the abused, while it is an effective way of encouraging the people to unite for a national independence. --------- muy bien: teacher and artist of the people "if at present we have eyes covered with tears tomorrow, upon waking up search for joy; break free from the chain of our destiny, if we will take action, we will be free!" -Bien Lumbera celebrate the life of the people's teacher, perform the art of patriotic artists. for the 80th birthday of the National Artist Bienvenido Lumbera, to be offered is Muy Bien: Teacher and Artist of the People. join the recognition and thanks for Bien on April 15, 2012 3:00 p.m. AS Steps, University of the Philippines, Diliman. featured are his works together with the Philippine Philharmonic Orchestra, Kontra-Gapi, Tanghalang Pilipino, Artists Incorporated, Dulaang UP, Los Indios Bravos, Tudla Productions, patriotic musicians, stage artists, poets, playwrights, visual artist, filmmakers, and rap artists. in cooperation with the Office of the President of UP Diliman, UP College of Arts and Letters, UP College of Social Science and Philosophy, CONTEND-UP, CENPEG, UP Asterisk, Concerned Artists of the Philippines and Cultural Center of the Philippines. for additional information, you contact phone number 09088841170. look for Walkie Miraña.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_81584396 reinvestigation of SAF 44, do not use for campaign posted by: Almar Danguilan on January 7, 2016 in opinion exactly one year on January 25, 2016 since Mamasapano massacre - 44 brave members of PNP Special Action Force (SAF) were slaughtered like animals in the said incident. it is already the anniversary of the tragedy but where is the justice promised by our president Noynoy to the family left behind of those who were killed. where is PNoy's promise? were there any jailed among the rebels? none! and instead, until now, PNoy still wants or gives more importance on insisting his BBL which is in favor of the rebels at Mindanao. well, our fellow countrymen are used to promises of the Aquino government without anything happening or if there is any... where? who are those who benefited? are those the Filipinos or PNoy and PNoy's lackeys? on January 25, the first anniversary of SAF 44, most likely there will be an event prepared by the SAF for their fellow comrades as memorial of their heroism when they were killed. will the president even attend the occasion? highly unlikely especially since nothing has happened in the case for our pitiful police. aside from the huge possibility that the Palace will ignore this because back then, when the corpses of the 44 came to the airport, PNoy did not care, correction, but had a prior and more important appointment then - to attend the occasion of Mitsubishi. so that was why, it is not because the president does not care. you have to understand our president, besides his days are numbered in Malacañang. when will our heroes achieve justice? well, even general Antonio Luna did not receive, until now, the justice for his murder - by traitors, what more for the SAF 44. isn't it right, dear president? so fellow countrymen, the promise was made to the families of SAF 44, do you want it fulfilled too? presently, the issue of SAF 44 is once again hot, not only because nothing is happening in their case but because some legislators want to open the case again or the investigation about it. more information are said to be known by some legislators about the incident. there is nothing bad in opening again the investigation on SAF 44 to once and for all discover what additional information about the event or the baiting of our police. but, hopefully there would be no streak of politics in the plan. no signs of self interest. we all know that the election fever is on for the 2016 national and local elections. hope that SAF 44 will not be used especially by candidates against the administration. we might remember, when the issue of SAF 44 was hot, the popularity rating of PNoy dropped and of course, this affected his candidate Mar Roxas especially since he had nothing to do with the operation back then. which is why, if ever the investigation on SAF 44 will be opened again, the ones who would benefit are those killed and the loved ones they left behind, and not our shameless candidates or politicians.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_67084722 cloud seeding in N. Cotabato already started February 18, 2016 City of Kidapawan, North Cotabato, February 18 (PIA) - the provincial government already started the implementation of cloud seeding in the whole province yesterday. the Cloud Seeding Operation Kick-off Ceremony which was held in Central Mindanao Airport in Barangay Tawan-Tawan, M'lang was led by the Office of the Provincial Agriculturist (OPAg) and the Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Division of the Provincial Governor's Office (DRRMD). included also in those who joined in the activity is the Department of Agriculture 12 - Bureau of Soils and Water Management (DA-BSWM). according to Provincial Agriculturist Engr. Eliseo Mangliwan, reached up to P3. 4 million is the fund allocated by the provincial government which has come from its calamity fund for the implementation of the cloud seeding that will last for 60 days. Mangliwan said that cloud seeding or making an artificial rain is important to add or to raise the level of water to the irrigations and others that supply water to the farming fields. the DA 12 also allocated a fund which reached P700,000 as a support or augmentation in the cloud seeding operations of the province. realized that each flight or sortie of the airplane, it carried up to 15 sacks containing from 25 to 50 kilos of salt. initially wished by Governor Emmylou Mendoza to the Provincial Council to put the province under the State of Calamity due to the El Niño phenomenon. because of severe drought, thousands of hectares of planting fields for rice, corn, cacao and others are damaged. (SJDuerme-PIA12 wth report from JSta. Cruz-NorthCot Media Center)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_63705802 all right also live Sir we are joined with our colleague here in the studio Commander Lawrence M Calimag Navy Deputy Director of Center for Naval Leadership and Excellence of the Philippine Navy and we are discussing the skillfulness of the maritime force of the Philippines . good morning Sir . good morning Zarina . and we are still with Sir Aljo Bendijo good morning Sir . I will now go first with the question about this Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame . what is this sir ? <no-speech> good morning I am Commander Lawrence Calimag the Assistant Director of the Center for Naval Leadership and Excellence of the Philippine Navy . the Office for Strategy Management of your Philippine Navy is the Center for Naval Leadership and Excellence . yes . this Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for -- Executing Strategy is an award being given by the Palladium Group . which is based in the U_S . the Palladium Group was a formed by Doctors Robert Kaplan and David Norton of the Harvard Business School . so they were the ones giving the -- Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy . so the Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy was started in two thousand to recognize the different organizations different institutions using the Balanced Scorecard Framework of Doctors Kaplan and Norton . so they have a system the Strategy Management System through their execution premium process . we have a system that is being followed in implementing our strategy . so they can only recognize the organizations this is the -- those that excel in the balance scorecard system that -- is their balance scorecard framework . so around the world there are almost two hundred institutions awarded that were inducted in our Balance Scorecard Hall of Fame . so some of those that we know are the U_S army the Portuguese Navy the Brit -- British S_X Police . so it has been already inducted in the -- Balance Scorecard Hall of Fame . there is only here in the Philippines before the -- we got the award (()) there are only three in the Philippines all of them are local government units . Iloilo already got that first last two thousand ten with San Fernando City of Pampanga . San Fernando City of La Union then followed last two thousand fifteen . yes . then this twenty sixteen technically -- twenty sixteen when the award started but it was officially given we were inducted just last March . this March we're with Balanga City Bataan and the (()) Army Navy of the Philippines there . so if the Navy is transforming and reforming in fact we have modernization in the Armed Forces of the Philippines congratulations A_F_P . the second has already arrived right ? another two so our fight eagle only lack two more . huh fighter aircraft . just four -- because one squadron arrived yesterday yesterday two . okay so there . we'll still use that in patrolling in Benham Rise and our disputed territories in West Philippines Sea . now if the Navy is transforming Commander and reforming why do we still have intrusion in our territory now and also does it mean that there's no longer corruption in our Philippine Navy Sir ? <no-speech> that's our buzzword in the Armed Forces now we -- we perform while we transform . yes . you know like other organizations your army navy is not a perfect organization . it also has gaps that's why we developed the sail plan for us to change our inefficiencies . we align our systems . we improve how we do things . yes . even the systems that are -- old which we're changing we're even updating our doctrines for it to be updated in the (()) present time . yes . though we still have a long way to go as we all know the coast line of the Philippines is three -- thirty-six thousand kilometers . that is too long to be covered by your Philippine Navy . as I have said with -- we -- we perform as we transform . so your Philippine Navy is currently transforming . (()) those assets of ours some have arrived . so still lacking . <no-speech> maybe when time comes when that really comes (()) our capabilities then we can say what is more important Sir the ship than the airplane or airplane than the ship ? both . both (()) because your Philippine Navy has also its airplane . if you can remember just two days or three days ago our T_C ninety has arrived from Japan . that will help in our maritime surveillance . the three ? still two yet . still two yet . -- are you feeling a pressure ? I mean how can you handle if you are feeling a pressure especially because you have been given things for modernization then this issue about the territory . how are you handling those like that ? all the more that our trust is really in your Sir . really a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of your force (()) but let us remember the Philippine Navy is just a force provider . we are only giving the ships of the battalion of Marines . we are giving that to the unified (()) of the A_F_P . so they are the ones employing those . they are the ones using that those ships that we give . okay . sure Commander later we will come back to you all right -- we are going to come for you oh let us go back to Commander . Commander Calimag going back there in the Palladium Balance Scorecard what is the impact of this on the Navy or like what is the meaning of this for your institution sir ? of course pride of the Philippine Navy that we have inducted to the Balance Scorecard Hall of Fame . but not only our honor this an honor of the whole (()) Armed Forces of the Philippines of the Department of National Defense and the whole Filipino nation . this is not the end of all . as we said earlier we perform as we transform . the transformation of the New Philippine Navy is ongoing this will not be finished by twenty twenty . in fact this coming third quarter we will review our sail plan . <no-speech> we -- we'll align to the G_H_Q the ah in their visual that's it twenty twenty eight . so this only means that that the -- our award is only a proof that the Philippine Navy is committed there in our mandate to protect the our sovereignty . and one -- this means that what we are doing in the Navy is a proof that the trust of our stakeholders is getting bigger . yes . you have mentioned the sail plan what is the meaning -- sail plan -- is the sail plan this is what we call the Philippine Navy Strategic Sail Plan twenty twenty or more known in its name sail plan . this is our organizational development strategy -- it means this is our plan to develop internally . this is our long term plans for us to make our mandate to there then %incomplete we will that we can -- we will deliver our mandate excellently . so internally it means then in in their own only -- internal in -- in Navy . in your organization . cleaning is included there . developing our personnel developing our organization developing our capabilities our ship plane the firepower of our Marines our communication equipment are included there . so those are what's included in our sail plan . so it's a long term plan . so our vision is on twenty twenty . so three years from now . by twenty twenty we shall be strong credible . (()) we can -- boast to the whole world . that we can really defend %incomplete as long as what we have planned will happen . the -- material training wherein if we accomplish what is in the sail plan which we target by twenty twenty we can say big sis -- big sis we are a strong navy . because the -- credibility we cannot say that but instead the people . the training needed there is the training for the equipment the arriving modern equipment . that is important because we are already purchasing modernization of planes -- sometimes -- there are plans %incomplete that is the submarine submarine right ? we have a plan for that but in the near future . but even now -- we are preparing that already . so we already have an office studying that there are people studying submarines for %incomplete so let us invest in our very personnel first . yes because that's what is needed when our submarine or modern ships arrive they will be ready . yes . but Commander and I are talking they are still insufficient . of ? of members or personnel I'm sorry . sir is it right ? for now our recruitment of personnel is continuous because when a ship arrives it comes with people . so that one ship usually has a crew which are almost hundred personnel . our new -- that our (()) F_X seventy the people there are (()) more than one hundred . as well as our strategic (()) vessel . almost one hundred people there . so the insufficiency is still really big . the ship used in Benham Rise how many people are occupying there ? I think the people there are one hundred thirty-five . okay sure thank you so much Commander Lawrence Calimag of the Philippine Navy . thank you so much and good morning again sir . good morning also Zarina good also morning (()) . okay .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15433771 <no-speech> thousands and thousands of tourist flocked the yearly Pinagbenga Festival in Baguio City this weekend . some celebrities also celebrated the fiesta . Laila Chikadora is in action . <no-speech> flower power became the peg of Baguio City with the abundance of flowers you can see . the summer capital of the country was really in full bloom in the twenty-second Panagbenga festival . the participating schools showed-off at the street dance competition last Saturday . in the stopping points not only their colorful outfits but also their performance were outstanding . yearly one of the most awaited here in the Panagbenga Festival in Baguio City is the grand float parade where you can see it surrounded and designed with thousands of flowers . even if it was crowded everybody was happy with the twenty-two floats that paraded in Session Road yesterday . there were different themes and design which were divided in three categories . the non-competing small and large float category . the non-competing float of Baguio Country Club was inspired by Game of Thrones wherein its black dragon goes up and down because of hydraulics . peacock rhinoceros zebra tiger and elephant were featured in the safari-inspired float of Manila North Tollways Corporation or NLEX . Coach Yeng Guiao and the NLEX cager Asi Taulava who was very participative and is bonding with the crowd were also present . people were also shouting every time NLEX cheerleaders are thrown into the air doing exhibitions when the parade stops . the celebrities in the floats also added to the cheer factor . Bagio locals like Carrot Man who went viral in social media because of his good looks were also featured . the twenty sixteen Miss International Kylie Versoza was also present in another float . I remember the times when I was there I was making my way in the crowd to watch and now I'm here on the float that's why it feels very -- it feels like such an honor such a privilege to be here . the crowd cheered when Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza waved . Bea Alonzo and Enchong Dee competed as they danced the running man challenge in their float . aside from the flowers the free salad sponsored by the governor outside this hotel in Baguio city was also swarmed over . an approximate of one hundred sixty-eight kilos was tossed . the vegetables came from different parts of Benguet . that's why the three thousand people who ate free food really enjoyed . reporting Laila Chikadora %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_11649830 love and other tragedies verse 7 do not believe everything that comes out of my mouth. because on nights like this, worry fumbles and the tongue hesitates in looking for words to perch on your ear. a laugh can be a whisper, and silence can be restless screaming. words can also balance: how you will answer, how you will shoot up consecutive letters without certainty, especially when the evening is as deep as doubt. I will assure only one thing to you and your friends, that if you will swat your hand that is blocking, there may be a palm waiting that is hiding and embarrassed to let go, hoping that your closed fist will open up like an honest request, and dreaming to hold on. -Mykel Andrada grammar of tragedy -inappropriate metaphor, wrong translation of two different languages, last syllable of a verse forced to rhyme, old poem erased by time, never no longer readable. I tried to fit in your meaning at the end of the sentence, in the narrow space after the period, in the hesitating curve of the mark for questions, in the cursed line of the exclamation point. I will place the dissonant letters of your name in my title, embellished with adjectives and adverbs, glimpsed by shadows with their own universe of grammar connecting our two disconnected clauses, poem erased by time, last syllable of verses without rhyme, wrong translation of different languages, metaphor not appropriate: you. -Julian Inah Anunciacion refugee it is difficult to find oneself in the middle of a dark forest. how can we leave everything in order to be safe? just a while ago I was being chased by the barks of dogs and the eye of a flashlight. before that, I quickly traversed without looking back the bridge separating our enemy nations, past the stray tents on the road, the idlers drinking by the store, the deep snores at midnight and the weak melody of foreign songs carried by the smoke from the fire of early- morning sweeps of the elderly. and now, I am in front of the door of your city to take shelter. I turned my back on my shadow, disowned my old surname, condemned the worshipped ancient idols, separated from the light worshiped, together with the memories of old secrets, old letters and burned documents. I surrender to you my history and the legends of my origin. allow my new nationality to be your name. -Carlos M. Piocos III assumption you know, I received a lot of teasing from the rose that you sent but I told them this is rare so for sure, I will keep it. I placed the flower on top of my desk so that I see it when waking up and falling asleep I also fight melancholy every day, you know but like what I always say enough for me are the stories and dreams that we share every time we have an encounter even if separated for activities let us be confident in ourselves. the flower was already dry when I talked to you again deep inside I thought, here you are again you miss me, maybe we won't see each other anymore I am worried too, you know especially it isn't red roses our relationship there are times of doubt and danger in those ones separated like us they consider thorn and enemy. I am trying to be strong now but when I am alone together with the rose that you gave my tears fall too, you know while reminiscing their latest report in your last message that someone is following you up to now I still don't know if we will see each other again or if they will show you again. I assumed, this is easy in our actions from morning until night news of victims of state violence come but it is different it seems, it is still different when a beloved is taken a companion and partner is missing. but I try to be strong, certainly if we see each other again or not I will remain here where we started dreaming and loving because if they think we will stop we will be silent in searching for you for justice that is what they assume. -Maria Cristina Guevarra embrace and the soles of my feet are freezing but my palms are damp. are they confused by the new climate and hour, and time, and the switching of light with always a hint of dark and chill in the afternoon? many falling leaves on the streets properly mortared and the houses, almost similar even if you know that the residents are different, different races, different tastes in food, different dreams and languages disturbing and mine, my tongue is always waiting to exclaim, mention and say without pretense words like inin, or rice that is scalding to the tongue, forehead sweat sticky and hot and humid the salt of sweat, the sea inviting us to a wade through the warm water and sad skin of the sea, of the air, like the blow of wind rising to distant regions that I know is the sky, and most of all, the touch of lips at night left by a lover and love when darkness is approaching from the east. it is almost nighttime, beautiful are the falling and growing plants, flowers, buds, and the paths I walk through when coming home, in running to sweat or passing through to go along someone's own garden, finding the gentlemen, the blink of waves, the wit of beauty, the city and the city of hard work and the disgust of the unexplainable feeling of disorder, of crowding, competition, insults, and smell of newly laundered clothes in the nauseating city of people, in that world where the setting rust-colored sun always has a smile or travelers of every journey and passengers at all times need to be careful. but now, while waiting for the next poem and play in ordinary time, while longing for the only true friend I will let sweat my palms and soles of the feet while it is chilly and reminiscing a type of -Reagan Romero Maiquez fourteen boys 1 here's to the boy who waltzed my way out of a dark, empty street and who drew me maps and taught me geography (this city is our city, this river is our sadness, and this restaurant is where you taught me how to recognize the language of every pulse of a heartbeat) 2 here's to the boy who lectured me on an introductory course to first loves, and him who is the sole flame to a harvest of dead branches, keeping me warm at the dead of night-the time I think of him, and his small eyes and his sunset touch and his hurricane breath and his ugly enunciation of the words goodbye, farewell. 3 here's to the boy who played me guitar songs through his silence, us naked on his bed, more naked on mine. 4 here's to the boy who wrote instead of talked, and whose eyes were signal fires telling me how lost he felt, alone on an island while I am a thousand miles above him, seeing him as a tiny dirt-pixel, but loving him all the same. 5 here's to the boy who slept with me on the cold, tiled floor somewhere at a province he's always loved, while he whispered me stories that reminded me of my own childhood, and whose closeness was like a run-on sentence never perfected. 6 here's to the boy who I wished I have never met. 7 here's to the boy who I fell in love with inside the confines of a movie theater, keeping me close to spaces in which light was absent, as if I were his least favorite secret. 8 here's to the boy who held my hand against the backdrop of a bookshelf, whose palms felt like the pages of a badly-written novel. 9 here's to the boy who smoked with me behind a dingy shopping center, early evening, as our lips tasted of apologies and as the cold air felt like a blanket that was ready to separate us at once. 10 here's to the boy who knew how to touch me like his fingertips were lit like a birthday candle, and whose smile was like a big occasion worth celebrating. 11 here's to the boy who was like a Ciudad song- "my emptiness". 12 here's to the boy who had pictures of himself scattered on the walls of his room and also on the corners of my memory and on the closed gaps of my heart. 13 here's to the boy who distanced himself far enough for me to miss him until the day that I die. 14 here's to the boy who made me carve our initials on wet cement, as if our love was made of stone. -Petersen Vargas
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78822318 rich congressmen and the grandmother of all scams who is this congressman who acts as agent of the two giant but foreign companies who wanted to corner the President's Bridge Program or PBP? this is the congressman who endlessly criticized and destroyed a British company in the past administration for his two companies to surround the multi-billion worth of projects under the PBP. as well as the projects in Greater Maritime Access or GMA. grandmother of all scams but now, the congressman encountered a headache because Senator Serge Osmeña said that his two companies were involved in anomaly and even called it "the grandmother of all scams". the projects are composed under the PBP in building bridges and in Greater Maritime Access for the building of pier for the roll-on, roll-off. the congressman succeeds in destroying others and they have cornered all the projects in the said two projects. Mabey and Johnson and Eiffel Mattier according to Osmeña, the congressman becomes an agent for the Mabey & Johnson and Eiffel Mattier. these two companies have bad records. the Mabey and Johnson is a British company and being investigated by the government of Great Britain for their excessive profit in building bridges funded by the Official Development Assistance from the said country. and this Eiffel Mattier which is a French company became really famous when it sued our government for cancelling its 66 contracts for the roll-on, roll-off projects in the last days of the administration of Madam Gloria. the projects are cancelled because these are actually not needed and do not have the appropriate feasibility study before these are built. the congressman is petting these two companies to still join the projects for the PBP. same as before, at large, they want billion peso contracts. for the congressman and his pet companies to succeed, he gave them an office at Makati City. congressman's identity do you want to know, my brothers, who is this congressman? here, he is one of the richest in the Legislative Chamber. and on petting the two large companies mentioned, he expects these to make him richer. well, with the high price of the project that they want to take control of. guessing time! firing, apparently profiling by the PAF we received an invitation for a shoot fest from the Philippine Air Force. that one called firing. free bullets! free gun! but only borrowed. the president of the National Press Club is proud because they remembered us. similar to what the invitation said, this is for the "spirit of kinship and camaraderie." did I understand it right? for the "spirit of kinship and camaraderie?" he! he! he! the shooting festival will be held at Lipa but transferred to Villamor. favor! becomes closer! we hope not to shame the invitation of the military in the name of camaraderie. but when we received a fax message telling that we need to answer before entering the camp, of course, it will record information about our personal details. oh! our eyebrows raised. this is our question. we are not going to put any malice on the said fax message. in our opinion, "you are inviting, but you do not know who you are inviting?". then, do not invite them at all! right? the Ultimatum knows that your aspiration is clean in this invitation, but it is slightly insulting. because we just want you to know, that we in the media, we are not dead hungry who cannot pay to fire or have firing. thank you, anyway! question: is this firing? or profiling? I am just asking! where are the twelve pairs? one of the feared gangs roaming in Metro Manila and nearby provinces are what they called as the Twelve Pairs Gang. feared because the gang is almost composed of police who were formerly assigned at Eastern Police District. really feared because they kill their victims in kidnap for ransom. as well as their victims who are withdrawing amounts in the bank. one thing is fearsome, after they have done their crime, police checkpoints do not work because they are police. who will catch these police thieves especially their victims are killed and almost no witnesses? the head is arrested the Twelve Pairs Gang is composed of police who are Inspector Nathaniel Capitana, PO1 Alexander Pangilinan, PO1 Candido Vallejo, PO1 Roel Palana, PO2 Allan Verana, PO2 Arden Lanaza, PO2 Daniel Maborang, PO2 Roger Villarente, and civilians Christian Marcelo and Ely Frias Junior just recently, their boss PO2 Joel Tapec was caught in Tarlac. but the bad thing, only two of them are caught by the authorities. where are the others?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48442333 the root cause of trouble Rico Puno will likely be not given a position in the cabinet of Noynoy Aquino. amidst the trouble and intrigue surrounding the very secretive assistant of Noynoy, the propagandists of Noynoy thought of spreading this news. Free Spits is able to say this because in the track record of Noynoy Aquino, firings in his administration are not real unless he says so. Edwin Lacierda, Abigail Valte and Ricky Carandang have become victims of this situation several times so we are not really convinced by propaganda statements unless Noynoy is the source. it has also been reported several times that Rico Puno will be fired but nothing happened to him. recently, Aquino himself was "to the rescue" of Puno when he admitted that he was the one who ordered the visit to the office of former secretary Jesse Robredo. the only certainty in all these, is Mar Roxas does not like Puno because he is not familiar with the character of this one. Puno acts deeply, is skilled in midnight actions and finds a way quickly when Noynoy wants something. in fact, it is one of the reasons why Puno became a close friend of Noynoy. I see the report that Puno will likely not join the cabinet as an extinguisher to the very hot issue about the friends of the president involved in jueteng and anomalous guns sale in the PNP. it might be shocking to consider, but isn't this the same problem during the time of Erap? these two are allies now and many of Erap's friends are with Noynoy now. jueteng and the Kuratong Baleleng problem caused Erap's downfall back then. jueteng and the PNP are the problems of Noynoy today. the two both do not like work. they start working at noon and they both prefer vice more than anything. Noynoy and Erap are also both known to not expose their friends. Erap was forced to expose Chavit Singson which became the cause of his downfall. supposedly Noynoy will expose Rico Puno if we believe the propaganda. if this happens, will Rico Puno become the Chavit of Noynoy? Rico Puno has many secrets about Noynoy Aquino. when clutch time comes, will Rico Puno still be a true friend? or is he the root cause of all trouble in the life of Aquino?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78509183 Saturday, May 9, 2015 there is forever!: reflection for 6th Sunday of Easter year b - May 10, 2015 - year of the poor do you believe that "there is no forever"? if you are a member of W.F.T. (there really is no forever) then you are on of those "bitter" people your life is as bitter as bitter melon! only because his boyfriend replaced her with another there is no forever already you are only bitter sister! instead of being bitter maybe our view in life should become more "better" there is forever! more so on us Christians we should believe there is forever! there is forever because our god is love like what saint john said in his first writing and his love for us is forever! this is also what Jesus emphasized when he said "the way my father loves me, I also love you, remain in my love! remain forever, never ending forever! what is the attribute of this love? the first attribute of love is the capability to sacrifice for the sake of the welfare of others. "there is no love that can surpass the love of one person who offers his life for his friend." there is one place in Chicago that is called Oliver Milton's park. this was named after one soldier who knelt on a grenade to save his companions from death. a person who truly loves puts the welfare of others first before his. this means giving of own time, abilities, knowledge, and even wealth to the needy people. "I don't care!" are words not in the dictionary of a person who loves. the second attribute of love is the capability to love all without favoritism. there is a story of one soldier who wrote to his parents that he is coming home and will bring one soldier friend who will live in their house. he explained that the soldier does not have two feet because it was bombed by a landmine in the heat of the war. the parents won't allow it and said not to because the person will only become a burden to them. that was their last conversation. as years passed they met again in a morgue when they heard the news that their child died in an accident and they were utterly surprised when they saw that their child had no two feet. a love that has no favoritism means acceptance of our fellowman without condition. this is like what Jesus showed when he offered his life for us especially for us sinners. he did not look at our defect or shortcoming, even our ugliness as people brought by our continuous sinning. the redemption given to us by Jesus by offering his life is for all people: whatever religion, race, culture, gender, custom he possesses. our love should also be like that. oftentimes, we loath our enemies and we are affectionate only to our friends. but this is not the way of the lord. the lord showed compassion and love for people who are unlovable, and people who are sinners. we also hope that we can find people who are not given attention, the less fortunate, those who strayed from the path, those lacking in love. this is still the message that he wishes to deliver to us: "love each other like the love I showed you!" one love that is not selfish, one love that if focused on everyone, one love that is ready to offer itself for his friend. this is the love shown by god to us and he wishes for us show it and make it be felt by others. one love that says there is forever!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_33770360 <no-speech> <no-speech> where -- where -- where are you now ? (()) . huh ? <no-speech> I am on my way home . <no-speech> I got a flat tire . <no-speech> let us have a deal . huh ? yes . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ah not that let us have a deal . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) let's become agents . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) of house and lot . <no-speech> hmmm . <no-speech> I am going to be an agent for the house and lot being sold to me . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes I got flat . <no-speech> <no-speech> don't you like the %incomplete <no-speech> my bike went flat . not to friends really (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> just invite for (()) . <no-speech> yes . then was put in the vulcanizing then suddenly cooked . nothing . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> should not have been cooked the tires were burnt when the compressor ignited and blew the tires exploded -- the interior went -- crisp I had bought the new interiors long time ago the vulcanizing . oh . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes so you asked them to pay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> they are used those are theirs . <no-speech> hmmm . it is their fault . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74530771 <no-speech> sure . my uh there there %incomplete <no-speech> I have a white house there . can it be mine ? many . <no-speech> <no-speech> for housing of those from uh really . <no-speech> <no-speech> sure sure . that's why it should be mine I own it already . but it has %incomplete but the title is missing it might have burned . <no-speech> let it be mine . you will be asked to look for it . <no-speech> <no-speech> because the title burned before . sure . <no-speech> <no-speech> that's nothing . <no-speech> yes okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> find it . no I'll just have a new one made . <no-speech> find it . it's difficult to search . <no-speech> yes okay . look for it . <no-speech> uh no just the uh the uh you want do you want me to give you a share near S_M San Lazaro ? <no-speech> <no-speech> sure . <no-speech> hurry up because my spouse might (()) already . do you want me to give you a share near S_M San Lazaro ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what I don't understand you . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you want the one there at S_M San Lazaro ? what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . the mall there . I can't understand you . near Tayuman . <no-speech> <no-speech> no thanks I don't want San Lazaro I want S_M Manila . so you have a business . don't you want that ? <no-speech> <no-speech> that's small . I don't want that because it's too small . okay I'll make that bigger . so instead you know the uh the circle near Mall of Asia ? <no-speech> I don't want that . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . I'll have a house erected there . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech>
query1833 seashore
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_79702803 <no-speech> Pope Francis condemns the wasteful culture of people around the world in his previous statement in Saint Peter's Square . according to that Saint Pope the throwing of excess food is the same as robbing the poor . but in the Philippines not all leftovers are wasted . because the food thrown in the garbage is dusted off and served again . reactions mixed with our brothers who gambles their health and lives in every bite . <no-speech> <no-speech> Eril starts checking garbage cans in the afternoon with his friend Lester . <no-speech> they tread Quirino highway in Quezon city . <no-speech> they check every bag that they see if it has plastic bottles or cans that could be sold . but their true motive is to look for thrown food to shake off . Eril is from Masbate and has been in this situation for three years . he tried his luck in Manila . <no-speech> I also experience hardships in the province . I went here in Manila to look for a job . to have a stable job to send money in the province . <no-speech> now in the heaps of garbage bags does he find what will fill his empty stomach . a leftover banana cue and chicken bones will be their dinner . what will you do with that ? after boiling it we could make soup out of it if someone wants to have soup . they wanted to have adobo . <no-speech> when they arrived the waiting shed where they were living they boiled the chicken first . and then removed the water . they also put vinegar soy sauce and MSG powder and then cooked it with fire . the friends then made the banana cue as appetizers . directly eat it it's not spoiled and it's even wrapped with a plastic . <no-speech> when it was cooked Eril Lester and another companion in the waiting shed then divided the chicken adobo . you might say I just need to get by the hunger that's why I'll force myself to eat even if it's already in the trash . <no-speech> their continuous eating of dirty food also because of the big food waste of various establishments daily . according to the study of Food and Nutrition Research Institute of F_N_R an estimate of one thousand two hundred tons of food are put to waste daily and the biggest percentage is rice . <no-speech> more so twenty-two grams of food are wasted by one person in one day . we discovered that if you save the amount of waste because of the rice waste this waste and this is an example of we'll allot it for the needs of the street children . it will turn out that we can give around sixty-four to sixty-five pesos per street child which is a big amount to meet the needs of the children . <no-speech> according to Eli his stomach has sometimes ached as a result of eating dirty food . because of those dirty food the leftover chicken I already ate that last night . maybe around seven and around nine I already felt that my stomach was aching . this is not just the pain this was really from what I ate . around ten the pain was not constant it was slightly gone . because of his consumption of dirty food it's possible that he can get severe diarrhea or poisoning . according to Doctor Gerald Abergos a sociologist . the trash that was taken advantage by beggars like Eli is the establishments' responsibility . it's sad that leftover food which is considered waste by some people can be used and is still being used by other people so it could fill an empty stomach and also as nourishment in his daily life . it is not normal for food that has been thrown away to be considered edible . hopefully restaurants and fast food chains would think that it's in their social responsibility for this food waste to be disposed in a proper manner wherein people won't -- take interest in it anymore . of all the industries they are the ones who know that food that has been mixed and thrown away is bad for the health . <no-speech> as the government's action presidential decree number eight five six or the code on sanitation was implemented . <no-speech> wherein those who are caught gathering a leftover food can be imprisoned for six months and pay a fine of one thousand pesos . even if he's scared of going to jail Eril said he needed to eat . even if they say that it's filthy you're not doing anything wrong anyway . it might be embarrassing but in my mind I know that what I'm doing is not wrong . which is why as long as there are people who are wasteful with food Eril will not go hungry . a bitter reality that he will forcefully accept . I am Renz Ongkiko .
query1345 pencil with an eraser
query969 cross the street
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_66216967 never ending grief the rainbow is not going to surface without clouds and storm. whenever you'll notice yourself lonesome in grief, this is a sign of emotional failure. the conscience is being oppressed with the mistakes done without forgiveness, dreams which have been postponed that can no longer be finished, and sentences which can no longer be uttered. if an ordinary mistake comes with a tear, grief has a pitiable wail. while still just by your side, this is being neglected; but if gone and left, this is being remembered and will never be forgotten. a thing that you have not loved and neglected, you will be left behind. if you are consciously lazy to think, no zeal and slow in making change, has cowardice in accepting the truth, you cannot achieve the poetry and happiness that you are anticipating in any time. we have two ears and a mouth; evidence that we need to listen carefully and speak slightly. in a peaceful home, a croak not cackle reigns. animals have abilities which are better than us - they do not know paradise and hell. whatever you tell them, they do not have care and time to be serious and take these things personally. and when they are delighted and very happy, they are moving their tails and not tongues to make a fool out of your head. a way for you to love more is to accept the truth that everything is only transient, and at any moment this is going to end. life has no certainty, if you are not going to give importance to it, this will leave you full of regret and grief. in getting married, choose the woman you are going to marry as a close friend as if she has been a male. because if your spouse is good, your life together is exemplary. and if your spouse is evil and a nagger, you are going to be a philosopher of life. usual pleasure brings happiness. usual sorrow brings grief.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48920628 <no-speech> one agricultural tramline system was inaugurated by the department of agriculture led by secretary Proceso Alcala and governor Alfredo Marañon at Barangay Igmayaan town of Salvador Benedicto in the province of Negros Occidental . the whole project at costs more than three million pesos that aims to help more than four hundred farmers from the neighboring barangays of the town of Salvador and San Carlos city places that are far apart and have parts that are hardly accessible by vehicles . the tramline serves as transportation or carrier of products of the farmers in the mountainous places where there are steep slopes . through the tramline the agricultural products will be easily delivered to one place without having the need to lower it through the slopes or go around far routes in order to deliver at the public market . the tramline has a speed of one hundred to one hundred fifty meters per minute and could carry almost three hundred fifty kilograms in each of its trip . because of the said project many farmers in Negros Occidental are able to profit because according to them their savings on expenses in transportation and transferring products decreased by almost fifty percent . other than that they were also able to keep vegetable products fresh and of high quality . the agri-tramline system project is being carried out by the provincial government of Negros Occidental along with PhilMech and the Department of Agriculture . on behalf of Joel de Vera of P_T .
query359 buildings
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16867301 I don't know . introduce it right away Zarwina . yes with us here live in our studio is Lieutenant Colonel Reynaldo Balido Junior Philippine Military Academy spokesperson . and we will talk about Ka Francis the upcoming entrance exam in the P_M_A okay . good morning Sir Balido . good morning Zarina . good morning Ka Francis . good morning to those listening to watching us this morning . okay Zarina maybe Colonel Balido is already known by everyone . now they will be surprised that he is already a P_M_A spokesperson ? but where did he come from ? do you know him you know ? yes . where did he come from what institution ? N_D_R_R_M_C . according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction Management Council . you don't get to sleep okay . no sleeping . not -- this person really did not sleep anymore . anytime you call him . anytime any given time he will give you an update oh he has something to say . but Ka Francis Zarina I don't want that we only get worried when there's a disaster so like this one a -- new experience again a new challenge to -- give service -- service to the nation . when did our Philippine Military Academy recruit you ? they took it like %incomplete they got you because they saw the %incomplete transferred sir transferred . <no-speech> twenty fourteen of June I was already in the P_M_A . and the first post was the P_M_A spokesperson already . right away ? yes yes . although I also hold other positions I am the concurrent spokesperson right now . what could be next ? but you don't want to anymore ? won't you -- don't you want to recollect your past in N_D_R_R_M_C . like you said it seems like he's no longer sleeping . the position we're coming from is very challenging we all know that . our former boss Undersecretary Benito Ramos . good morning to you Sir . oh yes . Sir Ramos that's also one . . whatever time we call perhaps we got it from there our alertness when it comes to news . before we go Colonel Balido this that you want to inform the town in regards to the upcoming test right ? it's worth it here in the Philippine Military Academy how did you find your new job now as spokesman of the Philippine Military Academy ? like what I said earlier to Francis this is just my concurrent job . my main position or job is -- although civil military operations is also related to our friends in the media . so --in engaging with the civilians with our partner stakeholders . <no-speech> I already started in O_C_D in the Office of Civil Defense and we're continuing this . there it's really %incomplete yes I should be able to P_R you . right . when I say P_R that means chatty . you are verbose approachable . and also accessible . that accessible . that is really what is vital there . his accessibility and his lines are open anytime any given time . now anyway what is this announcement of the Philippine Military Academy Colonel Balido ? yes Ka Francis I want to grab this opportunity to announce to the public especially to our youth the upcoming P_M_A entrance examination this August twenty-one already . your -- intro a little while ago Ka Francis Luzon Visayas Mindanao we will also have examinations there from Luzon Visayas and Mindanao thirty-nine examination centers we put or -- establish all over the Philippines . okay do you quite remember which places those are so that %incomplete <no-speech> we could say it one by one if -- our time would allow . oh . of course Metro Manila we have two -- we put up three here . in Manila area University of the City of Manila . Quezon City in U_P Diliman . Mandaluyong in Jose Rizal University . okay that is here in Metro Manila ? yes Metro Manila . okay in Luzon the whole Luzon ? in Luzon we have Baguio City of course because P_M_A is there . there is one in Laoag . Cagayan Mountain Province Bayumbong Nueva Vizcaya Tuguegarao Cagayan Cabanatuan City Tarlac Pampanga Lipa Los Banos Laguna have recently . Los Banos Laguna Palawan Lucena Naga Legaspi . according here in Luzon . so what you got is region four region three region five ? all we make sure we cover it all oh our Visayas ? there's Visayas in I'm on my way to Cebu . that's why I'm asking if we have Radyo ng Bayan there in Cebu . D_Y_M_R Radyo ng Bayan Cebu . I'll try to contact them when we arrive . I was already talking to Elena earlier actually . no coordinate with our connections in the network division . for you to be given a good access and good accommodation there for that announcement . okay . I'll continue Visayas we have Bacolod . Bacolod Tacloban Tagbilaran Dumaguete Kalibo Aklan there are . <no-speech> there . all major cities in Visayas . and Mindanao ? Mindanao we have Zamboanga Zamboanga City Ipil Zamboanga here in the northern part of region nine . we have Butuan Cagayan De Oro Osamis City Davao City Genera Santos City Tacurong Iligan Cotabato City in Bungao Tawi-Tawi you'll wonder we also -- conduct examinations there . and Kidapawan City . I said %incomplete in all major cities almost through out the country ? yes . and August twenty-one . it will be just open for one day yes just one day . the places I mentioned are all simultaneous . in your estimate Colonel how many can do we have a list of those who signified intention ? a lot has already signified . many have -- because sending of applications are year-round . okay . however -- only if you can remember K to twelve program was already implemented because %incomplete there I'll just enumerate the qualifications . should be a high school graduate . those who will take the exam should be high school graduates . the age should be -- seventeen to twenty-one years old or -- more specifically if he'll come to school on April one next year he -- should already be seventeen . seventeen and not older than twenty-two years old . so if he's April one and he's still twenty-one that's still allowed . basically it's seventeen to twenty-one . I mentioned earlier that they should be a high school graduate . single and not yet married . of good moral character of course . and %incomplete physically fit mentally strong . yes . and the height should be at least five feet . and his general percentage average in high school should be eighty-five . now you mentioned that they should be high school graduates what if -- won't they question the K to twelve . what you're asking is the expected applicants . there I'm just relating it to K to twelve because the last graduate of high school was in twenty fifteen . and the K to twelve curriculum -- was implemented no K to twelve our first graduates of grade twelve will be in twenty eighteen . that means it will affect our recruitment because we can't get any applicants that are fresh high school graduates . so for your question of -- how many or if there are applicants many have already applied but because of the implementation of K or twelve -- the first graduates will still be on twenty eighteen we're already expecting a decrease of applicants . hmm . does that mean it's not allowed if you're just a junior high school graduate you should also finish senior ? yes . (()) what do they need to prepare for those who will take the exam ? exams are the scoop of supposedly what will be the exams they should study their algebra . okay basic Math Algebra Trigonometry Science the likes . then -- for English there's reading comprehension and grammar . part of the exam is also (()) abstract reasoning on how you think . how about physical fitness ? do you really need to be fit ? well you're expected to be fit because %incomplete how about if you're thin ? when the training comes you won't be -- Francis there is before you can enter after they undergo the exam that is the first stage if they pass they will be called for a physical and medical exam . that's the second stage . where to be checked the condition of their body and if -- just there they will be tested already if they can do the physical rigid training . there will be a -- there they'll check the body on push-up and sit-ups . in -- those are pull-ups . so basically their abilities are looked at . oh my . (()) it's really dangerous if they're thin . what is the passing grade ? according to Helen of Calbayog . passing grade of the entrance exam no the machine will determine this . there's no . the question is not very clear . your -- your scholastic standing does it have a requirement ? that you graduated high school to -- qualify for the entrance exam . that was what I mentioned a while ago Ka Francis that one of the qualifications or one of the requirements is his grade in high school must be eighty-five percent . minimum eighty-five percent . yes . that one . okay . what will happen if one who passed is discovered to be gay ? does it still qualify ? you know what Ka Francis we are not discriminating . even during the application we know that already -- we could see it already . or in case that we don't -- find out and discover that he's already inside well the truth honest truth came out the true one revealed . we don't discriminate for as long as he follows all the regulations . -- he can catch up with his classmate . with all the requirements he accomplishes we don't discriminate . Anthony could he is just thin . right even if he is found -- where is Anthony ? there . <no-speech> there you could see in your camera . anyway sir if I may ask for those who passed what are at stake or what are the sacrifices when one becomes a cadet ? at stake or maybe the benefits first ? okay benefits then to be sacrificed . of course if an individual qualifies to be a cadet that will be a full government scholar . he won't pay for anything his accommodation will be free . allowance will be given for his training . his uniforms and other expenses will be free . basically if he gets in he will just wear his clothes . yes his clothes . once he is received %incomplete anyway another thing Francis Zarina- -- once -- this batch we'll recruit from will become members of class twenty twenty-one that will start this April . once they get in they won't worry about anything everything is free . (()) .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_99889859 war of aggression by US, opposed by OFWs by Darius Galang March 18, 2012 departure of American troops in the countries US is at war with, is being wished by OFWs and their families and supporters. they are putting into danger the lives of OFWs at Syria and other countries meddled at by the US. (Darius Galang) in the 17th year anniversary of the death of Flor Contemplacion, the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) are pleading the end of war of aggression by the United States, especially in the Middle East where thousands of migrant Filipinos are located. on March 17, the group Migrante International, together with female OFWs who came from the country Syria, families of OFWs, and other sectors, went to Mendiola to plead for the departure of American troops at Syria and other countries. "the migrants and the families need to unite against the interference of the US government wherever in the world," stated Garry Martinez, president of Migrante International. "if not abuse, violence and war are caused by this, lives of our migrant Filipinos are always endangered." one OFW survivor from Syria (Darius Galang) thousands of Filipinos remain in danger at the Middle East because of the conflict. Migrante shared the death of Meran Prieira Montezor, a 23 year old native of Camarines Sur, at Homs, Syria in the middle of an ambush. with the Filipino is the child of her employer when their car got rained down by bullets by unknown people. Martinez pleads for a more active and systematic regress to the country of the OFWs. he also challenged President Aquino to position against the intervention of US-NATO forces at Syria. in the end, Migrante insisted the cease of the Labor Export Policy and encouraged the administration to create more jobs within the country. "while there are lack of land, no work within the country, and continued increase in the prices of goods, Filipinos are forced to leave the country even though there is a worldwide economic crisis. OFWs are constantly put into imminent danger. this is one cycle that would not stop unless no fundamental social reform is put into action," ends Martinez. President Aquino, condemned for not taking a position on the US-NATO war of aggression in Syria and for continuing the labor export policy which puts the OFWs in danger. (Darius Galang)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32592633 going abroad by Andy Sevilla August 23, 2016 a star jockey is rumored to have plans in going abroad to work and ride. the offer for him from his previous employer there is good, so, it is okay for him to leave and accept the offer. his earnings here is good but the offer to him is more tempting, so, he has almost decided to accept it. even if it is rainy and the weather is bad, the 2016 National Press Club Benefit Racing is still successful last week in Metro Turf. the highlight of the celebration is the 4th Philracom-NPC Cup which was won by Timeless Magic owned by Edward Pangilinan. the total sales of the 12 races reached P29.9 million last week compared to the P34.26 million recorded on the third NPC Cup last August 10, 2014. the officials of the NPC attended the event. KASAPI president Nicson Cruz is inviting the members to attend in the General Assembly Meeting and Grand Launch of "Livelihood Help for KASAPI OTB-Members" on August 31 at McDo Centris along EDSA beside BMW in Quezon City. will be given 5 tickets each, which will be used as an entry to a raffle draw exclusive for all OTB-Members who are going to attend the occasion. one Haojue 110 A-1 condition motorcycle and 10 cellphones will be raffled. the project "Your P20 Wins a Motorcycle" of KASAPI and Metro Turf will be launched in the occasion which will surely be loved by KASAPI OTB-Members because this will be a big help for their business. May 12 Haojue 110 A-1 condition motorcycles will be raffled on December 18 for those who are going to buy tickets which cost P20 each. many surprising prizes are waiting for those who are going to win in the raffle.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74170318 Janella is coming back to Marlo by Abante Tonite Entertainment Staff September 16, 2016 is the red string connecting Sam (Janella Salvador) and Kevin (Elmo Magalona) still strong? will it be finally cut? tonight will be the live finale of the love story of Sam & Kevin on the television series, Born For You, at Kia Theater (Araneta Center, Cubao, Q.C.). after this, it will be Marnellla (Marlo Mortel & Janella Salvador) again in the new Mano Po by Regal. while ElNella (Elmo Magalona & Janella) will be seen on Wansapanataym. as people joke, "why not try the ElMar (Elmo-Marlo) tandem? who knows? it might work." did the producer of Kakai Bautista have a problem in her launching film because she is demanding to have her own choice in her leading man, which is different from what the production wants? and did she threaten to back out from her own movie? the producers remain indifferent. the concerts of Noel Cabangon at the Music Museum, Lani Misalucha & Ai Ai de las Alas at the Kia Theater and Jason Dy at the Skydome, will all be held at the same time this weekend. Ako Si Josephine is still ongoing at PETA, while the favorite of Jeff Fernando, Emma Cordero, is busy with corporate shows. they're on the same level aren't they? it is already the press conference of Siphayo, which is top billed by Nathalie Hart together with Luis Alandy and Joem Bascon, whose last partner in a movie was Judy Ann Santos in Kusina. they are also leveling up, aren't they? said one official of the Dangerous Drugs Board about the news on showbiz personalities who went to be tested first and posted negative results of drug testing: "a blood test is more important than a drug test. there are artists who get tested on their own but a test done in front of the authorities is more important. there is a system of getting tested after not taking it after some time, but we know he is a heavy user. there are also some who take another medicine for the drug test to turn out negative. the truth will be known in the end".
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_93499554 the truly lucky: reflection for 22nd Sunday in ordinary time year b - September 2, 2012 how is the religiousness of a person measured? just because one goes to church can he be considered religious? "Pepeng Mandurukot" has made it a habit to pass by the Quiapo Church and pray to his favorite patron the Holy Nazarene after a whole day of work. "Holy Nazarene, thank you for giving me sharp eyes! I was able to steal a cellphone from my seatmate in the bus earlier without difficulty!" he suddenly heard a magical voice: "you are lucky Pepe ... lucky!" he was shocked at the reply he received. he did not pay much attention to it. the next day after his "job" he again passed by the church. "Holy Nazarene, thank you for giving me quick hands and feet. the police who were chasing me did not catch up with me!" again a mysterious voice appeared saying: "you are lucky Pepe ... lucky!" Pepe was confused and at this point could not stop himself from asking. "Lord, is that you? what do you mean that I am lucky?" and the voice replied: "you are lucky Pepe that the cross I bear is heavy. if not I would have thrown it at you!" hehehe ... perhaps this is just a story but has an important lesson to offer. true religion is not in outer appearances but in inner belief and application. what did Jesus say about the Pharisees? "Isaiah's prophecy about you is true. you are hypocrites, like he wrote: 'respect offered by my people are merely superficial, because it comes from the lips and not from the heart." how can I demonstrate being a Christian? maybe I am just tied to rituals that are external worship and forget what is more important? praying the rosary, joining processions, devoting to saints, going to church every Sunday are important. but we must remember that that is not the only meaning of religion. Jesus asks something more important from us. as a famous preacher bishop said: "like when one who enters a garage does not become a car ... in the same way that whoever enters the church cannot immediately be called a Christian." just because you attended mass you are not already a Christian! the prayers of the devoted, the repeated mention of prayer, the daily lighting of candles are not guarantees if what comes out of our mouths are disrespect for others, bad words, defamation, judging the mistakes of others. let us try to be real in our being Christians! let us understand and follow truthfully the will of God. listening with action is the real display that we are following him. like what Saint James said: "if you only listen to it and not act it out, you only deceive yourselves." those who are really "lucky" are those who listen to the Lord and live by his words. it is nice to hear from the Lord the words: "you are lucky (your name) ... you are lucky!"
query357 my classmates
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_30255925 PNoy, heartless to the poor a planned destabilization is rumored today outside of Malacañang because of the non-stop increase in the price of goods under the Aquino administration. some say that the feelings of soldiers whose families suffer in their current situation are revolting because of the lack of action by President Aquino's government with the continuing increase of the price of gas, rice, and other primary needs of Filipinos. it is not the former officials and personnel of the Armed Forces of the Philippines who first revolted to have People Power 1 and 2 who are leading now but the new generation who suffer due to the government's lack of attention on them. according to them, those in the Aquino government like the KKKK and some department heads continue to amass money but the president is taking no action to charge them while those like them who maintain order in the country still do not receive blessings like a small wage increase. supposedly since President Noynoy took seat their salary has not been augmented and some benefits that were promised to them continue to be delayed. these soldiers also say, smuggling in the country continues but President Aquino cannot find a solution to the short supply of rice, garlic, onions and other products while many imports are just stuck at international ports under the Bureau of Customs and will rot soon. instead of letting the rice and other products rot, why won't PNoy order for these to be released and distributed in public markets to have some use, especially to the poor whose spending money is just limited. but because the president is heartless to the country's poor, he does not care whatever happens, especially if the price of goods and services continue to increase, because his advisers and enablers are skilled in teaching him who to blame the problems. they will surely find a political enemy to blame for the events. but the time will come when PNoy will run out of people to blame so he will be forced to expose his allies and colleagues in the party. according to those planning a revolt against the current government, businessmen influential to the government buy huge supplies of NFA rice and mix it with the more expensive rice they sell. President Noynoy should ban the non-sale of NFA rice in private markets. a rice store must have more NFA rice for sale than expensive rice, aside from the government having a monitoring team against illegal sale of rice mixed with NFA rice. maybe instead of NFA rice rotting in warehouses they can benefit the hungry and poor citizens.
query419 privatization water
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37516175 comply with the regulations of the people's government regarding the election campaigns Communist Party of the Philippines February 17, 2013 translation of: abide by the people's government guidelines regarding election campaigns all candidates and their parties joining the election on May who plan to conduct their political activities inside the territory of the People's Democratic Government should follow all the ruling guidelines and make sure to obtain permission from the authorized revolutionary committee. these guidelines are assuring that the reactionary election will be done without violating the rights and interests of the citizens and in a peaceful, orderly and beneficial way for the citizens. the candidates and their representatives are permitted to enter the territories of the People's Democratic Government to be able to campaign if they are going to follow the guidelines in relation to the conduct for political campaigns in relation to the reactionary election. they are prohibited to bring along their private armed goons or military, police or paramilitary aide. they should not be tolerated to scare, threat or force the citizens or use violence against the opposing political camp. they should not be allowed to buy votes or bribe the leaders of the communities in exchange of a vote. they are going to follow the schedules set by the local committees to avoid in overlapping the schedule of other candidates and for this not to be the cause of hassle in economical, political and cultural activities in the place. they will be encouraged to do a face to face dialogue with the citizens in order for them to have a chance to listen to the complaints of the citizens and express their opinion and spread their platform of governance. the People's Democratic Government has a right to prohibit the candidates with serious crimes to the citizens and to the revolutionary movement. included here are those downright corrupt officials of the government, those with severe cases of abuses on human rights, drug lords and those people who are running and giving protection to the criminal syndicates. will be prohibited also are those candidates who are using the election campaign to let the entry of spy agents of the military and police in the areas within the jurisdiction of the revolutionary authorities. these guidelines are made in accordance to the plea of the Filipino people. long have they been victims of rotten electoral system. under the reigning system, exterminating are the dirty reactionary politicians, tyrant landlords and brutal warlord and subjugating the citizens through force, threat and bribe in their push to be elected. the reactionary election has never been about democratic discourses, instead, these are being decided on by the armed force and wealth to force and bribe in order to sit on power. if already in power, these reactionary politicians are using the bureaucracy and the oppressive instruments to intensify the suppression and in taking advantage of the citizens. the surfacing and having a People's Democratic Government while there is still a reigning reactionary government of huge landlords and bourgeoisie buyers is giving an instrument to the citizens to face the reactionary elections, fight against its most brutal and anti-democratic aspect and can get benefits from these. in implementing these guidelines, the People's Democratic Government effectively lessen the incidents of violence in relation to the conduct of reactionary election in the places within its jurisdiction. in the past years, the reactionary regime and its armed forces are degrading these guidelines encompassing the reactionary election in the places of jurisdiction by the People's Democratic Government. objective of this destructive campaign is to cover the truth that the revolutionary movement effectively fulfill its obligation of stately power and that same stately power is hugely known and respected. despite of those anti-revolutionary propaganda, the candidates and political parties are coming closer to the revolutionary authorities to comply with the guidelines and rules of the People's Democratic Government. the meetings on national, regional, provincial and local ranks are freely conducted to discuss the problem of the citizens, the platforms of the candidates and the programs and rules of revolutionary movement. those meetings are giving opportunities to discuss the things of possible cooperation and coordination including the support on agricultural production, raising the profit in the provinces and advancing education, literacy, taking care of health and other programs of the People's Democratic Government. part is the rottenness of the reactionary election and reactionary bureaucratic system, of subjugating and advantageous reigning system which has a goal to fail the Filipino citizens and replace it with a real democratic system of governance. within the places of jurisdiction of the People's Democratic Government, the said system of democratic governance is fulfilling its duty and progressing where the citizens are making a real democratic election to elect their officials and representatives from their ranks and participate fully in the political and state actions.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_77250438 <no-speech> yes Mariz . rain or shine is the current scene here at Loyola memorial park at Marikina but plenty of our fellow countrymen came here to visit the grave of their loved ones who passed away . Mariz included in the people buried here is master rapper Francis Magalona who was visited by some of his fans . also laid to rest here is the actor Jay Ilagan and even the veteran actress Nida Blanca . vehicles here can enter and people said that even on November one vehicles are allowed to enter . here is our interview . but because on Monday there are classes it is unsure if tomorrow so . <no-speech> Mariz arriving here also is D_I_L_G secretary Mel Senin Sarmiento . he went around in a surprise to observe the preparation of the cemeteries . so far the preparation he saw was all right . here is his statement . surprise I'm really very used to this activity when I was mayor and I always preferred to check the surprise and look at the it's difficult if we will say . meanwhile Mariz cleaners and groomers of tombstones are the majority of those in Arkong Bato Public Cemetery in Valenzuela City it is in one the cemetery is five hectares and all of the graves are apartment type . already painted white because the city hall is supposedly the one that painted . there are already police assigned there . four portalets are placed that can be used by the people who are expected to arrive later at night up to tomorrow . some of those G_M_A News talked to said that they already visited the tombs of their loved ones today to avoid the many people tomorrow . it is more solemn if there are fewer people . others have relatives they will visit in other cemeteries so they went here first . here are their statements . <no-speech> because when there are many people and and we visit four dead in separate cemeteries . I do not want to go together with many people . and then tomorrow I still have to go to Holy Cross . <no-speech> Mariz here in Loyola Memorial Park in Marikina there is no -- untoward incident noted by the authorities . earlier Secretary Sarmiento also saw confiscated lighters but the sharp objects and other -- illegal objects there are still no -- confiscated here inside the cemetery Mariz . thank you very much %incomplete
query1905 adventure
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_11330054 ComradeArman Albarillo: revolutionary leader, brave fighter, communist hero! Eduardo Labrador National Alliance of Farmers - Southern Tagalog July 6, 2012 the National Alliance of Farmers (PKM) salute the heroism of companion Arman Albarillo and all the revolutionary martyrs of the New People's Army in San Narciso, Quezon who offered their lives in protecting the welfare of the poor in the barrio. the revolutionary movement of farmers recognize and honor the commander and fighter who bravely faced the enemies of the people. ComradeArman was former overall secretary of the New Patriotic Alliance in the region. year 2009 was when he decided to join the New People's Army. because of the made-up case against him and 71 others, he chose to leave the streets and answer to the call of the barrio to continue his service. he has long fought for justice for his parents who were killed by the Arroyo regime in 2002 including many more victims of violence of the state. he repeatedly failed. only in the People's Army did he see that his orphanhood will be given justice. in a country where it is considered crime to be patriotic and serving the people is terrorism, it is an honor to die while fighting. he also displayed unwavering resolve for the interest of many and readiness to sacrifice his life for the principle he believed. his dedication in pushing for a national democratic call cannot be discounted. he happily accepted the fight passed on to him by his parents. he embraced the sacrifice and poverty that came with his responsibility to the nation. up to the final moment, he did not turn his back on the farmer class. like many fallen heroes of the working class, the life and fight of ComradeArman will serve as a guide to all the people. ComradeArman will remain alive in the memory of the masses because their history does not stop here. despite sustaining damages, the poor in the barrios are further forged into the life-and-death struggle for the democratic interest of majority of the nation. no matter when, the farmers never gave up the armed revolution. the farmer class will not turn his back on his responsibility to support the New People's Army. the hut of the farmers in Bondoc Peninsula is always open to take in the army, help them and arm-in-arm defeat the loafers and bullies of the plantation owners. the People's Army and people will protect wholeheartedly the success reaped by the agrarian revolution. failure awaits the concentrated offensive of Oplan Bayanihan of the US-Aquino regime. it won't be long, the eight battalion attack of the fascists will run out of steam while the People's Army and people obtain solid victory. long live the memory of companion Arman! people and People's Army, unite! foil Oplan Bayanihan of the US-Aquino regime!
query1047 Christmas Eve
query416 salary teacher
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83570285 what is prohibited in the Catholic Church? Pope Francis has done a lot which are against to what is prohibited for the priests, nuns and bishops of the Philippines. one of these is the baptism of children who are children of single mothers or child from a maiden birth or the so-called bastards and child of those who are not married in church. he also married those who have children from a maiden birth and the partner whose marriage is nullified by the church. he also married those who have long been in a live-in. because of the last point, it is prohibited to surrender for a man or woman in bed until there is no marriage. Oh, God! but if something already happened and tomorrow, for example, the woman gives birth or has given birth, a confession is a remedy to have the live-in partners get married. if you and your live-in partner do not want to go to confession, nothing, men, because it is all sex, or committing sins is what you are doing and your situation and you will be picked in hell. geez! it is also prohibited for a maiden to marry someone who is separated from a marriage because of the belief that "whoever God has unified should not be separated by man." whoever the Lord put together, let no man put asunder. it is not permitted to give baptism to bastard children and children of those who are not married. but now, Pope Francis has loosened the regulations and he himself has conducted the baptism and marriage. but, are there other issues that the Catholics want to clarify? if you are divorced, are you allowed to take communion? and if you are not Catholic or your parents are not married in the church or civil, are they allowed to enroll in a Catholic school? hopefully these will be clarified to help those who are closely affected. if not, the affected Catholics go to other religions until there will be a lost of collection, alms, someone to have a mass on or burial in Catholic cemetery which have all payment for the priests and bishops. in truth, many are going to other religions because of the many requisites in entering a Catholic school and they themselves are also wondering why those who are enrolling to them become lesser and lesser. crocheted/ Jun Briones
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_34756082 Your dreams, I'll interpret: Shop and celebrity (2) Posted by: Hataw Tabloid on July 4, 2016 in Hataw Extras if you dream about wood or wood, this may suggest that you think you have no feelings and are like a machine. this also suggests that you do not think well or completely. Alternatively, this may be a pun relating to sexual arousal. if the wood in your dream is removed or disappears, this may suggest a decrease in your sexual activities. Bread that is seen in dreams relates to basic needs in life. this may also suggest the positive qualities and the good things that you learn as you go through life. Alternatively, this may also be a reminder for you to work harder, especially in situations that you need for your own development and future. if you see a guitar in your dream, this represents about passion and emotion. this may be also be related to sexual connotations and may possibly signal an erotic or sensual dream. if the guitar is broken or has its strings removed, this possibly relates to disappointment in romance. if you dream about a celebrity, this possibly represents a desire to find happiness and entertainment or pleasure. Your admiration for a particular celebrity or artist may trigger getting some of their physical or personality traits. these celebrities should be observed and evaluated, especially the characteristics of theirs that you may associate with your own personality. this is because it's possible that these characteristics may be similar to things that you should identify with or incorporate into yourself. there may also be a relationship between you and the roles or role being played by the celebrities that you see in your dreams. even though you don't personally know the famous celebrities you see in your dreams, the roles they take on that you watch or your view and perception of their character may give you a clue to or understanding your connection to your dreams. on the other hand, this may just be the result of what you see on TV or movies or stories that you've read about celebrities in tabloids and showbiz magazines, causing them to show up in your dreams. if that's the case, then these celebrities don't have any significant meaning to you and their entry into your dreams is purely incidental. Señor H.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17187703 UST discussion: the university's care of the national language by managing editor - February 1, 2017 the effectiveness of using Filipino as the main language in universities became a hot topic before among academics. in the 1962 issue of Varsitarian, the main editorial stated the suggestion to spread Filipino as the everyday language inside the university. this coincides with the superior use of English especially in academic discussion due to the American colonization of the Philippines. according to the article, the university would have been a good place to mold the understanding of the youth, particularly the Thomasians, about the land they grew up in. it also contradicted the belief that our native language may be antiquated so it should not be used anymore. "language cannot be compared to a chair that has rusted due to prolonged seating, so it should be replaced with a better one. it does not have shape, color, or form," it stressed. the editorial even suggests, the university serves as the second home of students to prepare their futures as members of society. if the use of Filipino will be maintained and it will begin in universities, native languages will surely remain alive in the future generations. he is a Thomasian despite accomplishing a lot as a medic, Juan Sanchez is still close to the poor in the community wherein he has many patients lacking financial capability to get treatment. it was year 1980 when he finished medicine in the university. eventually, Sanchez continued his training in general surgery at the Veteran's Memorial Medical Center (1982-1986) and in plastic reconstructive surgery at Makati Medical Center (1988-1991). in 1992 he went to Virginia in the United States to formally train in aesthetic, craniofacial and microvascular surgery at Eastern Virginia Medical School. in 1987, he headed the Philippine Board of General Surgery as well as the Philippine Board of Plastic Surgery in 1991. he serves as lead surgeon in the monthly visit of the Rotary Club of San Francisco del Monte's DOCS Mobile Surgical Unit in some parts of Quezon City, Payatas, Marikina City, Bulacan, and others. the said monthly surgical missions started in September 2007. he is also a part of other missions like Gawad Kalusugan, Operation Smile, and Filipino-American Club of North Texas that aims to maintain the good condition of each Filipino inside and outside the country. to share his knowledge in the field of medicine, Sanchez also wrote some books like "oriental rhinoplasty," "local and regional anesthetic blocks made simple (2002)" and "doctors' practices, strategies and guides to success (2003)". in 2009, he was nominated for some major awards like the ten outstanding Filipino physicians and ten outstanding Filipinos. within two years (2009-2010), he was honored as the most outstanding Rotarian of the Rotary Club of San Francisco del Monte. currently, Sanchez continues to use his skills in medicine to offer service and concern to those who need it the most.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_72916769 Zambales fishermen now sail in WPS by Jojo Perez September 3, 2016 fishermen of Zambales city rejoiced China's permission for them to fish in Scarborough Shoal in West Philippine Sea (WPS). the approval of China for fishermen to sail in Panatag Shoal is the result of President Duterte's meeting with Chinese Ambassador Zhao Jianhua yesterday. in the interview of Abante with fisherman, Ruben Correa of Masinloc, Zambales, he said that after a long time of prohibiting them to continue their livelihood in WPS, they're very grateful to President Rodrigo Duterte. "it has also been a couple of years of tiptoeing just to fish in Panatag (Shoal), although we didn't want to gamble before because we were afraid of the coast guard of China," according to Correa.
query100 garlic pepper
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64004819 14 million-peso coffee project of South Cotobato, approved by PRDP September 05, 2016 Koronadal City, South Cotabato, September 6 (PIA) - the continuing growth of the coffee industry in the province of South Cotabato is expected, according to an official here. in a recent press conference, South Cotobato Provincial Agriculturist Justina Navarrete confirmed that the head of the Philippine Rural Development Project gave a "No Objection Letter" to the proposed "Enhancement of Production and Marketing of Dried Green Coffee" project of South Cotabato. the 14 million-peso project will be led by Tupi Coffee Growers Association, Incorporated (TUCOGAI) which is based in the town of Tupi together with other cooperatives of coffee farmers in the Upper Valley and Lower Valley of South Cotabato. TUCOGAI estimated that through the project the coffee production in South Cotabato will increase by 10 percent in six years. the income of the coffee farmers in the province will also increase because TUCOGAI pays more for the coffee products of the farmers: Php 12 per kilo of fresh coffee berries and Php 63 per kilo of dried green coffee beans. the green coffee bean project of TUCOGAI is the fifth project approved by PRDP for the SOCCSKARGEN region. before this, the PRDP also approved the 39.4 million-peso Production of Cassava Granules and Marketing project of South Cotabato; the 35.7 million-peso Enhancement of Production, Processing and Marketing to High Quality Abaca Fiber of Sarangani; the 43.4 million-peso Virgin Coconut Oil Processing project of Sarangani and the 14.9 million-peso Rubber Sheet Processing and Marketing of North Cotabato. Navarrete is expecting that all documents for the dried green coffee project will be completed before the end of the year so it can begin by January of 2017. (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_98696984 <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe I cried . what's left is that face lift . <no-speech> face lift ? looks like graduation is making me cry . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? looks like graduation is making me cry . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> how many years were you in . <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> how many years were you in (()) ? <no-speech> I think I have been in Eris for six years . how many years were you there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm getting old in Eris . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> the older the more what . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's okay now at least you can graduate . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes there is no hope . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> no there is hope already . <no-speech> when is the thing isn't it already exam ? what -- what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> you already have a toga . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you already have a toga right ? what -- what ? <no-speech> <no-speech>
query754 ice cream
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_61149922 lottery style* by Mary Joy Capistrano revolting. disgusting. if the use of capital letters in each word can cause death, perhaps I would have many victims already. my classes finished early today because we just had a consultation with the professor, so I went straight to the dorm to hopefully start on papers that I can't seem to finish. but when I had faced the word document for only five minutes, I lost interest already. so there, I ended up on Facebook. the article about the capture of former political detainee Ericson Acosta first presented to me. he had just been released, but the former culture editor of Kule is back in prison again. he is my idol not just for his skill in writing but also for his skill in writing and singing his own songs. aside from him the executioner police officers also apprehended his two companions Anakpawis party-list representative Fernando "Ka Pando" Hicap and - I was more worried about - our fellow student as well Karl Mae, whom I got to know in the UP Writer's Association and was also a former classmate. whenever we encounter each other outside he always greets and smiles. the group headed to Hacienda Luisita to conduct an investigation on the "lottery" system or lottery scheme of distributing hacienda land of the relatives of the president and the decrease of overall size of land that should have been distributed to the farmers based on an earlier decision by the Supreme Court. I could not help but be completely angry when I read the comments of some people on the capture of ComradePando and Karl Mae. according to the comments, the hacienda is supposedly a private location so it is right that they were apprehended. they were supposedly just causing trouble and were even joined by a congressman who is using his power in order to enter a private property. if I could just cross the virtual space to muzzle their mouths so that they will not embarrass themselves, I would have done it - like my long-time goal of muzzling the mouth of Kris Aquino whenever she speaks on television. with the number of minor issues in her life, she almost cannot see the infuriating issues her family is involved in. how many decades have the farmers fought for the land of HLI? how many lives have been taken from the ranks of the farmers because of the cruelty of the state and overuse of power and money by the Conjuangco-Aquino family? considering the court has long released a decision about the distribution of land to farmers but the reform process in the hacienda runs at a turtle's pace. considering, the supposed distribution of land is in exchange of the forced signing of the agreement or the Application Purchase and Farmers Undertaking (APFU) between the farmers and DAR about the payment of very expensive amortization and tax. who really will not sign if you are surrounded by a number of military while land is supposedly "distributed"? it is just proof that this lottery system is just a fake reform and now it is worse because of the threats on people actively siding with the interest of the farmers. it is clear that the Conjuangco-Aquino family will never let go of the lands that made them powerful and rich. history is witness to the farmers sacrificing their lives for their right to own land that they themselves cultivated, but up to now they are not the ones benefiting from their investment of sweat and blood. while I am writing this I kept looking at my newsfeed a bit for new updates about those captured today in the hacienda. I just have two wishes today - their safety and justice.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_85939079 grand street party in Aliwan Fiesta 2015 Manila, Philippines- cities of Manila and Pasay will join forces to hold a big street party in Aliwan Fiesta, which happens from 23rd to 25th of April, under the Manila Broadcasting Company, Star City, and Cultural Center of the Philippines. the annual festival will be started with a Shoppers Bazaar between MBC and CCP starting yesterday, Thursday morning. at seven in the evening, rhythm competition or Tugtog Aliwan, joined by instrumentalists of different contingents that traveled to Manila, will be held. the beautiful ladies from different towns will also compete with each other for the crown of Queen of Aliwan. the pageant night will be held this Friday, 24th of April, in the outdoor stage of Aliw Theater.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_97880753 later at our point for point we will again talk about the death of Uncle Dolphy . what kind of father was he ? how did he love his children ? with too many siblings how does she divide her time and love to their to their children . that . later we will talk to the oldest uh of the siblings eldest of the children of Mang Dolphy . that . you can -- you can post your messages on our on our Facebook account . we will select from there your good messages . make them good about Mang Dolphy because that will be our very theme on this day . we will choose maybe five ? yes . possible yes possible . five good messages or sure ten depending on depending on the messages we will read for the for sir our fellowmen who want to say something about sir the death of the king of comedy . that . oh this one . they're often sidekicks and extra in T_V shows and movies of Dolphy . but they're important . a movie or a sitcom won't be materialized if there were no extras . chain-smokers . snail and of course those Tito Dolphy treat as children . here %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_75030662 elect Ding Santos for councilor in Pasay posted by: Mario Alcala on February 25, 2016 in opinion retired police captain Ricardo "Ding-Taruc" Santos repeatedly goes back for his friends, retired colleagues in PNP and voters in different towns in Pasay city particularly those in the parts of district 1. Santos admitted that he is short in fund resources but his rounds or 'house to house campaign' will help greatly help him especially as the May 2016 elections slowly approaches. "I have ran many times in the city of Pasay. they should try and elect me as councilor in the 1st district of Pasay," explained Brother Ding when he was interviewed yesterday. according to Santos, he decided to run for council with the hope that he will be supported again by the voters of Pasay in the coming elections. Santos is in the camp of Calixo team 2016. we have learned that Calixto team 2016 is completely whole as of the moment. no one is leaving and those who goes with re-electionist Pasay city Mayor Tony Calixto increases. Cebu dumpsite of Japan's garbage I witnessed how many second-hand multi-cabs drive through the different places in Cebu city when I traveled in the said province. in Cebu, I seldom see bus and transport jeepneys unlike Metro Manila. he he he!!! seems like transportation jeeps are not patronized in Central Visayas, the vehicle made by local manufacturers in the national capital region. that is what I have also observed in the suburbs of Cebu and vice versa. that is why importers, brokers, local dealers in Cebu are earning a lot by bringing reconditioned surplus of multi-cabs with brands like Zusuki and Daihatsu that are long phased out and became garbage in Japan. side comments of the few drivers I talked to, second-hand multi-cabs is much cheaper if compared to a brand new transport jeep which costs starting from P500,000. allow me to graze! greedy captain one captain in the Eastern Police District is allegedly very greedy and always takes the seized illegal drugs. those who are released are much better off than whose who were charged, imprisoned suspects that were caught violating 9165. my goodness! if there is truth that chief gets money from the suspects that were caught by his men regarding prohibited drugs, the man could possibly be filthy rich. different gimmicks in titan club. they say there are different gimmicks in titan club, a nightclub located in Macapagal boulevard, Pasay city. there's a gimmick on stage, in the VIP room and what the floor managers call, an "oros" pimp or bar fine. to confuse the authorities, no one acts as general manager (gm) or officer-in-charge (oic) in the club who fronts two foreigners who are Hero and Akiba. they use Filipinos as dummies in their prostitution business. Akiba and Hero knows very well what are the gimmicks in titan club. the NBI-IACAT, DOLE and DSWS should investigate on this. there's still a follow up. gambling table in Pampanga in the town of Dolores (intersection) and in the town of Maimpis in San Fernando, Pamapanga, are still loaded with color-games and drop balls gambling by Boy Lim and Gordon. the gambling tables has reached five tables. the command of PNP-region 3 is based in San Fernando City, Pampanga. are there no gambling sites sighted on the roads of RD in central Luzon?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_28674524 One Run One Philippines will be this Sunday this coming Sunday . this is the fun run of A_B_S-C_B_N Foundation and this project aims to share the message about preserving the environment . the collected funds will go to the cleaning of Pasig River and canals that flow here . since the launch last two thousand nine of A_B_S-C_B_N Foundation the project Work Together for River Pasig and the with the help of Run for the River Pasig our fellow citizens were even more surprised with the importance of preserving our environment . and in the forty-seven canal in Manila sixteen have already been rehabilitated and is continuously cleaned . previous illegal settlers in the canals were already relocated in Town of Juan in Kalawan Laguna where they're taught with various livelihood skills . good that project is good . if you can see the canals that are cleaned well the previous after this transformation now you'll be delighted . not only that the communities that were removed yes alive of course . if you can see their community now . different yes . and Bayan ni Juan isn't just housing there's housing and then there's school for the children livelihood training so it's complete . it's a community not just its donors and sponsors but even the simple people contributing to help . ah others have -- -- everyone's awareness is important . the importance of cleaning not just our own yards but also our community .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_41645169 Usher and Stalzer at home in the Philippines by Robin Mendoza September 3, 2016 Foton Philippines will now be facing an intense match in the AVC (Asian Volleyball Confederation) Asian Women's Club Championship but first, get to know the two imports of Tornadoes who are Lindsay Stalzer and Ariel Usher. the veteran players from America are no longer unfamiliar to Filipinos because they have already played in the Philippine Super League. Stalzer has already attended two PSL conferences including her championship with Foton, so they were chosen to represent the country in the AWCC, while Usher has already played for Cignal last year. the two are glad with their return to the country and seeing their Filipino fans again, but what the fans did not know was that the two foreigners more delighted with the Philippines and the Filipinos. "why would I not want to come back? I had such a good time last year, I had fun playing volleyball, I had fun seeing the Philippines and the culture and obviously making friends here it was such a good time I had to come back," said the 6 foot 1 outside hitter that is Stalzer. the two blonde beauties shared the experiences they had in the Philippines and also the Filipino words they have learned. "I did ride a jeepney a couple of times we were on a trip in Puerto Gallera, it was fun and I also tried balut," Stalzer told happily. "thank you with this (acting cute) wave, older sister is older sister, that's the two that I know for sure," said Usher. "and you guys speak a lot of Spanish words like cuchara, derecha, I just hear a bunch of Spanish words, I know Spanish." "and your numbers are also spoken in Spanish and the days Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. it's funny cause when they start talking I don't know what they're saying but then I hear some words and I'm like oh, maybe I do," she added. Stalzer is hoping the they will be able to iron out their game play especially their defense for the tournament on September 3-11 at the Alonte Sports Arena in Biñan, Laguna. Foton Philippines came from Thailand to join the Sealect Tuna Thailand Volleyball League. "I mean there's always an improvement in every team," said Stalzer. "I think we need to strengthen our serve, make our offense a little faster, we need to be more disciplined on our blocks as well as coming up with this taller, more powerful teams." Stalzer and Usher will be joined by core of Foton who are Jaja Santiago, Angeli Araneta, Rhea Dimaculangan, Maika Ortiz, Bia General, and RC Cola Army opposite spiker Jovelyn Gonzaga, F2 Logistics middle Aby, and Petron libero Jen Reyes. Foton Philippines will be facing LienViet Post Bank of Vietnam at Kwai Tsing in Hong Kong.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74891793 Sunday, March 18, 2012 the Paris Commune - first government of laborers Paris Commune (March 18 - May 21, 1871) first government of the working class by Greg Bituin Junior the Paris Commune lasted only two months, considered as the first government managed by laborers, but its history is priceless. within those two months led by the female laborers of Paris, laborers governed a new form of society, the society of the working class. but the force of the bourgeoisie was able to return, and thirty thousand (30,000) laborers were massacred by government troops led by Adolphe Thiers. the laborers of Paris shed blood but what they did left a mark on the history of the working class in the world. in the piece The Civil War in France (1871) by Karl Marx, he wrote that the Paris Commune was "the finally discovered political form under which the economic emancipation of labor could take place" (the finally discovered political form under which the economic emancipation of labor could take place). state of France before the Paris Commune France was in the middle of war against the country Prussia (Germany today) led by Otto von Bismarck. this war, known as the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71, was a war between the Second French Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia. the Prussian army had invaded Paris, but the laborers of Paris were not in good terms with the soldiers of Prussia. Paris fell into the hands of the Prussian army on January 28, 1871. an election was held in France on February 8, 1871, which the majority of the population were not aware of; February 12 was when the new national assembly was established; on February 16 Adolphe Thiers was elected as the chief executive of France; February 26 was when Thiers and Jules Favre of France, and Otto von Bismarck of Germany, signed a preliminary peace treaty between France and Germany. France surrendered Alsace and East Lorraine to Germany, and they paid damages worth 5 billion francs. the German army will gradually leave when their necessary damages are paid. it was May 10, 1871 when the final peace treaty was signed in Frankfort-on-Main. on March 1871, the national guard broke ties with the leadership of Thiers and joined the laborers of Paris, and set up a central committee. Thiers meanwhile placed his government in Versailles on March 20. the Paris Commune on March 18, 1871, with permission of Prussia, Thiers sent the French army to confiscate the weapons that had spread in Paris at the hands of the laborers to ensure that the laborers of Paris will not fight against the army of Prussia. Theirs planned to bring back the confiscated weaponry to Versailles. but the laborers refused it. by the break of dawn, female laborers had blocked the arrival of the French army ordered by Thiers who attempted to confiscate the cannons and other weapons. until the people arrived and drove out the French army. even if ordered by Thiers, the soldiers didn't follow his instruction to shoot the people. General Claude Martin Lecomte and General Jacques Leonard Clement Thomas were killed by their own subordinates. on that day General Lecomte ordered four times to shoot the people, and General Thomas displayed his brutality and conservatism, and he was even caught spying on the barricades erected by the people. many troops of soldiers also left while some remained in Paris. because of this Thiers was enraged, and civil war started in France. on the next day, March 19, 1871, the citizens of Paris woke up to their freedom, and they happily accepted the attained freedom. the only ones governing here are the central committee of the national guard, composed of honest people, not politicians, and the laborers of Paris. March 23, 1871, the International Workingmen's Association and Federal Council of Parisian Sections declared unity and the appeal to have an election on March 26, while calling for the absolute release of the laborers, and ensure the true worth of their workforce. they called the Paris Commune a communal revolution. on March 26, 1871, the citizens of Paris elected a council they called the Paris Commune, consisting of laborers, including the members of the First International. the Paris Commune was proclaimed on March 28, 1871, so the laborers of Paris gained quick and widespread support from the whole of France. directly involved in the laborer revolution were the leaders of the international movement of laborers. on that day as well the central committee of the National Guard resigned when they enacted the dissolution of the "Morality Police". March 30 was when the commune removed the compulsory service to the army and the army itself; the only armed troop was the National Guard. the election of foreigners to the commune was also confirmed, because "the flag of the commune is the flag of the global republic". on April 1 it was declared that all the members of the commune will receive just the same wages as the laborers, whether he is in the government or an ordinary worker. the Commune also declared the separation of the church and the state, and the elimination of all payments of the government for religious purposes, as well as the transformation of all church properties into public properties. religion was declared as a private matter only. the Commune also carried out an order so the French government will not shoot the members of the Commune. in this order, all the people proven to liaise with the French government are considered hostages or hostages. but it was not carried out. a guillotine, or punishment to behead the sentenced with death, was released by the 137th battalion of the National Guard, and burned in front of the people, which pleased many. one more order implemented by the Commune was the removal in all schools of all religious symbols, pictures, dogma, prayer, and "everything within the sphere of individual conscience". it was immediately implemented. to crush the Commune, Thiers asked helped from Bismark to use in the Versailles Army the captured French troops who surrendered in Sedan and Metz. in exchange for 5 billion francs as damages, Bismarck agreed. so the army of Thiers already attacked Paris. the attacking troop of Thiers withdrew in southern Paris when they lost many men. April 16, the Commune announced the suspension of all debts within three years and the eradication of their interests. the Commune also ordered the registration of all factories shut down by capitalists and they carried out a plan on how the laborers who formerly worked there can run it, that they will organize into cooperative associations, and planned organization of all those cooperatives into a single union. the Commune removed all evening jobs for bakers, even the registration cards of laborers, which were issued by the Second Empire. the Commune established the eight-hour shift every day. they opened closed factories, carried out new procedures on wages and contracts, and set up a council of factory workers. laborers with dangerous jobs were given the right pay. fines on laborers who committed mistakes were removed. April 30, the Commune ordered the shutdown of pawnshops (pawnshops) on the basis that they're private abuse of labor, against the rights of laborers to their own tools for work. May 10, 1871, the Treaty of Frankfurt was signed, a peace treaty for the ending of the Franco-Prussian War. May 17, 1871 evening, a meeting of the Central Committee of the Union of Women was called, to organize the delegates attending the establishment of a "federal chamber of workingwomen". destruction of the Commune May 21, 1871, the troop of Versailles was able to enter Paris. the French army spent eight days until May 28 on the massacre of laborers, shooting civilians they see. that operation was led by Marchal MacMahon, who eventually became the president of France. thirty Communard books, laborers and unarmed civilians and children were killed; 38,000 were imprisoned, and 7,000 were forcibly deported to other countries. where did those involved in the Paris Commune fall short? why was it crushed within only two months? the witnesses back then gave many reasons. first, there was inadequacy in the preparation of the laborers to defend the Commune in case there was an attack within the city, despite a few barricades set up. second, it prioritized the establishment of a better justice system in the whole of Paris, instead of crushing its enemies, especially the troop of Thiers, so that they could not return to power. they should have also launched an offensive against the army of Thiers in Versailles so it would not have time to recover. according to Marx, "the Paris Commune, in essence, is a government of the working class. the army of the government was replaced by armed citizens, the power of the legislative and executive were held by representatives of laborers, who were elected, had responsibility and may decline any time, and the wages for all official government activity was equal to the wages of the ordinary laborer." for Lenin, it was not nationalism but internationalism shown by the Paris Commune. according to Lenin, the separation of the nationalist mentality is important in the working class: "leave the bourgeoisie to their responsibility of national humiliation - the role of the laborer is to fight for the socialist freedom of the laborer." Lenin further added, "the establishment of the Commune was spontaneous. at first, it was a movement in confusion. but the classes separated amidst the events. and only the laborers stayed loyal to the Commune until the end." features of the Commune the Paris Commune, despite only within France, was not a patriotic protest. it was a classist protest of laborers against the bourgeoisie, against capitalism, against the capital. the Paris Commune was a historic fight by the laborers of Paris, a movement towards the worldwide revolution of laborers, an attempt to destroy the bourgeois that is the machinery of the government, and it should also replace the machinery of the state. the Commune was the first attempt of the proletariat revolution to destroy the bourgeois that is a state machinery and it should also replace the destroyed state machinery. the features and important steps carried out by the Commune are the following: a. dissolving the regular military army and setting up armed citizens as its replacement. b. declaring that all officials are elected but can be replaced any time. c. removing all privileges and decreasing the wages or allowance of everyone serving the state to match the level of salary of laborers. d. the destruction of politics and parliament of the bourgeoisie, from a talking shop that became a working institution, an institution of a rule both fulfilled by executive and legislative activity. e. the organization of national unity. the Communes were set up on the level of the smallest community. the Communes were centralized on a centralized power, to fully crush the fight by the capitalists and implement the transfer of private property - factories, land, and others - to the possession of the whole nation. lessons with the destruction of the Commune, we were given many lessons: a. it is not enough to merely contain the machinery of the state for the use of laborers, but the whole state should be completely destroyed so that the bourgeois replaced by the Commune can not return. the Commune should ensure how to protect itself from its enemies. b. making a prompt decision is needed on how the bourgeois cannot return and reform. the Commune had many opportunities to crush the weak government forces in Versailles, but because a decision on it was not made on time, they came back and were immediately crushed. c. the classist consciousness of laborers should be heightened so they can set up their own society. d. the hesitation of the Commune to destroy enemy threat gave the bourgeois time to reorganize (regroup), strengthen their forces, and ally with the Prussians. laborers are still too kind to the capitalists and bourgeois. e. the Commune needs a revolutionary, socialist party that will ensure it success until its transition to socialism. f. laborers should have immediately confiscated banks, especially the Bank of France, which is the center of capitalist wealth, that was used by the capitalists against the Commune. the banks should have been centralized on the Commune to fund the revolution. g. the laborers should have found a way to ally with the peasants. because it was the peasants that were used by the bourgeois and the army of Thiers to crush the Commune. the dictatorship of the proletariat Marx based the theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat on the experience of the Paris Commune. this will replace the dictatorship of the bourgeois or capitalist state. the dictatorship of the proletariat is a socialist society governed by the working class, or proletariat. conclusion: the Paris Commune is one of the greatest and most inspired chapters in the history of the working class. the laborers of Paris replaced the capitalist state of their own government and they held this power for two months. the laborers of France worked, despite difficulties, to end the abuse and slavery of society, and to establish a society with a new basis and standard. these lessons ensured the success of the Russian Revolution of 1917 led by V. I. Lenin, and one Soviet Union (council) consisting of laborers was set up. the great lesson of the Paris Commune is a huge challenge to the working class of the present time. we need a higher level of worldwide unity and higher classist consciousness to ensure that we can plan the socialist society we desire for our welfare and for the next generation of laborers. references: (a) The Civil War in France, March-May 1871, Karl Marx; (b) Introduction on The Civil War in France, by Frederick Engels, 1891; (c) Lessons of the Paris Commune, Leon Trostky, Pebrero, 1921; (d) History of the Paris Commune, Prosper Olivier Lissagaray, 1876
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96183497 I, I am a true Filipino, true Filipino, brown spirit flows through my veins, in the depths of my heart, mind, and soul, one who will continue my heroic and colorful history, then, now, and forevermore. I diligently fulfill my natural responsibility for the welfare of my Motherland. I am always ready to defend my race and community from any harm, abuse, and grief. I am absolutely loving, sympathetic, and a supporter of principles working towards a free union that is pro-God, pro-family, pro-nation, pro-environment, and pro-justice. I have only one ambition and biggest desire, to see and experience the Philippines become a true free nation; democratic, prosperous, just and with an open Filipino society. natural is the wealth of my nation, from the creative and supportive hands of its people, the 7,107 beautiful isles containing rich lands, to the rivers, lakes and its surrounding seas that is generous with fish and its wealth, the forests that provide life and commerce, to the mountains containing minerals and natural resources, and being the primary center in Asia and current events. it is simply fitting to call my country the Pearl of the Orient. I value and take pride in it, anywhere in the world, whomever I encounter, and at any time. never have I been shy to introduce my brown race. many foreign strangers with their own ideologies and religions were enchanted by it; from Islam of the Arabs, Catholicism of the Spanish, Protestantism by the Americans, fascist nationalism by the Japanese, to their personal organizations and foreign politics that set fire to revolution, from Raha Lapu-lapu of Mactan, Gat Jose Rizal in Bagumbayan, Gat Andres Bonifacio in Balintawak, General Gregorio del Pilar in Tirad Pass, General Macario Sakay in the mountains, and many more. the fight goes on. as long as there are greedy foreigners and fake Filipinos who continue to connive and spread the twisted and rotten system of the Filipino society, my blood swirls around the seed of heroism planted by my ancestors. its flare is the one that sets the flame that, I, am a true Filipino.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_63219978 meanwhile the high school student in Cebu who was earlier prohibited by her school because of a bikini picture in Facebook will be able to march on her graduation . according to the court the lady was not given due process . Victoria Tulad is a witness . <no-speech> with the effect of the order of the court the student of Saint Theresa's College in Cebu will be able to march tomorrow on her graduation who was first prohibited because of her picture in a bikini posted on Facebook . the court also ordered that she be allowed to join practice her complete name be called in the ceremony and be allowed to receive the diploma . included in the basis of the decision is not giving due process to the student before her punishment was decided . in the order of the judge -- of the court they will just restrain the imposition of the sanction . it's a temporary in nature then after trial on the merit then there will be a final or permanent injunction . the S_T_C Cebu refused to give a statement when G_M_A news came to them earlier . but yesterday its management reasoned that the restriction is a school obligation as a Catholic school . like the S_T_C Cebu the Catholic school of Jo not her true name is also strict . those who will post a picture in bikini will be end up in the guidance office . and in order to avoid unpleasant pictures it is said that someone is monitoring their Facebook accounts . what I only hear from our school that they remind students not to post it because it's internet . someone can see it and then they can edit it and then post to another website . they may also not be allowed to join the graduation rites if they will receive a low grade of D in deportment or carrying one's self . but for the mother of Jo this strictness doesn't matter . I enrolled my child to a Catholic school to be God-fearing and then her education is much better . according to DepEd although strict and outdated for others they respect the procedures of Catholic schools . however they already sent staff from the division to investigate the incident in Saint Theresa's College Cebu . the department recognizes the rights of private schools to give procedures if the punishment to be imposed will violate our laws then DepEd can intervene there . but if not then that we recognize . I am Victoria Tulad your witness .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_23499322 it's not that easy to give to others the houses for the soldiers and police like what President Duterte did . that is according to the National Housing Authority it is stated by law who will be the beneficiaries of the housing project . a news brought by China Gaston . <no-speech> the husband of Rhodalyn has been a soldier for twenty years but they are still renting an apartment in Quezon City . the husband who's a technical sergeant at the Philippine Army has not really applied for a housing . aside from the far distance of the housing projects for the military there are no means of earning there . it is too far then we do not have a source of income there . they are not feeling ill about the occupation done by the members of the Union of Sympathizers for the Poor or KADAMAY in almost six hundred housing units in Pandi Bulacan for the soldiers . it was not given to others also to the poor so it is okay for us because for us we have salaries what is just disheartening if these are given to those who already have livelihood . for the A_F_P this is not an issue that would cause the disheartening of the soldiers . in general more than thirty thousand housing units are allocated for the soldiers in the whole country . because the space hoped to be given which is twenty-two square meters is not enough for a growing family so the quality of life is affected so the appeal of our military is they are willing to pay an additional amount just accommodate the larger space %incomplete but the National Housing Authority or N_H_A said that the action of the President has a major legal obstruction . the General Appropriations Act or the annual national budget made by the Congress into a law . it is very specific that the target beneficiaries are the A_F_P P_N_P and then all of a sudden you are reallocation or realigning to other beneficiaries outside the targeted group . Chino Gaston G_M_A %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31985663 Davao is being attacked by dengue mosquitoes by Al Jacinto, Malou Cablinda August 3, 2016 Zamboanga City -- Davao City major Sarah Duterte-Carpio is supposedly alarmed by the increase in the number of dengue cases there after it hit more than 4,000 cases since January. the number of casualties have also reached 25 so she is hammering the City Health Office (CHO) to find a way to stop the increase of dengue cases in Davao. the mayor supposedly also warned yesterday that she will not release the Christmas bonus of some employees of the CHO if the number of dengue cases will continue to balloon. Carpio's attention is focused on the Tropical Diseases Unit of the CHO who is responsible for controlling dengue. earlier she warned that she will fire some CHO employees if they do nothing about dengue spreading to different barangays.
query771 pomelo
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_27051141 slaughter in the party-list the final standing of the party-lists will supposedly be determined on the months of October-December in our system of government. the survivors will be determined on the month of October according to the requirements of the Commission on Elections. to our knowledge, the Comelec has six requirements for party-lists to get accreditation. and if a party-list will pass the six requirements, it will be allowed to join the 2013 elections. at present, some have been disqualified and some will still be disqualified. which party-lists have been disqualified and will be disqualified? it is up to you, patron, to rummage through Comelec to find out which ones are these. we just know, there are currently 54 available seats for party-list congressmen. principle of party-list from our understanding, the party-list was made part of the 1987 Constitution in order for the poor sectors in society to have representation in the national government. the party-list system aims to give a voice to the poor and minority citizens in Congress, particularly in the House, and that way, in the national government. the percentage may be small, the constitution allows only 20% of the House, but that way the poor and minorities have a voice in the House. there they will have a chance to forge laws in favor of the poor and minorities. not only that, each law they will create has an equivalent fund to benefit the poor and minorities. powerful and rich since the beginning, only the powerful and the rich are able to enter Congress. as time passes, they are revealed to be landlords, owning huge businesses with investors who are foreigners, children, and relatives of former high-ranking government officials. there are also loggers, smugglers, warlords and others. if there are minorities that manage to make it through, they are not poor. just a temporary solution for a short while like a three-year term. after that they will be reclaimed by former owners. the party-list system is expected to break that system. fake party-list but as longer as it gets, wow, we noticed how the fake party-lists have cut across as party-lists. how did those happen? there is a party-list with no defined voters. there is a party-list which is just a party-list for families. there are also party-lists established by the current administration, and their nominees have seats in the government and were appointed by the president or by those who have the power to appoint. cleaning up the Comelec the Comelec is said to be cleaning up the party-list system. like - it will erase fake party-lists from the list. because of this, all party-lists are worried. because all party-lists are candidates in the path of the Comelec's eraser. and the fear also resulted from the belief that the fakes now will just be replaced with other fakes.
query774 sole evf foot
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15797112 betrayed the boss! we are the boss of President Nonynoy Aquino, that's what I know. because that's what he keeps saying. that is why we expect, brother, that as boss of PNoy, he'll follow our advice, requests, and comments. and of course, whoever betrays their boss would seem like they betrayed PNoy as well. but if we investigate on the events now, I feel something different. because were were already betrayed by his people, but PNoy was just neglectful. his bosses are being stepped all over, but it doesn't affect PNoy. it got me thinking, are we really the boss of the President? or even from the start, we were just deceived and led to believe a lie? let's notice it. Energy Secretary Jericho Petilla promised that if he can't bring back the electricity to the victims of Yolanda until last Christmas, he'll resign. that is why, when his promise wasn't made, Petilla indeed resigned and admitted that he's a failure, liar, and has no ability to do his job. but what did PNoy to this person who lied to the people? didn't accept the resignation of Petilla! this animal and thick-faced Petilla didn't even make an "irrevocable resignation!" pwe! there's more. in stealing money from his boss where SARO of Department of Budget and Management was faked, PNoy pretended to have it investigated. but when results came out, it were "driver and janitors" believed to have colluded in the millions anomaly! in a right mind, it's clear that we're being betrayed because it's impossible for a driver and a janitor to do this big of an anomaly. but feel it, PNoy is just quiet! even worse. the bosses of the president who were stepped all over by Yolanda continue to hold on to the promise that they will be built "bunkhouses" for temporary shelter while they're slowly recovering from the tragedy. but what DPWH secretary built for them weren't houses for people. but in fact, a cage for animals! look how "bunkhouses" lived in by whole families, who are sadly victims, are very small compared to where that traitor Napoles lives in. king-inaaaa! this is what's worse. the President personally stated that from now on, he won't mind the comments (and advice?) of his bosses! is there such a thing?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_89833725 pushing the offensive by Jerome Tagaro this past week, news of the bombing that took place between the government of Israel and the Hamas, the group controlling the Gaza Strip, made noise. all of these bombings are supposedly part of the offensive of Israel that started on November 14 to completely stop Gaza's bombing of its territory. founded to stop the colonization of Israel and replace the Israeli state with an Islamic Palestinian state, Hamas is one of two groups controlling the territory of Palestine, consisting of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. it is easy to say the excuse that the offensive Israel launched is logical. it is truly the responsibility of the government to care for its jurisdiction. but if we will examine the last number of casualties from the bombing, we will know that three who died are Israelis, while more than 100 were Palestinians many of which are civilians. the difference of these two numbers seem too big to say that Israel is just defending its citizens. the government of Israel explained that these civilian casualties cannot be prevented. they supposedly cannot be blamed for the civilians involved because their targets are positioned in crowded areas. included in those hit by Israeli bombs are residential areas, hospitals, some media outlets, and one former national security compound. if we return to history, Palestinians are the original owners of the land covered by Israel today until the territory was formally divided in 1948 in a United Nations declaration. the primary reason for this division is for the Jews who became Nazi victims in World War II to have their own country. since then Israel gradually claimed the territories of Palestine through violence. at this point, what state is just really defending itself? it is important to consider that the bombing mentioned by the government of Israel only happened in the past months. the conflict between the two groups is decades old, wherein it is not the Israelis but the Gazans who lose land and lose civilians. the quantity and quality of the military of the two countries is another issue. the forces are weak and few and only handcrafted rockets are released by Hamas. meanwhile, Israel is armed with tanks, F-16s, drones and hundreds of thousands of skilled soldiers, in addition to the assistance given by the US that is worth up to $8.3 million per day. in this conflict in Gaza, the inconsiderate involvement of the US can be seen. proof of this is US president Barrack Obama siding with Israel in the offensive it launched. this action of his is not surprising because Israel serves as the outpost of the United States in the Middle East. the past election in the US expresses a clear message, wherein despite Mitt Romney and Barrack Obama coming from different parties, the foreign policies they are pushing for are almost the same. meaning, no matter who won the election that took place, no change can be expected in other countries, particularly in Gaza. for power, the war in Gaza will continue to worsen and the people involved in this conflict will continue to increase.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_18366313 <no-speech> have you eaten ? it's okay . <no-speech> what's your viand ? yes . it's over . <no-speech> <no-speech> what is his dish ? Nonoy here is very insistent . <no-speech> get it ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? Nonoy is here outside . <no-speech> huh ? Nene hello . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> I was pricked by a broom . Mat ? hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? hello . hello . <no-speech> is it okay is it okay ? hello . <no-speech> is it okay now ? <no-speech> it's okay now . huh ? it's okay now it's okay now . <no-speech> yes . it's getting lost . because I'm (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's still getting lost . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> there there there there . <no-speech> where should I place myself I don't know where I can place myself . still nothing . <no-speech> nothing . <no-speech> <no-speech> something might fall onto you there your foot . just very very little . <no-speech> there it looks good already . there . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? there . <no-speech> yes it's okay now . there is it okay now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> okay let's talk now . yes it's okay now . because this . yes . it's okay now . I was squeezed by a chair earlier . is it still there ? huh ? <no-speech> I was squeezed by a chair earlier so my foot bled . <no-speech> <no-speech> and then the things I was carrying . (()) . ah you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> how unfortunate . <no-speech> <no-speech> salty . <no-speech> <no-speech> I thought uhm Alma already left . <no-speech> Evelyn . <no-speech> <no-speech> they're insistent . do not (()) the children there move to there . hello ? <no-speech> hello . yes my uhm my period is strong . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> is Alma there ? <no-speech> my period is strong . is Alma still there ? <no-speech> huh ? huh ? <no-speech> overflowing . (()) on loudspeaker nothing (()) nothing I said what are you doing ? <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing just here babysitting my child . you are lucky . <no-speech> taking care of my child . you ? yes . when are you going home ? <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe next week . when are you going home ? <no-speech> next week . why ? <no-speech> why ? no money for fare yet . maybe you saw at work ? <no-speech> don't go home anymore . huh ? what ? <no-speech> don't work anymore . he said he's going home . no . just let the real one your mom take care of it . <no-speech> don't be loud (()) I'll slap you I'm talking to someone . no no we won't be picked up . <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> in what ? what ? <no-speech> how rowdy . scary . I said you should just work here . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> where ? don't go home anymore . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> here in uhm in Makati . <no-speech> it's noisy that's why I can't hear you . <no-speech> hello ? it's okay now . <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_22408431 more than seventy-seven years after the world war two it seems almost forgotten the service and heroism of the war veterans . seems like many do not know why the annual celebration of the day of valor . live from Quezon city with a report is Dano Tingcungco Dano ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Jessica today the whole country celebrates the day of valor but whose memory are we celebrating today ? and what is the role of the day of courage in our present society ? <no-speech> April nine nineteen forty two marked the start of one of the darkest chapters in our history the Bataan death march . after the Japanese invaded Bataan the country's last fortress at the start of the second World War the surrender of no less than seventy -- six thousand Filipino and American soldiers . they were forced to walk no less than one hundred and forty kilometers from Pilar Bataan to Capas Tarlac . but the term death march is a poor illustration of what they went through . out of seventy six thousand only fifty four only fifty four thousand were able to make it . so the people on the streets who were helping were beaten or shot or reprimanded . once they arrived at Capas Tarlac they rode this box car going to Camp O'Donnel . but because of its oven-like conditions due to the heat of the weather many did not reach the camp alive . at the end of the war we reclaimed our independence . at the monument of Mount Samat in Bataan President Noynoy Aquin led the commemoration . it was also here at Mount Samat that Kazuhide Ishikawa apologized once more I wish to express our heartfelt apologies and deep sense of remorse for all who suffered during those faithful days . <no-speech> we all remember and never forget what happened here . these monuments in Capas also serve as a reminder to the Death March Shrine where the story of what they went through at Capas National Shrine is engraved where each name is engraved . this (()) has three converging points which symbolize the Filipinos Americans and Japanese who have learned from the mistakes of the past using history as a bridge to continue a lasting peace . for those who visited today no celebration can heal the wounds of the past . the American father of the Filipino U_S military serviceman Clark Kellog is one of those who survived the death march . despite how many decades have passed until his father passed away in two thousand five the wounds remain fresh . he was consulting the -- the Veterans Administration Masteral (()) he talks sometimes he remembers it . <no-speech> he want to commit suicidal because he can't stand the pain . tourists sometimes go to the memorial getting photographs along with remembering the stories of heroism . but in the Death March Shrine with a distance of over seven kilometers visitors are fewer . and like the vandalism we saw the memory of the death march which is kind of far from the memory of some . of course that is important that is our just like um well our richest how it started as to how did our Filipinos die . this Day of Bravery some veterans inevitably reminisced their suffering . the most thoughtful is hungry . no eating for several days then the Japanese even points to us -- the canes of the Japanese . it is a social obligation without any real reason . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> and Jessica just like what we mentioned earlier in our uh report right uh tomorrow morning recollection program will be conducted at Capas Memorial Shrine in Capas Tarlac . uh huh let us just repeat Dano right seventy four thousand is the uh number of the Filipino and American soldiers who -- who were included in the death march from Bataan to Tarlac and in that number uh only fifty six thousand lived which means twenty eight thousand people died in that death march . <no-speech> correct Jessica and what is being said to us not only by Professor uh Jimuel Naval but also the kindred and the survivors themselves of this death march we talked with uh the sheer number of those uh who died who risked their lives in this death march is a uh something that should not be forgotten even this uh present generation because it has many lessons that can teach us not only in our history but also to us Filipinos like what Professor Naval has told us right there is actually in us in our Filipino descent that there is an ability and willingness to risk our lives without doubt and without second thoughts Jessica . uhm you know I hope someone will make a film so that the present generation can see the heroism of our fellow countrymen . why is it in Hollywood right their film Unbroken of -- that was directed by Angelina Jolie touches the heart . but that was only a story of one person while here twenty eight thousand Filipinos and Americans died in the death march and there were also many who survived huh . what they uh did to live is also really admirable . thank you so much to you .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25695264 Pledge of Commitment of the local leaders in OrMin, signed March 15, 2016 Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, March 15 (PIA) formally signed by Gov. Alfonso V. Umali Junior, Vice-Governor Humerlito A. Dolor, the chiefs of various departments in the capital, and the members of the Provincial Council the Pledge of Commitment for the project Partnership for Integrity and Jobs (I4J) done in Tamaraw Hall of the Capital recently. in his speech, Gov. Umali announced his belief that in the unity of all, the province will be able to triumph in the challenge of this program. The Pledge of Commitment in the Capital is adapted from the pledges of commitment done by each department in the capital signed also by its staff. this commitment will be serving as guide and direction in each department and will be reminding of the expected service from their department. the Oriental Mindoro and the municipality of Naujan are both beneficiaries of the program which is implemented by the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung of the European Union and the German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. associates also in this program are the Centrist Democracy Political Institute, European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines, League of Cities of the Philippines, League of Municipalities of the Philippines, and the League of Provinces of the Philippines. it can be recalled that the I4J was launched in the Philippines last year 2014 and encouraging the selected LGUs to make it a priority in their service to have of loyal and brilliant governance which will cause a continuous campaign for awareness in performing duties and transparent governance to avoid corruption in the regulation of the government. this program is divided into four phases: the Project Set-up Phase, Piloting Phase, Dissemination Phase and Conclusion Phase. the I4J program will be finished on December 2016. meanwhile, the other beneficiaries of the I4J program in the whole country are the Puerto Princesa city, San Carlos city, Cagayan de Oro, Tuburan, Iranun Cluster (Barira, Buldon, Matanog and Parang) and the provinces of Cebu and South Cotabato. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19446760 calls of the unfortunate province, should be heard. by Darius Galang December 2, 2016 the thousands of unfortunates in the province will conduct a Lakbayan now. they will knock on the doors of the Duterte government who promised change. it's only right to demand from the government. this is the message of the unfortunates in launching a Lakbayan to register their calls for their livelihood and housing. according to the research of Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap, the 2014 data from National Statistics Coordinating Board showed that quarter (1/4) of Filipinos is under the poverty line, 78 percent higher since 2013. an addition to that, the 2015 data from Philippine Statistics Authority showed that 8.1 percent of Filipinos is in extreme or subsistence poverty, or living one day at a time. it's undeniable, the situation of the unfortunates is tragic. in spite of their contribution to different industries, they are the one being abused by the sector. their incomes are already very low, and there's even a high rate of loss of jobs and livelihood. and for the employees, it's usually contractual, and not given benefits. they're even pushing to lack of access to education and health services, amidst the back to back demolition that only benefits the private sectors. they launched a Lakbayan so that their pleas to the Duterte government can be enlisted. their primary call is free housing for the masses. the unfortunates invested a long time in the back-to-back demolition in their community; and their call that demolition is not the solution to their complaints, but only for the interest of the rich, continues. in line with their call for housing is their fight for regular jobs, and P750 National Minimum Wage. this will be a big help to their terrible livelihood in the province. their calls to stop the the murder under the war against drugs is intensified, because majority of killed because of this is from the province. they also call for the departure of military from the community of indigents. more than the housing and regular jobs, a legitimate land reform, even national industrialization will be a really big help. majority of those who came to the city are from the countryside, in hopes of having a higher income in the city.
query1463 principle
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17185924 Friday, December 25, 2015 the word that took a human form ... face of the mercy of god: reflection for Christmas day year c - December 25, 2015 - jubilee year of mercy happy incarnation of "verbo" to all of you! a unique greeting right? because greeting "merry Christmas" or "merry Christmas!" is getting old. so let's change it "for a change" as they say! but if we look at it it really is the meaning of Christmas. the incarnation of the son of God that is also called "the mystery of incarnation." on the mass of the day during Christmas the gospel always reminds us of this truth. "in the beginning there is the word. God is with the word and the word is God ... the word became human and he lived in our midst." this is the statement of Saint John in the introduction of his gospel. the word of God took human form. it is difficult to understand this truth! there was a story once of a man who prayed to the Lord because his pet pigs have died. they were what he used as livelihood for his family so he implored to God to save his pigs from death. God answered and said: "sure, tomorrow your pet pigs will get better but there is one condition, tomorrow when you wake up you will see yourself in the pen of the pigs. you will eat, sleep, and roll in the dirt with them, in simpler terms... you will become a pig too!" the man was made to think and after a few moments prayed: "Lord, please just take my pigs!" hehehe... if you were placed in his situation, will you agree to become a pig? if we think about it humans and pigs are both animals. the man is just superior because he is an animal that thinks! remove his ability to think and he will act like an animal! so a man becoming a pig is not that impossible. but God becoming human is not comprehended by normal thinking. how can the creator lower himself and become a creation? only God can think of that! why did God want to become a creation despite his greatness? what Saint John said is this... "such is the love of God for the world that he gave his only son." (John 3:16) so that is the reason for God becoming a creation: because of the greatness of his love for us sinners! brothers, every Christmas God reminds us of his great gift: his only son... Jesus, who took human form! what is your gift to him? if God sacrificed for me it is perhaps only right that I also sacrifice for him. I should answer his loyalty with loyalty, his love with my love. have I done any good for my neighbor this Christmas? have I set time for my family to spend time with them this Christmas? have I greeted the people I have grudges for? have I forgiven those who have wronged me? the word incarnate challenges us to make our love realistic. show through action the incarnation of the word! and now in the jubilee year of mercy we have the chance to make "incarnate" the word of God through sharing his mercy. the word incarnate that is in the persona of the child born in Bethlehem is the face of the mercy of God. let us ask that we also become the "face of his mercy" to our neighbor. "merciful like the father" is the theme of the jubilee year of mercy. each one of us is called to become like Jesus. the face of the mercy of the father.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_93923181 teachers should be supported: I received a press release from the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) where head of the agency is encouraging returning overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) who are licensed teachers to teach in the country's public schools. it was stated in the press release that under the program "in the Philippines, you are the ma'am/sir (SPIMS)", overseas Filipino workers who passed the licensure examination for teachers (LET) are allowed to apply to be able to teach in our public schools. the SPIMS is the reintegration program for overseas Filipino workers who returned this for the past three years and had experience in teaching for the past five years. while those who taught for more than five years ago or those who don't have experience are required to undergo an online refresher course. according to labor secretary Silvestre H. Bello III, the program aims to give decent and regular jobs to past overseas Filipino workers who came home to become public school teachers. the secretary also said that the program would help mitigate the lack of teachers in schools around the country, especially in provinces and remote places. however, the press release is laughable and twisted since it is obvious that its only objective is to get publicity and there is no interest in putting the contents of the news in action. we noticed this since there were no other figures mentioned, for example, there was no mention on how much the salary of the teachers would be if ever they will teach here. we know that there is a stark difference in the salary of teachers teaching in other countries, most especially those who are in rich countries like the United States and Europe, compared to the salary that the government is capable of giving. the press release by DOLE would be more believable if they already included the potential salary of the teachers and a comparison against what they are receiving in other counties was provided. I would just like to clear that I am not against the program because if the government will be able to provide a decent salary to our teachers, they would have no reason to leave and be apart from their families. because its already certain that Filipino families would be the beneficiaries but the government needs to provide the appropriate and right salary. open line/Bobby Ricohermoso
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20097649 the D_O_H has announced that past eleven this morning nurse B of Banga South Cotabato is negative of MERS-CoV . <no-speech> together with close friends and relatives the good news is announced to nurse B's family in Banga . <no-speech> but nurse B is alarmed when he learned her father has already interacted with other people . and you are free . (()) . (()) . according to D_O_H a negative result in a MERS-CoV test to nurse B was already released last night which caused overwhelming joy to her family . the story of Mang Leon a barangay captain the challenge that they had been through in the past three days was intense . but it is also difficult if you are confined or quarantined . because you cannot do anything I am very worried ma'am . so then I said this must be the feeling of a person while he -- is isolated lonely . because even when eating I cannot almost eat . I am really thinking of what is going to happen to me . <foreign><foreign> ah my feeling of happiness <foreign> aside from a daughter who is a nurse and her husband another seven in their family are quarantined including Elmer who has been absent from his classes for few days . I want to see my friends . the members of the family poured out their bad feelings because of the incorrect reports of the media and the people who judged and were disgusted at them . slightly mad and the feelings are bad to the media -- to those who gave an information wrong information . actually it was still being monitored . there is no -- no -- truth yet . but hopefully the -- could be taken back the people would not be afraid anymore . hopefully let us get rid from our minds that you are disgusted on us especially to me . hopefully not me . hopefully that will be get rid off because it was already declared that she was negative ma'am . Captain Piliado went to Davao to fetch his daughter and her husband . but the remaining three members of the family will remain in the isolation room of S_P_M_C in Davao while waiting for the results of the test . the family is expecting their way of life to become normal again which is strengthened by one of -- the biggest challenge in their family .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17498432 because of fireworks in almost 600 victims of fireworks this recent New Year, majority of them came from a poor family. most are squatters or some reside in adjoined rooms for rent in the city, especially in Metro Manila. why do you think is that? even in accidents, the people struggling in life are showered with misfortune? they almost can't afford food for Noche Buena, but they still get to be unlucky and have relatives involved in accidents? I found the answer when I got to a place of squatters in Antipolo last Tuesday or a day after the New Year's eve. here are children happily playing with fireworks, and even had no slippers while their parents, without care, are talking to each other. in the streets, you can see a pile of garbage from the fireworks. if these people just put aside the money they used for clothes of their children instead, or even things for school, the money spent on fireworks would have been used for significant things. wrong choices, wrong priorities. this is the reason why many of our fellowmen can't escape from the quicksand of poverty. this is a reflection of their wrong perspective about how they properly run their family. for them, the noise coming from their lighted fireworks are enough happiness. for them, the noise of fireworks will shoo away the misfortune, and not their ability to strive and exert effort to escape poverty. they didn't think that they do this yearly, and yet their misfortune still continues. what's bad is if the result wasn't a cut finger, it would be their shabby houses in ash, burned just because of some useless fireworks.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_55518804 many parents are still complaining against the assigning of their children to the home study program of DepEd . they're asking how are they supposed to keep track of the studies of their children if they themselves cannot understand the lessons ? live from Quezon City Haji Rieta has the report . Haji ? yes Jessica the Home Study Program is again being implemented by the Department of Education this school year . however a number of parents and students still don't understand this program . there is another one . <no-speech> yesterday sir Jessica Balmaseda was in third year high school at Batasan National High School in Quezon City . but she will not yet be with her classmates at school . because she is already in the home study . so that's why her mother Mary Jane is too angry for words . it was said to be against rights law of her child not to be accepted in a regular class . the thing here is sir if he will be doing home study what will he learn ? if I for example I did not finish anything who will -- who will answer my child's question ? what is -- because I also do not know what to do with that if it is not being taught . we do not know what to do also -- how to answer . because no one is teaching us . in this office of the assistant principal of the school we came upon some of the parents who are complaining . because my child is also in fourth year . when I transferred him he did home study . I said the child even failed in daily ? what more if the class is only on Saturdays ? in case this my child took summer classes . I spend little for my child now when the enrollment came refuses I will still be transferred to -- to that is not nice . when these students and we accepted in a regular class and reached ninety to one hundred on hundred two is the largest I think or whereas it was one hundred eight last year it is really proven that a student does not learn anything because of the volume or the qualities quality education is no longer being searched for what a student gets . because now their enrollees have reached eleven thousand . if they will force to compress everyone in the classroom it could be possible to lose the students' concentration in their studies . <no-speech> if you will notice the students here in (()) each one of them has his or her own chair . the space is also wide and ma'am can teach properly . if this is the said setting in a classroom the student could understand their lessons much better . <no-speech> in the list of DepEd Quezon City Batasan Hills National High School is one of those with the biggest student classroom ratio of one is to sixty-three . this is not far from the situation of Judge Feliciano Belmonte High School . and at Commonwealth National High School . the situation is even more intense in Holy Spirit High School and Justice Cecilia Muñoz Palma High School . its just a matter of getting out of the box . because there are more and more children . the lot of lot of classroom does not increase though . so we are thinking . under the home study program the students will be given modules for the subjects of Math English Filipino Science and Social Studies . everyday they need to finish the set lessons . and when Saturday comes they will be facing their teacher for eight hours . here they can ask things that they cannot understand in their module . yes there is also a curriculum they will follow . they are not neglected . however now it is good that instead of five days of going to school it is just one day they saved on fare on provisions right . sir also the children should also be self directed . needed that -- that intense desire of theirs to learn by themselves . because .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65236703 frightening . experts are now having a new debate on where Jesus Christ was really born ? <no-speech> according to the shocking research there were two places in Israel which were called Bethlehem . there was a small town there called Galilee . in traditional Christmas celebrations of the birth of Jesus we were already accustomed to the fact that he was born in a manger in Bethlehem West Bank in the country of Israel . but there is supposedly a second Bethlehem which is a small village one thousand miles away from the north of Bethlehem . this is allegedly the real place where Mary gave birth to his son Jesus . <no-speech> Aviram Oshri an official of the Israel Antiquities Authority said he believes that there is indeed a second Bethlehem and the life of Jesus was spent in Galilee and Kinneret . the distance of the village from Nazareth is eight miles which is why it is impossible for Mary to walk to a place that far . that would be hard because she is pregnant and it would take days to reach Nazareth if she would give birth to Christ there . doctor Oshri said that Maria rode a donkey upon giving birth Maria was cuddling Jesus during those times . but it is curious what are the chances that the infant Jesus would live while riding a donkey from Bethlehem to Judea . <no-speech> someone said that Jesus was born at Nazareth . said by doctor Uzi Dahari an archaeologist in the Roman times when Jesus lived people were prohibited to transfer from place to place back then . <no-speech> because the whole family of Jesus came from Nazareth the archaeologist believes that here in Nazareth Jesus was born . but in the present time what is given importance are the things done by Jesus upon birth and not where he was born . Jesus Christ is important to many because he is a good example of a human being in the world . <no-speech> so what is the meaning of celebrating his birthday if the one whose birthday is not happy with the unruliness of many . the reason for his birth is to continue the teachings he started . the teaching of true love between people .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_75343149 Bitukang Manok in Pasig, Atimonan, Daet and the history of the Katipunan Bitukang Manok in Pasig, Atimonan, Daet and the history of the Katipunan by Gregorio V. Bituin Junior on October 9, 2014, we at Climate Walk traveled to what is called Bitukang Manok in Atimonan, Quezon. that is the second Bitukang Manok I am aware of. because the Bitukang Manok I know is located in Pasig City, that we usually talk about in historical discussions, especially on the Katipunan of Gat Andres Bonifacio. Bitukang Manok is important in the history of the fight of the Katipunan because the Katipuneros held meetings there led by Bonifacio. three historians mentioned it. two are my friends and co-members in the group Kamalaysayan (Kaisahan sa Kamalayan sa Kasaysayan, formerly Kampanya para sa Kamalayan sa Kasaysayan). Climate Walk is a campaign for Katarungang Pangklima or Climate Justice, and a long journey, or walk from Luneta (kilometer zero) to Tacloban (ground zero) that we held from October 2, the International Day on Non-Violence (International Day on Non-Violence), to November 8, 2014, the anniversary of the strong typhoon Yolanda. the second Bitukang Manok I discovered is not a river, but a winding path. called Bitukang Minok due to the winding path that resembles the intestine of a chicken. it was here in Climate Walk we explored, and while walking here I wrote a poem on my small notebook. companion Albert Lozada of Greenpeace saw me writing the poem, so he asked me to type it on his cellphone, which was then sent to the office of Greenpeace to be uploaded on their website. here is the poem: exploring Bitukang Manok 11 syllables each line we explored Bitukang Manok that was part of the long Climate Walk we participants were really happy singing, not drowsy the path may be very long but it will still end up in Tacloban especially when the company is enjoyable we can't seem to feel fatigue fresh air, no smog here the mountains are all forests how nice it is here in Bitukang Manok even if we didn't reach the top. - Bitukang Manok, Atimonan, Quezon, October 9, 2014 this poem was published on the website of GreenPeace which was uploaded there by Jenny Tuazon. thanks to you, Greenpeace! more power to you! the third Bitukang Manok, I found through the internet. and it is in the Bicol region, in Daet, Camarines Norte. it's along the national highway near the boundary of Camarines Sur and Camarines Norte, and under Bicol National Park. the first Bitukang Manok I know, before becoming a part of the history of the Katipunan, is a kingdom during the time of Dayang Kalangitan (who was born in 1450 and died in the year 1515). she is the only queen to have ruled the Kingdom of Tondo, and also established a smaller kingdom in the historic Bitukang Manok, a part of Pasig. Dayang Kalangitan was the eldest child of Raha Gambang who was considered one of the most powerful leaders of the kingdom. back in the day, when the Spanish had not yet conquered the country, Tondo covered a large part of the land, including Pasig. when her father died, it was Dayang Kalangitan who took over. she married Gat Lontok, who eventually became Raha Lontok, the king of Tondo. it is said that the leadership of Dayang Kalangitan was similar to the leadership of Princess Urduja of Pangasinan. her daughter Dayang Panginoon married Prince Balagtas of Namayan, and offspring of Empress Sasaban. the child of Dayang Kalangitan Salalila was the one who replaced her, and when Salalila surrendered to Islam, his name was changed to Sulaiman, eventually becoming the historic Raha Sulaiman who was the king of Tondo. the said Bitukang Manok in Pasig became the meeting place of the Katipuneros during the time of Bonifacio. according to Ed Aurelio Reyes (1952-2015) of Kamalaysayan, in the early part of May 1896, period of pilgrimage to the Virgin of Antipolo, an armada of seventeen boats paddled from Quiapo, carrying the leaders of different provincial councils of the Katipunan. it was led by Gat Andres Bonifacio. they reached the part of the river called Bitukang Manok, and they were welcomed by General Valentin Cruz, to a gathering called "Asamblea Magna". it was in Bitukang Manok the Katipuneros held the meeting where they decided to start the war against Spain. even if some had doubts about this decision, especially Emilio Aguinaldo of Cavite, the decision at Bitukang Manok was a decision agreed on and ratified by the Katipuneros from Batanes to Cotabato. according to Jose Eduardo Velasquez, second president of Kamalaysayan and known historian of Pasig who replaced Carlos Tech who was able to interview General Valentine Cruz in 1956, the plan of the Katipunan in the successful Nagsabado sa Pasig was discussed in a meeting in Bitukang Manok. along with the defeat of the Katipuneros in the battle of San Juan, the Katipuneros in Pasig were victorious on August 29, 1896, Saturday. General Valentin Cruz led the more than two thousand (2,000) Pasiguenos in attacking the fort of the civil guards at the largest garrison outside of Manila. they seized the fort, and confiscated there were three Remington firearms and seventeen piston rifles. this victory is celebrated by the Pasiguenos up to this day as the first victory of the Katipuneros against the abusive conquerors. one hundred years after the victory of Nagsabado sa Pasig, the heroism of the Katipuneros remain alive in the minds of Pasiguenos and they celebrated its centennial on August 29, 1996. according to Pablo S. Trillana, from the Philippine Historical Association, in the meeting on May 4, 1896 at Bitukang Manok, Supreme Leader Andres Bonifacio talked to Doctor Pio Valenzuela to contact Jose Rizal about the starting revolution. the meeting of Rizal and Valenzuela happened in Dapitan in Mindanao on June 21-22, 1896, two months before the Katipunan launched the revolution. Rizal turned down the offer of Bonifacio, because according to Rizal, the revolution was not yet ready. the river at Bitukang Manok that is a major part of the Pasig River resembles a python. the Spanish back then called it "Rio de Pasig" (or Pasig River), but the residents there continue to call it Bitukang Manok. Bitukang Manok is connected to the Antipolo River. during the 17th to 20th centuries, many trips to the Antipolo Church traveled along the length of Bitukang Manok. even the statue of Our Lady of Peace and Good Voyage repeatedly passed through Bitukang Manok eleven times. during the 18th century, mestizo Chinese erected on it a concrete bridge in the style of a pagoda called Pariancillo Bridge, that eventually became Fray Felix Trillo Bridge in honor of the famous pastor of Pasig. Bitukang Manok today in Pasig is already a dying river, because instead of protecting the river commercial establishments were built on it. it is about 3.6 kilometers from where a McDonalds is located up to where the factory of Asahi Glass in Pinagbuhatan in Pasig stands. like many important locations in the country, Bitukang Manok in Pasig is historical and should not disappear or be ruined. it should be valued by the generation today and by future generations.
query559 roast chicken
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65272029 introduction to 'seven daggers: poems and songs' by Ericson Acosta perhaps there is no need to introduce to the public the author of this book, Ericson Acosta (Ka Eric here), imprisoned writer, composer, singer, columnist, and activist intellectual. but there is no certainty in the entire world. neocolonial Philippines (that ComradeEric considers) one big "penal company" is protected in the kingdom of Kapital, all the stable ones (the status quo) soften, melt, disappear. there is no permanent situation anywhere. everything transforms, changes - body, prison, habit, institution, you, me, all of us. that is what happened recently. with the help of the company SELDA, KARAPATAN and international organizations, ComradeEric, more than 23 months imprisoned, was temporarily released so he can get health consultation. he developed serious illnesses resulting from torture and grave punishment given by the Aquino regime when he was apprehended on February 13, 2011 without warrant and placed in Calbayog City jail, Samar. charges on him: "illegal possession of explosives," suspected to have sex using a confiscated laptop computer. wait, authorities of the conceited State, the poet was researching then about human rights and living conditions in San Jorge, Samar. is that a crime? using his rich experience and expert knowledge as a journalist (UP Collegian; Manila Times; ABS-CBN, etcetera), ComradeEric studies the situation of the people together with serving the collective effort for progress. but like the period of colonization of American troops in Balangiga circa 1901 (see the poem "Jacob 1901"), the island is an arena of bloody conflict of classes. the poet was at the center; in the pressure and conflict "birds of prey" flocked... with no respect for the law, reason, human rights, the nation's scholar was jailed and abused - until the anger and protest of thousands of sympathizers ignited, from Amnesty in London up to PEN International and the United Nations, organizations complained of the cruel and unjust punishment on a person who has no other sin but offering his abilities and knowledge for the betterment of the nation. globalization is catching up, but the machinery of justice in our country is just too slow. we can wait until we are arrested, examine the prejudiced rumors, before concluding and using what is within. it features the real experience of one person in jail and in different situations, before going on an adventure in Samar and trying his luck there. personal testimony and typical discourse were both shaped here. we will get to know the creator, the protagonist, as well as the person he is talking to. there is no need to wander, directly attack and attempt to find out the beauty and effect of the style. but there are some tips that may improve understanding and assessment.
query557 crab mentality
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_21277168 oh alright . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you ? <no-speech> I'm still waiting . is this okay already ? <no-speech> <no-speech> if you want . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm good even if you're alone . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> come here already . <no-speech> yes I am waiting . I'll still take a bath . (()) who ? <no-speech> good that I brought . huh huh ? <no-speech> just get from there . okay . <no-speech> you're taking a bath there aren't you . yes . <no-speech> okay . two . <no-speech> <no-speech> but you're with you're with someone ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> a girl ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> it must be must be girls alright . <no-speech> five . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> five . I want them all girls . <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> all girls . <no-speech> ten . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> are there girls coming along ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> with a girl ? <no-speech> <no-speech> how many ? yes . hello ? <no-speech> I'm okay with just even three . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I'll try I'll try . three girls . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you have ? <no-speech> <no-speech> just there . <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> give them a bath so we can merge them here . <no-speech> what time is it already . <no-speech> what what ? <no-speech> are those drunk miss ? no . <no-speech> when will we reach that ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what time is it already . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> give it a bath already . <no-speech> <no-speech> what what ? <no-speech> you ? they need to be freshly bathed . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> your companions should be freshly bathed . huh ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> hello . they need to be freshly bathed okay ? <no-speech> maybe later they're not bathed at all . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> are you okay ? <no-speech> also bring guys so we can chat better so we can jam well . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay okay . yes . <no-speech> okay . I don't want someone bold okay . <no-speech> I don't want someone bold . <no-speech> bold . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> bold companion . <no-speech> <no-speech> none they're all scared . I just want someone okay . <no-speech> okay to be with okay to be . <no-speech> okay okay . where are you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> here . <no-speech> okay %incomplete <no-speech> is it okay already ? yes it's okay . <no-speech> is it okay already ? yes it's okay . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78736569 meanwhile President Aquino acknowledges the hard work of TESDA graduates to have a better life and help the country for its progress . this was stated by the president in the largest conference on Technical Vocational students in Cuneta Astrodome yesterday . here the president assured the capabilities of the Filipinos and creation of more opportunities for our poor fellowmen . that is given attention by our colleague Rocky Ignacio . <no-speech> President Aquino led the largest conference of Technical Vocational scholars under the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority or TESDA at Cuneta Astrodome . this is part of the acknowledgement of the president to the scholars who worked hard to become a good member of the society along with the improvement of their respective . it reaches around six thousand trainees and graduates from the National Capital Region Region three and Region four A have attended where the outstanding tech-voc graduates are recognized in their journey on the path of rising from poverty . there is a theme of recognition to TESDA scholar its goal is to show the implementation of the TESDA scholarship program which is one of the primary steps in creating additional jobs and resolving the issue on job mismatch . we are honoring the transformation of the lives our scholars as well . to all of you congratulations . <no-speech> as we sit as we sit on the post we have realized that one of the reasons why many in our fellowmen have no jobs and are left behind this is the job skills mismatch or the or the mismatch of the capabilities of the graduates to the needs of our industries . hence more have landed in low quality of work with meager income . in this situation how the family can be taken cared of and uphold the . if we just let this kind of problem prevail we have also let the suffering of many of our fellowmen to lengthen and worsen . so we immediately talked the industries we asked what are their needs . they have returned it with solidarity where they themselves have accepted the trainees in their respective companies . the course graduates of T_VEC is now at around eight point four million . according to the president a thrifty utilization of the nation's fund under the Right Path is an effective step in delivering programs against poverty . the Aquino administration allocated aide to various scholarship programs in TESDA such as the Training for Work Scholarship Program or T_W_S Private Education Student Financial Assistance or PESFA and Special Training for Employment Program . currently there are eight point four million people beneficiaries of the training program by TESDA . <no-speech> course is what we are referring to here and those who graduated . because there are graduates who take more than one course so that is not eight point four million people . the training for work scholarship program or T_W_S_P is only one part of TVET . with the help of the private sector we are training our scholars in different fields like in I_T_B_P_M semiconductor and electronic agri-fishery tourism general infrastructure and automotive . this August two the count of graduates here is at eight hundred seventy-seven thousand nine hundred and forty-three . what is good sir is that according to the study seventy-one point nine percent of this found jobs right away . this is very far this is very far to the twenty-eight point five percent employment rate previously . if looking at a number of industries employment rate is hitting ninety-one point twenty-six percent of those who graduated from TESDA and semiconductor and electronics industries in the Philippines or SEIPI . just a little bit sir one hundred percent already or every graduate we have here will be able to find a job . <no-speech> I would like to guarantee that . but if someone who graduated there does not look for a job maybe he won't get a job right ? included in the benefits of T_W_S_P of Meryle Rengie we saw earlier and Christina . we heard their story after -- after training in TESDA . this only proves what we promised we fulfill not only in words but more importantly in action . through the training that lasts a number of months we readily lay a decent and honest livelihood for many Filipinos . that is the principle of the straight road . the benefit should be given not the day after tomorrow but rather it should be now . following this the president recognizes the transformation made by TESDA director general Joel Villanueva in the agency that was previously shrouded with controversy and anomaly . the tax that you contribute to the fund of the nation is what helps in giving opportunities to many of our fellowmen . it is really different when the leader is like secretary Joel Villanueva . <no-speech> because the one he replaced did a lot of things that you already know and even has the audacity to sue now . Joel is one honest diligent and reliable public service . Joel is when he was still studying is a known athlete . whichever team he belongs Joel is considered as a star player . of course you will only become a skillful athlete or player of diligence and dedication . if there is discipline and you are ready -- to sacrifice in practicing Joel really worked hard for what he wants to achieve . that's correct and for us whatever he is supporting or teaching he's not just being a know-it-all . he is not -- contented with only reading books . it is not enough for him to just learn theories and concepts of one field . he does this in actual and tries . now sir even being a barista Joel is also a certified barista . <no-speech> used talent and experience to further improve the offered programs of the agency . I will just repeat sir maybe before there was an administrator of TESDA who is okay as long as we produce graduates . Joel sir with the cooperation of our DOLE with us and other agencies of the government first of all there is sense in what is being studied secondly ensuring there is a future for graduates . really complete ingredients . for the television of %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12142249 Rex and his family Posted by penpowersong Rex and his family by Apolinario Villalobos Rex (whose surname he doesn't want to be mentioned) and I have crossed paths in a 7-11 store, across Robinson's-Imus. I was having coffee that time while waiting for the mall to open where there is a computer store with a skillful technician who I always go to, he's Allen. that morning, the pants and polo shirt worn by Rex were obviously not pressed but it was not really that crumpled, and the shoes he was wearing was a cheap rubberized black but he was wearing socks though. I noticed that he was looking at my coffee so I asked him to have some, and when he refused I still stood to buy him one. Instead of readily drinking the coffee, he slightly was shy in asking if I can possibly pass him some load because he will be texting the supervisor of the grocery he applied at, as merchandiser. I was about to do the pass but I learned that he was using Globe and I was on Smart so it won't do. I instead gave him ten pesos for loading. Before he left to do the loading is the only time he said who he was and also left his belt bag. Upon returning after doing the load, he readily texted the supervisor where he applied to confirm that he was coming. he confessed that he only walked from their hut in a farm that is near a popular subdivision. he really doesn't have money because his earnings from selling several bundles of swamp cabbage and sweet potato tops in Imus market, from early dawn he already used to buy two kilos of rice and four pieces of dried herring so his two siblings will have something to eat before they go to school... he didn't have breakfast so there will be leftover rice and viand for his mother who is sick. The remaining coins he gave to his mother to save and use for buying medicine. Before he left he also boiled sweet potato tops to add to the grilled dried herring - breakfast of his mother. in the four dried herring he bought, they will have one each and he will eat his share for lunch. The payment meant for repairing my laptop I instead gave to him and I told him that if he is accepted for the job that he continue what he is doing caring for his siblings and sick mother. As he continues to tell his story, even when they were small their father left them, so they lived from place to place, even by the sidewalk in Baclaran until they reached Imus where they found a grassy field. they asked permission from the landowner before cleaning a place for their bedding - actually, tarpaulin that served as roof. Cartons that they always brought were their bed. his two siblings who pick up junk when there are no classes were able to gather wood so they were slowly able to build their hut. back then he hung out at Imus market in order to become a porter and call for passengers at the jeep terminal. they were permitted to plant vegetables along the area and the water for sprinkling comes from the well (deep well pump) of the landowner. When the opportunity came he studied refrigeration at TESDA. he used the TESDA certificate as proof of the educational attainment he obtained in applying for work as merchandiser. even if accepted as merchandiser, he will still sell swamp cabbage and sweet potato tops in the early dawn. if lucky, maybe his merchandise may increase to include squash because in several months the fruits will be bigger. he and his siblings already spoke on how they would be able to help in harvesting the tops every afternoon that will then be sold in the early dawn. his two siblings study in a public school that is near LTO-Imus. they walk going to class and back home. Rex is 23 years old, followed by his 9 year old brother and the baby sister is 7 years old... their mother is 52 years old. I promised to visit them because I know the field he mentioned anyway. if only majority of the Filipino youth are like Rex and his siblings, our country may not have that many problems...
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_24441685 aside from flower shops surely families and couples will also rush to hotels and restaurants this Valentine's day . oh don't worry because either you have a tight or big budget there are options for your Valentine treat . patrolling Yvonne Camlian . <no-speech> do you already have plans for Valentine's Day ? if you don't have a date don't worry . you can take your family or your friends in your valentine's celebration . on this day of hearts you will surely get excited from the promos and packages of hotels and restaurants . for those who want to staycation in the city there are discounts in hotels right now . <no-speech> here at San Miguel Street the Feb-tastic promo of a four star hotel is featured . there is a twenty percent discount in all their rooms from five thousand pesos to four thousand pesos only . they will also be serving a barbecue dinner and valentine menu this February thirteen until fourteen . the ambience is very ideal for lovers' . so if you come here on valentine's you can really feel that love is in the air . affordable is the valentine offer of a suite at Sampaguita street . you can stay overnight as a pair or as a family in their superior room . with the cost of one thousand eight pesos until one thousand five hundred fifty pesos inclusive of breakfast . here at laurel street also promo rated are these morocco rooms . if you want to go solo it is around seven hundred eighty-eight pesos per room for the standard single room . nine hundred ninety nine pesos for the family room . for those looking for a place to eat almost all restaurants have their own gimmick like an eat all you can promo with inclusion -- entertainment . in a food place here at national highway there is an increasing number of reservations for restaurants for their valentine's day blow-out for couples group of friends and families . they will ensure that whichever -- whichever is desired by the two in the couple and you enjoy the food you also enjoy the day . there is a buffet which costs four hundred fifty pesos already good for four persons . also this restaurant serves an eat-all-you-can for an amount of five hundred pesos per head . it is complete with seafood . we also have chicken and also pork . then has dessert . so for -- really for the family . worth it . they are really full . does not need to spend much . always have a Valentine day treat that fits our budget just be wise . beyond any celebration . it is still important to be with the people important in our life and make them feel our love . Yvonne Camlian .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32735729 <no-speech> the very first double canonization in the history of Catholic church will be held this Sunday . this is the conferment and recognition as saint of Pope John the twenty-third and John Paul the second . let's go back to the history of the two Saint Popes known because of their different personalities . one being humble and shy priest while the other is compared to a rock star because of his popularity . <no-speech> two admired names in our church will be bestowed a recognition as the new Saint of the millennium . Pope John the twenty-third and the Pope Saint that is very close to the hearts of Filipinos Pope John Paul the second . <no-speech> <no-speech> that's why Miss Minda is very busy with the preparation of the flower offering for the special celebration this upcoming week . for me it's a really special day . yes . because now I'll be able to . <no-speech> Pope Saint will be canonized to be a saint . <no-speech> Miss Minda witnessed Pope John the twenty-third that became Pope Saint of the Catholic Church last nineteen fifty-eight until nineteen sixty-three . but like many Filipinos the Pope Saint who served from nineteen seventy-eight until two thousand and five was closer to their hearts because of his visit in the country Pope Jon Paul the second . I remember when he visited here in the Philippines I was in Parañaque in front of Redemptorists Church . he passed by . he was from the airport . yes there were many people who waved at him back then . yes I was one of the many people there who braved the crowds just to see him . it was really fun . <no-speech> the leadership of Pope John the twenty-third and John Paul the second in the throne of the holy sea undeniably made a mark on many Catholics . this was what was explained to us by Father Ian Rosal of Saint Peter's Parish in Quezon City . the church loved Pope John Paul the second and John the twenty-third because they made the church closer to the people . John the twenty-third started the second Vatican council wherein he insisted for the people to understand what and who is the church and John Paul the second the reason why he was close to the people is because he made himself closer to the people because he started World Youth Day . he tried to make Christ closer especially to the youth so they will get to know and love Christ completely . even if Pope John the twenty-third was only in service for five years he was known for his advocacy and nicknamed the Good Pope . John the twenty-third was called the Good Pope because first of all his desire to have peace in the whole world . he wanted to face the people as a person and not as the Pope . born as Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli . Pope John the twenty-third was the eldest son from thirteen siblings . he grew up in a poor family in Lombardi that is now part of Sotto il Monte in Italy whose livelihood was called sharecroppers or sharecroppers only . so he was able to easily share to many poor Catholics the word of God . when he was Pope what he really wanted to happen is for there to be changes in our church so it was the opening of the doors of the Church because he wanted to project an image that the Church is a happy Church . <foreign><foreign> . meanwhile Pope John Paul the second who is also recognized more with the nickname John Paul The Great served as the father of the Catholic Church for almost two decades . one of the accomplishments done by Pope John Paul the Second is he wanted who is God and who is man in front of God to be understood . because of him more people got to know who is God especially the youth . he was baptized with the name Karl Joseph Wojtyla . Pope John Paul the second was the youngest of three siblings . his family at Wadowice in Poland is considered as middle class . his experience with the Nazi at the time of Holocaust strengthened the heart and faith of the first designated Pope Saint who isn't an Italian in three hundred years of history of Vatican . he became popular because he knew how to use mass media and social media and his personality is really charismatic that's why when he came to our country just by seeing him people are already shouting . without saying anything it seems people love him very much already . he just raised his baton and all the people were already shouting . <no-speech> that is why everyone especially the netizens are awaiting the canonization this Sunday . the reactions online is very active about how Blessed John the twenty-third is conservative and how Blessed John Paul the second is radical which may bond the different points of view of Catholics all over the world . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_40997580 EYEWITNESS | 'The shots came from the police' by Pinoy Weekly two Moro leaders bore witness to the massacre in Kidapawan City. read their story. editor's note: more or less 6,000 farmers from the town of Makilala, Mlang, Tulunan, Magpet, Roxas, Antipas, Arakan, and the city of Kidapawan in North Cotabato participated in the four-day barricade near the warehouse of the National Food Authority or NFA to call for the 15,000 sacks of rice intended for the victims of drought due to El Nino. despite it being promised by the government, Cotabato Governor Lala Mendoza refused to give in to their request. instead, she offered three kilograms of rice to each victim in the span of three months. of course, the farmers refused this offer and continued in their protest. Yesterday, 10 o'clock in the morning, the dispersal of the barricade took place as described by Bai Ali and Jerome. the details remain incomplete as this article is being written. However, the Anakpawis Party-list realized that three of the five who were allegedly killed were Rotello Daelto from the town of Binoongan, Arakan; Victor Lumandang from the town of Alobayon, Magpet; and Enrico Pabrica of Kidapawan. two females allegedly slain during the incident have yet to be identified. meanwhile, no less than 30 people were injured, including Jerome and Sheena Duazo of Bayan-SMR. Jerome Succor Aba Suara Bangsamoro El Nino has been around for six months already and the 36,000 individuals affected by it still have not received any assistance. That's why the Lumad farmers decided to barricade the national highway of Kidapawan City in order to pressure the government to release the calamity fund. January 2016, the local government declared a state of calamity but did not yet release the fund. thus, the farmers insisted on the distribution of the 15,000 sacks of rice. the provincial government was adamant. in past negotiations, we insisted they release the 15,000 sacks. but their counter proposal was three kilograms of rice quarterly. let us continue to defend the barricade in the presence of the police and the military. this may be the only rally where those barricading were faced with long firearms. and the firefighter faced it, of course. this day, the fourth day of the barricade, Governor Lala Mendoza called for negotiators. By noon, there was a negotiation. after this, we were supposed to call for a press conference. Our press conference got called off because of the sudden arrival of Mayor Joseph Evangelista of Kidapawan City and Colonel Alex Tagum, Senior Superintendent of the Philippine National Police (PNP) here in the province, in the barricade. they were accompanied by a barangay chairman who asked us to sign a document stating that the barricade be removed. they said the barricade was causing a great inconvenience. "sir, we are waiting for the negotiations with Governor Lala," we said. but Colonel Tagum answered, "there are no negotiations. the negotiation is finished." that's why he commanded, "Men, ready. Push!" they pushed. we defended our line from the striking of the policemen. the line really did not break because there were very few policemen. it was 200 against 6,000 protestors. that's why their last resort was to open fire. the farmers were shot. were killed. no one else was armed other than the PNP. Sheena and I clearly witnessed, as did Bai Ali Indayla in front of us, those who had fallen, the farmers beside us who were hit by the bullets of an M-16 rifle. that's why no one other than Governor Lala Mendoza, Mayor Evangelista, and Colonel Alex Tagum of the PNP ordered for the dispersal of the barricade. on the very first day of the barricade, the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) and PNP were already there on top of the firemen with long-armed rifles. after the shooting, we withdrew. we went to the United Methodist Church. they were still shooting there too. after that, Sheena of Bayan SMR was hit by a rock. Her head was bleeding. I, on the other hand, broke my leg due to the hits I took from the shields and police clubs earlier. earlier, Sheena and I were brought to Kidapawan Medical Hospital. Bai Ali Indayla Gabriela Women's Party earlier this morning at around 10 o'clock, while we were having our program at the barricade in Kidapawan City National Highway, we noticed the police were already on alert. they announced via their sound system that they would violently disperse the barricade of farmers. we still tried to speak with the policemen's boss, Provincial Director Alexander Tagum. I spoke to him, I told him that negotiations were to take place between the farmers and Governor Lala Talino Mendoza. they cannot use force just to scare the farmers. but Colonel Tagum answered that there would be no negotiations, that the farmers had to leave because they really were going to disperse the barricade. and so the dispersal took place. I saw it myself because I was at the front of the barricade, how they struck with their batons and pushed our farmer companions and even used firefighters to force back the farmers. First, pushing and striking, whacking. Then they used the firefighters. When the barricade did not disperse and the farmers continued to push the picket line, the police fell back and continued to use the water cannon. when the striking of the police intensified, the farmers were forced to pick up rocks. And fought against the fascism of the police. when the throwing of rocks started, the policemen did the same but the barricade really did not disperse. thus, the police used their guns. I myself saw two of our companions at the picket line get shot. one was hit in the face and, unfortunately, did not survive. the other was brought to the hospital but eventually died while being treated. his name, the one who died, was Rogelio Daelto. he was the one who got shot in the face, which became the reason for his immediate death. many were injured earlier due to the relentless shooting of the police. at the front of the barricade (was where the shots came from). From the line of policemen. the ranks of policemen faced the national highway towards Davao City. those who barricaded faced the direction going to Cotabato City. now, in the midst of the police's shooting, and there were already casualties, the farmers were forced to enter Spottswood in the United Methodist Church compound and even up to the gate of the Methodist church, they were followed by the police who continued to shoot. the farmers peacefully protested. it was clearly stated that they were to be given 15,000 sacks, 15 thousand sacks of rice requested by the farmers who, for six months, became victims of El Nino, of drought and didn't have anything to eat because there was nothing to harvest. nothing could be planted because their lands were barren due to the El Nino. Despite the call of the farmers, Governor Lala Talino Mendoza firmly refused to give them the P130-million calamity fund through distribution of rice to the farmers. Instead, force, bullets, guns, and the killing of farmers were shown by the government of Noynoy Aquino and Governor Lala Talino Mendoza. Where did the shots come from? we saw them ourselves because we faced them. we were able to hide, me, Sheena Duazo of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan - Southern Mindanao Region, and Jerome Aba, spokesperson of Suara Bangsamoro.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31103484 free Andrea Rosal and all political prisoners! leading violator of human rights which is the BS Aquino regime, will be held accountable! Patnubay de Guia, National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog May 24, 2014 the National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog (NDF-ST), in unity with the revolutionary citizens of the region, sends the wholehearted condolence to Andrea Rosal and her family in the passing of the newborn infant who is in the midst of mourning, the NDF-ST emphatically condemns the illegal detention and inhumane treatment to Andrea Rosal in the hands of the BS Aquino regime since she was illegally arrested by the Intelligence Service of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (ISAFP) and National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) last March. though not yet born, the reactionary regime has already denied from Diona Andrea the right to be born healthy and peaceful. eight months pregnant when illegally arrested, her mother Andrea was forcibly taken to the agency of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and experienced severe interrogation. when Andrea registered a severe ache in her stomach and was brought to the clinic of NBI, there was not even one doctor who examined her and instead, she was only told to write her name and profile. this is being prided by the AFP that they have given an attentive appropriate medical attention. when transferred to Camp Bagong Diwa (CBD), the torture experienced by the delicate condition of Andrea continues. without consideration on her condition and she was just cramped in a small and hot room together with 31 other prisoners, no ventilation aside from a small window. the authorities just let her sleep on the cement and even things like mat, water and food from her family and friends are not allowed to enter or else imposed with various difficulties before permitting to be entered to the prison cell. to have a laboratory examination needs a permission to be asked from the court - a court which is an instrument of the reactionary state to detain and punish the political prisoners who are imposed with invented cases. the fascists are pointing fingers of who have the accountability to what the mother and child experienced in the end. the AFP-DND, NBI and BJMP wanted to show that all medical attention needed by the mother and child was granted to them. a huge opposition because the pregnant mother Andrea was not able to taste due medical attention appropriate to her delicate condition. the once prided by the AFP that they brought Andrea to a private hospital for an ultrasound was that the family of Andrea themselves had actually paid just to examine the condition of the infant inside her womb. the plea to hospitalize Andrea was passed around by the Mauban RTC, Pasig RTC and Taguig RTC. the courts which are instruments of the reactionary state are not safe in the accountability to the experiences of the mother Andrea and her child and as well all political prisoners. meanwhile, the court released a mandate last May 15 to immediately bring Andrea to the hospital. but only on May 16 that Andrea was brought to the hospital after going back and forth to Camp Bagong Diwa. as it was told, the pitiful Andrea was not yet in labor, therefore, they brought her back to the BJMP through the command of Deputy Warden Teresa Cabanero. the doctors of Andrea insisted to immediately return her to the hospital because she and the baby she was about to give birth to would be put in danger. but Deputy Warden Teresa Cabanero of the BJMP disregarded this and turned a deaf ear. the night was deep before the BJMP brought Andrea again to the hospital. the tragic condition and the inhumane treatment to Andrea inside the prison until she can give birth is a clear violation of her human rights as a woman and a political detainee. a violation of her right when she was charged a make-believe, malicious and baseless criminal case of kidnapping and murder. violation of her rights not to be given the fundamental needs and utilize proper facilities. the lack of access to social and medical services for her physical, emotional, social and psychological needs is a violation to her right in order to take care of herself and for the best interest of Diona Andrea who is in the womb of her mother. the BS Aquino regime through the instruments of suppression - the AFP-DND, PNP-BJMP-DILG, NBI, DOJ and other anomalous prosecutor and judges in the courts who created the unwell condition and subjected Andrea Rosal and Diona Andrea in danger that led to the unnecessary death of the later. this is mirroring the lack of giving importance of the reactionary regime to life and human rights of ordinary citizens. it is clear who the BS Aquino regime and the reactionary law favor. this is happening while the thieves who are misspending the treasury of the nation are specially treated by the regime, spent with huge amount, savoring privileges to be treated and undergo operation anytime that they wanted. intensely condemned by the fuming revolutionary citizens of Southern Tagalog this detention of Andrea and all political prisoners. the US-Aquino regime is going to be held accountable for this numerous violations on human rights and the continual hunt on the progressive and its critics. sculpted in the history are the crimes of this regime which a payment shall be collected by the nation in the intensified and advancement of the people's democratic revolution. Andrea will accept the full condolence of the revolutionary movement in Southern Tagalog. while the society is drowned in poverty and made to suffer by the imperialist, feudal and bureaucratic capitalist, you are going to be a mother of thousands of infants and children who are denied of the chance to live abundantly and peacefully. you are a mother who is going to defend them and support a free society, with justice and prosperity for the whole nation.
query788 duty teacher
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78393089 advance the revolutionary movement on land reform Communist Party of the Philippines July 11, 2013 translation: advance the revolutionary land reform movement within 25 years, clearly shown by the reactionary Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP) that it is a big deceit. the economy and politics of the Philippines is continued to be overruled by backward and anti-progressive class of landlord. the landlords continue to subjugate millions of Filipino farmers in feudal and semi-feudal exploitation through their hacienda and other feudal properties. the CARP has no difference and its expanded program, the CARPer, in Presidential Decree #27 of the Marcos dictatorship and all of the past fake programs on land reform even before the beginning of a colonial state. after seven decades, the Filipino farmers remain landless and being subjugated in intense exploitation and abuse. the CARP and all of the initial fake programs on land reform are projects of deceit of the reactionary state dominated by landlords. it is only aiming to disregard the widespread plea for land and extinguish the democratic struggle of the farmer masses for an authentic land reform. covered in the falseness of the CARP is the truth that the huge hacienda remains untouched and in the monopolizing control of big landlords after 25 years of implementation. this is intensely highlighted of the truth that the reactionary state is currently governed by Benigno Aquino III, grandson of the Conjuangco landlords. the Hacienda Luisita, the most brightly colored symbol of feudal kingship, remains in the control of the Cojuangcos through deceit, bureaucratic manipulation and armed suppression. the villages are continued to be dominated by huge haciendas. the families Aquino, Roxas, Araneta and other families of huge landlords are wading through luxurious lifestyles. they live in palace-like houses, wearing expensive clothes, eating imported meat, drunk in expensive liquor, feasting in high-rise hotels, going back and forth to other countries and racing their cars gluttonous of gasoline just to have fun. they are numb about the poverty and destitution of the farmers and other masses of the children of sweat. the most surfacing exhibition of the lack of real democracy in the Philippines is the lack of authentic land reform. the majority of the Filipino nation, which is composed of farmers without land and poor farming workers, is suffering everyday in high rental of the land, low wages, high expenses on agricultural production, low prices of farming products, high interests on debts and other forms of feudal and semi-feudal exploitation and abuses. a hundred thousands of farmers are driven away from their lands because of landlords' widespread conversion of the use of agricultural lands to non-agricultural to make a roundabout on land reform laws and quickly gain interest. the national minority are intensely sent away from their lands in the flock of foreign mining companies which are poisoning the land and rivers. there is no economic progress that can give jobs in the modern industries than the work force in the villages. the villages of the Philippines is a big ocean of those who have nothing or lack of jobs where the wages are too low and the masses are drowned in hunger and poverty. society with no justice under the CARP of the reactionary state. the CARP is thrown as garbage by the organization of farmers as a pure real estate transaction in which the feudal lands are bought by the state in higher prices than its real worth. those considered certificate of land transfer (document of transferring the ownership of the land) of the farmers is vanished because of their inability to pay a high interest amount of amortization. in the name of "economies of scale" (larger economy), the identified beneficiaries are obligated to join in the "agrarian reform communities" to force them to join the system of big plantation for the production of banana, sugarcane, rubber, oil palm and other export products. they are asked to buy seedlings and equipment in agriculture and forced to sell their products to big landlords and exporters. the feudal and semi-feudal systems and backward agricultural production are continued to be taken advantaged by the foreign capitalist monopoly in order to bribe a huge interest and plunder the wealth of the Philippines. the big landlords and big bourgeoisie buyers are the most trusted allies of the imperialists. they are serving as suppliers of raw materials and channel of surplus products from imperialist countries. the aspiration for a real land reform remains the biggest democratic wish of the Filipino nation. this is the primary content of the democratic revolution of the nation which aspires to correct historic and societal injustice which is whipping the masses of farmers, and free them from the feudal and semi-feudal exploitation and abuses. in the implementation of real land reforms together with the national industrialization, the whole ability of productive forces in the Philippines will be released. the assertion of real land reform is continually fueling the civil war. in every day, the red warriors of the New People's Army (NPA) and the revolutionary forces under the leadership of the PKP are planning campaigns for land reforms in accordance to the Programs for the People's Democratic Revolution. implemented in the whole country is the minimum program for land reform. under the National Federation of Farmers (NFF), an allied organization of the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP), the masses of farmers are organized and mobilized to confront the landlords through asserting the lowering of rent for the land, raising the wages of farming workers, lowering the percentage of interest in debt and raise the price of their agricultural products. through the guidance of the PKP, the PKM is organizing the beginning form of cooperation and collectivization to raise the production and have an additional profit. the PKP is waving the banner of authentic land reform to dismantle the economic bases of exploitation and abuse of landlords. in its implementation, the revolutionary forces in the villages are triumphantly rooted deeply, the New People's Army is raised and the organization of political power under the People's Democratic Government is formed. the positive effect of the revolutionary movement on land reform for the masses of farmers is huge. the huge majority of the red warriors of the BHB is composed of the best children of the masses of farmers. a tornado of civil war continues in the whole country. it will advance to a higher level in the next years together with the advancement of the revolutionary movement on land reform. (this statement is released along with the 25th year of CARP which was made into law by Corazon Cojuangco Aquino last June 10, 1998).
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_34720868 Chubibo: Abu Sayyaf - pointing at DU30? by Dennis Garcia June 17, 2016 many of our fellowmen were saddened and angered by the news that the bandit group Abu Sayyaf beheaded another. beheaded were Robert Hall, a Canadian citizen kidnapped by the bandits together with three other hostages from Canada, Norway, and one Filipina. Jonn Ridsdel, another Canadian, was the first in the group to be killed when the bandits failed to get the P300M ransom they requested. the ransom insisted by the Abu Sayaff for the hostages has increased to P600 million. recently, President-elect Rodrigo Duterte talked to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. he asked an apology for what happened to Ridsdel and promised that no more Canadian will die in the hands of any bandits. but the promise was broken when Robert Hall was beheaded. guess who. one winner in the previous election shows a good example: he refused an extravagant office because the monthly rent for it is high. instead of the extravagant, he favored a simple office in Quezon City that seems to be closer to his heart. however, his decision was given malice but at the right time we will know if the rumors going around are true that he likes someone in this city. 50 are dead and 53 are wounded when Omar Mateen, an Afghan-American, entered a gay night club in Orlando, Florida. he drew out a military weapon and shot the dancing patrons of the club. he used an AR15 - a heavy assault rifle that is used in serious attacks. after what is considered the bloodiest massacre in America, sales of the AR15 that costs almost $800 really increased. many Americans bought it due to fear of increasing violence. the second reason is because they worry that the government will make the process of buying a gun stricter. a gun shop owner in Florida is extremely happy. if before they can sell one AR15 per day - now they can sell 10 assault rifles per hour. last attempt. the line for metered taxis in our airport is really long so you will be immediately approached by those with car service "desks" outside the terminal. you will be greedily priced with P1500 to go to EDSA Shangri-La, while in an ordinary metered taxi it will only cost up to P350. why is Uber not permitted to carry passengers in the airport so the tired passenger is comfortable, safe - and not taken advantage of?
query139 Ilocano butterfly
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_35991284 bottles, news papers, business and the Abu Sayyaf: every time the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) commits cruelties and crimes, the military operation is intensified - not only to defeat but to eradicate the ASG. and that is the exact command given by President Benigno Aquino III to the military and the police in Basilan after the ambush and murder by the ASG of the young 2nd Lieutenant Jun Galima Corpuz, who just graduated from the Philippine Military Academy this March 2014 and his five men. even the governor of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) Mujib Hattaman and the twelve councilman of the provinces that belong to the ARMM are calling for an "all out war" against the terrorist ASG. but there have already been multiple comprehensive operations against the ASG since 1993 and until now they haven't been eradicated. we understand the outburst of emotions from the commander-in-chief and the councilmen of the region of ARMM. but the army is aware and our fellowmen should understand that completely defeating the ASG is not that easy. since 1993, when the first comprehensive offensive by the Navy-Marines against the ASG was launched, several men from their ranks have already fallen. and for the following years of the operation with the Army and Air Force, they already killed known leaders such as Janjalani, Abu Sabaya, commander Robot and others. but instead of disappearing, the terrorist group persevered and became more violent and daring in their criminal activities. the ASG beheads and neuters the soldiers they have killed. the women that they capture, or like then take by force, are raped. and these detestable crimes that they commit are sometimes recorded in video and uploaded to social media. the criminal activities of the ASG, including kidnapping for ransom, are expanding. if the first recorded kidnapping case of the 5-year old Luis Anthony Biel in 1993 was in Basilan, they are now venturing into different places to look for kidnap victims. with their roots in Basilan and Sulu, the ASG has already reached the Sipadan Resort in Malaysia or the Dos Palmas Resort and other places in Palawan. they only release the captives after the ransom or "board and lodging" payment has been made. and allegedly, the latest reported ransom payment reached P250 million for the release of 2 German nationals who were kidnapped in Palawan and brought to Sulu. the question now is, is the military able to eradicate the Abu Sayyaf? if the only and dated strategy of the military is that only the military will act to eradicate the terrorist group, they are doomed to fail. we need to see and know the true "face" of the problem which is the ASG. the "eradication" of the ASG, like the command given by President PNoy, is not only an issue of armaments and ability (however, the ability and the modern armaments of the terrorist group could no longer be discounted). thanks to the vast amounts of ransom money they use to buy modern armaments. equipment that can stand off, if not overpower, the armaments being used by the government forces. besides the fact that the ASG is already well versed in the mountains of Sulu and Basilan, it is also easy for them to mingle and live with the citizens. most of the settlers there are their relatives who may be benefiting form them or sheltering them or both. there are problems and deficiencies that compel ordinary citizens to join the ASG. examples of these are the lack of proper education, poverty, or lack of sources of income. and the worst is the widespread of the new, secured, and easier way to earn a lot of money - kidnapping for ransom. and for places that are struggling like Sulu and Basilan where it is in the culture of our Muslim brethren to own armaments, the promise of money and arms is an easy way to convince citizens to join the terrorist group. currently, kidnapping for ransom is almost becoming an industry. seemed to have become more organized and already have a system to follow. there are people who are not really members of the ASG that kidnap victims themselves and bring them over to the ASG camp afterwards to be turned over in exchange for a small payment. the professional negotiators of the ASG will be the ones talking with the local government (or to foreign governments if the victim is foreign) to facilitate an exchange of the victim for a specified amount. similar are the dealers who after collecting bottles and newspapers bring them over to the junk shop in exchange for a small sum. and the junk shop will be responsible for bringing them over to Manila in exchange for a huge sum. a lot of people want to become "dealers of bottles and news papers". if not, how can one explain tourists like Martin and Gracia Burnham who were kidnapped in Sipadan, Malaysia or the two Germans having their vacation in a resort in Palawan being located and targeted for kidnapping? this means that the ASG probably has accomplices who are at resorts and give them tips on who to kidnap. the terrorists are clever. they are using the stolen money to buy the trust of the struggling people. in exchange for the money, the people are sheltering and defending the ASG who, in their eyes, are like "Robin Hoods" - stealing money to distribute to the poor. if the problem with the ASG is this complicated, how will they be defeated and eradicated by the armed forces? that is what we will discuss tomorrow in this column. for your reactions, send them to edarevalo90@yahoo.com or tweet @atty_edarevalo. a mariner's point / Attorney Edgard Arevalo
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62897420 is it another lie, PNoy? a liar is a sibling of a thief! a repetitive saying but real. in the attendance of Benigno Simeon Aquino 3 (BSA3) in the past Foreign Correspondents Association of the Philippines (FOCAP) released in the People's Television and aired in different radio station, with all his strength, he boasted what his administration has done. the struggle of his regime against corruption is the most colorful (?). he was asked by Filipino and foreign journalists about the issue on corruption and the case of the Luneta siege, three years had passed. let us take first what Noynoy and an official from China, China Premier Li Kequiang have discussed. PNoy's answer if they he had talked with the leader of China about what happened in Luneta when they attended the Southeast Asia Economic Leaders' Forum held in Brunei, they had not. child of seventy-seven white sheep. there, the Chinese leaders are mad and called him (Noynoy) as full of lies! even China Foreign Ministry Spokesman Hua Chunying himself have confirmed that indeed Aquino and Kequiang discussed in solving the Hong Kong issue. what is this, BSA3? about the issue of fighting against corruption, Noynoy boasted that light is slowly seen to totally dispel the corruption in the country. those who emptied out the treasury of the nation - in the time of Gloria Macapagal - Arroyo - will be filed a case, convicted and jailed. he also did this lies at FOCAP. when Senator Jinggoy Estrada exposed the P50 million reward for each senator to vote to impeach the former Supreme Court Justice Renato Corona, at first, his co-senators denied it to death, as well as the 188 crocodile congress people. not true, BSA3 said. but everything is exposed after Budget Secretary Butch Abad spoke that it was part of the Priority Development Acceleration Fund (PDAF) with the help of the Disbursement Allocation Fund (DAP). the country knows about PDAF or pork barrel but DAP, what is that? while Drilon, Abad, and PNoy defended that it (DAP) is proper and the new "milking" scheme of the Malacañang is illegal, the constitutionalists Joaquin Bernas, Professor Benjamin Diokno and Professor Leonor Briones have initially revolted against this, especially ex-Senator Joker Arroyo and Ping Lacson who are said to have received the pork barrel from DAP. it is natural for Joker and Ping to get mad because they know that they have not gotten their pork barrel since they became senators. and then, the P130 billion Malampaya Fund under the Aquino regime is intact. there, even the National Treasurer himself has said that, it was spent out, nothing, no more funds here. where did you bring the funds? is it all lies, PNoy?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_43410463 in the name of safety (this article was first published in issue 3 of the Philippine Collegian on 27 June 2012) by Anne Vitug riding his own motorcycle, Lawrence Mappala goes around the National Science Complex as part of his daily duty. "I am the one paying for the gasoline of my motorcycle to be used in making rounds. with the lack of equipment for us in the SSB, sometimes we need to make sacrifices so that we can do our jobs properly." | Chris Martin Imperial every day they wrestle with the heat of the sun, with lack of sleep, and most of all, with the threat of violence and danger. they are everywhere, ensuring security properly operates inside the university. they are not security guards, and also not the police. they may not be that well-known by everyone because of their civilian attire, yet they continue to ensure the safety of the students and employees of UP. the defenders the Special Services Brigade (SSB) was created in 2005 as partners of the police and security guards in improving safety in UP. one of its first members is Manong Lawrence Mappala, 45 years old. in his seven years of service, he spends each day restlessly making rounds in different parts of the university. he is always prepared for the call of service, day or night. this is the reason why his coworkers consider him as one of the most reliable members of the SSB. Manong Lawrence is from Aurora, Isabela but he grew up in Quezon City. even when he was a child, he dreamed of becoming a soldier but this was cut short when his father who was the sole breadwinner for their family back then was killed by a thief. even during high school Manong Lawrence learned to work as a construction worker if he has free time. because of this, and also because his mother diligently did the laundry of others, he graduated as a general radio operator in Samson College. before serving as SSB in the university, Mang Lawrence became an intelligent officer in the Economic Investigation and Intelligence Bureau, a government agency that was abolished in 2000. the operations of the agency stopped when they went against big personalities in the world of politics involved when they confiscated some illegal cargo. Manong Lawrence and more than one thousand employees experienced pressure and threats from politicians until the agency was eventually dissolved. for a few months he experienced difficulty finding a job that can answer to the needs of his family. at the end he again served as a barangay sentry in Pook Dagohoy inside the university. according to him, more than the financial needs, his experience from work helps him fulfill his role as SSB. despite the difficulty and danger his job brings, for Manong Lawrence, being an SSB is a privilege. with a salary of P481 per day and help from his wife who is a librarian in the UP College of Law they can answer to the needs of their family. like many parents, it is Manong Lawrence's dream for his three sons to study in UP. his first child tried to achieve this dream but he did not pass the UPCAT. despite this he did not lose confidence and is now close to finishing the course Criminology in Republican College. Manong Lawrence continues to wish for his children to succeed in whatever field they choose. Manong Lawrence fulfills many roles as SSB. in his job, he helps ensure the order and safety of the university. operation of work unlike the police and security guards, the SSB do not have uniforms. they also have not used any weapon like the baton for a long time. only the agility of the body and sharpness of the mind are the weapons of Manong Lawrence and 51 other members of the SSB in fulfilling their responsibilities. every day there are different places in the university that the SSB need to guard. it is their responsibility to observe and be on alert for possible illegal activities and suspicious people. they are also assigned to stop illegal sellers, strays, what are called watch-your-car boys and tricycles and pedicabs from entering the university. at times when they catch violators, the SSB cannot make an arrest. they can only guard those caught and wait for the police to respond to the case. Manong Lawrence got to know UP and its students through this line of work. he can still clearly remember when tuition increase was not yet a problem in the university. there were no long lines of students who want to get a loan or apply for STFAP. he believes that education should be free for all. for him, cutting the budget of UP is a definite burden for parents. "with life being so hard now, that is a serious burden for parents," he says. as one who serves the university, he personally witnesses different situations that parents and students of UP experience. as a parent, Mang Lawrence knows the value of giving children good education, and he also understands the hardships of parents in working and saving to be able to afford the increasing tuition, even in universities run by the state. really lacking it is undeniable that Mang Lawrence already has much experience with different faces of crime. according to him he will not forget chasing a robber near Ilang-Ilang Residence Hall and capturing a rapist in E. Jacinto. as a public space, UP has a big problem with security because anyone can freely enter and exit. crimes like theft are widespread on campus because it is not easy to identify who is from UP and who is not. even the absence of a uniform or dress code for students of the university becomes an advantage for robbers who freely enter and exit the campus. one possible solution to this problem is adding people who will guard the campus. but currently, it is difficult to implement because of the university's lack of budget. another problem of the SSB is the lack of equipment like motorcycles and mobile cars. the university is extremely large and with the amount of crime threats every day it is difficult for the SSB to guard the whole campus if only a few of them can use vehicles. another problem is the lack of training for current members of different security groups in UP like the SSB. one example of this is the filing of reports about the cases they respond to. according to Professor Emerino Dagdag, Chief Administrative Officer of the SSB, the SSB are not yet experienced here. proper filing of reports is important because it is one of the basis for additional action on cases. aside from this, according to Professor Dagdag, they also need extensive training in investigation in order to collect enough information and evidence on cases. the reality that UP as a community faces a lot of problems can be seen here. as SSB, Manong Lawrence is part of this community and he has a big role to fulfill in fixing the security system of UP. he is also a victim of the problems of the university like lack of funds for the needs of the SSB. these shortcomings are the reason perhaps why the SSB are still not that effective in maintaining order and safety in campus. in the end, while the members of the SSB protect the students and employees, it is also the responsibility of the university to attend to their needs towards effective execution of their responsibilities.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96734964 a story that will leave us with a smile . one of the favorite foods of the Filipinos is the horse bacon . in this year of the wooden horse let us check if the business owners of such are lucky . Lyn Olivario tell us the story . <no-speech> in an eatery here in Borromeo Street Longos Malabon people from far places go here for their specialty . the horse dishes . sometimes there are those who orders one cauldron . there are those who order that since they take it to other countries . our dried meat has the opportunity to go abroad unlike us . will we allow ourselves to fall behind ? with the amount of sixty-five pesos you can already have your horse bacon . compared to the regular beef bacon the horse bacon is a bit sweet and soft . and I can taste the margarine they used no sugar cheese even liver spread . and it really goes well with soy sauce and vinegar with chili . this dish takes long to cook but the customers are really satisfied with taste . it's delicious . in what way delicious ? I can taste the flavor of the horse bacon . butchered horses are sent here in Concepcion market . it is very safe to eat because the horses were grown in the mountains . becuase they have paper . when slaughtered at Bitas . before these are released before being brought inside these are being stamped . so it is okay to eat them . but the thing is there are only few suppliers of horse meat . but it is just that it is cheaper compared to beef . two hundred pesos for each kilo of horse meat . the softer horse tenderloin is around two hundred fifty per kilo . according to the vendors this meat is said to be safer . grass is only being eaten which is cleaner if you compare to a pig that eats dirty ones . for him a horse has no cholesterol . for him now this new year that is what's being mostly looked for . according to the vendor Aling Rosario even though it is not the year of the wood horse she feels the luck of selling this she was able to make her children graduate in their studies . until now I cannot stop selling it has already been forty years . I am regretting because of my many patrons . Lyn Olivario news .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83308025 the MNLF 'integree' in Silangkan (leadership experience part 11) I was in the middle of my breath pause while making out the noise-generating target by the forest half a kilometer from the boundary of Barangay Silangkan when I recognized our target. "son of a gun! wild boar!" a Visayan soldier said in a whisper, "ihalas!" the wild boar that crossed about 50 meters away from our skirmishers formation was big. it was as if we were plunged with cold water. I assumed it was lively action again against the bandits. because there are so many pigs around the island province of Sulu and in here are all sorts of species. what I saw was like a small water buffalo because of its length and height. my guess is it is one variety or sub-specie called Bornean wild boar that swims and crosses towards the islands of Sibutu in Tawi-tawi. because the residents of Sulu are 99% Muslim, a conservation project is no longer necessary there because they do not touch these animals. Muslim hunters are rare and snitched to the Christians especially the soldiers. we reorganized again and passed our observation to our BATCOM through radio. even those in the back were on alert in case what we saw really was an enemy. when I received the order to continue movement, we walked again. it was around six o'clock in the morning when we approached the front of the houses. I stopped the patrol about 200 meters from the houses to recon. using a 10x power Nimrod sniper scope and the Steiner binoculars, we scanned the surroundings to study the area well. "sir, there are two armed men. wearing BDA uniform," said Corporal Gil Galsim, one of my team leader and sniper. I confirmed his observation and preferred to study it thoroughly. I found that the armed men had M16 rifles and wore the red patch of the 1st infantry division. "that is a Tabak patch. red triangle with a dagger in the middle," I answered. because the patch of the 1st ID is based on the dagger of the scout ranger. according to the older Musangs , scout rangers composed the first personnel of the Tabak division in Nueva Ecija back in the day. of course, they do not want to turn their backs on being a Musang so they made their unit patch the Tabak, as mark that they are also fighters that came from the ranks of the Musang . in our snooping and peeping at the area, we also saw 4 more armed men with all sorts of weapons. some wore slippers, some wore shirts only and there are some who seemed to be carrying an attaché case in the manner of carrying his gun. by the back of their location there were children playing and elders as if relaxing and enjoying the fresh gust of wind of the Sulu Sea. "this is what was being said. it is unclear already. we cannot figure out who they are," I muttered with a mix of annoyance because we were again in a tricky situation. it is always our problem to figure out who is the enemy and who is not. in estimating the situation, my guess is they are not Abu Sayyaf but they may have relatives there who are bandits. when I confirmed the location in the map, we were in the vicinity of the 'recognized MNLF camp' in that area. I really need to know the true enemy no matter how. I tried not to shoot at them because I do not want to be blamed in the end and many will be involved. we may be able to send the armed men to fall on their backs in only the first round of gunfire, but it cannot be helped that there will be innocent civilians around their location who will get involved. there I made a decision: approach the armed men directly and talk to them. I knew that what I will do is a gamble so we planned a way to minimize risks and for us to be properly backed up. the first I did was mark on the map the grid location of our position in objective rally point (ORP) and the position of the suspected enemy (target). I talked to all the team leaders. "the team of Boni and of Tayros will come with me," I said in our briefing. "the team of Panganiban and of Cayabyab are support elements who will join us in case of gunfire." "the team of Galsim and Sabarre will provide support by fire." the sniper should aim at the front of the armed men. do not shoot until they raise their gun first and shoot at us," I strictly advised. I was confident that we were not disadvantaged. at a distance of 200 meters, hitting the bandits were just peanuts to my troops. for snipers, even if the mark of the 7.62mm round is between the eyes. I passed on my plan to the battalion and requested for the 81mm mortar to be laid to support us. because I was impressed by the skill of the mortar section of the 32snd SF company in our first encounter. because its kill radius was accurate and at 35 meters, those fighting us will be ashamed. the fire direction center just has to be good, its operators and of course, the forward observer who will adjust the fires. if one of them fails, we will be hit by mortar rounds in our position. one more danger to our situation there is that we at the front were in the gun target line. a few mistakes in giving the range (distance), we will be included in the casualties. I handed over everything to Sir Bobby Morales because this is what he studied in Fort Benning, Georgia wherein at a distance of 3km they hit T72 tanks with mortar rounds. Batman I mean BATCOM will be in charge. at the same time, also on alert were the 20th SRC led by Lieutenant Sam Yunque, the 12th SRC that back then was brought by Lieutenant Binalla and the SF company of Lieutenant Nick Banzuela to help us in case the enemy plans to mob us. no one left behind! before we finally left ORP, I gave reminders to my companions: "let us approach them as if relaxed. low carry the gun but the chamber is loaded. we should not be threatening to them. in case we are shot at, skirmishes to the front immediately and blast them with volume fire while carefully executing break contact." like before, I needed to emphasize our number one rule: "no matter what happens, no one is left behind!" I felt that we were all experiencing tension while approaching. I joined the 1st team so I myself will be the first to talk to the armed men. I know what we would be doing was very dangerous but that was the only way I saw to confirm if they were really enemies or not. I cannot stomach killing 'friendly forces' and be the cause for additional conflict. included in our P240.00 combat pay and P120.00 hazard pay is that, facing danger. about 100 meters from where the armed personnel positioned, they can already see us because we hit the very road going to their barangay. I saw one wave. the other armed men simply hid at the back part of the house, while three were just calm and walked forward to welcome us. one them stared at the 'pispis' (amulet) I wore on my head. I saw that he also had one and examined his uniform. really a battle dress attire of the 1st ID and he was an official. he approached our team smiling and first spoke. "sarge, which one of you is an official?" Private First Class Dumago looked back to me as if not wanting to say that I was his company commander. I released my slung AUG Steyr and shook hands with him. "Salam brother, I am 1st Lieutenant Cabunoc, their commander." he hugged me according to the customs of the Muslims. "Alaikumusalam! I am 2nd Lieutenant Aberin. I guarded my relatives here in Silangkan." I wondered how he was deployed there when he should have been integrated and be there with his mother unit. he is part of the 5,500 former members of the MNLF forces included in the ranks of the army (aside from the 1,500 included in the ranks of the PNP) starting 1997, according to what is stated in the GRP-MNLF Peace Agreement in 1996. "how did you end up here? is your unit assigned here?" he said a lot. like he did not want his relatives to be affected by military operations. like he was supposedly requested by Maas (Professor Nur Misuari). because it was still fresh in my mind the briefing to me by those from intel that on the month of February 2000 two of the MNLF "integree" Private First Class Tating Asbari who was a member of the 51st infantry battalion, 1st infantry division, and Private Abdun Isnari of the marine training unit, who were killed together with four Abu Sayyafs in an encounter by the marines there in the mountainous area. there were much more decent ones of them and loyal to the AFP but it cannot be helped that there will be disobedient ones. I knew there was a problem with what he did because he did not serve in his unit and it seemed as if he even served in the MNLF unit in Silangkan. still, I could not do anything there aside from reporting what I saw. what is important to me, is there was no gunfire. the men came out of the houses. others had guns, others just peeked through windows. so that place was itself already a part of the 'recognized' MNLF camp. it was vague, you do not know the boundary of their camp. this was not like Camp Aguinaldo or Fort Bonifacio whose outer limits were clear. in addition to that, it did not resemble a camp instead was just like an ordinary barangay. the difference, there were fox holes at the side of the road and some houses had running trenches. their community was meant for war. I reported my situation to battalion TCP. I said we were on the threshold of an MNLF camp. when the troop of Lieutenant Yunque followed me, he ended up exclaiming about the beauty of the sea and coast there. "bay, like Boracay!" it is because, the sand is fine and the water is clear there. as if the scenery is inviting us to wade like we were in an island resort. "it is okay here, bay, really like Boracay in its beauty." makes you lose battle stress. just do not look behind because you will be overwhelmed to see the forest of Indanan and Talipao where the bandits have spread!" I ended up sighing. I felt that the beauty of the lands owned by the descendants of Rajah Baguinda and by Sultan Jamalul Kiram were wasted. if only the place was not troubled, tourists from the whole world should be scrambling to visit this very beautiful place. I was brought back from my thoughts. we still had a mission. "you are an animal Robot, where did you hide!"
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48210342 90 children in Sarangani have undergone the feeding program May 25, 2016 City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, May 25 (PIA) - up to 90 malnourished children in Alabel, Sarangani, including around 20 child laborers are the current beneficiaries of a feeding program by the Department of Labor and Employment Sarangani Field Office. the RS Po Foundation of Century Pacific Food is helping DOLE-Sarangani in implementing the feeding program in Pag-asa Integrated Elementary School in Barangay Pag-asa in the town of Alabel. the first round of the feeding program will last 45 and was started this vacation to prepare the children for school. aside from the feeding program, the DOLE Sarangani Field Office also helped the parents of 20 child laborers to be given temporary livelihood under the DOLE-Tulong Panghanapbuhay sa Ating Disadvantaged Workers (DOLE-TUPAD) program. according to Sarangani Field Office OIC head Alma Borela, Barangay Pag-asa is one of the most affected by El Nino, causing the parents to lose livelihood; some of them were forced to make their children work. the reason for the increase of malnourished children in the said area is also attributed to El Nino. Borela reminded the parents, the children should be going to school and not allowed to work to earn for the family. (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_30505878 in our continued exploration to the real life of beauty queen turned T_V host and actress Miriam Quiambao she toured me in her home . and your house is beautiful . from the outside I saw that why is it like Greek the theme of the house ? actually this is the house of my husband and his late wife built two years ago . so we just returned here because I also liked the house then we renovated it according to my fate . was there a lot that changed in this house ? we expanded the living room the furniture are newly arranged and we tiled the bathroom . where is Miriam's touch here in this house ? this furniture of mine here . where are these from Miriam ? ah these came from my old condo . this is from my trip in Vietnam back back when we went there with Paolo Bediones of extra-extra to Vietnam . souvenir are those your souvenirs right ? after taking home the honor from Miss Universe Miriam Quiambao became in demand . gosh apologies sir for I have just arrived now because %incomplete but aside from a showbiz career also colorful and loud was her love life . this is what's called as one program that is totally for the masses . it can be remembered she was linked before to his co-host in Extra Challenge Paolo Bediones . their working relationship is good . there were times like they were linked romantically but nothing seems nothing . one controversial question . did you and Paolo Bediones become a couple ? no . no . because during that time he has always he has a girlfriend . he did not attempt to court -- courted ? not too . haven't too ? making himself felt but he has a girlfriend . one that adds a color to Miriam's love life is when she decided before to leave her show business career to marry her Italian boyfriend Claudio Rondinelli year two thousand four . when she got offered all those like show business kind of jobs she accepted worked hard but it was not that really where her heart is . she has always wanted to have a family . do you know that ? after getting married Miriam also decided to leave the Philippines and live in Hong Kong with Claudio . <no-speech> Miriam had shown her married life to me before in the program Filipino Abroad . I was actually happy in my first year but we were having problems on our second year of marriage . then even how much money my husband showers on me I could still not be happy . something is always lacking . that time specifically in Hong Kong there has been that already ? yes there is already . and then parting ways has it been difficult has it been easy ? that was our mutual agreement to separate because he was beginning to feel in loved with another girl and during that time I was already being invited back . I also received a call from G_M_A inviting me to be a part of Filipino Meets World . year two thousand seven Miriam returned to the country . she appeared again in various programs of G_M_A Network . but Miriam's confession to me of these moment she almost wanted to commit suicide for her many problems in life . when the camera turns off within me it's like that again I am depressed . I cannot sleep at night . then like like my aura was to dark then a lot says . what were you looking before do you think you know ? peace of mind . because I was just separated and I even remember I was praying . Lord I have no reason to live because I do not have a future anymore . I do not know where I am going . just take me Lord .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20980697 the AFP's 'badass' fighter: Corporal Leonardo Orozco I have shared a story on bravery and heroism of soldiers and CAFGU who support us in suppressing terrorist crimes that victimizes our fellowmen in villages. one whom I would refer to as a 'badass' soldier is the hunter (hunter) and member of CAFGU who is Corporal Leonardo Orozco. why is he 'badass'? in this way: he is calm only but has high self confidence, 'shrewd in fighting', has high level of survivor instincts; and, most of all he does not show signs of nervousness on imminent danger even in the line of fire! I have proven all that in the bloodiest encounter that I experienced in my youth. to know more about him, you may also see these links: 1) meeting Orrozco http://rangercabunzky.blogspot.com/2013/10/my-most-memorable-combat-action-leave_11.html 2) fighting with Orrozco. http://rangercabunzky.blogspot.com/2013/10/my-most-memorable-combat-action-leave_13.html even before our encounter, he has shown bravery and excellence in recon operations. together with his sibling, they both crawled in to position of the Abu Sayyaf lead by Hamsiraji Salih in Barangay Makiri, Isabela City, Basilan. even of they brought only a .45 caliber pistol, they went near the bandits to carefully observe their actions. in their patience, they learned that 4 bandits cleaning a caliber 50 heavy machine gun is in a different position! they agreed to snatch the caliber 50 HMG so they came up with a strategy. they went on separate positions and cocked a pistol on the bandits. they are fearless, aren't they? Orrozco boldly shouted at the bandits. hey, we have surrounded you! surrender otherwise we will now fire at you incessantly!" in severe nervousness, the bandits lost their hold on the heavy machine gun and quickly fled to avoid the attack of 'many' soldiers. this is the chance taken by Orrozco's company to pick up the very heavy gun to run up to high ground, nearer the position of their group. the Abu Sayyaf were left agape. on the third opportunity, almost two months only after he was wounded in our encounter in Balatanay, Orrozco again crawled to the bandits and saw the group of Hamsiraji near Barangay Balawatin-Barangay Makiri area. because I was in Sampinit Complex during that time, he gave the information to the light reaction company that resulted to the triumphant encounter that was lead by Captain Toto dela Cruz. the bandits fell flat on the floor and the 90mm Recoilless Rifle was taken, a few high calibre guns and including the recovered Raytheon Thermal Imager from the troops of the 10th IB were recovered from the terrorists. because of his extraordinary bravery and excellence in patrolling mission as a CAFGU, I recommended Orrozco to be enlisted in the Philippine Army back in the year 2002. we also had him awarded the highest honors for a CAFGU wherein President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo herself hanged the medal on him. in your point of view, can he be referred to as a 'badass' soldier? do you salute his excellence?
query1007 vital syn important operation syn function
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58286072 Senator Antonio Trillanes and Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile admitted that it would take long before they would reconcile after the debate they had yesterday at the plenary . yesterday here in our point by point Trillanes and Enrile reached out again and argued once more . meanwhile the palace was distant from the dispute . but it was clarified that no blessing was given to some statements of Trillanes in (()) notes like involving the name of the United States . and the said apathy of the Filipinos in pursuing the Scarborough Shoal . <no-speech> together with us here is congressman Antonio Tinio who is the representative to the congress of Alliance of Concerned Teachers or ACT . congressman a beautiful morning to you . a beautiful morning Anthony . maybe our fellow citizens are asking what are you doing here . here is the issue of the senate . first of all let us us address it directly . that issue between Senator Trillanes and Senate President Enrile what is the where do are you inclined there ? well for me well I think I should not let it pass Senator Enrile being Senate President right ? that -- there -- there is I think their strife has been pretty long between another -- senator Senator Trillanes who he even treats as kind of his protégé . yes . or like his endeared one right ? it looks like they are now fighting . but I assume that it should not be missed that in their personal quarrel Senator Enrile involved the issue of the West Philippine Sea . yes . this is one one dispute that is that is ongoing . yes . a very sensitive is -- issue . our National Patrimony has an involvement with this . yes . our territory . and suddenly Senator Emil -- Enrile used as ammunition in his personal dispute the very sensitive internal discussion . it is indeed our position that I think it caused harm . it harmed our position . in China . what I want to know there if if Senate President Enrile mentioned the that thing about -- Senator Trillanes being the negotiator in China are you saying that like -- like -- like he revealed to the public the the secrets that should be discussed only ? yes these are internal discussions right because that was not yet the revelation of the role at the backroom negotiator because it looks like at least in the part of the media there are already those who know right ? yes . but what more is that ah exposing of those notes . yes . of apparently one from D_F_A is our ambassador to China . yes . in relation to a supposedly confidential meeting . yes . (()) the problem here is it seems like a dispute or a disagreement appears between D_F_A and Senator Trillanes . so it looks like the problem of the Philippines has been magnified or disagreement in -- because of what Senator Enrile has done ? yes or like in this um well like the card was -- revealed to our enemy . yes . and because of that it may be taken advantage of by those we faced in the negotiation . yes . but is that sir thing in your opinion is enough also -- enough to punish Senate President Enrile of to remove him of of power as president of the senate ? like what wants to happen now that would be an internal discussion in the senate and the senators will be the ones to decide right ? depends on the count on the count of numbers if released . this is one issue only . I just comment on what I think is wrong and should not be dismissed . yes . you know it's as if Senator Enrile prioritized his personal interests over the interests of the country in relation to the very important issue of the West Philippine Sea . yes . I said although we have what is called inter-parliamentary courtesy the one asking for is facilitating now working now to remove Senator Enrile is Senator Trillanes and he confessed to that . will he be able to get sir a support in we -- like in your group sir ? <no-speech> well I think this is a maneuver of the of of -- of the ruling party that has long had -- had an attempt to get the senate presidency . I'm talking about the liberal party for instance right ? so for me maybe we should remember it's September twenty-one today anniversary of Martial Law and maybe it's time for us to recollect those roles taken by key actors during that time of dictation and maybe we should think of the politicians who prioritized their personal and shallow interests thanks to the interests of many . referring to whom ? well that includes Senator Enrile . <no-speech> in our line is Senator Jinggoy Estrada and our Senate President (()) . Senator Jinggoy how are you ? a beautiful morning to you ? good morning Anthony to all viewers . yes . (()) . yes . senator in your perspective is something going to happen here in the movement of Senator Trillanes to to oust the president of the senate from his post ? oh nothing will happen there because first and foremost they are the (()) of his grievance about Senate President Enrile . yes . I think those (()) they are not moving to oust Senate President Enrile . yes . how will a (()) succeed against Senator Enrile sir ? if it will have thirteen votes then oh if it there are thirteen votes from the senator to oust Senate President because the Senate President will come down . yes . so -- give us an idea for that Senator Jinggoy . right isn't there a -- there is Liberal Party there is Nationalista there is is a force of Filipino masses that one with you and then Sir there's a National People's Coalition . how would the division be done here sir ? we are a bit confused so if ever sometimes so . there is sir . which division where ? the -- the division varied because because the party where our senators belong . the liberal for example where are they ? where are the nationalists ? not the we have the majority and the minority . yes . the majority there are composed of liberal party P_N_P in Mindanao (()) . N_P_C and (()) are in the majority . yes . only three are in minority . in the minority is senate Senator Alan Peter Cayetano is in is the minority square leader . that includes Senator (()) Senator Villar (()) also Senator Trillanes . yes . so there's four . Arroyo Senator Marcos we're also with Senator Miriam . part of the majority . yes . so those are the current minority you mentioned . let's remove Senator Trillanes first . if they'll be joined by other nationalists who are in the majority and the liberal party will they get the majority ? not yet . that's still not the case . <no-speech> okay . what is the the possibility that Senate President Enrile will be dismissed if the Malacañang will interfere ? well if the Malacañang interferes the influence is big but (()) Senate President of Malacañang that Malacañang supports Senate President Enrile one hundred percent . yes . sir this is my last question . what would you like to say to Senator Antonio Trillanes ? first on his movement to -- oust the president of the senate . second is the way that he does to express sentiments release to Senate President Enrile ? first of all is that -- that desire of his to replace the senate president . as long as he has thirteen votes or they have transferred to someone who wants to replace the senate -- senate president . then they should just do if the senate wants Senator Trillanes to take the seat as long as there are thirteen senators who signed then will step down Senate President Enrile will step down that is no problem with him . yes . secondly in his in his (()) tirade against Senate President Enrile well maybe you know being a senator there for a long time Senator Drilon said he has been a senator for fifteen years me a senator for eight years well only now (()) have seen a dispute on -- on the attacking of a senator to a fellow senator . that is not nice . (()) Senator Trillanes will think that there is no more (()) . he does not hold a battalion that he does not hold his battalion in the senate . I hope he will change and asks for an apology from Senate President Enrile . Senator Jinggoy Estrada thank you so much and a beautiful morning to you . Senator Trilla -- oops senator do you think Senator Trillanes will have his political career affected because of this event ? Senator Enrile is very popular today . well it is clear that he is attacking one reason is because of the impeachment . yes . Senator Enrile is very popular but well Senator Trillanes is really a mistake what we have seen that on his career in the military . yes . and well good luck to him right ? last question . will -- will it be better for the country if Senate President Enrile will be replaced ? <no-speech> well it depends on who will replace right ? yes . <no-speech> what we need in the Senate is those who are really standing for the interest of the masses example the issues on R_H reproductive health . yes . then about passing this right in turning the freedom of information bill into a law . yes . unfortunately the work of the Senate is derailed because of this personal quarrel in which the Senate President himself is involved . Congressman Tinio thanks a lot to you sir and your voice is still good sir thank you sir . for our poll question are you in favor to the call of Senator Trillanes to replace Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile ? those who answered yes is twenty-eight percent and those who said no is seventy-two percent . <no-speech> members of my family the smoldering blows between Senate President Juan Ponce Enrile and Senator Antonio Trillanes are scorching . we can understand where the fury of Trillanes is coming from but we cannot like the methods and language he used to attack Enrile who is almost well his grandfather already . his allegations against Enrile can be true but perhaps it has not yet been accepted by the greater majority of Filipinos the scene where it seemed the kid vulgarized an old man . what you will admire in Trillanes is that he bravely went forward and admitted that he was the one who was brewing a coup d'état against brother Johnny . they are both subject matter experts there . but it seems that Trillanes did not remember the principle of Sun Tzu's Art of War that he should have learned from China . in several months of negotiating with the Chinese with officials . know your enemy does Trillanes know who his enemies are ? well now those who want to take a hit at Trillanes are suddenly appearing front and back because of his tension with Enrile . surely if Malacañang refuses to join the fight against Enrile then it seems that it would be unlikely that this plan will go anywhere . and the more important question is are the sugar-coated sentiments of Senator Sonny enough to remove Manong Johnny ? in truth there are still many -- supposed arrears owed by Enrile to the people if we look back in history . from his role in Martial Law of which today is the anniversary and the most famous ambush me . in his role in the removal of Marcos and in the coup d'état against President Cory Aquino . he should be thankful for the impeachment of Corona . Johnny Enrile's stars are shining and the said sins against the country are forgotten . family members it's not every day that the senate receives a high trans-rating . we also don't usually get a senate president that is trusted by seven out of ten Filipinos . for me the tobacco plantations do not need to be touched . it would be better that Enrile is there and hopefully we can benefit from his -- let's benefit from his unique wisdom and newfound support from the country . someone I spoke to a while ago said he may even be fit to become president if only Grandpa Johnny weren't so old like Grandpa Jose .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_49371018 Anthony pleas to fellow athletes July 10, 2016 NBA star Carmelo Anthony pleaded yesterday (Manila time) to athletes to "come out" and "demand change," after a police shooting that killed two black men and five officials who were also officers of the law in Dallas. Anthony, the New York Knicks forward focused on the unprecedented third men's Olympic basketball gold medal in Rio de Janeiro on August 5-21, expressed his message on social media encouraging athletes to call for change in a system he called "broken. point blank period." "I'm calling for all my fellow athletes to step up and take charge. go to your local officials, leaders, congressman, assemblymen/assemblywoman and demand change. there's no more sitting back and being afraid of tackling and addressing political issues anymore." five officials were killed, and seven police officers and two civilians were injured in Dallas last Thursday night in a sniper-style attack on the peaceful protest against police brutality that caused the death of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota. Anthony, 32, stressed that his advocacy for social justice is much more important than staying silent and scared of turning away sponsors. "we can't worry about what endorsements we gonna lose or (who's) going to look at us crazy. I need your voices to be heard," Anthony carefully stated. the 14-year NBA veteran insisted, he agrees to lead the movement but up to the present nobody has shown interest. "I'm all about rallying, protesting, fighting for our people. look I'll even lead the charge, by any means necessary," he even shared in his post. "we have to be smart about what we are doing though. we need to steer our anger in the right direction." "our anger should be towards the system... we have to put the pressure on the people in charge in order to get this thing we call justice right."
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32926292 <no-speech> first in our news the effort of the government continues in saving all captives of the -- M_N_L_F Misuari -- faction in Zamboanga City . this is in relation to the added number of freed hostages which has totaled to one hundred and seventeen . the government assured them of assistance along with undertaking a debriefing . the update from our partner George Bandola reporting live from Zamboanga City . George good afternoon to you . <no-speech> <no-speech> good afternoon Kirby at this time aside from the one hundred and seventeen that you mentioned is in total is one hundred and fifty one already including the first ones who were freed and those who were freed by way of the calibrated response of the joint force of A_F_P and of the Philippine National Police . the one hundred and seventeen was -- just last night in the early -- one consecutive operations carried out by the authorities . first of that is the minimum aerial strike that was carried out yesterday by the flight of the government's N_G_five twenty and three times -- raining on the groups of the Moro National Liberation Front Misuari faction . meanwhile we're receiving a flash report now Kirby that aside from having or despite having released one hundred and seventeen hostages this morning until starting last night Zamboanga City Chief of Police Police Senior Superintendent Chiquito Malayo has been kidnapped . Colonel Malayo was said to be abducted by a number of members of the M_N_L_F in the Arena Blanco area in Sitio Arena Blanco in Mampang Municipality here in Zamboanga City . along with Colonel Malayo are three members of the Zamboanga City Police as well when -- they were abducted past eleven o'clock just a while ago . they were carrying out -- and they were carrying out clearing operations A_F_P will say that almost seventy percent of their previously cleared areas that were first infested by these M_N_L_F members have been passed to the M_N_L -- or to -- passed to the P_N_P for clearing operations hopefully . and you can see in the video some of the members of the Moro National Liberation Front who were killed in the conducted operation of the combined forces of A_F_P and the Philippine National Police . these are currently still in the corner of Veteran Avenue . and earlier this morning like what you can see in your video now the hostages are being retrieved one by one were the first freed in the part of Barrio Santa Barbara . many of them are middle aged women and men and I also saw an almost nine children in ages thirteen below . but what D_I_L_G Secretary Mar Roxas ensures is that they will undergo debriefing and and -- or to totally eliminate their trauma after eight days of being held hostages in the hands of M_N_L_F member Misuari faction . with the initiative of D_S_W_D's Secretary Dinky Soliman who personally monitored the administration of debriefing sessions to the hostage victims they will lead the restoration of peace in these first hostages . we even saw that one of them was almost crying when he saw his relative inside the bus at was brought here inside Camp Batalla or formerly known as Camp Cawa-Cawa here in Zamboanga City . because the debriefing sessions for them are being held there . and and also one of those whom I talked to which is Neri Lumen he is a father who lost a child after the M_N_L_F member the members shot his twenty year old child . but fortunately according to him his wife and other -- child have escaped after the being captured by the group of M_N_L_F Misuari faction . so there are the latest updates from here in Zamboanga City for the television of the nation together of course with R_T_V George Bandola . George can you still hear us ? <no-speech> okay George I only have a question it has been appearing in the news that yes go ahead Kirby yes it has been appearing in the news that after the -- rescue here of our fellow citizens who were held hostage by the M_N_L_F there has already been a moping up and clearance operations there in the part of Santa Catalina in Zamboanga . how is it going now George these moping up operations ? <no-speech> actually in these times Kirby we still don't have an idea but because the A_F_P has been persistently reminding the groups of journalists that the group of media are not allowed to come with the clearing operations that are being conducted . Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Sagala has been mentioning since yesterday that within seventy percent of those areas infected by M_N_L_F are retrieved and are already being passed to P_N_P automatically for the clearing operations being conducted . Philippine National Police has sent -- even on the first day of the siege forces from Region three and Region ten from Negros . they were those who will conduct the clearing operations and mopping up operations and hopefully (()) there would be no like the kidnappings of the Zamboanga City Police Chief himself that will happen in the following hours .
query943 toothbrush
query1316 efficient
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_49751847 OrMin development program, approved by PDC November 13, 2016 Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, November 13 (PIA) - four important development programs of the province were recently approved by the Provincial Development Council (PDC). among the approved are the following: disaster risk reduction/climate change adaptation - enhanced provincial development and physical framework plan (DRR/CCA-PDPFP) 2016-2025; provincial development investment program (PDIP) 2017-2019; annual investment program 2017; and the provincial commodity investment plan for calamondin and coconut 2017-2019 of Oriental Mindoro under the Philippine Rural Development Project (PRDP). according to Governor Alfonso V. Umali, Junior, this is the first meeting of the reorganized PDC based on his Executive Order No. 80 series of 2016, that states the reorganization of the PDC and its other related objectives. at the said meeting, OIC - Provincial Planning and Development Coordinator, Lydia Muñeca S. Melgar presented the DRR/CCA -PDPFP 2016-2025. this is the joint Physical Framework Plan and Provincial Development Plan which involves the long term vision of the province, development goals, strategies, objectives and targets, and programs and activities which will serve as basis for the provision of provincial investment, allocation of funds and their implementation. the governor also announced his executive agenda for the years 2016 - 2019 which includes the 10-point agenda of the Provincial Government to ensure the advancement of agriculture and eco-tourism as the key industries that will further the province's development. meanwhile, to provide an affordable health services especially for those most in need, quality education that gives importance to cultural and traditional values and efficient social services are the primary goals of the Social Services Sector discussed by the Provincial Social Welfare and Development Officer Zarah C. Magboo. to ensure there is an adequate food supply, prosperous tourism and business opportunities, preservation of the environment and natural resources, a well-established communication system and public services was presented by Provincial Agriculturist Christine M. Pine. a responsible and an active government with integrity that meets the needs of its people, good relationship and partnership with other government agencies and private sectors, and good financial capabilities are the goals of General Public and other Services Sector discussed by Provincial Budget Officer Nennette M. Pineda. Pine also discussed the Provincial Commodity Investment Plan for calamondin and coconuts. it is one of the programs of the PRDP where various products of the province will be developed. aside from calamondin and coconut, programs for virgin coconut oil, banana, seaweeds and rice products will follow. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_79891077 the O_F_Ws and transport group during the State of the Nation Address of President Noynoy Aquino were dismayed . because they weren't mentioned in the one and a half hour SONA of P_Noy . the sentiments of the Filipino workers abroad is it seems like the president has no clear policy for them despite of the one billion remittances of the O_F_Ws . transport group plans to revive the call of increased fare in jeep and taxi in the middle of the hike in petroleum products . one and eighty per liter was increased in gasoline while up to one and twenty per liter in diesel . Piston group plans to go to agencies of oil companies today to protest that oil price hike . ACTO also plans to go to the oil depot in Pandacan .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15669306 prohibited but still continues: gambling, bribes, explosives after the loud welcome of New Year of 2014, Year of the Wooden Horse in Chinese Zodiac, the year 2013 bid its goodbye. along with it is the end of many lives and injury of many because of the fireworks in New Year. Department of Health says that in January 2014, 809 victims have already died. this includes the 3-month old baby, Von Alexander Llagas, of Caoayan; and Rhanz Corpuz of Ilocos Sur after they got hit by stray bullets caused by firing of shots by unknown suspects. one 2-year old girl named Diane Vocal, of age 2, of Caniogan, Pasig; and Carmen Samson, 50, of Rosario, Batangas luckily survived the gunshots. because of these, and just like expected, proposal for total ban of explosives has begun again. this is believed to be an effective way to prevent an increase rate of death and injured from explosives. just like before, manufacturers and vendors of fireworks strongly protests. the ban will kill the industry. the association of those who manufacture fireworks also denied that what they're selling are of poor quality. the who are licensed manufacturers of fireworks and pyrotechniques have quality control in their products. and if someone dies or gets injured, the victims should be the one to be blamed because they didn't lack reminders and campaigns on right way of using explosives. if we pay closer attention, the steps to be implemented should be thought of thoroughly so that there would no longer be a large number of casualties or injuries from firecrackers. let's accept that the manufacturers and vendors of explosives will not admit to their responsibilities for the victims of their products. their excuse is: they didn't lack in reminders or campaigns on how to use explosives. but after all, they know that in the moment the buyers of explosives leave their store, "they're up to themselves." if that's the case, the consideration to prohibit or not or campaign to stop the use of explosives is not on the manufacturers and vendors. primarily, a stronger campaign against explosives is to push forward the change of mindset of Filipinos ion why we use explosives. for example, it's not true that fireworks can drive away misfortune, it even brings misfortune. consider accidental injuries from pyrotechniques, while just gazing at the fireworks display, a misfortune, like with what happened to some people who who were watching in Mall of Asia. and what hurts the most is the misfortune brought by the bullets from the inconsiderate people who fired shots, regardless of its prohibition. in practicality, use of alternative ways to make noise, that symbolizes a happy welcome to New year, has lots of benefits. first, big savings and more safe in using torotot. or loud music with happy tunes. second, less pollution of air that our children who don't use explosives might inhale. third, when morning arrives, no garbage from firecrackers or fireworks containers should be swept. all of these were my experience when I tried to not use explosives at the end of the year. and I discovered that my character was nothing less; or that there was no decrease of received blessings from the Lord - even if I don't light up bulbs, or snake, or fountain, like with how I'm used to from 2012-2013. spending time with our family, not firecrackers, causes joy. if it's like that, the initiative to avoid explosives should come from own self, and not from the ban - may it be partial or total ban. the mindset to avoid explosives and to the misfortunes it bring to the victims should be realized by many. only an effective campaign against explosives is the key. firecrackers ban is a concrete step to solve the conceal the problem. but we, Filipinos, know that it's hard to go against tradition and mindset. like gambling which is supposedly a part of Filipino culture; or accepting bribe every election, which has an economical aspect for Filipino voters; or the idea of using firecrackers every end of the year has elements of Filipino culture, character, and mentality. if that's the case, this can't be stopped by a regulation of a prohibition. the only thing that will overcome this is smarter thinking. to educate people- voters, gamblers or those who use explosives - to explain to them is the key for them to start the change and have a smart practice.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_59058265 CBCP will open chaplaincy in Jordan by Noel Abuel August 16, 2016 the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) Episcopal Commission on Migrants and Itinerant People will open a chaplaincy in the Middle East particularly in Amman Jordan this year. according to Balanga Bataan Bishop Ruperto Santos, chairman of the commission, this is the result of their meeting with Bishop Paul Hinder, the Vicar Apostolic of the Apostolic Vicariate of Southern Arabia last year related to the plea of many Filipinos to add Filipino priests there. because of this, the bishop appealed to priests who want to join the apostolate and have a ministry in Amman Jordan who are ready to serve the overseas Filipino workers (OFW) who flock to the churches there.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20017750 stop! while continuing to be angry, you also continue to punish yourself. maintaining anger is like catching red-hot coal with the intention of throwing it to the one you are angry with; you yourself are scalded and eventually will burn. a problem that should not be bothered with anymore, instead create a solution for it. a problem is not talked about, but made a solution for. the right way is to inform the concerned, anything that angers or troubles you. while you are carrying its weight, you are troubled further, and eventually it will harm you. if you have no concern about the happenings in your surroundings, it is only proof that you have accepted and allow the violence, the corruption, the immorality happening. because if you are truly angered, you will reveal it and boldly announce your real sentiment. for whatever you want you can find many ways, and if it is something you do not like, you can make many excuses. so you will be known for your actions, and not for your words. it is easy to speak and deliver sentences, but what has more ground is where were you when your country needed you? in front of the television and crazy over an actor. pastime is basketball and entertainment is politics. it is not surprising that you are left behind and angered when in difficulty. whereas what should be blamed is your selfishness and lack of answer to the laments and calls of your country! what are you jealous and angry about? the success of others or your own failures?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58682693 Claudine Barretto and the two ground crew of the Cebu Pacific who were allegedly shouted at and cursed by the actress on the sixth of May after learning that their luggage were offloaded have made up . even the ground crew denied that they were cursed . the two supposedly don't have plans of filing a complaint against the actress . let us find out the reaction of the opposite camp we will be able to talk on the phone line with Attorney Jovito Barte lawyer of Ramon Tulfo . good morning attorney . good morning Tunying . yes attorney what is your reaction ? they've supposedly made up the the two sides . the camp of Claudine and then of the two ground crew that was became the source of the trouble in NAIA . well from what you mentioned those two became the source of trouble in NAIA right ? well two things first it's pleasing because they already made up . Mister Tulfo doesn't want for them to not really make up . second it's saddening to know that the two supposedly whom Mister Tulfo offered his life for seem to have turned around because -- I heard they probably retracted what they said no it's saddening . why ? because if considered that is the reason why Mon fell into that mess . but hopefully even if they made up their mouth won't shut for the truth when there will be a -- case trial . Attorney Barte now that you mentioned it the case won't it weaken the legal stand of your client because what the two themselves said -- two ground crew they were not cursed . well if you noticed in the first press statement of the mother of Miss Bokbok . <no-speech> she even cried on T_V because to quote she said I did not raise my child just to be cussed at . so maybe just there we can see that there is abuse done by Miss Barretto . which is why it called the attention of Mister Tulfo to record . yes . and it is also what brought him trouble . in your opinion why they withdrew from their earlier statement like you said the two ground crew who were cursed at by Claudine ? there are many many possible reasons . yes . but of course if I mention that they will accept it as speculation . yes . this is my last question . don't you see any arrangement here with the two sides ? well in the camp of Mister Tulfo you know (()) we are just of course he was the one who was inconvenienced here and what's saddening here is he is the one -- made to look like the one who started it all by the opposite camp . obvious in the video no matter what you do that he was the one who was inconvenienced and overpowered . in effect it's like he was really neutralized totally in fact if not for the intervention of the security even if their reaction is like that maybe the damage caused on him is much worse .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_97358475 extreme flood is the result of the continuous rain since last night . classes are cancelled to almost whole Metro Manila and to some neighboring province . but just like before the problem again is the belated suspension of classes of the students which is now the job of the mayors . Mia Reyes tell the story . past eleven o'clock last night heavy rain poured . immediately the flood water rose to some parts of Quezon city . at the Cubao Aurora underpass the water was leg-deep . at Talayan village the creek overflowed . <no-speech> but because of the continuous rain the flood at V Luna street in Pinahan village was waist-deep . this taxi could not overcome the water . it broke down in the middle of the street and was almost submerged in the flood that reached the hood . the other cars no longer attempted to enter the street . two submersible pumps from the M_M_D_A were used to suck the water on the street towards the creek at Nia road . the M_M_D_A stated that aside from stagnant trash there were rocks as large as hollow blocks that were blocking the drainage . there was also a building foundation that was seen blocking the flow of the water . let us refer that to our legal -- legal of the M_M_D_A what the sanctions are so that they will understand that what they're doing is wrong . in the nearby school of V Luna Flora Ylagan high school there was confusion regarding the suspension of classes . this father was drenched when he fetched his child around nine o'clock in the morning . Lito Mijares even rushed to the principal's office because the cancellation of classes was allegedly unclear . I told him to contact the principal's office . tell them you said there was an announcement on the T_V -- on the radio station that there will be no classes at Flora Ylagan . the principal's office said there was no declaration from them yet . <no-speech> but the principal placed the blame on the Quezon city government . the main problem at Quezon city aside from the very large seemingly no coordination right . the Palace apologized for the late announcement . it was possible that the L_G_U who are mandated to decide on the suspension of classes are still new to this . in the protocol released by the president at only four thirty in the morning the mayors should have suspended the classes . but DepEd recommended that it should be decided by ten o'clock until four o'clock of daybreak if classes will be suspended or not . but in the end it is still the parents decision if they will have their children enter or not . Mia Reyes %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_55503834 can generate electricity . the National Irrigation Administration says farmers don't need to worry about irrigation of their crops for the next cropping season . still the management of the dam believe that water in Magat will not hit critical level because of the approaching rainy season . supply of water doesn't need to be decreased because supposedly harvest season in hectares of farms in Isabela Quirino and Ifugao are over . because usually April May there is no more release for irrigation . the earlier the rains the earlier we start the next cropping . sometimes we start on May sixteen like that . in two thousand ten water in the dam reached critical level and resulted in drought in farms and fish kill in fisheries . something that can't be done again %incomplete
query948 neck tomorrow
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31500508 go with the flow let go and let it be, so there will be a result ... but if you meddle with it and tried over again, this is pointless. I have already experienced this, when you're riding a raft and it is carried away by the current and you fell, don't resist the rush of the current, instead lie straight on your back, float and allow to be carried away, kick and swing your hands and go with the flow, this will bring you to a silent place for your safety. but if you relentlessly swing your arms and kick, you are resisting the fast current. in the long run, you will be deprived of strength and even hit the rocks. this will cause you harm; to be wounded and lose consciousness to drown. this is also how life is explored, there are many heavy things or situation with no simple answer or solution. we need to let time set the solution. it is important that we accept the truth that there is nothing we can do with things that don't concern us and are uncertain. instead, let us long for everyone to have blessings and on the path of good for everyone. nobody knows why a thing or situation happens in our life. if this is a blessing or curse, the only one who knows is the great creator. keep an open mind in life, because it deliberately and continuously reveals your fate. this is the key to be at peace amidst the furious surge that is thrown at you by fate. if you are faced with a serious problem beyond your control and ability, the wise solution here is to get carried away by the current.
query503 many reasons
query109 drinking alcohol
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_11887695 South Cotabato is scheduled to perform anti-malaria operations. June 06, 2016 City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, June 6 (PIA) - four anti-malaria border operations are scheduled to be done by the Provincial Malaria Team of South Cotabato during the second part of the year, according to one official here. in one interview, Jose Barroquillo, provincial mosquito-borne disease focal person, said that the activity is still in relation to efforts of the provincial government to continue with the status of the province, which has no case of malaria that it now on its sixth year. according to Barroquillo, included in the anti-malaria border operations are the 18 villages between the towns of Tboli in South Cotabato and Maasim in Sarangani, and the villages between Lake Sebu and Maitum in Sarangani, and the villages between Lake Sebu and the towns of Bagumbayan and Palimbang in Sultan Kudarat. aside from checking if there are mosquitoes that could bring malaria disease in the said places, the malaria team will also distribute mosquito nets that have protection against mosquitoes, as a replacement for what was given to the residents about five years ago. the anti-malaria operations is important, according to Barroquillo, in order to maintain its status of having no cases of malaria even if 170 cases of malaria were reported in the neighboring province of Sultan Kudarat during the past year. it can be recalled that since 2000 up to the present, there has been no recorded "indigenous" case of malaria in entire South Cotabato. it is currently going through an evaluation by the World Health Organization to be recognized as a "malaria-free province". (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_77909772 fire truck: P1 million, P9 million, P20 million the weather is getting hotter and hotter though there are still some rainy days. because of this, let's expect a frequent occurrence of fire everywhere from Batanes to Tawi-Tawi. the question is: where are the fire trucks of firefighters? according to the Bureau of Fire Department, especially the Department of Interior and Local Government, republic of Juan lacks 1,600 fire trucks. wow, that's possible. because there's more than 1,500 municipalities, and many doesn't have fire trucks. not including the cities and provinces some of which do not have fire trucks yet. if there were, it's outdated or defective and can almost be sold to a junk shop. oOo before Christmas last year, the plan of DILG to buy 76 fire trucks fumed and flared. but they wanted imported ones that cost P20 million each. this is where the local makers of fire trucks, that sells each unit for P9 million, complained. it is puzzling that DILG wanted to import instead of buying local. we don't know the outcome of this controversy. all of those in DILG and BFP are silent. and the mischievous only depends on diligence and skills of fire volunteers that are usually composed of Tsinoy siblings and the barangay. oOo here, we also remember the offer of fire truck by the fire volunteers. they said, with P1 million, you can already have it, and a complete set of things for five to six firefighters. if we buy 1,000 fire trucks, P1.3 billion which the DILG wants to spend for only 76 units is more than enough. PNoy, please look at the nonsense of DILG.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31940571 (()) aah aah the N is four because that number is -- an exponent with an exponent those were the exponents that are needed to be multiplied so twelve divided by three four . so Nathan's answer is correct that n is equals to four . I grew fond sir of math when I was in grade one because sir when I understood it I become quicker already sir in addition subtraction and the others as well sir . that was when I understood that I have something to show when it comes to math . <no-speech> he is Nathan Arthur Banatao grade six student of U_P Integrated School he is one of the leading students in Professor Solsa's math class . compared to other students he gets higher scores . and as I've said earlier he is one of the students that could answer correctly and fast . he's a quick thinker . if he will be compared in his level now he is more advanced . <no-speech> Nathan has Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder or A_D_H_D there are instances where he has difficulty concentrating in his studies and becomes really active . that is why he regularly takes medicines during class . it increases my focus so that I am not like -- there are times when I am not able to drink my medicines I often stare at nothing and randomly stands . <no-speech> oh yes Nathan . A_D_H_D is a condition wherein it is difficult for a child to focus his attention on one thing . difficult very very difficult because of that . it's high according to his test results he has high impulsivity . that means that he acts without thinking . but on the other hand you can be very generous he is very loving to his siblings he is wise and not pretentious -- he's a cowboy . <no-speech> <no-speech> Tom created a system in his house . <no-speech> so here's the checklist that we use every morning . <no-speech> actually this should be for Nathan only . this is Nathan's only but because there are four of them siblings that are already studying so all of them each have their own . so first of all here because it's difficult to wake Nathan up and uh also what I use here for motivation is play time computer time . I learned this from the parenting seminars in A_D_H_D that said it should be structured because the minds of children with A_D_H_D tend to wander there needs to be something that he sees that will guide him so I will start with this . we are here in our house and I will now show you my medals . this my first this medal . this one is grade three . this is gold in MTAP this is (()) along with my other classmates here . we won gold . and this second one was in Singapore . I got the gold . uh it's like this shows the highest . this next one was in India uh that -- International Math and Science Olympiad . I only got the bronze . <no-speech> Nathan already has nine medals . Nathan's dad finished in Computer Engineering that's why he serves as his son's personal math teacher . but Tom thinks his son is better than him . whatever those principles are he know why he's doing them . often we don't -- uh -- uh -- agree . it's okay with me that he's usually right and I'm wrong . <no-speech> <no-speech> now I'm now going to my training in (()) near Arellano . <no-speech> <no-speech> Nathan's training is every Saturday . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_10307483 Paragila by Tomas U. Santos - January 29, 2016 it was already past nine when Ernesto was able to lie down, and his open phone was the only thing that was giving light in his stuffy room. he carefully slid his right thumb up and down the screen to catch a glimpse of his Facebook: videos of mischievous Corgis, memes of Bill and Juan and angry complaints about taxi drivers. "same thing over and over," Ernesto said to himself. he already felt heaviness in his eyes, and the light from the five-inch screen of his phone slowly disappeared from his sight. Ernesto remembered his older sister, Estrella, who was working as a nurse in Singapore. "how is she?" Estrella only posts on Facebook once in a while about things regarding her life. he felt like he was somewhat falling from his bed. his fall through a passageway was continuous. Ernesto fell on a street. the place where he fell on was familiar to him. he was certain about this because of the signage that he read on the corner - Laon-Laan. he looked at his surroundings. he saw a 24/7 eatery on the other street and went there. "hello, sir. what is your order?" said in greeting by a man in an apron at the entrance. Ernesto was scared. the man looks familiar to him. his round eyes looked familiar. he was wearing glasses with thin lenses, was somewhat tall, had army-cut hair and had a body of medium build. I can never be wrong, said Ernesto to himself. "who are you?" asked Ernesto to his look-alike. "Ernesto. what is your order?" asked the man. what is happening? he went out of the eatery. the surroundings already changed upon his exit. he was already standing in Luneta. he can clearly see the monument of Rizal. across this, there was a group of men who were scrambling to take good selfie angles. he was surprised with what he saw. they all looked alike. something rang in the pocket of Ernesto. he rummaged for it and took it. it was apparently his phone. "how did this get into my pocket?" he wondered. he turned on the phone. he had a number of notifications on his Facebook. Ernesto added a photo of you. Ernesto recently liked a post you are tagged in. Ernesto tagged you in his photo: "with Rizal and the national photo bomber!" Ernesto seemed to have gotten his tongue cut off with what is happening. he is thinking of an explanation for everything that is happening. he glanced to his right, where there was a group of men again. one man, another Ernesto too, was being mobbed by people. the other men, who are also Ernesto's, are taking a selfie with him. Ernesto attempted to talk to them, hoping to gain clarity with what is happening. but he suddenly felt ground tremors. then came a loud thunder. he was forced to close his eyes and he already felt his legs shaking. he opened his eyes and the surroundings changed again. the electricity posts and telephone lines seem to be made of hologram. shown on the posts are Ernesto's statuses on Facebook, tweets and pictures on Instagram. the clouds were replaced by his pictures with the most likes. the road turned to blue, which changes its appearance - showing Ernesto's arrogant words on Twitter - each time it is stepped on. "luckily, on Twitter only 140 characters can be said. my mother can say unlimited things!" "what to do? #banyomoments #tronokoto" Ernesto was going crazy with what's happening. he noticed another look-alike who was just sitting alone on the grass. he approached him and attempted again to find an explanation for what is happening. "hi? hello?" he did not say anything. just a stare. "what is this?" Ernesto exclaimed. the wind suddenly blew heavily and carried away the phone held by Ernesto and by other Ernesto's. "OMG! I haven't posted our groupie yet!" "shit! my status was cut off!" it might get misinterpreted." "wait, my tweet is excessive by 5 characters. I wasn't able to tweet it!" the Ernesto's had a commotion. they scattered and ran to the posts, where they tried to use Facebook but it did not work. others fell to their knees on the street and slammed it. the tweets shown on the street kept changing. as they simultaneously slammed it, it suddenly turned black. "oh no!", shouted everyone. the scene at Luneta became distressful, with the people protesting about their problems in social media. in the middle of all this, Ernesto stood. not speaking, not moving. "am I like this? like them?" he asked himself. "no, right? I'm not like them!" the wind blew strongly again. the phones fell from the sky. the men who were hanging on to the posts let go of their grasp. ran away. pushed each other. Ernesto looked up. as he looked up, a phone fell swiftly on his face. "ugh." Ernesto felt numbness on his face. he fell asleep last night while on Facebook, so his phone was left lying on his face. at the exact moment, the nurse came in to change the contents of the IV drip. "good morning, sir. your mother went out to supposedly buy breakfast." Ernesto opened his Facebook. he had twenty-three notifications and several messages. most of them saying "like" to the last picture he posted five days ago about a newly bought blue car. he clicked on the messages next. one is from his classmate, Pete: "dude, Ma'am Ethics is already looking for you. you'll already get an FA (failure due to absences) in class." Estrella also has a message. "the car, don't think about it first. insurance will take care of the damage of the impact. I'm sorry I cannot come home. you know how it is here in Singapore." a chat box popped up. "dude! have you been discharged yet?" the chat box was from Pete.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_54943891 graduating college students are being prepared by DOLE for going to work. March 28, 2016 City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, March 28 (PIA) - a seminar is now being conducted by the Department of Labor and Employment 12 to prepare graduating students for their entry into the sector of workers. it is the goal of the program, Labor Education for Graduating Students (LEGS), to teach those who are about to finish their studies and are looking for work about the proper attitude as a worker and a culture of a productive and decent labor and similar topics, according to DOLE 12 Regional Director Ofelia Domingo. also taught in the seminar are things that need to be done while applying for work, the rights of workers and employers, benefits that should be received like PhilHealth and SSS coverage, and many more. Public Employment Service Office (PESO) is the partner of DOLE 12 in implementing LEGS. currently, in the data of DOLE 12, almost 30,000 graduating students and job seekers in SOCCSKSARGEN Region are undergoing the LEGS seminar. at the end of school year 2015-2016, it is expected that almost 21,000 will be added to the labor force in Region 12, according to data of the Commission on Higher Education 12. Director Domingo added, schools can ask DOLE 12 to conduct LEGS seminar for their graduating classes. it is just required to write to the nearest DOLE Provincial Office. (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20505718 the retouched photos of Jinky Pacquiao and Charice in two fashion magazines is a hot topic now in Twitter and Facebook . so was this really photoshopped or not ? M_J Marfori tell the story . classy and (()) sexy that is the former model in the cover of the latest issue in one fashion magazine . but do you know that is Jinky Pacquiao ? <no-speech> in one magazine on the other hand the face of the cover girl is so young and small . will you ever think that is actually Charice ? shown in this video how Jinky was photographed all angles were taken hair was fixed dress as well as make-up . so this kind of result was achieved . a combination of make-up light and angle is the reason why this has become the image of Charice in the cover of the magazine . we just photographed her we found her angle . we put on the right clothes to elongate her . like that was really it we didn't do very much . but on social networking sites the sentiment that prevailed was that the pictures of Jinky and Charice were edited excessively on Photoshop . countered by the creative director of fashion magazines . yes you know there is Photoshop .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74792374 2 Davao police involved in drugs by Betchai Julian June 8, 2016 two policemen from Mati City were arrested after a positive result in the random drug testing conducted in Davao Oriental Provincial Police Office (DOPPO). according to DOPPO Director Supt. Harry Espela, the Mati City Police did not expect the mentioned drug testing which was mandated by the Acting Chief of Police of the city, Chief Insp. Noel Asumen. based on the results of the laboratory sample, SPO4 Nollo Barsaman and PO2 Jesus Mante Junior were positive in the use of meth. therefore, they are immediately arrested and filed charges. drug paraphernalia is confiscated from Barsaman while Mante is facing an administrative case. Espela said, they are going to conduct random drug testing again as part of the crackdown started by the Police Regional Office (PRO) 11 in all police units of DOPPO to ensure that their members are clean.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_79917313 but is it okay ? yes . so what are we going to cook this %incomplete this is just simple . morning ? okay this is a special river spinach . ooh . yes . you know in our house that river spinach is the most favorite . I do not have a problem with that vegetable because my children really like it because they know the vegetable . for us yes aunt ? a unique dish that's what we are going to do . hmm that's why I am already excited . so what are our ingredients ? of course the cooking oil vegetable oil . oyster sauce soy sauce we are just using a little bit of butter so sugar . garlic here sliced chili the one for sour stew . so yes %incomplete the green larger we cut it removed the seeds . so the river spinach . hmm . and for our topping this garlic . this we will include in cooking pork rinds . there is pork rinds with garlic chips too . yes . could also be shrimp . hmm could also be pork . but I chose pork rinds so I will first as usual we will be mixing our sauce . this is where he is making it not in -- not -- in a cauldron auntie ? yes so the flavor can be adjusted . so soy sauce will go first oyster sauce the soy sauce around two tablespoons only and you put some sugar . so the flavor that should be achieved here is like sweet . <no-speech> so it could not be done in a cauldron okay . then you slightly taste it yes . you can also put in a little bit like you slightly want it a little spicy for the mister . yes no we have chili . but if there is no chili is it also possible ? yes spicier the more chili . <no-speech> that's okay already . hmm okay delicious . so we warm it up put so dissolved properly is the sugar . <no-speech> then fried tilapia like those right ? fried tilapia is already delicious too . <no-speech> I learned that from chef Reymar that apparently you need if you what butter there is a little so that the butter because if the butter is burning it becomes bitter loses the what it separates . yes . yes only our stir fry . so garlic first . we will immediately follow with the water spinach and chili . slightly brown only a little . <no-speech> actually this is uh could be appetizer taken with alcohol then if -- maybe auntie if they mastered this sauce they only have to change the water spinach . because sometimes what I do is I make button mushroom ? allowed -- in can ? spinach ? spinach possible too . or those Baguio beans . because like that so sometimes I actually learned that if one sauce turns out okay example let's say with chicken aah it is possible for the same recipe I will only alter the sauce that's allowed because sometimes even in a week that is our problem as mothers thinking what dish for the whole week . <no-speech> it's like you have an exam . because I am always like that . it is really hard . now we will put this . so our sauce . sauce . mix auntie . hmm . <no-speech> there are others doing it like this . like sometimes in Chinese restaurant the spinach with garlic . yes . broccoli with garlic . it could also be like this only with the oyster sauce . yes no more . it could also be just garlic and oil only . yes that auntie . let us put already the . so these garlic chips of ours . why I am putting the pork skin crackling here for for the pork skin crackling to absorb a little oyster sauce . it is tasty . <no-speech> it's good right now ? like I told Edu there are already oyster sauces with less sodium you are conscious with saltiness right . this let us not overcook the vegetable because and then it's delicious if the river spinach is a little bit crispy . so it was that easy . this is that easy . <no-speech> other dish and perfect also is that dish for figure conscious and healthy too is this dish because it contains one hundred seventy calories . so it would have less calories chicken breast can be used as a substitute for pork cracklings . chicken breast or fish whatever you want is possible . and of course we know that river spinach is good for crude fiber . this is good for relieving our problems with constipation . so here is our very delicious very simple but nutritious and very flavorful river spinach special by Mommy Lally . so let us call %incomplete
query614 their income
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_33645225 Sunday, September 16, 2012 be selective with relationships tell me who your friends are, and I'll tell you who you are. 21- commit to mingle and be cooperative with the people who are able to help and value you. two are the main options in life: accept your situation despite no good changes happening, or accept the truth that it is your responsibility to improve yourself. and that will only happen if you are intentionally selective of the people around and spend time with you every day. we have heard this, "do not include the rotten mango in the basket of mangoes because the others will be contaminated." in all fields or any activity; like players of basketball, members of an organization, or even a group participating in a contest, they are together as one team. there is unity, cooperation and helping one another. the reputation of the group is carefully looked after, but in the group there appears someone with a personal agenda or hidden desire. this is the 'rotten mango' that affects everyone, destructive and poisoning the morale of the whole group. as early as possible it is separated so it cannot harm the group. people like these are avoided, instead of helping are the ones who cause harm. their pastime is to be jealous, criticize and slander their neighbor. nice when in front of you but a traitor behind your back. no respect for the character of others, just to obtain the desired benefit or fame. these kinds of people are avoided at all costs, because it is their hobby to find sympathizers. if your decision is to just go with the flow, remember that its current is downwards and not across, which usually carries garbage along the way and bitterness in life. and in the end, you will just wake up doing the actions of your other companions. we are free to select the straight path, and it can only be achieved through honest people. if you want to ensure success, surround yourself with successful people. and if you want to always achieve failure, align yourself and hang out with people who have a grudge against the world, always complaining, critical, like gossip and shows with no sense. they are optimists and voluntarily accepted the lack of hope. do not heed the jibe of others that you do not know how to get along, it is just their technique for you to sympathize with them. you cannot change their thinking, the only thing you have control of is yourself. you will be criticized and be picked at for being selfish in your avoidance of them and you cannot do anything about it. what you can only do is decide how to live the right life set for you. remember: all of us have the capacity to choose which people we will hang out and have relationships with. in the end, these choices create who we are and what our fate will be. in relationships, only two choices are set for you: one, in the environment you are accustomed to, to be like them, voluntarily following and agreeing to be liked by all. second, to be you in your desired ideal personality and create a difference for others. whether good or bad, it is like a rushing river, heading only to one direction and you cannot go back anymore. why? because whatever you have impressed and welded on your mind is difficult to erase, it will need an extreme change in personality, to destroy and vanish the old attitude. and at this point, there are too many of us with no skill and further continue what we are used to and like. if we are picky with our relationships; our connection with our loved ones, friends, and colleagues becomes deep, close and meaningful. it can make our relationships with them clean and pure, and strengthen our self-confidence. 10 importance of relationships in the community 1- it is good for your health. studies show that having a good group or association has a huge benefit in your life, it maintains your health, keeps you away from boredom, weakening of the mind and depression. 2- you find new acquaintances. it widens your circle of friends and strengthens your influence in the community. it will help you a lot in maintaining your value and opportunities if adversities come to your life. 3-you get new friends. you have opportunities to discover friends who will collaborate with you in meaningful activities and can help the association and even yourself. 4- you learn new skills. in volunteering for community service you are able to study the tasks assigned to you. as a committee member - you learn public governance, planning a business, carrying out the regulations of the association, etc. 5- it is good for the community. as long as many people help each other in tasks, they learn to be familiar with how things are done in their environment, those who want to join and cooperate for the improvement of their community further increase in number 6- you can follow your interests or things you are delighted by. whatever your favorite activities or hobbies, there are also people with the same interest as yours and want to connect over it. join groups about it to support each other and share your passion. 7- you can improve your qualities. if you are a member of an organization and hold a position, it is additional information in your qualifications and reputation. you can use it as basis in transferring or getting a new job so that your meaningful service to the community can be known. 8- you learn to be strong and tough. in your experience helping or cooperating in the community, your rights and influence in those positioned in the government and administration spread so your ambitions to help the community can be heard. 9- you can make contributions. as a citizen, making a difference in your fellow countrymen, surroundings, and community is a noble mission that will improve one another. 10-it is good for our country the Philippines. we need a strong and powerful society for everyone, where the government and economy help each other and do not run everything, and there is a society with their own organizations for the strong desire to improve the community. you are not able to continue taking the straight path and end up in a twisted destination. clearly choose the people who will be with you in your journey, the true reflection of your desires is in your right move. if there are questions, there are answers. do you choose your acquaintances based on what they can help you with? -do you give in order to receive? and expect something in return or payment for the help you did? -do you believe that other people like you because of what you give to them? -as much as possible you do not want to accept anything from others, because you worry that you will owe them a favor? -are you not contented until you have control over the attitude of others? -do you waste and calculate how to make others obey according to your wants? -do you neglect yourself in attending to the welfare of others? and worry double about their problems every day? -are you forced to give when you are asked? after the day has passed; the good question to ask ourselves, will decide the kind of people we encounter today, that will become the type of our personality. we only become interested in them when their attitude awakens a similar attitude we possess. deciding is easy once we know what we value more in life. success or failure? victory or defeat? happy or sad? joy or grief? whichever of these, it is in your power to choose. and it will become your destiny. Jesse Guevara City of Balanga, Bataan subscribe to the 31 important topics: strong self-respect and special love
query345 infrastructure program
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_90814086 we Filipinos are naturally brilliant and skillful especially if we talk about technology right Vi ? that is true Dray do you know that the evidence there are these projects done by engineering students of Adamson University that are really awesome Sir all right because their theme now is eco-friendly . let me do this first okay oh well Iya this -- bicycle charger made ma'am by the The Boss Team through the initiative ma'am of Carlos Dominic Bautista a beautiful morning to you Carlos . a very good morning . okay Carlos what Iya is doing that's not going to be destroyed right ? not really . okay what -- what is this project and why have you taught that you would make this one . what is this ? because big brother Andray we all know that summer season has frequent blackouts or power outages in our homes . so as computer engineering students sir we thought of how we can apply more of what we have learned . so this is our project this bicycle charger sir . so three are the processes it undergoes . first is to create electricity that we store in the battery battery then supplies the electricity to the gadgets like this cellphone . this cellphone it's charging while bro is biking it's charging the -- the cellphone . yes . ah . and we can see that it's not just for gadgets . where else ? this is also for household appliances like this electric fan . electric fan ? so while . so it also gets power here it's plugged here . this is great look at this Alex . if it's brownout if Iya gets tired riding the bicycle the electric fan will work you'll even lose weight here . yes . thank you very much . good luck to you . that's great . Venus what do we have here ? that's good Eyer it's great . this on the other hand we don't need electricity or charcoal because this is what we call the solar-powered grill . let's see okay . fail or not . we conducted this with the guidance of Jose Cyril Magno of Solar Boys Team . guys what -- why did you think of making a grill ? we thought about the grill because all of us Filipinos are fond to eat especially if it's grilled . that's why we came up with this project which is environmental-friendly because we don't need to use charcoal which is hazardous to the body that is why we came up with this project . this is great first we don't need to cut off wood as coal for cooking . second we won't spend for electricity because the smoke that can damage the ozone layer is removed here . yes . you mean the water will dissolve . that's it then . okay . Dray what else do we have there ? Venus this is what's elating here Kapamilya oh my usually if there's an oil spill consumers are affected because of the sudden hike of fish price . that is why the X_R Team came up with the remote-controlled floating robot that has an oil and water separating technology . am I right Mikael ? we are with Mikael Kim Mikael Cabella good morning to you . please explain I'm amazed by this but for our viewers please explain . good morning to you Andray we got this project from the idea of Guimaras oil spill which you know has affected the fishers and their livelihood after the price hike . right . it's functions as a remote controlled device that sucks the oil and transfers if to the pod there . then it will dispense the clean water at the back . now when it filters contaminated water the oil it will go into the pod and it will produce clean water . yeah . Alex you've mentioned the coastguards to our coastguards if you will not do your jobs right you may lose your jobs . these kids are great . oh good luck all right good luck . let's now go to Venus Vi . this one Dray is good and they call it flood rate detector . this is made by the G_G Team . it's summer right now but it is still raining sometimes . the beautiful thing is that we were told to prepare early . it's much better now that we could detect that even before the water goes higher and rises . this is great right . we also have an R_C mobile pollutant detector with filtering system which is a project made by the Aerial Team and there are other items and materials later . but there are still many projects made . this is what's amusing about our youth today especially these Adamson engineering students .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_89448137 <no-speech> one -- one fifty . yes -- yes . one fifty . <no-speech> where we'll have an outing ? <no-speech> where will you %incomplete yes okay ? <no-speech> in where -- in Muntinlupa . <no-speech> Muntinlupa . <no-speech> <no-speech> no ? <no-speech> where ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> where are you ? in Muntinlupa . no . <no-speech> <no-speech> Muntinlupa . what are you going to do there ? Muntinlupa . <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you going to do ? <no-speech> yes . will get imprisoned . <no-speech> <no-speech> Apollo ? <no-speech> no way ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> I thought -- I thought you are going to an outing ? yes really . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> no . <no-speech> <no-speech> I thought you are going to an outing ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> said you are going for an outing ? yes really . <no-speech> <no-speech> in Muntinlupa . <no-speech> yes really . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> guhi ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it is beautiful there . <no-speech> needs to catch up in Batangas . <no-speech> <no-speech> when %incomplete <no-speech> -- I am going with you okay . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I am going with you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I am going with you . <no-speech> sure . <no-speech> I will treat you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Mar treat us . sure . <no-speech> (()) there two . <no-speech> <no-speech> wait for you to eat . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> including food okay . yes . <no-speech> wait . sure . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you aren't you going to eat ? no only for you . <no-speech> <no-speech> two kisses each of you . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> just joking let us divide that between us . sure . <no-speech> <no-speech> sure thank you . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> sure let's divide it . <no-speech> what ? what Chooks to Go ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Chooks to Go ? what -- Nono ? <no-speech> intention . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I cannot hear . chicken ? <no-speech> <no-speech> trouble I cannot hear trouble . deaf . <no-speech> <no-speech> no trouble . <no-speech> chicken . <no-speech> the one at the back . <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> intermittent . <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_81455467 gimmicky refreshments try a drink with bacon or drinks in unusual containers . here is the report . <no-speech> gimmicky refreshments are what we'll tell you about this morning . a more colorful life is brought by this cafe in Metrowalk because of their new gimmick . because their cafe's latte art has leveled up . the various designs of their rainbow latte art are really amusing . we are the very first to bring rainbow latte in the Philippines . a lot of other countries are doing it as well like (()) Australia like Abu Dhabi Dubai . eureka it is also in this cafe that healthy juice drinks in bulb-shaped cups can be enjoyed . they call it Cheers Quenchers . for this we put chia seeds for a -- so we would be different . because those pearls those on Zagu which are mixed into a drink became a trend before . now we're adding a different twist on it that's why we're putting chia seeds . friends Eyo Steph and Yohan like to go to the cafe during their break time . but today they will try a refreshment that will not just quench their thirst but also satisfy their curiosity . at this cafe in Maginhawa their drinks are placed in Erlenmeyer flasks . we have a sixteen-ounce and twenty-two-ounce . the sixteen ounce is one hundred twenty then the twenty-two ounce is one hundred fifty . the Erlenmeyer flask is a laboratory equipment that was made by a German chemist Emil Erlenmeyer in the eighteen sixties . the Erlenmeyer flask is a triangular flask that is basically used as a container for . <no-speech> liquid solutions . it can be -- it can also be used as a reaction vessel to observe a chemical reaction as it happens . meanwhile bacon which is the star at breakfast is not just a viand now . because at this restaurant in Marikina their drinks have real bacon ? what you heard is right My Beloved a blend of sweetness and saltiness is savored in this promotional drink . since we are a smoke house we specialize in smoking meats and barbecue . the first thing we thought of is why not incorporate our specialty into one of our drinks . so we came up with an idea that our homemade bacon -- because we -- we make our own bacon no we smoke our own bacon . so we -- we blend it with our homemade ice cream and then top it up with maple syrup . the s'mores drink that can be bought here is also a winner . not flavoring but mixed with real s'mores . these drinks are not just for quenching thirst different gimmicks were done for a drinking experience that really wows .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_39398802 racing: will further fail? by Andy Sevilla June 16, 2016 many of us are calling when will the new President Digong Duterte allot an attention for a change in the system of the racing industry? we also received a lot of text messages these past days, asking when will the new administration release their aims or plans for the fallen racing industry. 'and do you know that many of the people who called and texted us are concerned on the worsening downfall of revenue on racing this year? the 'bad news' which is the possibility of the revenue on racing falling to P6-billion this year has already reached them. from P8.2-billion last 2014, the revenue 'crashed' to P7.5-billion last 2015. and if the continuous downfall of ticket sales does not change, it is expected that the income on racing will fall further to a frightening P6-billion! why did the racing industry in the country turn into this? all of their answers are almost unanimous and you already know the answer to that. six races were reached before Balmont Stakes champion Creator left maiden. but he now has two Grade-1 victories because he won the Arkansas Derby. one more thing, its minority owner who is Bobby Flay has bought his share on Creator almost three days before the Belmont Stakes. "the truth was that I planned to bring about 15 to 20 people to the Belmont Stakes, which I do every year. I had a horse named America, a filly, who was going to run in the Ogden Phipps (gr. I), but I retired her just last month, so I really had nothing to run. so, I wanted to make sure my guests had a very enjoyable experience. so, I wanted to purchase a horse to run not necessarily in the Belmont Stakes and there were a couple horses we were looking at." Flay, who grew in New York, is a celebrated celebrity chef, restaurateur, and reality television personality in Food Network. some of his celebrated restaurants: Mesa Grill in Las Vegas and Bahamas; Bar Americain in New York and Mohegan Sun, Uncasville, Connecticut; Bobby Flay Steak in Atlantic City; Gato in New York, at Bobby's Burger Palace in 19 different locations.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_90784212 <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? I will take a look . <no-speech> <no-speech> too much where are you now ? are you going to bring Laila and the others with you ? <no-speech> no . <no-speech> would you bring Laila and the others with you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I won't anymore no . oh only you . yes . <no-speech> are you have been permitted ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . and -- Leo allowed you ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> when will you go home if you go now ? <no-speech> tomorrow . and when will you go home ? tomorrow . <no-speech> <no-speech> later too tomorrow morning ? <no-speech> yes . when you have bought the biscuit ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> don't you have work ? <no-speech> none . <no-speech> like that ? my day off my day off now and tomorrow . <no-speech> but they are there . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> who ? oh before it's Friday then it's Saturday now ? <no-speech> not what %incomplete <no-speech> the day off is Friday now it's Saturday ? <no-speech> yes our day off changes . <no-speech> <no-speech> oh why ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it's really you . ah it walks . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hope it waits for you . thought thought you are going but I said you are going so give us the drinks . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> all right I am just going to call . he is going to give us drinks . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> later sure later later finish this first . yes . <no-speech> ate Grey sent you a text message didn't she ? <no-speech> yes I already know that because I can see it now . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62017590 Mark H., will marry Winwyn in 2018! by Jojo Gabinete June 16, 2016 at the press conference of Sa Piling Ni Nanay Mark Herras spoke with finality that Winwyn Marquez is the last woman in his life and two years from now, the lead actor of the new afternoon drama series in GMA 7 plans to marry his girlfriend. according to Mark, Winwyn is God's answer to his prayers. "actually, yes. I prayed for her. I said, I want a partner who when the time comes I don't have to look for another. I want a partner for a lifetime because I'm not getting any younger. I'm turning 30 years old. I want a family whom I'll legit save for them. have a business with the love of my life. "every time I pray to the Lord, I ask help from him, from my daddy, from my grandmother and now, from my mommy. in some way, I have 3 guardian angels above. I really ask help from them. "Winwyn and I discuss that we want to get married after 2 years. I'm very happy, I'm very thankful that everything's going well with my career, with my love life. I am really thankful that after all these years, there's someone who is really set for you and I'm hoping I can do everything for Win. I will do everything for her so she will not be disappointed. "she really is the one I want to be the mother of my future children," Mark shares his new inspiration full of hope and love. Mark is also thankful to GMA 7 because of the good projects given to him, Sa Piling ni Nanay that will start on June 27 and the sitcom Conan My Beautician that can be seen every Sunday afternoon, starting June 26. "I'm so thankful GMA 7 still believes in me after all these years. maybe, they have seen that I do my job properly. "I never gave up, I just didn't expect. because sometimes, you will be given more chance to really express your acting skills in different roles. me, before, who would expect that my first (guesting) in Karelasyon with a bad role will bring good result. "it also feels nice to be able to try different kinds of roles. you're not always rich, boyfriend of this or poor, the parent of this doesn't want you," Mark's opinion about his return to leading man status in the programs of the Kapuso Network.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_55372653 <no-speech> <no-speech> in here . <no-speech> when just go here . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> ah I heard when is the thing %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> have you gotten your youngest child baptized ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> not yet on on -- on June . <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> from what I heard from your spouse it's probably on -- Easter ? <no-speech> on June . of course I will save first . it seems too long . <no-speech> <no-speech> wow is it because the baptism is grand ? I do not have money for baptism yet . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? why is it grand ? not really -- not really it's only simple . <no-speech> is it okay ? <no-speech> <no-speech> why is there a need to save for it ? <no-speech> huh ? why is there a need to save for it ? <no-speech> <no-speech> why is there a need to save for it ? (()) I don't have money for the baptism yet . <no-speech> <no-speech> I will get you as godmother . <no-speech> that . <no-speech> get a godmother a godfather who are %incomplete <no-speech> will you get (()) ? <no-speech> <no-speech> not anymore . <no-speech> I am too rich . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> <no-speech> is Stawsu only for the rich ? I don't have anything to feed him . <no-speech> didn't Brother Bert Berto get Stawsu before right ? huh ? huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> why did Brother Berto get Stawsu before ? <no-speech> they they are rich I am only poor . <no-speech> really huh . yes . <no-speech> I don't have anything to feed him . the part . <no-speech> <no-speech> really none . that is why you should get them so you have it for free . <no-speech> <no-speech> I really have nothing to feed him . <no-speech> they are rich . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> right you will get them so they will be the one to feed . I will get you it's only you I'll get . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> excessive . <no-speech> you are the only one I will get as godmother huh . really ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you are the only one I will get . it's still far . who knows I may have a job by then so it's possible . <no-speech> <no-speech> sure as long as it's you I will get you as godmother . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> oh where are you now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? already here . <no-speech> on the way home . ah . on the way home . <no-speech> <no-speech> oh okay . <no-speech> what's my news .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17525401 Philippines education as solution to poverty . that's advocated by the legislative chamber now through the Party-list Kabayan Party-list led by Representative Ron Salo . we'll be interviewing him live here in our studio . sir good morning . good morning to you Jules . okay sir . so you have a proposal regarding in the reformation of education . but sir of course let's first talk about what happened recently the system of K to twelve system was just changed just launched here . before we talk about your proposal what do you think about our K to twelve ? our K to twelve is in order . actually at present the budget of Department of Education is being discussed particularly for K to twelve and we also saw that the Congressmen had concerns on the implementation before so far so good . okay . sir here let's start at our present basic education paradigm . you're saying we have what we call three R's . this is the reading writing and arithmetic you said should be the three C's in your privilege speech . so instead of three r's three c's character craft -- craftsmanship and critical thinking . what is the background of these three C's ? those three C's that we're promoting this is giving what we call life skills to people . this is not just for children but for all . we wish for all the Filipinos to have critical thinking craftsmanship and character . and if they have what we call in English life skills . and in Filipino we call this Jules as tactics in life . that's what Filipinos usually lack . although there is what we call function of literacy . Filipinos know how to read write and count . of course K to twelve focuses on something deeper and higher . however we say that's still not enough . what we need Jules first is for Filipinos to have critical thinking . what does that mean ? this is the ability of a person to think with depth . those things we learn we're taught how to read stories in books that we read however the question here is how can this help and how can this help a person to have a deeper and better life . okay Congressman you mentioned already your strategy in life because it is ordinary this is not really taught in school right like that is already your personal strategy but this this your aspiration to pass in the curriculum itself . but I want to focus on the character . how important is it for our education system to focus on -- our education system to shape the character of one Filipino ? that's a very good question Jules . of course these three are equally important which is the reason why we want to focus on critical thinking . that means the cognitive skills of the child . at the same time the skill of craftsmanship . but generally it's the character of the person because the character of a person will determine . what life will they have and how will they function in the society ? of course usually we mention I know we're both from P_U_P and the question always isn't where the person came from but if you are strategic ? are you efficient ? mhm . because your skills will be a waste your knowledge will be a waste if you're not strategic . at the same time you have strategy in life but you don't have character . at the end of the day your strategy will not be enough and in the sense that you already step on the rights of others and it will mean nothing to you . character is important for although Filipinos want to improve their lives but at the same time you're not stepping on other's rights while you're developing yourself . at the same time you're prioritizing the sake of the the generation the next generation . you're not focusing on the %incomplete yourself %incomplete yourself now but you're also considering with your character with a good character what the next results will be . okay . Congressman for the longest time our education has been three R's the system that's being followed . in your proposal you'll really go against the long time you might say institution those three R's . how will you sir convince the congressmen of course in house including the senators to support your proposal ? Jules it's better to also correct our perception for it not to be completely overhauled by the education system . this is a change in paradigm . because K to twelve we're delighted with this because this has opened the door to what we've been advocating the critical thinking craftsmanship and character . our only wish here is to improve more for K to twelve the point of view here is still the ability to be employed . however we want to deepen this Jules . what we want is not only the concept of playability but also empowerment . okay %incomplete that one person is truly empowered . he can think deeply of what can quickly -- make his life more beautiful . what ability does he have for him to improve his life ? what is your character that he has ? what the molding of his character for his progress in his self and society he is not able to join others . all right Congressman here in Good Morning Philippines I am not the only one asking the questions but also our fellowmen there is a question that will be given to you . so let us go Mang Tanong (()) good morning Philippines and good morning there Jules in the studio . I have reached Shaw Boulevard to gather questions about the issue we are talking about . and we are with Miss Flor now . and I have heard he has a question for Congressman . Miss Flor what is your question ? is it enough or the teaching of technical skills in the k to twelve program ? oh . are the technical skills taught in the k to twelve program enough ? is that enough Congressman ? just a question . <no-speech> sir let us just respond our quick response there . are the technical skills in k to twelve enough ? not yet . we need to enhance this because the technical skills education for our K to twelve today our Department of Education is just choosing what they will teach . for the kids it is the same . uh huh . however in these three C's that we are pushing forward it is important that the technical skills that will be taught are localized . this means if I am from Pangasinan and our usual source of income is fishery I will be taught how to fish . on how I can multiply the fishes I catch . if a person is in the mountain what will be taught to him is how can he develop his life even though he is there in the mountain . there . so it is really like this K to twelve will be more holistic if ever these three C proposal of yours sir gets in . let us go back to the three c sir shall we ? this proposal of yours how will you concretize if ever these three c's will be implemented in your bill ? <no-speech> what will happen here is we require the Department of Education to continue fixing their curriculum . yes . that it is more anchored in this paradigm that we are saying that critical thinking development of critical thinking . so it means this does not end there in the teaching of information . because those books of ours those that being taught for example in history this is information . however the question there it should just not be when what who and how -- how it happened but instead why why . okay . and Congressman why is learned in college right ? you're right Jules . that's really our concern . usually the deeper discussion of issues are left to the higher education . okay . now Congressman let's go back to Mister Question because the question of the woman earlier was already answered . Mister Question ? <no-speech> <no-speech> and that's the answer of Congressman . miss did you learn something from the answer of Congressman ? yes I learned from the answer and question of Congressman . thank you . there thank you . because I told you you won't get an answer if no one will ask . I'm Hanz Urna the only Mister Question . back to studio . <no-speech> alright . thank you so much Mister Question . okay Congressman as a last note of course it's important to use this chance for our fellow citizens to know that there's this proposal . your message to our fellow citizens support this proposal . thank you very much Jules . to all the viewers of Good Morning Philippines thank you very much . what we're promoting is not just to give knowledge or skill to an individual . what we wish here in this proposal that we're promoting in the legislative chambers is for each of us to have real empowerment . each of us knows how to think with depth to have the skill to improve and better his life and to have true character to even more improve not just his self but the society he's in the entire Philippines . thank you very much . again we have here in the studio Representative Ron Salo of Kabayan Party-list . Thank you so much Sir . thank you as well Ju -- I'm Cathy .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_77279382 Hundreds of coconut farmers attack the NAPC, were not addressed by the 'coco levy fund mafia' during the third attack on the National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC), Secretary Joel Rocamora refused to address the coconut farmers who insist on the immediate distribution of coco levy funds. hundreds of farmers from Bicol, Quezon, Aurora and Cagayan either jumped over the fence or went under the locked gate of the NAPC in the hopes of speaking with Rocamora. guards barricaded the door to the NAPC and blasted the coconut farmers with fire extinguishers. one policeman relinquished an M-16 armalite, which angered the demonstrators. (view the images below) according to Senior Superintendent Richard Albano, director of the Quezon City Police District, Rocamora allegedly suggested that the coconut farmers should "write" in order to schedule a dialogue. however, according to Willy Marbella of the Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (KMP), they have long been avoided by Rocamora, who is part of what he called the "coco levy fund mafia." he is referring to the Presidential Task Force on the Coco Levy funds formed by President Aquino which was supposed to manage the use of coco levy funds. the NAPC announced that the funds, P56 Billion of which was already remitted to the National Treasury last year, will be used for the Conditional Cash Transfer and Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program. coconut farmers opposed this. "Noynoy Aquino and any agency of his has no right to use the coco levy funds for any of their programs or for any other reason. the coco levy funds are the coconut farmers' money, thus only the coconut farmers have the sole right to decide on what to do with it," says Nestor Villanueva, Southern Tagalog coordinator of the group Claim (Coco Levy funds Return it to Us). "the coconut farmers are uneasy knowing that their money lies in the hands of a wealthy, landlord president. That's why we no longer expect to take back the coco levy funds merely by means of dialogue, but by insisting on our rights," adds Villanueva. meanwhile, the KMP disclosed that Rocamora asked for a P1.6 billion "advance" from the coco levy funds. it was allegedly for the "anti-peasant poverty reduction roadmap" of the coconut industry. however, according to the coconut farmers, there is already regular funding for the programs of the NAPC. they fear that the funds will be used in the upcoming election, particularly in the campaign of Akbayan Representative Risa Hontiveros, who is running under the senatorial slate of Aquino. Rocamora was a former chairman of Akbayan. "they are fattening not only their own pockets, but their party's campaign chest as well," says Marbella. KMP and CLAIM are calling for the distribution of coco levy funds through "social benefits" such as pensions and health and education benefits. they are promoting House Bill 3443 or the Coconut Levy funds Administration and Management Act of Anakpawis Representative Rafael Mariano. the purpose of HB 3433 is to form a council that includes the coconut farmers themselves. meanwhile, in a statement to the media, Rocamora said that the proposed HB 3433 and the NAPC Roadmap had "many similarities". he said he welcomes the vigilance of the coconut farmers. "let us work on our common goals," he said.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_85385816 <no-speech> the name and nickname of those who regularly visit here who love books is the library in the sidewalk . because it started just from the sidewalk . fifty old books seen now are very many . <no-speech> <no-speech> this library in the garage of Mister Nani is open any time and at any weather . I was ten years old when I started like this lending reading materials . back in -- in college I also worked in the library . I also did not give importance to that . by that time that I was fifty years of age I no longer can think of a program that could help others . this was where it started and here it is . <no-speech> fourteen years have passed since I opened it to the public . this was his tribute to his deceased parents . books are free you could ask them for free and take them home . so from here all of that has no fee . what magazine do you like for your pocketbook project for your research or for your short story thesis reporting . medical books there are plenty of medical books for nurses . so that if their books are expensive here they could get reference books . <no-speech> here the children start reading using comics with pictures . <no-speech> he treats those who come often in the library like his children . I am able to study well because of grandfather's books . it helps in recitations . then in lectures . the children are able to continue because -- of the books . what I read here is the National for Kids because we learn from the books . <no-speech> not only children goes to the library . <no-speech> the library has no funds and it also does not accept money . (()) thank you so much for the additional (()) you should sunglasses so that %incomplete there . hey thanks . that's what I am saying some leave ten return . so leaving is better . three thousand a month ten thousand return . <no-speech> even foreigners are impressed with Mang Nani . <no-speech> Mang Nani also gives books to remote areas in different provinces . <no-speech> intelligence and knowledge are important to Mang Nani which is why he established the library .
query460 information drug
query464 election results
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_63277249 human life most of all even if signing the Sin Tax Bill has a huge effect on our budget, we public information officers decided to support it through a resolution we signed during the monthly meeting of the Association of Information Officers in Metro Manila (AIMM) held at the Philippine Information Agency on Visayas Avenue in Quezon City. last Friday, our guest was Health Undersecretary Ted Herbosa, the great advocate against smoking. today is the critical signing of this law in the Senate so the DOH and doctors are asking for support so that the Sin Tax Bill will be passed. supposedly it is only now that this happened, that his fellow doctors support a proposal like this. because for them, more than becoming a revenue measure, it is a health measure that can lessen the victims of diseases caused by smoking. turns out ours are the cheapest cigarettes if compared to other countries so you will notice what tourists carry out of our country - reams of cigarettes. Herbosa's father died from lung cancer due to smoking so he immediately stopped smoking at age 33. he started with this vice when he was only 9 years old. it was a result of peer pressure and a desire to be "in" and "accepted" by his classmates back then in an exclusive school. according to him, he made it a campaign so that the Sin Tax Bill will be passed because he wants the lives of more people - most of all the youth - to be saved as a result of stopping or avoiding smoking. "opposers of the Sin Tax Bill say that many people will lose jobs because of it. what I can only say, the job that will be lost can be replaced with a new job. but we can never bring back a life lost due to disease," explained Herbosa. the additional revenue from this tax can be used to fund government health programs according to Herbosa. we are lucky to have someone like Doctor Herbosa who supports this bill that will benefit thousands of families when it is passed as a law today. like what I said earlier, we are one of those who will be affected by the price increase of alcohol and cigarettes when the Sin Tax Bill becomes a law today - but, we support it because of its greater benefit to more people.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_53124462 Nueva Vizcaya power coop, ready for elections May 06, 2016 Ben Moses Ebreo Bayombong, Nueva Vizcaya, May 5 (PIA) - employees of the Nueva Vizcaya Electric Cooperative (NUVELCO) here are very ready to give proper and continuous flow of electricity in the coming election on Monday. Said by Engineer Narciso Salunat, NUVELCO manager, power interruption will not occur starting May 6 until one week after the election so there will be continuous flow of electricity needed in the transmission of election results. "we carried out the power interruptions to not disrupt the flow of elections and to prepare our facilities for the coming elections on Monday," said by Salunat. according also to the NUVELCO manager, the electricity flowing to the province is at a stable level and it is not in danger of decreasing and lacking in the coming days. according also to Salunat, they also dispersed their technicians to various places to provide help and service in case a problem occurs with the lines of NUVELCO including the posts and its facilities. "Our performance is good with regard to paying for electricity to the National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP) which is why we can ask for additional electricity if there is a time the flow of electricity to the province decreases," Salunat added. (ALM/BME/PIA-2 Nueva Vizcaya)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16719288 Tuesday, December 11, 2012 Bicam, condemned by the militants press statement December 10, 2012 in approval to a P35 billion target of Sin Tax for the year 2013 Bicam, condemned by the militants! five thousand laborers, vendors and the urban poor have gathered outside Hotel Sofitel Grand in CCP Complex carrying placards painted with, "enough, too much! Tax System, time to change!" "P-Noy and Sin Tax, the suffering of the masses" and "Tax Revolt, the answer to Regressive Taxation!" as a condemnation to the held sin tax bicameral conference which agreed to P35 billion target profit from the sin tax of the government for the year 2013. according to Gie Relova, Secretary-General of the Organization of Filipino Laborers -National Capital Region-Rizal (BMP-NCRR), "we are strongly condemning the decision of the bicameral conference committee. the Filipino citizens are vehement on the conspiratorial passing of the sin tax bill. this is contrary to the 1987 Constitution where it states that the taxation system should be developed in a progressive manner but the lawmakers have favored a regressive system which contributed more to the suffering of already miserable lives of the citizens. even though the militants have much disgust on Bicam, Relova quickly added, "millions of laborers and farmers in the whole country are condemning President Benigno Aquino III because of permitting to be obedient to the commands of the global financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund and to a one large foreign corporation. the foreigners will raise trillions of pesos without creative livelihoods while our local industries are being offered at the altar. what Relova describes as the large company based in London is the British-American Tobacco (BAT) which will come back in the Philippines after it has left last 2009. the return of BAT which is manufacturing the cigarette Lucky Strike is only piling its excessive tobacco in the country. the BAT company clearly benefits a law in sin tax which is its way to break the monopoly in the market of one local company which only means an increase of its market share. meanwhile, according to Anthony Barnedo, Secretary-General of the Congress of the United Urban Poor - National Capital Region - Rizal (KPML-NCRR), one of the founders of the Peoples Coalition Against Regressive Taxation (PCART), "the government is hoping that it can profit through the sin tax but surely, this will never happen because of the higher price of tobacco and alcohol products, no one can afford these, surely, the industry melts down." "we should not also expect the government to develop the health programs in the country even if we say that it can reach its target profit from the sin tax. the Universal Healthcare Program that they are boasting remains a dream which will only arrive in nightmare if the privatization of twenty-six public hospitals will be started," he added. "while we are celebrating the 64th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), our highly "respectable" senators and congressmen have chosen to violate our labor rights and protection from job loss. and because of the impending massacre towards the work and livelihood and taxation system which is being prepared by the Aquino regime, it is courting a civic revolution which they will surely regret," the BMP leader added.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_60984427 Saturday, July 9, 2016. my neighbor: reflection for 15th Sunday in ordinary time year c - July 10, 2016 - jubilee year of mercy "and who is my neighbor?" asked by one scribe to Jesus. this might also be a question that is timely right now. almost every day there is murder reported. many of them are said to be a drug user or pusher. a plague to society. useless. cause of criminality. a threat to peace and safety. so some say that it is only right to eradicate them. it would be good if they would just go away. it's okay for them to die! I am certain that this is not who we want to consider a "neighbor". if our mentality is like this then we are no different from the Jews in the time of Jesus. they also have some people whom they cannot consider as their "neighbor". since the beginning of history they already considered the Samaritans to be their enemy. they have a conflict so deep that they even avoid stopping by their lands. when Jesus was asked by the scribe, "who is his neighbor?" Jesus narrated the parable of "The good Samaritan". we already heard this story. about how the Jews intentionally avoided their fellow Jews who needed help. only the "enemy" who was a Samaritan, stopped and showed mercy to the person that he should be avoiding! it was not Jesus' intention to embarrass the scribe. what he wants is for them to understand that who they consider as enemies are not lowly creatures and may even surpass them in kindness. which is why the response of Jesus was also a question: "who showed compassion to the person who was stopped by bandits?" the scribe could not directly answer Jesus because the Samaritans were their enemies. sometimes this is also our attitude. we have difficulty showing love to those we consider enemies. we find it difficult to forgive people who have done us wrong or have caused us resentment. we cannot accept that they are also our "neighbor". the message that Jesus wants to show us is clear: our neighbors are the people who need mercy, our understanding, and most importantly our forgiveness. the commandment of the Lord to love God above all, and our neighbors the same way we love ourselves, is not just a commandment that is written in the Bible or in our catechism. it is written not on paper but in our hearts. it means that it is very close to us because it is within ourselves, a part of our being and of being children of God. the drug users and drug pushers should also be treated as our neighbors. many of them already surrendered. maybe some of them are our relatives, friend or someone we know. are we ready to accept them as our "neighbor"? or maybe in their confession they might feel to a greater extent that they are outcasts and are not accepted in our society? in this year of mercy or jubilee year of mercy, the challenge for us is to show the mercy, understanding and deed of God especially to our neighbors who need protection. it is not a solution to kill them or wipe them out from the face of the earth. let us respond to evil with kindness. let us replace violence with peace. let us allow a culture of life and not death to prevail!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26364420 Mar, Francis are failed traffic czars. the traffic of mega Manila is hell. if there is a momentary rain shower, worse. in the midst of this situation, what should be done by the authorities? and what can be done by the citizens? Francis, Mar, failures. the two leaders of the government Secretary Mar Roxas of the Department of Interior and Local Government and Chairman Francis Tolentino of the Metro Manila Development Authority are failures as traffic czars. when they themselves are at the center of the roads to fix the traffic anywhere in Metro Manila, nothing is still happening. just because their traffic command is only for a show because they have brought media with them to show their skills as traffic czars. but in truth, these child of grasshoppers are going to run as candidates for a national position in 2016. not funny anymore, my brothers. hehehe! in the end, they deployed a Highway Patrol Group but they should issue a ticket for 30 seconds only and should be visible so the motorists will know where they are even from afar. not just getting the driver's license and walks far, and the driver boards off and run where the HPG hides under a tree or bridge. VIP versus ambulance we have just noticed something, brothers. in areas with the worst traffic that we have passed by, the VIPs or called as very important persons have escorts of traffic police. the traffic police sounds the alarm, clearing off the way and blocking others. no traffic. but the ambulances, they are on their own. well, nothing, they should follow the vehicle which stopped in front of them and beside them. but the drivers of other vehicles are not needed to reprimanded, they give way, if the traffic moves. there is money in traffic where are the so-called other roads or alternate routes if there is traffic? for small private vehicles and taxi, it is okay to pass by anywhere. but for passenger vehicles, where are those roads? tofu child, if they separated from the route and made a way to escape from the traffic, the traffic enforcer who issues the ticket suddenly appears and a police who shots off an "out of line" violation, and the fine for this is thousand, brothers. how much is their 20 percent commission for the "out of line?" "that law on truck ban, they are also ravenous for that, when the trucks pass by to avoid traffic, because the fine is also thousands. the police and the traffic enforcers are not there on traffic areas but there on where the motorists enter or pass through to get money. education, discipline in EDSA, there are signs for control for vehicles such as the zipper lane, yellow lane, bus stop, pedestrian lane and others. on other roads there are none of these, but it is common sense that should be allowed to prevail. everything for the hopes of a better flow of traffic. but the lack of discipline and education on the road shows. there are buses, jeepney and taxi which stop beside each other while the passengers are waiting until the roads are congested. there are those who run first for a u-turn until they lump together and clog the road. and these are happening even with the presence of police and traffic enforcer, but it is worst in the evening when you cannot see an enforcer or police or MMDA. in front of SM North in EDSA, tofu child, the police and MMDA in patrol are regular who themselves have blocked the roads for passenger vehicles. what should be done about this? wait for 2030 the MMDA said, wait for 2030 for an organized plan and program will be laid against traffic. with lots of projects being done by the Department of Public Works and Highways which will be finished by 2030, the government is having a difficulty in making plans and programs against traffic. and there is something important to catch up, the Straight Path should remain until 2030 to fix everything in the end. wasp child, what is the purpose of the grass if the water buffalo is dead?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_35991249 South Cotabato joins the celebration of national women's month March 03, 2016 city of Coronadal, South Cotabato, Mar. 3 (PIA) - the month of March is national women's month. related to this, the provincial government of South Cotabato will be holding the women's congress at Tropicana Beach in General Santos city on March 17 to 18. it will be attended by 1,500 women from various sectors in ten towns and one city in South Cotabato, including members of the "Kalipunan ng Liping Pilipina" in the province. according to Joy Londres of the provincial population office, the meeting will be emphasizing the welfare of women in politics based on the theme of the celebration "the welfare of Juana, include it in the agenda." among the expected guests of honor are former Justice Secretary Leila De Lima and TV personality Korina Sanchez. the purpose of the meeting, Londres added, is to give women a "day off" from their home and office activities that is why the women's congress will be held at the beach. apart from listening to the messages from invited personalities, the gathering was also a time for fun because they are also set to play Pinoy games and dance in one Zumba session. the provincial government allotted about Php 400,000 for the women's congress. (KCSenillo-DevCom Intern/DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17312417 well if it follows west northwest is good because it will not make landfall it will only side sweep that Republic of the Philippines . on your question Anthony on which in this places here is should be warned . these areas here that Davao Sur Davao -- Davao Oriental Surigao Sur Surigao Del Norte Dinagat Siargao that Eastern Samar and also this Leyte along with this Bicol region . this is the eastern seaboard of the Republic of the Philippines . secretary this is Bernadette . in your knowledge and will there be evacuation efforts there in those affected areas ? what you said is right Bernadette that there will be this evacuation is strategy of the local government because it is finished Bernadette that experience lessons learned . the local government already knows this on which here are the low lying areas landslide prone area tsunami prone area . they really know by indigenous knowledge only . so let us give the strategy to the local government . so here I am now being texted nationwide by D_I_L_G . in all the D_I_L_G this is tightened that local D_R_R_M council of -- or -- on this day -- they convened with council on all the provincial and city municipal that is council of D_R_R_M . okay . director thank you very much and we will also observe the events . we also have people there and we will coordinate with N_D_R_R_M_C for much faster .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_10752478 CamSur PESO once again offering jobs abroad January 15, 2016 Danilo Abad City of Naga, January 15 (PIA) - more than one thousand laborers are needed today in the countries of Qatar and United Arab Emirates (UAE) through the Camarines Sur Employment Center and Lead Resources Management. according to Sha Torallo, chief of Camarines Sur Public Employment Service Office (CamSur PESO) almost 280 male service crew, 700 female service crew, 50 waitresses, 50 car drivers, 50 line cooks, 30 receptionists, and 80 male cashiers are immediately needed today in the said countries. Torallo said that the special recruitment activity happening will be held this coming Monday and Tuesday, January 18-19, 2016 at Capitol Main Building Lobby, Capitol Complex, Cadlan, Pili, Camarines Sur starting 8 o'clock in the morning up to 4 o'clock in the afternoon. the applicant needs to bring the following: comprehensive resume with a detailed description of jobs, two pieces each of a 2x2 and 1x1 picture. original and photocopied school credentials like form 137, diploma and transcript of records. valid passport and if possible bring a certificate of employment as proof of knowledge of the job chosen. for additional details just visit the office of the Camarines Sur Employment Center in the provincial capitol or call telephone numbers 477-5858, 477-7468 or 09198775952. you can also email or Facebook account camsur_peso@yahoo.com. meanwhile, there is a huge opportunity that CamSur PESO will also offer those who want to work within the province of Camarines Sur and City of Naga. through Stretch Distribution Incorporated, located at Obiedo Warehouse, corner of Almeda Highway, City of Naga future field supervisors, field sales personnel, office staff, accounting staff, drivers and delivery helpers are being accepted. the other companies looking for staff are Palino Lubes Trading (PLT) of Zone 4, Concepcion Grande, Naga City and Topserve Manpower Solutions, Incorporated also located at Geronimo Building, Barlin Street, Naga City. this important announcement is part of the service of the provincial government as priority development programs. (MAL/DCA-PIA5/Camarines Sur)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_61386111 to help you (()) . <no-speech> that's it (()) my only -- if the school is also responsible because my child was bullied . she was hurt and then she had a wound . her wound was sewed in (()) aah . there was a wound . where -- where was she wounded ? was it on the face ? yes . on the lower part of her eye just above her cheek . ah ah -- do you know -- do you know Aling Lerma our laws are very clear about that . our law says that if students who are minors that are at school or even outside school but under the supervision of the school if they're injured the first to be held responsible and an emphasis on the first is the school or the administrator of the school or the teacher in charge or everyone of them for the injury of the child . that is why the responsibility and obligation of teachers is very high . it's up to here . they will be presumed negligence if there are any disasters inside the school . so for example that Grace for example -- for example is inside the school premises and she gets a lump . what will be proven in the court is that my child is a student in that school and when she went outside she already has a lump . will you no longer prove what the teacher did ? because the law has an assumption in that situation that the teacher was negligent . now when is it the responsible of the parent ? mm mm . it will be an accountability of the parents if the teacher has nothing to pay the school has nothing to pay and the administrator has nothing to pay . that is called the subsidiary liability of the parent . I see . so attorney do you mean the parent of the child who is bullied and has acquired physical damage needs to file a case against the school ? oh -- that is the last -- that is the last course of action . I see . but of course in all dispute there should be a dialogue first . but if there isn't any dialogue for a settlement because people do not admit then perhaps that should be filed in the court for those who are liable should be accounted for . Ma'am Lerma were you able to talk the parents of -- those who bullied your kid ? yes . the -- the -- school were you also able to talk to them ? <no-speech> yes but the school puts the accountability of the liability to the parents of the child . you know -- you know well it is understandable as stated by the law that they are primarily held accountable . yes . so they are passing the responsibility to one another . they are passing the responsibility to one another Ma'am Lerma . you -- you should be the one who needs to be careful here . you should know what the law states very well . I will repeat . on the damages acquired of someone in minor age the student should primarily be held accountable the school teacher administrators of that school and if those people or institutions have nothing to pay to compensate the damages the parents are secondarily held accountable . that is it . so -- the teacher institution the school and the administrator . administrator correct yes and the parents should be next . yes . if they have nothing to pay you for the expenses it will be on the school's . but if the school proves that they have made -- appropriate action . it means the -- the due diligence the necessary safeguard to avoid it and it still happens then perhaps they would be saved from the accountability . that's it Ma'am Lerma so can we ask for a compensation for the damages ? oh yes you can . you can -- you can ask for that . Ma'am Lerma do you have something to ask (()) ? <no-speech> that -- that's it . so you can -- that's it the school can because the parents of the child seems slightly (()) they are not %incomplete they are also having difficulty in %incomplete because of finances . also the principle Ma'am Lerma the parents have really the primary care for the child . but if they are going to the give their custody -- of their children temporarily to a school for almost a day it is on the care and management of the school those who are taking care of them will answer . that's it Ma'am Lerma .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26875627 gimmick and business to the max is the fight of Geisler and Matos! posted by: Jerry Yap on June 24, 2016 in opinion we can say that the two actors of the Philippine show business who are Baron Geisler and Kiko Matos do gimmicks well. as said, an idle mind is a devil's workshop. what we know, Geisler and Matos have no projects on movies or even television for some time. until their fight in a bar in Quezon city happened. we thought it was a scene that will finish in court... but we were mistaken because the scene will finish in the Universal Reality Combat Championship's (URCC) MMA ring. many clapped and were wowed upon learning that the street fight of Geisler and Matos will be made in to a formal fight. but everyone who clapped and were wowed were also immediately surprised when they learned that big money will be earned on that brawl. imagine it, the fight in the URCC fight night will continue on this coming June 25, 2016 at the palace pool club but big money is needed to be spent to watch it. the "single entry" is P1,200 (1 ticket no consumable drink nor food). in the mezzanine skybox, worth P60,000, that includes 15 tickets and P20,000 consumable. while in others will spend P60,000, P50,000, P45,000, P40,000 up to P35,000. there is also consumable food and drinks. right? isn't it clear that Geisler and Matos' fight and so-called reconciliation is a gimmick or a business? paging movie producers and television networks, give projects to those two to have earnings instead of doing gimmicks to earn! relatives incorporated showing off at Manila city hall in fairness, there are really trusted people by Yorme Erap Estrada who can be trusted and really serve the nation. many employees of the Manila city hall, now notice that there is a relatives incorporate that frequently meddle in the official function of some departments. if the relatives incorporated does not earn, the projects of the serious, dedicated and determined officials in the Erap administration are terminated. after which replaced allegedly by projects where they will earn but the office of the terminated project will still be used. what is that? we are inclined to believe that Erap was sentenced with plunder because of this people that he cannot refuse and afterwards pulls the entire family. ouch! mayor Erap, you are on your second term, maybe it is possible to work "instead" check those you "trust" that you do not know, in the desire to earn big and easy money are harming you?! you did say, "I learned not to be trusting..." use that as your guidance against those people who are sticking close to you, trailing off and pretending as your close acquaintance but abusing the use of your name. maybe one day you wake up without your true and trusted people being ousted by those "close" to you. unsolicited advice only. all of war sa VK, no effect on MPD ps-10 at ps-4!? it looks like the command of MPD district director general Rolando Nana to catch and confiscate all video race machines (vk) in the city of Manila to some of his station commanders is futile. most of the police station commanders of the Manila Police District apparently obey the command of General Nana even if there is an issue that there is another 'player' that will enter and manage the video races in Manila?! but police superintendent Leonardo, chief of the Manila police district Pandacan police station #10 and police superintendent Muarip of police station 4 appear to ignore command of general Nana?! according to the residents of Pandacan, they were wondering why the video race machines of alias Tata Talyada were unfazed in their place. how much er what is the reason, Colonel Leonardo?? by the way, is it true that you are spreading the news that your neighbor is incoming president Rody Duterte and he is also your playmate in betting? that is what alias Tata Talyado was bragging about at the MPD HQ, so the officials who want a nice position should get close to him? please explain colonel Leonardo! answer the issue of Lawton illegal parking! boss Jerry, you are right in what you are doing on not to pay attention to those without credibility. what they should answer is the issue on illegal parking in plaza Lawton that is dragging the Manila city hall. why is the community and PCP Lawton that has jurisdiction on the area in plaza Lawton that is the nest of illegal parking not acting on this? Erap said it right when he was asked what he learned this past election, he said... "I learned not to be trusting." Erap apparently felt that he was betrayed by one of those he trusted who stole election funds from that illegal parking in Lawton. and now, his name is being dragged by the older Burikak who is reigning in that illegal parking. we know that "hired cheater" used by Burikak. he is rejected here in the city hall because of his dishonesty on money.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62991327 hello ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ah I'll go there . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> ah . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> will we drink ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> will we drink ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> it's your treat right . <no-speech> maid rubbers there there'll be many women later . (()) who are you with ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> who are you with ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> a woman will come . huh ? <no-speech> in it for the money . <no-speech> maybe she's from uh Santa Mesa . <no-speech> hello ? it's up to you we'll see . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you want to drink ? <no-speech> <no-speech> a woman will go there . later uh later at night . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> yes . what ? yes . you're all yeses . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> where are you Greg ? later after uh I'll go there . up here . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> which is why I'm going there . yes . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> who's with you there Greg ? no one . <no-speech> <no-speech> no one only you ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> hey Greg let's drink okay . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> what drinks will you buy ? Emperador ? <no-speech> gym . <no-speech> ah . <no-speech> gym . <no-speech> huh ? gym . <no-speech> <no-speech> gin -- blind gin ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> will we have blind gin ? how about Red Horse . you don't like that right ? <no-speech> you're one for beer . <no-speech> yes or no . <no-speech> <no-speech> we have women . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> from Santa Mesa . there are two two . Wayne do you hear don't you hear ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> are you with someone there ? one is for you . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> do you have company there ? <no-speech> one is for you . <no-speech> there I'm sorry I don't have money . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's a miracle that we have money . sure sure . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> two women wait for me there . I'll bring it . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> okay . yes bro . copy ? okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay sure sure sure sure .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52137350 this February the Bureau of Fire Protection or B_F_P launched an annual inspection to the offices of the government . and it shows that in more than thirty government buildings they have already inspected there are still offices of the government which have discrepancies in occupancy safety inspection . but what is more alarming there are government buildings which are fire hazards already or severely dangerous for fire . we really have seen violations or discrepancies regarding the but we are also seeing that in the compliance because somewhat will have difficulty because on the -- compliance . do you know why those government agencies are still relying on the budget . some of those pointed out as fire hazards government buildings are the two floors of this city hall building . this was built on October twenty-six nineteen forty-nine and until now is still utilized by the local government . the City Permits and Licensing Division is taking an office here every day which has hundreds of transactions . is it really true especially that there are a lot of papers a lot of people a lot of documents in the storage room even there -- even this my office looks like a storage room . the B_F_P GenSan also consider the GenSan public market and the GenSan hall of justice as fire hazard buildings . so twofold care should also be done . he said the lines of electricity should also be inspected . because this is commonly the cause of fires in the office . those occupying there are different classes different products of of (()) them so very hazardous . because the piles and piles of their papers are just everywhere . there in the hall way if sometimes we can see that file file are the documents there . so one of the hazard -- we will also recommend lecture seminars drills to all employees . there are other government agencies that are in a new building but then lacking in fire safety equipment . the B_F_P recommended to the B_I_R GenSan to add fire extinguishers . for their three floored building . very first that we -- conduct an inspection on those agencies that are really bulk -- those people going there like for example in B_I_R (()) there is a computer because all those are encoded . those others those new those because the encoding is all there in the region . but even if not yet complied the offices of the government also cannot be closed because the service to people will be then affected . the government buildings are important to be fire proof because this is the storage of public records . the B_F_O even added there are also many public schools in GenSan that are also considered fire hazard . May of last year ten classrooms burned in Cahilsot elementary school estimated to be at seven-hundred and fifty-thousand pesos is the value if the burned classrooms . <no-speech> but apart from the schools the B_F_P will also inspect the barangay halls in the city . they will allegedly find out how many more of these can also be considered fire hazard building .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_11719068 Saturday, February 02, 2013 let us serve you are able to give even without love, but you are not able to love without giving. sympathy this happened after the destruction of typhoon Sendong. nuns of one church knocked on each door of the fancy houses in a large subdivision, to ask for any help for the less fortunate affected by the the typhoon. one nun was let in to the living room by the owner of a house without faith in religion. he offered two thousand pesos, if the nun is able to drink one cup of wine. the nun was taken aback by what her condition will be, in case she accepted the offer of the man. even if the future reputation of the nun was at stake, her hesitation was only short, because P2,000 is equivalent to many kilos of rice and the fullness of the hungry. the man immediately got a bottle of wine and poured a cup. after the nun did the sign of the cross she quickly drank and emptied the contents of the cup. and after setting down the cup on the table, without any interruption challenged the owner of the house, "and now, sir, if possible, one more cup for the same price!" the man was shocked and obliged the challenge of the nun. and when the nun set down the emptied second cup, the man, whispering, brought out P4,000 from his wallet. lesson: do not challenge those in need so that you will not lose in your foolishness. service a famous psychiatrist gave a lecture on mental health, and after this started to answer the questions of the listeners. there was one who asked, "what do you suggest a person must do, if this person has serious anxiety and deeply troubled?" majority expected that the psychiatrist would answer, "consult a psychiatrist!" in their shock, they did not expect his answer: "shut your house, go to a place inhabited by our squatting fellowmen, find anyone with a real need, and do anything to help this person." lesson: peace of mind will only be chanced upon, if the mind is focused on serving. valuing if a pail will be filled to the brim by means of drops only, a lot of time is needed before it is filled. even if it is seen almost full, it is necessary to add more drops to be able to say that it is already full. and eventually, after it is filled ... with only one additional drop it will overflow. doing good is similar to this. many of us are able to accept even a simple act of help, but it is a huge inconvenience to show or make felt our appreciation for it. it is very difficult to even pronounce the short word, "thanks." as if a bone is preventing our throat to release our thanks. whereas it is greater appreciation to say it rather than receive, because it is like a prayer that will allow to gain more blessings. if with a short word for gratitude we are lacking, what more if there is effort expected from you? do not be selfish and stop the blessings allotted for you. keep in mind that those who open their palms receive rather than those who close it. lesson: if you know how to value, you are valued.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_67177260 resignation of judge included in the Digong drug list rejected by the SC August 16, 2016 Judge Exequil Dagala of the municipal trial court (MTC) of Dapa, Siargao offered an irrevocable resignation following his name's appearance in President Rodrigo Duterte's list of those allegedly involved in illegal drugs. Dagala is included in the seven judges in the list of Duterte wherein only four of them will be placed under investigation because the others are still active in service. the said resignation happened this August 8 with Supreme Court (SC) administrator Jose Midas Marquez. related to this, the court did not accept the resignation of Dagala because according to SC public information chief Attorney Theodore Te he was already under administrative investigation even before being included in the list of Duterte. "he remains under the jurisdiction of the court as far as administrative discipline is concerned and will be subject to the fact finding investigation to be conducted by retired Justice Roberto Abad," Te stated.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_34788075 respect him so I get my inspiration from my dad . and like I said maybe it has not really sank into me yet now but -- but -- but definitely I know I will miss him and I know I will fell all the pain . and -- and -- and it's something that I have to endure . something that I have to let go through . but my dad has always been an inspiration to me . and I will always look up to him . <no-speech> he has been my my rock . so %incomplete my -- I -- I -- in the book I actually called him my hero . because to me he's always been my hero because I'll -- there's -- when I was a kid I was still a kid nobody believes me that I am Dolphy's child . so %incomplete even if the face is so similar ? even I look like him seems because they do not know so . they do not know that -- that Dolphy has other families what they know of is the first family right . so what I really did because they do not believe me what does he say ? that my child he said okay I will fetch you tomorrow . so he fetched me at school went down the car he brought with him his mister Slim Mercedes -- Mercedes Benz . -- he arrived in Ateneo . he went down . and I really flaunted him in %incomplete dad let's look around . we roamed all around -- all around Ateneo bring me to your classroom . I brought him to my classroom . so he was seen by all of my -- all of my classmates that time . that's why -- after that time something felt different because at that time they were teasing me that I was an illegitimate child illegitimate child . something like that . that's hurtful right ? of course at that age you're not thinking about that that I'm an illegitimate child ? dad why -- am I really an illegitimate child ? he said that's nothing . there's no -- there's no illegitimate child . you're my child how can you be an illegitimate child . something like that -- that was his . that's why when I flaunted him of course after that the perception of -- of my -- my classmates at that time changed . totally changed . after that I was like a star in school . and that is the beauty of stories even though you have many siblings they always say heh he shows all his love for you . you .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_67765068 Pangilinan is not needed in BuCor because the director of the New Bilibid Prisons (NBP) Retired General Gaudencio Pangilinan, has been away for months, there are many mysterious happenings in the said national prison in Muntinlupa. anyway, even if Pangilinan was there, the anomaly and corruption could not be stopped, what about now that he is on leave? naturally, the entry of paraphernalia in NBP is continuous such as drugs and fresh meat or women selling momentary pleasures. who is the mastermind of this kind of activity? of course, the ones who used to benefit from the activities in which officials and members of the BuCor profit a lot of money from. according to some text messages, from the inmates themselves, the employees of the jail are making foolishness here. they can easily escape from Justice Secretary Leila de Lima who is not watching them for 24 hours to patrol. and why President Benigno Aquino is forcing not to remove Pangilinan from his position when he is not effective here? he has done a lot of mistakes in the agency where he is gaining profit from, so he is also a hot item in the eyes of the media. if former Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency Director Undersecretary Jose Gutierrez was made to forcibly resign, why could he not do it to Pangilinan? it is not true that he has done so much to make him win in the previous election. even if investigated, it is not only the widespread of drugs and prostitution which have worsened in jail when he sat on the position but also corruption such as the purchase of whatever instruments, favoring catering services and even the transfer of inmates to the colonies are done to be profited from. the friends and acquaintances of Pangilinan were given favors during his time. upon taking his seat, didn't he assign to his former classmate Colonel Rolando Maclang the negotiation with the rich Chinese who are all imprisoned in the national jail because of drug cases? they sent other prisoners to far colonies and in the end, they pleaded to make an arrangement to them to be brought back to Muntinlupa. and so, not only coins of money went to their pockets but millions. they also took the small money of the prisoners who have the ability to go to the office of Maclang, appointed by Pangilinan as his right hand, in exchange of special treatment or freedom in jail. it was exposed that Rolito Go can go out and enter the jail to gamble wherever casino in Metro Manila and even outside it. even the families of the prisoners who are visiting need to put a guard and even the mayors are delegated by the officials of the national jail to get an interest. so it is already time to stop these kinds of wrongdoings in jail. needs to appoint an official who has a heart to stop the corruption and can act on his duty even if there will be some who would be crossed over in the change to be done in the BuCor.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_80733141 Secretary De Lima, man of the hour. strike while the iron is hot. Leila de Lima, Secretary of Justice, is now the man of the hour because many consider de Lima as the winner in her fight with Iglesia ni Cristo. Iglesia rallied at Padre Faura and at the corner of Shaw but the one million people, whom its leaders promised, did not come. aside from this, their appeal to have De Lima ousted from position did not also push through. is this a sign that the followers of Iglesia are not that many anymore? De Lima is planning to run as a senatorial candidate in the coming election. there are some who are saying that the vote of Iglesia as a block is important, which is why there is a risk that she would lose in this election. there are some who say that it is already time for De Lima to run for vice president under the ticket of Mar Roxas, who is saying that it is also the time to have a president from the Visayan region again. even if Iglesia manages to accumulate one or two million votes against De Lima, it seems that this sect will still be short of votes. those who are not members of Iglesia have a strong sympathy for De Lima. De Lima should take advantage of this chance before this issue cools down. it is said that there is Catholic backlash, aside from the Born Again and other protestant groups, and this is what Leila needs to take care of. before this controversy even cools down, the wheels of justice need to be put in motion or turned so that the cases of the Iglesia ministers regarding the alleged serious illegal detention can be resolved. whether De Lima will win as vice president will depend on her ability to beat Senator Antonio Trillanes or Alan Cayetano or even Chiz Escudero. I have a feeling that Iglesia will not vote for Trillanes. it is also probable that many Catholics will not vote for Chiz because he allegedly seems to be pro-Iglesia. deep fried/Raul Valino
query789 no justice
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_22797975 'DOH, unprepared to the threat of Ebola' it is untrue that the Philippine government is ready to the threat of Ebola virus in case the deadly illness comes into the country, according to health sector employees, who protested in front of the office of the Department of Health (DOH). this is contrary to the statements of DOH secretary Enrique Ona when he said that the government is ready for Ebola. he claimed that facilities are ready particularly at the Research Institute of Tropical Medicine, San Lazaro Hospital, and Lung Center of the Philippines. Ebola virus is considered as an alarming epidemic worldwide which claimed the lives of thousands of people at Africa this year. being prepared is untrue according to the Alliance of Health Workers (AHW), the government cannot manage the diseases that kill the Filipinos daily like tuberculosis (TB) and measles (which has cures), therefore, there is no assurance that the government can manage the Ebola disease. according to the data of DOH itself, around 63 people die everyday due to the TB disease. around 97 percent of the recorded 16,743 cases of measles died since January 1 until August 9, 2014 from DOH. "anually, thousands of children die of diarrhea and pneumonia before reaching the age of five in the Philippines. the government still cannot answer that seven out of ten Filipino die without ever seeing a doctor. what preparedness do the government have against Ebola?" according to Sean Velchez, president of National Orthopedic Health Workers Union-AHW. Velchez added, America, which is one of the most powerful countries and has more advanced medical technology for Ebola, has one confirmed dead. including two more nurses who are said to be infected. the said group is alarmed of the statement by DOH at the Senate and to the nation that hospitals are ready but in actuality, no facilities are prepared for patients of Ebola aside from container vans. no trainings were ever conducted by the DOH and there is not enough protective equipment for the health workers, said Jossel Ebesate, president of AHW, at Pinoy Weekly. "the BSL (biosafety level) needed for Ebola is at level 4. Philippines is at level 2 at present. still only at this regard, what will be done to patients with Ebola," according to Ebesate. overworked, underpaid despite the threat of Ebola, state of health workers remain the same at public hospitals. "remaining as overworked and underpaid are the nurses and employees of our public hospitals. this is dangerous also for health workers because supplies itself at the hospital are unavailable for use to protect them. some health workers even buy their own protective gears for everyday," said Robert Mendoza, general secretary of AHW presently, a health worker receives a salary grade 1 or P9,000 per month. meanwhile, a nurse 1 receives a salary grade 11 which is P18,600 per month. "our salaries may be higher compared to other private hospitals as said by Undersecretary Ted Herbosa. but this is still not enough for the expenses of our families every month. it is has become necessary for us to get loan from everywhere. we certainly earn less with the cost of living which is P32,000 per month (based from data of Ibon Foundation) for a family with six members. we need P25,000 per month for a nurse 1 upon their entry," according to Ebesate. community nurses even receive lower with P5,000 per month and all of whom are contractual, according to Emy Ilag, from Nars ng Bayan. allocate enough funds for the health workers, the government should allocate enough funds for the health sector. but instead of seriously funding government hospitals, they are subjected to privatization under the program Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) of the Aquino administration, according to AHW. "instead of increasing the budget for hospitals, like the Philippine Orthopedic Center (POC) which need P5.6 billion for the modernization of the hospital, DOH subjected it to PPP together with Megawide World City Consortium," according to Velchez. POC receives 6,000 to 7,000 patients every year. around 80 to 90 percent of this come from the poorest family. Velchez explained, even public hospitals become unreachable for the poor. many of the poor are sick, would not get treatment and included in the deaths were not able to even consult a doctor. around 72 public hospitals in the country are subject to PPP of the Aquino administration. some of those subject for privatization or "corporatization" include Jose R. Reyes Memorial Medical Center, Cagayan Valley Medical Center, Baguio General Hospital and Medical Center, Bicol Medical Center, Quirino Memorial Medical Center, Amang Rodriguez Medical Center, and San Lazaro Hospital. also included are Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center, Western Visayas Medical Center, Northern Mindanao Medical Center, Southern Philippines Medical Center, Zamboanga City Medical Center, Cotobato Regional and Medical Center, Caraga Regional Hospital, Davao Regional Hospital, and more. PPP is a program of the Aquino administration encouraging businessmen and large corporations to enter old public hospitals and facilities to supposedly modernize the equipment there. but this is criticized by many critics and groups, saying that business and not public service is the purpose of the private sector which will only make it harder for the poor to have access to the said hospitals. "change is needed to the system that is neglecting our department. DOH is negligent and liar someone needs to be responsible for the systematic negligence of the citizens. secretary should be ousted of his position. Ona," according to Velchez.
query781 street children
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_76457024 another crime of Palparan by Teo S. Marasigan August 18, 2014 speech that wasn't delivered in the picket in front of National Bureau of Investigation last morning of August 12. friends and family! Major Genereal Jovito Palparan has another crime to the Filipinos, aside from the many extrajudicial cases of murder, kidnapping, and other violation of human rights. and that crime is in line with how he violated human rights. he did this brazenly, and bluntly, almost as if announcing it. he comes to one region, and the violation of human rights will increase there. but he says it without a blink of an eye, in front of a camera, that it wasn't his people who killed, that there were no missing from the military camp, that it wasn't his fault. in one interview, he said that he only gives "inspiration" for the violations. he also was unstoppable in giving excuses for this - along with the tyranny in villages of ordinary people. in one State of the Nation Address or SONA, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo even praised him. there was a time that it became ordinary for activists to receive text messages about co-activists that were recent victims of murder and kidnapping - in consecutive days. the photos of the murdered and kidnapped; sometimes even with bloody corpse- the mother and father, wife, children, sibling, friend, and co-activists was all over the media, especially the alternative media. friends and family! Palparan is insulting us Filipinos! every murder, kidnapping, and violation of human rights is a spit to the face of the town. he slapped to our faces that we can't do anything, that we can't stop him, and that we don't have any power to hold it against him. but this morning, friends and family, we're standing here in front of NBI to prove that Palparan is wrong. Palparan is wrong! government of Noynoy Aquino will not lift Palparan unless there are strong protests and disapproval of the people to the Pork Barrel King because of his corruption in the government. Noynoy is searching for a way to smell good to the public, and is further condemning Gloria as the enemy, according to him. let's make it clear: the people doesn't owe the government of Aquino for lifting Palparan; this has been a long time debt of the government of Aquino to us! Palparan won't also be lifted if it weren't for the efforts of the people in many years to unveil him as a murderer. Palparan won't be lifted if it weren't for the efforts of the people in many years to fight Gloria, a cheater, corrupt, fascist, and puppet. let's remember: warrant of arrest was drawn to Palparan when the Aquino government wanted to show how serious they are in holding Gloria responsible. friends and family. our protests to achieve peace and to hold Palparan responsible doesn't end here; in fact, this is just the start of of our protests. we need to assure that there will be no special treatments for him, that he will be sentenced guilty, and rot in jail. what we want to say: there might be no true justice for the people under the system ruled by some rich and powerful, we can make them responsible in different ways, especially the biggest murderer of the town. regardless of how slow the wheel of justice for the people will turn, we can make them pay! this day, we have more proof to say: because of the continuous fight of the people, because of the stronger fight of the people, there will be a day for the fascists. they will have their day! long live the people who fight! we continue to shout and fight: justice, justice, justice! 18 August 2014
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_69610834 DOE, contributed a Biomass Gasification Technology project at Romblon November 10, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo Romblon, Romblon, November 10 (PIA) - the Department of Energy (DOE) once again contributed a new project, a Biomass Gasification Technology, to the residents of Barangay Alad in the municipality of Romblon. DOE and Romblon Electric Cooperative (ROMELCO) Incorporated met with the residents of Sitio Bagong Silang, Barangay Alad, Romblon to explain to them the process of bringing electricity to their homes through Biomass System. delegates of DOE presented to the barangay official of Alad the importance of the project and how it could help improve the quality of living of the population. According to Romelco officials, this type of electricity to homes is a big help to illuminate the whole household especially at night and so children would no longer have difficulty in studying their lectures. (DM/PIA- MIMAROPA/Romblon)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_18150378 Comelec, confident that election in Palawan will finish properly May 09, 2016 Orlan C. Jabagat Puerto Princesa, Palawan, May 9 (PIA) - the Commission on Elections in Palawan is confident that election on this day will end properly despite reports that some vote counting machines (VCM) had mechanical trouble at the start of election. according to Provincial Election Supervisor Attorney Percival Mendoza, the back-up VCM in Palawan is enough in case the said machines have mechanical trouble. Smartmatic technicians are also on standby in clustered precincts to give technical assistance to the Board of Election inspector. also yesterday a secured digital or SD card for the VCM in precinct number 23 in Barangay Ipilan in the town of Brooke's Point arrived. the COMELEC discovered that the VCM did not come with an SD card when they did a final testing of the sealing recently. meanwhile, before six o'clock in the morning the line of voters in different voting places in the city of Puerto Princesa has started to grow. also noticeable is the presence of the police and members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines here. senior citizens and the pregnant were given priority to vote first. Palawan has a total of 433 barangays, 583,057 registered voters and 514 voting centers. (OCJ/PIA4B-Palawan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95000064 on the 43rd anniversary of the New People's Army: people's war is the answer to the intensifying poverty Fortunato Magtanggol RCTU-Southern Tagalog March 29, 2012 highest revolutionary greeting is being sent out by the Revolutionary Council of Trade Unions - National Democratic Front - Southern Tagalog on the 43rd anniversary of the foundation of the New People's Army (New People's Army)! high honor to the red commanders and warriors who untiringly serving and offering their strength, intelligence and life for the countrymen and the revolution. in the current times, when the citizens are facing severe poverty and violence caused by the rotten and eventual fall of the capitalist system in the global scope, there is no other path but to fight through the armed revolution. our people's army is needed to be strengthened more to fully advance the armed struggle that will clear the path to build a society with fullness of freedom, justice and care for its citizens. the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) founded the BHB last March 29, 1969 as its primary revolutionary mass organization. as a military force, political, economic, and cultural, the BHB is comprehensively advancing the duties of the current chapter of the national democratic revolution until the next chapter of socialist revolution. since the foundation of the BHB, more lives are given up to build the iron and high walled tower of the revolution in the villages. because of the unceasing launching of the anti-revolutionary programs of the past regimes, the paths trodden by the BHB and the revolutionary forces became complicated. though there are times when wrapped with mistakes, the BHB corrected and again it tightened its grasp in the Marxist-Leninist-Mao Zedong Thought as an ideological guide; launched an armed struggle according to the suitable strategy and tactics; and organized and strengthened the organization from the unceasing criticism and criticism to itself and obedience to the centralized democracy as a primary organizing principle of the whole revolution. through the continuous organization and recruitment of the new warriors, the membership of the BHB slowly gets stronger and expansive. the farm bases and guerrilla zones are built in huge villages. currently, the red government being built reaches to a relatively expansive scope through the armed struggle led by the PKP. different from the reactionary government and its armed forces, the BHB is humbly accepting mistakes and learning from experiences. unlike the police and military who are involved in the syndicates and spreading terrorism to the masses, the BHB remains serving for the interest of the oppressed masses so therefore it continues to reap support from the larger society. though complicated was the path trodden, the BHB yet again and continuously strengthening. in the midst of the most severe global crisis which pierces through each homes of masses of children of the sweat, the citizens have no other recourse but to fight. in the continual exploitation of the US imperialist and its local puppets who are the huge landlords and big bourgeoisie buyers, the Filipino citizens have no other solution but to advance the people's war. more than half of the special economic zones (SEZs) in the whole country can be found in Southern Tagalog. in the chase of the capitalists for their super high interests and to save their companies from the global crisis in capitalism whom they themselves have created, more workers are experiencing an intensifying poverty. long has been massacred are the regular livelihood, lack of sufficient wages and benefits, and suppression of democratic rights on creating unions and rallying. while the capitalists are savoring from the cheap labor force of the workers, raw materials and government incentives such as tax holidays and 100% ownership in the Philippines; face to face, the government also denies from the workers the right for housing, land to build on, health, education, and other social services. result of the incessant sipping of the strength, intelligence and livelihood of the working class, their future is withered like a leaf. nevertheless, this withering is the basis to quickly ignite the fire of the revolution that will end the poverty and will begin the authentic change. to revolt is justifiable. because of the continuing exhaustion, more workers and citizens are aspiring for a revolutionary justice through armed struggle. more workers, farmers, youth, destitute and other citizens continue to join and perform in the BHB. through the continuous implementation of agrarian reform and building of the walled towers of the revolution in the villages, the government controlled by the US imperialist and locals of the reigning class will totally be toppled down. only the involvement of the workers and citizens in the New People's Army, and in leading the revolutionary movement in the cities that the people's democratic government will be built through the leadership of the proletariat class. long live the New People's Army! New People's Army: real army of the nation! complete the duties of the people's democratic revolution! workers and citizens, join the NPA!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_21480586 push this! Pauleen shouted angrily with an AlDub fan (it seemed) because of Patricia! "so, could not be our friend Patricia because "you just thought so" and, Alden with her?" -Pauleen by Glenn Regondola September 20, 2016 Pauleen Luna-Sotto could not stop to react in the innuendos of a critic where she is accused of being fake in voting for Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza love team. because in reality, Pauleen really bets for the Eat Bulaga co-host Patricia Tumulak, in a post by someone @bet_bat, Pauleen was indirectly hinted, based on the picture where the wife of Boss Vic is smiling while the two are singing. she said, "eyes who are always watching #pauleenlunasotto "the best friends of Patricia Tumulak will be mad." Pauleen answered this, "are you okay, sister? prohibited to watch? Hahaha! you!" it was followed by the EB host with, "do you have a problem with me?" the critic has also exchanged messages with another netizen supported by Pauleen. because of this, the wife of Boss Vic could not avoid to answer with a longer message. "I seriously do not understand what you're talking about. it is difficult to talk to a person with a closed mind and listening and believing only herself. so, did she mean that we cannot befriend Patricia because she just thought they are together with Alden? we should not notice her because you do not like it?" "sorry, our manners are not bad and moreover, we are not liars. believe what you want to believe. we are happy here. hope you are too. God bless." also in the comment section, Pauleen only received support from various netizens and criticisms received by the negative netizen. serves her right, yes?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_99692218 the 'form' of the warrior in Maguindanao (Central Mindanao adventures part 1) part of the annual tradition of the Philippine Military Academy "Bantay-Laya" class of 1994, we visit the grave of our dead squad members in the Libingan ng mga Bayani in Fort Bonifacio. we do this tradition every 1st week of March, jibed to our graduation day anniversary that happens every 6th of March. by the way, this is already our 20th year in active service. most importantly, we do this tradition to remember the good memories of our squad members when they were still alive. because I was destined only in Manila, I preferred to join to again express to my dead squad members that I have not forgotten them. each one of my squad members has value to me. but, there are some with fond memories carved to my heart and mind. when I saw the grave of Lieutenant Colonel Ronaldo Sacatani of the Philippine Air Force, I instantly remembered our companionship in Maguindanao in 1997. allow me to share my memorable experience in my assignment to the fort of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in Central Mindanao when my company was transferred there, the 7th scout ranger company, in January 1997. Maguindanao adventures I arrived in Maguindanao on the 3rd of February 1997. I was late to arrive there because I was the one who transported our Kennedy type jeep aboard a ship from Manila. when I arrived, my hut was just finished. it was made of coconut, as in the raw materials are 'all coconut' starting from the roof, ceiling and even frame of my bed. let me call that the coconut palace I mean coco hut. my new assignment was all right even though I still felt new. our camp was in Barangay Mileb, Sultan in Barongis, Maguindanao. we were beside the camp of the 78th infantry battalion and only two kilometers away there was the 11th infantry battalion. some 3-4 kilometers from our camp, there was the Reina Regente Mountains and the Liguasan Marsh wherein the ranks of the MILF had spread in nearby areas. in my second day at camp, I myself diligently supervised the creation of sandbags the side of my hut to catch the other bullets and shrapnel raining down every time there are harassments. on the 5th of February, I decided to shop for additional supplies in the town of Tacurong where there was a single mall. it was also my sideline back then to memorize the road nets in the area and where are the places with ambush areas. it was around 7:00am back then, when I told my C.O. 1st Lieutenant Jason Aquino about my intention to go 'malling' in Tacurong. 'give my regards to the beautiful Illongas in Tacurong, Harold! beware of ambush sites between Mileb and Lambayong,' said my boss back then. because I heard there were supposedly many beautiful Illonga girls there, I dressed up before leaving. I was even wearing my bull ring and my golden pendant. aside from that, I almost showered in perfume because I did not want to smell like a Musang in town. that was my only concept of "winning the hearts" and minds at that time. hmm. where is the connection to Lieutenant Sacatani? just wait bro. let me continue. it is close. so, we traversed the road toward Tacurong that in estimate is more or less a 40 minute journey using our Humvee. I could see Lambayong then by the front when I noticed the call on the hand-held radio I brought. on the other line was Lieutenant Aquino. "Harold, abort your trip. I have an emergency situation here. we need your special skills at once," said my boss seemingly with worry in his voice. in a situation like that, no more mental reservations. must act immediately and maybe life is at stake. "wilco instruction sir. turning around and coming back in 20 minutes or less." in short, Staff Sergeant Antonio, the veteran driver of the Humvee almost flew our vehicle so we can arrive instantly in our camp. we did not know the nature of the emergency but we were ready to respond when necessary. when we arrived at camp, I saw that there were two Huey choppers running by the helipad just a few meters outside the perimeter fence. there were troops already on full battle gear standing outside my barracks. also there was my CO and my executive officer Lieutenant Mike Banua. "hey sir, what happened and why does it seem that we have a deployment?" there I heard the fastest mission briefing from my CO: "one infantry company of the 61st infantry battalion was pinned down at the bottom of Hill 292 in Shariff Aguak. sniper support is needed and you will lead together with one section of the troop. the complete mission briefing will be there in the headquarters of the 61st IB. the two choppers outside will be your vehicle. you leave after 5 minutes!" it was as if I was surprised and shocked. fear? worry. yes, I was suddenly worried for reasons I did not know. because I had many thoughts. maybe my attire was wrong. I had on a black suit. I was even wearing jewelry. my equipment I had to complete in my combat pack. I don't know, I just suddenly had so much mental baggage. "sir, perhaps after 5 minutes? my backpack and special equipment too, I still have to prepare." there my ex-o Sir Mike spoke: "don't worry Harold, I already packed up for you. I am sure you will not be hungry and have somewhere to sleep too. your poncho and hammock are there already." I just laughed. just think it was the o-ex who even packed up for me. I had no reason anymore. it was there I looked for my companions. they were 14, including my fighters Corporal Dimaano and Corporal Galamay, and I was the 15th. "gentlemen, it looks like our destination is action-packed. I also do not know the situation in the ground and our final briefing is still later. let us just trust God that we will not be harmed. we are the only ones our pinned down companions are waiting for. rangers lead the way, lets go!" I saluted to say goodbye to my officials. and Lieutenant Aquino ordered to me: "take care of the troop Harold. you can do it!" when the choppers we were riding rose, our companions even waved us goodbye. I felt differently. I could not understand. I prayed. I watched the wide plains below. I was able to picture out my new hunting ground. not much concealment apart from the coconut plantation. the marshland was wide. what if the fighting is there? it was 9:00am then when we landed in the camp of the 61st IB in Shariff Aguak. I was welcomed by S3 Lieutenant Ricky "Gary B" Bunayog, to head to their briefing area. outside their office, I came across one of my close squad members Lieutenant Ronaldo 'Sac' Sacatani, who back then was pilot of an MG Attack helicopter. Sac and I were together in the PMA powerlifting corps squad and known as the 'steel men' of the academy because we liked to carry hundreds of kilos of steel during athletic period. of course, because squad members seeing each other in the field, we greeted each other before entering the briefing room. I cannot forget his teasing: "Bok, you really are wild. only today I learned that warrior rangers fought like that. even wearing jewelry and you smell really good!" I was speechless. it was difficult to explain. I was the only one wearing black suit at that time. my buddies were wearing BDA. "Bok, we are the modern Musang. for war, for the mall too! oops, do not abandon us below while I am helping the ambushed troop!"
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15171087 the Food and Drug Administration warned against the careless use of products that are supposed to combat dengue . . the lotion is possibly from (()) China isn't it ? not really . those are stories made up by our countrymen . but those adhesives are usually for children for babies . sometimes it has what's called placitronella because well there are a lot of mosquito killers repellents . but the thing is we should be careful because we are not also sure where they came from right ? but what's important there is we should clean our surroundings .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83813749 in this place my brothers last September -- or September three -- September three eighteen ninety seven the members of the gathering including Teodorico Luna Novicio Antero Amatorio Norberto Valenzuela or Isabelo Palispis and others who signed the manifesto expressing their opposition to the powerful Spanish regime . in this event my brothers the Philippine revolution against the Spaniards started in the Prince district or more known today as the town of Aurora . aah so that is formerly called prince . but now that is Aurora . it also served as station of the revolutionary movement in Baler . that's it Dikaloyungan that my brothers is a historical place in Baler Aurora . now you know ? if you are heading there in Baler Aurora go to this Dikaloyungan that is one historical place because here residence certificates were torn by our Katipuneros who sacrificed their lives which is why we now have this so called freedom . if not for their sacrifices .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25336249 Leyte needs the help of the national government almost five months have passed since the super typhoon Yolanda destructed the Visayas Region where Leyte, particularly, Tacloban City is severely hit. despite the number of people I talked to, not one of them said that the national government gave them aid. even for their electricity, they still need to give money to LEYECO before the electricity will be connected for them. the justification of LEYECO, their staff does not have an ability to connect electricity to the whole Leyte so the residents have to carry the payment for the contractor that they are going to get to connect the wires to each house. this government is too much. a huge donation is received from the different countries in the whole world, even the payment for the contractors to connect the wires to houses is needed to be depended on the Yolanda survivors? in almost two weeks that I have been going back and forth to Tacloban and Ormoc City, the people are saying of almost one thing, hope they will be aided by our government. the residents of Leyte really want to rise and get up but how can they do this if they are not going to be helped by the national government? even with the relief goods, those whom we have talked to said that they have not been receiving any relief goods from the DSWD of Secretary Dinky Soliman. only aide from the local government and foreign countries. some of the residents of Ormoc City said that the relief goods dumped in a warehouse in Ormoc are expired and rotten but would not like to distribute it for an unknown reason. where did the billions of foreign aide granted to our government in the midst of the typhoon Yolanda have gone? how many of the people in the government have benefited and continuously benefitting here, and who are these animals? for now, you can still hide what you are doing but on 2016, can you still pass through if someone different sits in? seems I can see now that many are going to jail after the national election in 2016. let yourselves be hit, have shame on yourselves. do not meddle with the money which is not for you and do not take interest in it. be afraid in karma, remember that karma now arrives as quick as the winds of typhoon Yolanda. oh, for your sake.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_97609163 we can: priority should be given to agriculture and health by Harvey Keh. August 23, 2016 this week, the discussion began for President Rodrigo Duterte's requested P3.3 trillion budget for 2017. what's shocking in this amount is the sudden increase of budget of the office of Duterte which during the time of President Benigno 'Noynoy' Aquino III had a budget of only three billion pesos but in the requested budget of Duterte it increased to P20 billion. according to Budget Secretary Benjamin Diokno, five billion pesos of this budget will be used to organize the ASEAN conference here in our country next year, but still the increase in the budget of the Office of the President is enormous. of course, if the budget of the office is increased, there are number of departments where budgets are deducted, and one of the biggest deduction is from Department of Health (DOH) where an estimated 30 billion pesos was inferred. if this deduction will push through, many health services will surely be minimized for ordinary citizens. even now, we already have inadequate medicines and other equipment in our public hospitals; how much more in the next years when there will be a big deduction in the budget of DOH? health is important in our community; because if one member of the family is sick, the salary or savings of the family are used up. if the bread winner of the family gets sick, surely, it will bring hunger to the family. this is also one of the reasons why our fellow citizens are buried in debts; instead of saving for their future, it is consumed in buying medicines for their loved ones. if only the healthy system in our country is organized, we can fight poverty better. another department that got a cut is the Department of Agriculture (DA). Duterte promised to pay attention to our farmers and fishermen, hence, he should have increased the budget of DA to give more help to those who feed our country. our farmers have lots of problems; one is the destruction of crops during typhoon, which consequently requires them to loan money to plant again. because of this, they are buried in debt and makes it difficult for them to rise; hence, DA should be given a higher budget to help our farmers with the problems they're facing.
query307 one hundred thousand pesos
query306 Palawan program
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87768454 learn how to make a list this 2013, lack of financial support is still the majority of cases faced by the Bantay OCW. almost everyday, we don't lose complaints from wives of our OFWs. perhaps decrease of support, or just seldom, or a complete lack of support by the husband. the OFWs have lots of excuses. but usually, it's their mistress abroad. and it will end up to them having a family of their own there. that's the reason why sustenance for the original family is reduced, and will eventually completely stop. it would have been better if the wife has an income in the Philippines. but the case is, many of them are dependent to their OFW husbands, almost begs just to be sustained. some even say that it's okay for their husband to have a mistress, or even have a different family in abroad, as long as they don't stop the financial support to them. one time, a wife of an OFW went to Bantay OCW to complain her husband who was chanced to be on a vacation at that time. she already knows that her husband has a mistress in Qatar, but her only request is for the husband to give a regular support to the family. they have three children and are only students, there's still a house on installment, and the wife doesn't have a job. when the husband learned that his wife complained to Bantay OCW, he opted to face us and end the problem before he goes back to Qatar. we gave an ample time for the meeting of husband and wife at the studio of Inquirer Radio in Makati City. because the issue is support, we asked the wife a list of expenses at home. we repeatedly asked the wife her list, but it seemed like she didn't hear us, she wasn't responding. when I asked for the list again, she said he doesn't have a list, hence, doesn't have anything to show. we started to teach her how to make a list for the monthly budget of their family. when we finished that, we then settled the right and just budget that the husband should send the wife monthly. the formula we used was favorable to both of them. the OFW was happy that we set apart an automatic savings of 20% for him, and we properly calculated the monthly expenses of the family. after their signing of the said agreement, both parties were thankful because they would not be filing a case in court, which would really use up a lot of their time and also be an expense. altogether, we urged the wife to look for a job and help the OFW husband that will add sustenance for their growing family. and above all, hopefully, wives can learn how to make a monthly list to have a basis of requested support from the husband. if there was a list, it wouldn't be hard for the OFWs to give a monthly support because it really is their primary reason of going abroad: to give their family a good future. what now, wives, start listing and your lives will be easier, because expenses and right budgeting is part of our daily lives. surely, you'll avoid disagreements.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_13666737 <no-speech> do you want to buy products that are fresh and cheap ? do you know that here in GenSan healthy food that are also affordable are featured . what are the health benefits of eating organic or organic food . Rean Hacosta patrols . <no-speech> every Sunday many health conscious swarms Farmer's Market in Baranggay Lagaw . this is because you can buy newly picked fruits and fresh vegetables and other -- food that are considered to be organic here . health conscious Mayet wants to make sure that there are no chemicals in the food that she prepares for her family . make sure that what we're cooking what we're preparing for ourselves are are free from chemical . Marjorie also noticed that the fruits and vegetables that she buys from Farmer's Market takes longer to rot . it's really for one week it hasn't spoiled yet . what we've compared with those in the market -- other market only takes three days before it rots . storekeeper Teresita is happy because their simple display of organic food became a hit in GenSan . that is why they make sure that they do not use pesticides in their products . nothing beats the natural . when we eat natural so when we say natural it means that it's only what we created for -- a natural spray -- just spray that's the only thing we use that's what the D_A taught us . organic food are foods like vegetables fruits or meat where no pesticides or chemicals were used . it is rich with nutrients and is a good prevention against cancer that is commonly acquired in foods that have pesticides or with preservatives . this is an advocacy by not only by me but to all the people that has hearts for those small farmers and home producers . for them to have the opportunity to have -- a livelihood too . aside from the cheap and healthy food featured in the Farmer's Market is the techno-demo like how to make the famous Maguindanaon delicacy known as Tinagtag . it's because it was dismissed the recipe of (()) ours and that's only rice and sugar . for those who want to buy the organic food they can visit the Farmer's Market every Sunday in Ramas residences at Tiongson extension in Baranggay Lagaw . Rean Hacosta %incomplete
query1380 plastic fork hyp utensil
query433 Cebu interview
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_39702591 'national war for peace' the revolutionary army movement in south Mindanao showed its force last December 26. its message: the residents desire a peace based on justice. Davao city - in one whole day, the center of attention of the entire country is one formerly quiet town in the district of Paquibato in the said city. this is because this mountainous place is of one of the biggest cities in the country, a country assembly on peace was done. along with it, this is also where the anniversary of the "only political party in the entire country" was celebrated (said by many experts on Filipino politics); the party leading the Filipino revolution today: the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), that was established 48 ago. it was estimated to reach 15,000 civilians, supporters and part of the CPP participated in the whole day gathering last December 26. along with it the celebration also in different parts of Mindanao and the entire country. but in Paquibato, the entire Red Bagani Batallion of the New People's Army (NPA) marched, for the first time in public. the image they are showed, image of a disciplined, uniformed, well-groomed and happy armed force of the revolution. pinoy weekly and PinoyMedia center attended this gathering, that started with a formation inspection in Red Warrior battalion to show respect to the CPP. according to Porferio Tuna, Junior, who is included in those leading the conducted formation inspection, "it is only right that we show respect and acclaim the efforts and the victories achieved by our party." but more than celebrating the extent that was reached today by the revolutionary forces, this assembly is an occasion to talk about the status of the peace talks between the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP, that represents the revolutionary forces that is led by the CPP and participated by the NPA) and the administration of President Duterte. "a lot has been promised to the people by president Duterte... in that state, our own strength and effort will push him in order to fulfill his promises," explained by Tuna. and that has been the tone of the whole day gathering: giving respect to the revolutionary forces (including those who offered their lives in fighting), while facing the current status of negotiation with a president who actually came from Davao city and at one time showed himself as a "leftist president" who is a friend of the revolution. as recognized "friend", a number of leading members of the cabinet of Duterte attended. also in the audience were the members of the panel of the government in negotiations with the NDFP, led by Labor secretary Silvestre Bello III. facing them, who also conducted a press conference in the place of celebration, the members and consultant of ndfp who are negotiating with the government, lead by Luis Jalandoni (former lead negotiator who is now a senior advisor of the NDFP negotiating panel), Coni Ledesma, Tuna (consultant representing Mindanao), and others. also attending is the former political prisoner free last August to participate in the peace talks-the consultant of NDFP in Visayas who is Concepcion "Concha" Araneta-Bocala. "the government of Duterte thought that after we were freed, we will stop our actions. we will not stop until the fundamental talks are not faced especially in the field of socio-economic reforms that is the support or reason of the revolutionary," explained by Araneta-Bocala. like in the past, Jalandoni clarified that the NDFP is prepared to study the proposed reforms of the Duterte regime, including the federal system being pushed. "if the federal system will be helpful to the people and it is liked by the mass, the movement may become open in order to study this and ensure that the benefit is for the good of the Filipino mass," he explained. however, explained by Tuna, the Duterte government need to recognize having a separate revolutionary government in the Philippines that is lead by the NDFP. "the government of the oppressed mass has its own government, court, army and concrete programs like the agrarian revolution (including the) distribution of land to farmers, decreasing the usury and collectively progress the agricultural production," Tuna said. the NDFP allegedly has its own program on health, education, and other heath services in the barrios in the Philippines. "we can stand according to our own strength so wherever the peace talks reaches we revolutionaries are ready," he also said. explained by Eduardo Genelsa, fellow consultant of the NDFP in Mindanao, the revolutionary fight in Mindanao has its "own context". "this was born by the long experience and tight discipline in order to overcome weaknesses. in the intense betrayal of the fascist military of the mass and movement it was able to stand and be skillful both in tactical and strategic fighting." this means, in the support of the people in Mindanao, the revolutionary government was founded and established in this town. the NPA, CPP and NDFP are prepared to strengthen and widen the scope of this revolutionary government for the welfare of the people with or without peace talks. in the said press conference, a number of the mass that are supporters of the revolution listened and attended. this also became an opportunity to report to them the status of the negotiation, while fortifying the commitment to continue the revolution - with or without peace talks. but of course, they largely recognized the good opportunity of the peace talks to push the revolutionary program of the NDFP on the negotiations for the socio-economic reform and political-constitutional. before the day ended, a number of the assembly participants lighted and flew lanterns as symbol of the desired peace based on justice. "people's war is for people's peace" is the theme of the gathering, and this message was strongly sent by the revolutionaries who attended and the public who witnessed this assembly through the media.
query439 vinegar
query533 their blood
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_60022650 <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> see if there is still rice . <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> I will eat there later . <no-speech> I will eat there later . <no-speech> uh yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what is showing on channel seven ? take a look . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> food ? <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> only . no . <no-speech> there's a volleyball match later . there's a fight . <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe -- maybe . later ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> maybe -- maybe there is . <no-speech> is there P_B_A ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? P_B_A ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> is there P_B_A ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe . <no-speech> Edrie ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> maybe . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62063928 Tuesday, July 23, 2013 Militant: Aquino, liar and credit taker. 22 July 2013 press release contact person/s: Anthony Barnedo Secretary-General, KPML-NCRR 0949-7518792 Militant: Aquino, liar and credit taker. NHA and Palace were criticized. because no gain is to be expected for the poor but repeatedly unfulfilled promises and deceiving statistics, Anthony Barnedo was among the leaders of the poor from Baseco compound in Manila who went with his poor fellowmen from different communities along the rivers and canals of Manila to join the protest during the SONA this year. before heading to Commonwealth Avenue where the rally will be held, Barnedo met up with his group, the congress of unified needy people of the city - National Capital Region and Rizal Chapter (KPML-NCRR) in front of National Housing Authority (NHA) at Elliptical Road to launch the program and register their position against the plan of the government to destroy the houses along the rivers and canals. a failed housing program. militant groups condemned the NHA and was called national hao-xiao authority because of its continuous scamming of needy people in the city which were relocated to far sites. the word hao-xiao is a Chinese word which means "ridiculous". the NHA is the primary agency of the government that would relocate more than sixty thousand needy people to the relocation sites. "the relocation sites cannot be occupied, most of them were built in a rush". the supply of water and electricity is not enough and there is no cellphone coverage, there's no drainage and the closest school, clinic, market and church are kilometers away. but the most important here is that there is no livelihood in these. even the Philippine Development Plan (2011-2016) which is the master plan of the government Aquino states that livelihood is the other half of the relocation program but it was not mentioned how the newly relocated residents could get a job. that is why, those who were relocated here first left and went back to the streets of Manila. "how could they expect the beneficiaries of this houses to pay the government if there is no work waiting for us there? It's impossible even for a hundred men!", Barnedo explained. "there's no debate, the riverside and canals are danger zones and there is no one that will say the life there is decent but the way Aquino implements the economical policies and programs, we have no choice but to live by the river side," Barnedo stated. what Barnedo pertains to are the policies of low salaries, contractualization and other privatizing schemes of public services, all this are made severe by illegal charges from water, electricity and oil companies. "how can we afford to rent a bungalow if our salaries are so small which is the reason why thousands of Filipino families were pushed to extreme poverty". "no doubt, if we have a choice, I will not let my family live near the river if our livelihood is stable," he added. exclusive progress? KPML believes that the public and economy programs of the government fails to address the pitiful state of the poor while giant corporations charts high revenues. because of this, the gap between the poor and rich in the country became even wider. "what gain, the statistics by the government agencies itself states that more than 2.89 million Filipinos have no jobs and counting, underemployment is still the highest in the history at 7.93 million workers, and the worst part of this, the poverty incidence did not change since 2006." "all this means is that the economical progress is only felt by elites and abusers like him," Barnedo continues. "even the 7.8% interest in gross domestic products that Aquino repeatedly boasts and takes credit that it happened under his administration but this is simply taking away the credit from those who truly created the growth in the economy, the forty million workforce that all together worked hard for it." "all the high buildings and infrastructure projects are made by us, the needy and contractual workers," Bernado accused. "if he wants to talk about his achievements regarding the growth of the economy, the programs for public security and the rise against poverty, I challenge him to restate his speech in our multi-purpose hall in our community in Baseco on Tuesday." let's see if he will hear an applause from the "beneficiaries" of his programs and projects. "it is possible that the poor from the city won't understand his English but we fully understand his economical programs because we are the victims of it," Barnedo challenged.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48497033 Saturday, April 21, 2012 one Filipino: a stable stronghold don't ask what our country can do for you, instead ask yourself how you can help free our country. this is what you need to fulfill. more than 90 percent call themselves Christian in our country. according to them, they know Jesus Christ. if the sect of their religions will have a widespread acclamation and show of protest against the government, tens of thousands of them unite and fill the national park with their number. I am clapping for the leaders of these religions for their sentiments and intention regarding their teachings to their followers. including the rights to sacred voting is subject to their wishes their heart for the poor and the merely desperate among our countrymen is clear, to save the soul and go to heaven it's the same in a religion, blow oneself up and involve many lives because there are 77 virgins waiting in paradise in heaven. the same, different only in method. if it were not only, being religious people in our country, questions cannot be avoided: why does severe poverty, wickedness, abuses, and gloom continue in our country? though majority of us are Christians and our religion teaches only good manners, helpfulness and belief in Jesus where is the mistake, or if something right was overlooked that should be taught? even if the state and church are separated, that billions and billions of money earned by the church in its schools and universities won't have taxes imposed, so it will be tame and won't meddle with the state or government, they continue politicking, meddling and mucking in our government. is this not the cause? there are those who became governor, representative, with different duties in government, there are those who repeatedly desire to be president of the country, those who always meddle with our constitution, and there are paid consultants of the reigning president from these churches. they are believed to be living saints who use their idolized god and blesses candidates every election. and if their desires are not met, they use their followers to unite in persuading everyone to overthrow the one who reigns in Malacanang this is the true events in our sorrowful society. is it not the cause? could this be asked: why is it that the Communist China, which is not acknowledging any god, is progressive and continues to progress without end? why is Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia, and Indonesia, and even communist Vietnam, that are not Catholic countries are more prosperous than us? they are not Christians. they do not know Jesus Christ, and we are the only Catholic country here in Asia that believes in Jesus Christ. why were we left behind in livelihood and progress? are their gods more powerful than the god we idolize? is this not the true God who is all-powerful? is this not the cause? is it not true, you become what you believe in? is it not also true, that if you are suffering, it seems your god is also suffering? and if powerful over all, and is the one who created everything that you can see, everything that you can view, wherever, in land, or sea, in heaven, is his, very rich, unparalleled riches, richest until the end of forever. this is the question, why are you poor? a small earning that is just enough? sad, because there is not much savings. because ... it seems the one you are idolizing is wrong. isn't this the cause? what is the reason why it happened and why it continues to happen? and if we cannot change it will continue to happen, again and again, and without end. is it not about economics? we cannot have a powerful and stable government if our economy is not strong and stable. we do not have the ability to have a progressive economy if we do not have healthy communities who help each other, energetic and bursting improvement, and above all, having good model families. instead of accepting the separation of church (faith) and government (politics), is it not effective to combine them? anyway, the church is continuously politicking, why not make it a part of the government and make them pay taxes? so that it can be used by us and it will not go to the Vatican of the Holy Pope in Rome; and they can use this money to continuously deceive us and allow us to suffer from our own faults in their schools and universities. this has been proven before by the Ilocano Gregorio Aglipay when he established Siwayawaya Nga Simbaan ti Filipinas or the Philippine Independent Church, back in 1902. even before, many countries imitated it, one of them is England that spread protestant followers up to America, and even world wide, as protest to the pope of Vatican, in Rome. we need to have principles that show not only beliefs with morality and integrity, they also need to agree with the free trade or market, therefore what goes together - now and forever - are the real Christians and those who are pushing for reform and freedom in the economy, not pressure from the church and the reigning kind. we need to unite and work together in changing our country so it can become absolutely free. if we can do all these, and be diligent to become skillful, with humility, frugal, and definitely focused on progress - to push to give value to lives and human rights, it is just to fulfill and protect the election, choose only those rightful for the job, value the dignity of marriage and traditional family, and freedom of spiritual knowledge of every one. this is the true Philippines and a country we can be proud of. not the Philippines who is last and criticized by neighboring countries to be always a beggar, hanger-on, and blind follower of America. only one true spiritual relationship with the great spirit is appropriate, no church or religion in between, and what each of us appropriately follows is not coming from the dictates of the church. even in politics, and not in the family of politicians, like butterflies that constantly change parties and allies in the Balimbingan party. these are not questions of right against left; or of the government against the rebels; or Christian against pagans; this is right against wrong! the unity that will cause understanding to everyone and those involved citizens of the Philippines with faith in Jesus and practices his teachings, without imitation, dogma, or commandments of the church, dictated or instigated by others, but only from his own knowledge. our fellowmen are continuously deceived, crushed and divided in lack of knowledge. knowledge is damaged if not crushed if it does not have awareness of the true events in our society. behind the big religions of Christians in our country, hacienda owners and the ruling kind are hiding who continuously prey on the blood and sweat of our poor fellowmen. only in unity can a strong and stable stronghold be established. one defense that will support and spread being a true Filipino to us all. and here is one Filipino, in mind, in words, and in action. thank you very much. Jesse Guevara city of Balanga, Bataan
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_67254950 <no-speech> tonight let us learn how difficult it is to become a cadet either for a man or woman . <no-speech> <no-speech> good evening . I am Malou Mangahas . and this is the Investigative Documentaries . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> this is what we call a reveille for the cadets need to wake up to prepare their things . but sometimes there are cadets who really sacrifice to wake up at zero four hundred or zero four o'clock in the morning for their preparation to be more intensified . <no-speech> this is not easy that is just fine for one normal civilian . this is used with a hanger to really flatten the bunk he sleeps on and also needs to iron his bed to be in order and does not crease . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> attention to the announcement ma'am . attention to the announcement ma'am . uniform call from (()) is B_D_A . with (()) (()) helmet and wing boots . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> rain or shine the activities of the cadets inside the Philippine Military Academy continue here in Baguio City . <no-speech> (()) good morning (()) . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> already time for breakfast for the cadets at the mess hall or kitchen . (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> here at the P_M_A we have different culture . especially in -- the way we eat . one of these are -- one of the differences here is the way the underclass eats or especially the plebeian and the upper class . <no-speech> the upper class men are first class cadets or those who are in their fourth year at the P_M_A . second class cadets are in the third year . and the third class cadets are in the second year . the fourth class cadets are those in first year . they are also called as plebeians . if you are a plebeian you need to learn how to know yourself first . and you need to learn obey followership . until when if you learn how to follow you will know yourself . lead one group . and if you are already in the first class you are now expected to lead the whole cadet core of the Armed Forces of the Philippines . <no-speech> we also have what we call as head up or chin where the plebeians tilt their heads and pulled their chins backwards . this is to correct their posture . because when still a civilian the cadets are not really that conscious about their postures . <no-speech> the plebeians are also serving the Firsties or the fourth class in eating . <no-speech> <no-speech> each movement of a plebeian is quick but detailed and meticulous . <no-speech> the first thing he does when he sits down he needs to fix his utensils . he is going to get his rice which will be arranged fixed in a half moon . this is to instill in him that -- all things need to have an order . <no-speech> after that then he could get his dish where he needs to shred first . then after that he needs to move the fork first then he will sit down in attention . next is he will get rice then he will sit down in attention then he could eat the -- rice and will return to he will put his self in attention again then he will return the fork then he will chew and that will be swallowed . . <no-speech> they are memorizing information about their upper class men -- upper class men such as name of place birthday this is our way to train or sharpen their memory and become attentive and they are focused even on the smallest thing . <no-speech> this is the reason why even if they have long been gone from the P_M_A those who came from this institution still know each other . <no-speech> shouting or reproaching of the upper class men to the plebeians are just normal . it's to train them how to cope up in a situation which is slightly chaotic . when -- everything is chaotic everything does not know what to do you because of what you learned here at the P_M_A that is on your amount . that trouble whatever is thrown at you you can still stand to make a decision because your mind has not been affected . all cadets are going through this . they have to put in mind first what their upper class needs before they eat . because time will come they will also arrive on the stage that they will be served at . <no-speech> after eating they will return to the barrack before their day starts . then they will face the police call or inspection in all rooms of the cadets . is this room all right ? . <no-speech> <no-speech> if there are mess here in the rooms and all of that will be reported if there are violations that will be committed such as loitered things . the shoes should be aligned . the bunks our sleeping quarters should be in order as they have fixed it . then those should be ironed out before the cadet goes out and be on duty . . demerit or deduction of points to a cadet if he has not cleaned or organized the room or things . . <no-speech> it is important for the cadets to follow these regulations to remain inside the P_M_A . even if you're in first class -- or fourth class there are designated areas to clean . example in our room that is personal responsibility of the -- of each cadet to the room . the lives of the cadets revolve around discipline . this becomes the guide %incomplete
query1810 land reform
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64461152 DSWD is focused on family planning by Jun Tadios January 22, 2017 the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) will focus on the implementation of the social protection program for the Filipinos, particularly, the family planning and reproductive health. according to Secretary Judy Taguiwalo, DSWD is one of those mandated by President Rodrigo Duterte to lead the implementation of Executive Order No. 12 or the "Attaining and Sustaining 'Zero Unmet Need for Family Planning' through the Strict Implementation of the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act, Providing Funds, therefore, and for other Purposes." included in the 10-point socio-economic agenda of the Duterte administration is the strengthening and propagation of the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012 (RPRH) as primary option for financial and family planning. "we want couples and families to engage in family planning because it will help ensure the health of mothers, unborn babies, and young children," Taguiwalo said.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19753747 evidence on the order to kill by Aries Cano December 18, 2016 President Rodrigo Duterte is prepared to resign if there is a member of the Philippine National Police (PNP) or a troop of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) can tell that he has a mandate to kill the criminals who surrendered. the uttered statement of the President about his resignation from his post is in connection to the statement of Vice President Leni Robredo that the statements of the President about killing is alarming, because it seems he is advancing the culture of injustice. "you can ask. there are about how many thousands of military we have, 200 plus, the police are 300. ask one if I have a command to shot that person kneeling, tied from behind," the President said. "ask one. if someone told you that, Duterte said, I will resign, I will resign tomorrow. look for a soldier or police who can tell what Robredo is saying," he asserted. the President clarified that he does not kill recklessly without benefit. he announced this after his initial statement that he had killed someone when he was still a mayor in Davao City which was condemned by the White House. President Duterte defended when he talked yesterday at dawn at Davao City International Airport when he arrived from a four-day state visit in Cambodia and Singapore that it was an incident that he fired a gun during a kidnapping that happened last 1988 which resulted to a shootout. "so, I might have hit them all or none at all. but the fact is I was there and I fired at them. it was a pure case of kidnapping. it happened during my first term in 1988," Duterte explained. the President asserted that he was the mayor and he would not allow the civilians to be oppressed, therefore, he did not think twice to exchange a gunshot. the President asserted that he fired a gun to protect the citizens and he is not a dictator who kills his political enemies just to remain on the position. "so, at least I killed to protect people. I am not here a dictator killing my political opponents to stay in power," according to President Duterte.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_39850072 newly-elected officials of Gensan took an oath of office. June 08, 2016 City of General Santos, June 9 (PIA) - newly-elected officials of the city took an oath of office last Monday, led by Mayor Ronnel Rivera for his second term as the head administrator of the local government of Gensan. according to the report of the City Public Information Office (CPIO), Regional Trial Court (RTC) Executive Judge Oscar Noel Junior presided over the taking of oaths of office by the said officials in a ceremony that was held in front of the city hall building and was attended by employees of the local government, representatives and various public agencies and private organizations. also added in the news, Mayor Rivera took an oath with his vice mayor, Shirlyn Bañas-Nograle, who was taking the position for her third and last term as head of the legislative branch of the city. 12 members of the city council, including Elizabeth Bagonoc, Bobby Pacquiao, Rosalita Nuñez, Jose Orlando Acharon, Attorney Dominador Lagare Junior, Attorney Franklin Gacal, Shandee Llido-Pestaño, Attorney Jose Edmar Yumang, Vandyk Congson, Lourdes Casabuena, Attorney Ramon Melliza, and Brix Tan, also took an oath of office. meanwhile, Rivera is hoping that in his election as mayor of the city for the second time, he could focus more on making the city's economy grow and fixing the transportation problem in the area. (PGFruylan/PIA-Gensan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_60785421 <no-speech> next in line in the park we have strolled in the Bayanihan Park can be found in front of Clark main gate . formerly called Astro Park this is a great venue for families and friends who are planning to have a picnic and to relax . <no-speech> right so Bayanihan Park is not just a park as it is ma'am this is a mini amusement park and here also uhm there are activities here morning to afternoon even any time of the day . if just earlier we were together with Krish the Clark Parade Grounds now we are accompanied with Red to tour the Bayanihan Park . <no-speech> with this park's vastness a lot of activities can be done here . because of its location this is visited by people from nearby cities like Mabalacat and Angeles . convenient to go to because this is seen a few distance away from Balibago . the Business and Amusement District of Angeles and before you can enter at Clark Field . one of the advantages of this park is it's open for public and does not need to pay an entrance fee . <no-speech> as we can see very spacious so this has many recreational activities and many sports are also happening here . <no-speech> sports like basketball volleyball and badminton and activities such as kite flying can also be enjoyed at the Bayanihan Park . this is also a place to spend your morning or afternoon fitness program . (()) . example the students have activities they are going here for practice . aah practicing dance sports or even any of their activities in school like that . before our visit in Bayanihan Park ended my guest co-hosts chatted with the families and friends that are enjoying their rest in the park . ma'am what's your name ? Jane . Jane do you come here often ma'am ? hmm yeah . how often ma'am do you plan for it or everyday ? we just thought to get together (()) why did you choose this to have a family bonding ? beautiful grand view there are many people and no entrance fee . aah no entrance fee is that the number one reason to go here ? there so where do you come from ma'am ? Balibago Mountain View it's near . so you only walk to get here ? sometimes we are enjoying it so far ? yeah very (()) enjoy . does the family enjoy it ? yes .
query540 Sulu
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_47398140 bring reality to dreams by Kuya Rom December 5, 2016 dear Kuya Rom, I was not like this before. when I see myself in the mirror now, I think I am fat, ugly, and old. but in fact, I am still young, only 32 years old. I have a job, have a wife and two children. but I get depressed when I think I am getting old, my hair is thinning, my tummy is growing. even my wife probably thinks I am ugly. she bought a magazine about fitness and nutrition. according to her I should read it. she belongs to a group of women, and three times a week, they dance Zumba as exercise. the result is good, she really is sexy. I know it is important to have a healthy and strong body, but I hate the many exercises to be done, they are tiring, and demands a lot of time. I cannot do it, I am busy with many things. I have no dream of bringing back my older body. but does being fat really have a bad effect on the life of a married couple? - Ronnie dear Ronnie, you know the truth, that you are still young for your age. so erase in your mind the lie saying you are already old and ugly. all the people born into the world who are blessed with life grow old. but it does not mean there is no more desire to succeed and life no longer has meaning. while a person is still breathing, he has the chance to successfully do and reach for one thing he desires. your early success in life - having a stable job and loving family - is proof that you can bring your dream to a reality. because your wife supports you, having a healthy and strong body is easier for you. because she is knowledgeable in fitness and nutrition, it is easier for you to include your whole family in eating delicious but non-fattening foods. go out as a whole family to exercise, jog, and bike. this way, maintaining a healthy body will become a hobby of your family. if you make it a habit for your whole family, do it often and regularly, within a year, you will see change - you will have a smaller tummy. you will jump with joy when you see yourself in the mirror. which means, maintaining the right body weight cannot be done instantly. a possibly reason for your depression is you want to have a smaller tummy tomorrow, immediately. think of this - your tummy did not immediately become big. many years passed before you had a large tummy. so give tummy slimming time. remember, getting sick is a huge expense, so having a healthy and strong body is important in the life of a married couple and the whole family.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52642070 what's new there -- what's new there with you ? <no-speech> <no-speech> still the same there is no change . what is the news from your end ? <no-speech> <no-speech> you there how are you ? how is your education ? <no-speech> . <no-speech> here almost done . <no-speech> ha ? <no-speech> <no-speech> nearly done . <no-speech> when is your graduation ? <no-speech> April seventeen . <no-speech> when is your graduation ? April seventeen . <no-speech> <no-speech> ah ? April seventeen . <no-speech> <no-speech> April seventeen . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> ah April seventeen ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> how is your father ? <no-speech> just okay . <no-speech> your father how is he ? still the same . <no-speech> <no-speech> just okay . <no-speech> your -- your suitors how are they ? <no-speech> <no-speech> as if there are many ha . ha ? <no-speech> <no-speech> as if there are many ha . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) you there how are things ? how are you there in the province ? <no-speech> just so so . <no-speech> still the same enduring in poverty . ha ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Mac your siblings how are they ? <no-speech> still schooling . ha ? <no-speech> still schooling . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you there how are you ? <no-speech> have you eaten ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes we did you there how are you ? have you eaten already ? <no-speech> <no-speech> who is done ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what is the viand %incomplete what ? <no-speech> what ? have you eaten already ? <no-speech> here -- %incomplete ha ? ha ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> have you eaten ? <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> have you eaten ? <no-speech> not yet really well we're watching T_V . <no-speech> ah . not yet if we are watching T_V . <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you watching ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I have visitors -- ah %incomplete ha ? <no-speech> what are you watching ? <no-speech> ha ? <no-speech> what are you watching ? <no-speech> what is this that everlasting ? <no-speech> ah . good that you can watch . everlasting . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's great that you can watch . what is the viand ? <no-speech> ha ?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78570907 January 2015: 700 thousand will die out of 1.4 million victims of Ebola the estimate of US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Ebola virus disease is terrifying. according to USCDCP, the people who will get Ebola will jump to 1.4 million people this January, if the people will not take action against this. and if the victims will actually reach 1.4 million, it's possible that mortality will reach 700, 000. brothers, this is based on the 8, 399 victims; while we're on this, mortality has reached 4,033. almost half has died. honestly, we're in pain as we're typing this letter, also because of our sympathy to the victims and fear of the disease entering our country, Ebola is leaping. Ebola is leaping to other countries. just from countries Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea this February-March 2014, disease has spread to Nigeria and Senegal which are in Africa. disease has also leaped to United States of America, Brazil, and Australia. while these countries are in a hurry, including Canada and many countries in Europe, to get their people home from Africa which is attacked by the disease, surely, the disease will spread around the world. and from there, it will become contagious. some already died in USA while two Catholic missionary priests have already died in Spain. Father Miguel Pajares from Liberia and Father Manuel Garcia Viejo from Sierra Leone died in a hospital in Madrid, Spain while Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian, has died in a hospital in Texas, USA. the two priests died after they helped those who were hit by the disease in the countries they came from; while Duncan escape the Ebola, the killer disease still caught him. 11,000 OFW there are 4,000 overseas Filipino workers in the countries Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea, including more than 100 soldiers and police that are members of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Liberia and 7,000 in Nigeria. but the Filipinos in the said countries or husbands and wives of Africans are not just simple OFWs. there are also doctors, priests, nuns, and others who fight against Ebola. how about our government's plan to bring them home? if they come home, they will spread to different parts of my beloved Philippines because they came from Appari to Jolo. can you imagine, brothers, how dangerous Ebola is if ever these OFWs come home to the Philippines? symptoms and maturity Ebola has symptoms. usually fever, internal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, and stomachache are the symptoms of Ebola. but if all of these have reached a really high fever, higher than 38.6 degrees centigrade or 101.5 Fahrenheit, blood in vomit, feces, tears, saliva, and other liquids of human, call altogether the Lord, people from mortuary, and doctors. they'll just race to save the sick from death or to bring them to a doctor, or cemetery, or altar. if people gets contaminated with Ebola, the disease will instantly mature, like in two days. but display of symptoms may take up to 21 days. because it takes a long time before the symptoms comes out, we don't notice that we're already contaminated. and don't mind that our behavior is no sleep, and we only have peeing as rest when we take care of the sick. and if the contaminated dies, oh man, Ebola will severely spread. because of that, the relatives of the deceased in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea doesn't bury them anymore. only the government picks up the dead from, anywhere, from the streets; and they will be the one to bury them. the Africans no longer wanted to adopt the orphaned children in fear that they will be implicated in the killing. airport and piers two doors of the country have been entered by Ebola. airports and piers or ports of boats. where is our strict safeguard of countries entered by OFWs, foreign tourists, and other tourists? we have plenty of airports and ports. do we have guards, brothers, in these places? let's think: if USA who are experts at guarding, and other progressive countries have been entered by the disease; do you think, us who have uncertain background, knowledge, and tools can't be entered by the disease? include funds for condom the government should have prepared funds, people, hospitals, and places by now, to control the enter of Ebola, and treat, if ever, the victims of the country. money of the country should not be exhausted to buying condoms and other things, and more importantly not be exhausted to this politics. let's all unite, brothers, in fighting against the terrifying disease that's more severe than HIV-AIDS.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_33923390 top caliber athletes will be sieved by Ramil Cruz December 15, 2016 the 60th edition of National Games in the year 2017 is coming, but you can only count with your fingers its amazing products, like Asia's fastest woman, Lydia de Vega-Mercado, former Southeast Asian Games most outstanding athlete swimmer, Eric Buhain, former national 400meter/100meter hurdles record holder, Reynato Unso, and ex-SEAG long jump queen, Elma Muros-Posadas. it was still in the decade of 70s when the names of the four athletes emerged; and up until the last edition of Games in Albay this year, they remain to be standouts in the yearly sports fest. no one got to follow their steps. Philippine Sports Commission will interfere with the competition for the student-athletes of region 18 of the country to discover the likes of the caliber of de Vega-Mercado, Buhain, Muros-Posadas, and Unso. National Games is a grassroots sports program. but why aren't there newly-developed world class athletes like Lydia, Eric, Unso, and Elma in the past editions? "so we in the PSC, being part of the management of Games, will revisit what should be done to Games," statement of PSC Chair, Butch Ramirez, the other day. one of Ramirez's wishes is to bring back the Games to PSC.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_40762508 scrap EDCA and fight the deepening intervention of imperialist US and Aquino being a puppet Maria Laya Guerrero Kabataang Makabayan May 11, 2014 the agreement of the Aquino regime with its imperialist boss in bringing back the military bases of America to the country and opening the Philippines to unobstructed meddling of US military troops can be considered treason. the Aquino regime's signing of the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA) on April 28 is an advance gift for the arrival of the head of the imperialist US Barrack Obama. it contains provisions giving up the national sovereignty of the Philippines to the US and bold trampling on territorial integrity, democracy and rights of the Filipinos. there was even attempt to make the EDCA look better and include the "humanitarian assistance and disaster relief" or HADR supposedly to the scope of EDCA. these HADR are disguised PSYWAR operations and camouflaged military operations of the US and AFP like the ongoing stay of US troops in Eastern Visayas after typhoon Yolanda. through EDCA, the US-Aquino government formalizes the increasing military presence of the US in our country and setting base like the 700 troops of the US based in Camp Navarro in Zamboanga since 2002. the EDCA covers the conduct of military troops who freely remain in our territory, passing through, staying and hiding war equipment and nuclear weapons of the US in the country, setting up spying facilities and military bases, and trampling on the rights of our women, children and citizens. the EDCA is clearly more encompassing than the Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) of 1999 and worse than the US-RP Military Bases Agreement (MBA) signed on March 1947. the MBA gave the US 99 years to use the military bases and other equipment inside the territory included in the base. the prevalence of the bases would last almost up to 2046 according to the MBA, and it was only amended after protests of the people and 1991 was marked as its end. in EDCA the prevalence of military bases, installation and military troops of the US in the country has no limit, even if it exceeds 100 years! the Aquino regime and the US deceived the Filipino people, pretending to place a 10-year term on EDCA while the exact statement of EDCA "this agreement shall have an initial terms of ten years, and thereafter, it shall continue in force, unless terminated by either party by giving one year's written notice through diplomatic channels of its intention to terminate this agreement" (article XXII, section 4) is not an exact limit and compulsorily term limit and instead after 10 years the normalization of EDCA and continued operation of US bases and troops in the country. "neither confirm or deny" is the policy of the US about the nuclear equipment so the Philippines cannot be sure that the US did not bring nuclear arms and any inspection by the Philippine government on the bases is not permitted according to the EDCA if it is not in line with the "security and safety" set by the US. even after the expulsion of military bases in 1991, nuclear-capable submarines and nuclear-carrier ships like the USS Washington super-carrier, USS North Carolina, nuclear-capable submarine USS Hawaii, missile-destroyer USS Milius and others continued to dock on Philippine territory. the Aquino regime agreeing to EDCA which states that the Philippines the courts in the country have no jurisdiction in cases or violations in the course of the stay of military troops and their equipment in the Philippines is direct surrender of national dignity. the puppet agreement also agreed to not report any case to any international tribunal or court. the serious cases like the rape of Nicole in 2005, shooting of Buyong-Buyong Isnijal and the violations like dumping of toxic waste and illegal navigation in protected places like what the USS Guardian did that ended in the destruction of the Tubbataha Reefs, were never answered by the US and its troops in line with the laws of the Philippines. Aquino and allies are meek sheep bowing in signing the EDCA and the US using the Philippines as launching pad for the planned militarization of Asia Pacific. the US wants to transfer 60% of its troops and military forces to Asia Pacific until 2020 not to mention the currently stationed US 7th Fleet under the US Pacific Command in the region. the US which is currently experiencing severe economic depression, is pushing for the strategy "pivot to Asia and the Pacific." the US wants to ensure that its economic interest in the region for capitalist super-profits will be carried out, and it is cordoning off the strengthening of China, as primary rival of economic power of the US in Asia Pacific and the world. the US is fueling the conflict of the Philippines and other countries in East Asia against China. instead of helping to resolve the Scarborough issue in a diplomatic manner, the puppet Aquino regime allowed US fighter jets to make rounds and launch fly-bys near the contested part of the South China Sea. the US is pretending to help the Philippines in its issue with China about the Scarborough Shoal and Spratlys and the Aquino regime is using this argument so the people can accept the EDCA and the deepening involvement of the US. under the US domination on all past regimes, the state has never created its own external policy that is not aligned with US interest. currently the Aquino regime is positioning to make the conflict with China undergo negotiation for the Philippines' insistence on an exclusive economic zone (EZZ) on some parts of the South China Sea in a diplomatic action in the UN. but the Aquino regime made it at the same time as the increasing tension with China through its partner absolute obedience to the US. Aquino standing for the principle of national sovereignty and territorial integrity is not realistic while he wholly exposes the territory of the country to use and involvement of the US. in history, the US has used the Philippines several times as a launching pad of its war aggression on the world. included here are suppressing the Boxer Rebellion in China (1900), sending military troops to Siberia to help the czar (1918-1920), sending navy troops to Quemoy-Matsu in China to support Chang Kai Shek who made a base in Taiwan (1958), using bases for logistical needs of the US in the war in Korea (1950-53), the Marcos dictatorship sending troops to Vietnam and the US use of Clark as station of planes for attacking Vietnam (1965-1975), using Clark as a launching pad of the US Special Operations Forces that was sent to Iran (1980), sending military troops of the Philippines to the war and occupation of the US on Afghanistan and Iraq (2003). every Filipino youth and citizen should remember the bloody war aggression of the US on the Philippines since 1898 and snatch the freedom experienced by the Filipinos after the Philippine Revolution 1986-1898 against the rule of Spain in the country. considered in world history as the First Vietnam, the US colonization of the country caused US genocide that massacred almost 700,000 up to 1 million Filipinos who fought the imperialist occupation of the US. at the end of the Second World War, was made a prize and the US ensured that the puppet government of the Philippines would absolutely depend on the assistance of the US for the reconstruction caused by war. in exchange of assistance, it pushed for different agreements and treaties that all ensure the imperialist control of the US on the Philippines even if it is not a direct colony anymore. the US-RP MBA of 1947 is a refining of the Treaty of General Relations of 1946, which gave legal basis for the stay of US military bases and one of the conditions of the US is the fake offering of the 1946 independence to the Philippines after directly colonizing us. the Mutual Defense Treaty signed on August 1951 is used by the US and all past puppet regimes to give legal basis to the VFA, Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) and EDCA. it confirmed the neocolonial relations of the Philippines and the US and dragged the Philippines to support all the wars the US is involved in. the Marcos dictatorship also used the military base to gain the complete support of the US in the fascist state and collect rent and billion-dollar debts from the US in exchange for Marcos allowing the stay of US military base in the country. the US followed with ensuring dominance on the economy and politics of the country after 1946 by dictating to the following puppet governments and signing the Bell Trade Act of 1946, Parity Rights Amendment in the 1935 Constitution. these treaties gave equal rights to the US to completely use the natural resources of the country, liberalization in trade, cheap wages and work force for the corporations the US will set up. the next puppet governments mandated and strengthened the dog-owner Philippine-American relations under the colonial-like and feudal-like characteristics of Philippine society. the imperialist US is restraining the people's attainment of true independence and freedom, progress and social justice. the current US-Aquino regime through the order of its boss the imperialist US continues to implement neoliberal regulations in favor of only monopoly-capitalist US, foreign and big local capitalists and landlords like Aquino. which is why the agreements like EDCA and planned Chacha today in the Aquino Congress is a collusion with its imperialist boss to continue the rule of the US on the politics, economy, military and culture of our country. Chacha further opens the country to further US abuse on the economy and increasingly block the goal of true land reform and national industrialization. Chacha will force the opening towards the currently prohibited 100% foreign ownership of land, corporations, services like education, hospitals and media in the country. the absolute obedience of the Aquino regime to the imperialist US cannot stop the weak economy and poverty of the majority of the people, lack of land, low pay and abuse of workers, lack of jobs and social services. this abuse is continuously answered by the fight of the people and revolutionary movement. the youth should return to history and the rule of imperialist US on our country. the youth and the people should be united and strengthen the campaign for the scrapping of EDCA and military troops, and related neoliberal regulations and plans like Chacha. widespread awakening, propaganda and mass education should be launched about EDCA, Chacha and its roots on the foundation of Filipino society's problems - imperialism, bureaucrat-capitalism and feudalism. let us launch numerous study circles and discussion groups in schools and offices, mass councils in the factory and community and different kinds of discussion and forms of increasing the unity of the youth and people. more than ever, the Filipino youth should now stand against the disgusting puppethood, oppression, fascism and abuse of the corrupt Aquino regime and its followers, and the ongoing rule of the imperialist US in all parts of Filipino society. the loud protest of the Filipino youth together with different public sectors against EDCA, return of military bases and deepening involvement of the US will contribute to the ongoing public struggle for true national freedom and democracy.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95079957 look for someone ugly: reflection for 4th Sunday of Lent year B - March 15, 2015 - year of the poor. there is one priest called "Parekoy", who is funny and likes to tease his parishioners, especially those who are applying for marriage. once, someone approached him and asked, "father, how much is it to get married in your parish?". the priest answered her, "well, it depends on what your betrothed looks like." then the woman brought her handsome boyfriend and the priest said, "child, your marriage costs ten thousand because your boyfriend has good looks!". afterwards, someone asked him again, "Fadz (short for father), how much is it to get married in your church?". the priest replied again, "well, it depends on what your betrothed looks like!". and the woman insisted on dragging her embarrassed boyfriend. he was scanned by the priest from head to toe and said, "child, your marriage is for free!". and the priest said in a whisper to the woman, "why is he the one you chose to marry?" your appearances are so different. "when you get married, it would seem like he won in the lottery, and you, as if your house got burned down." and the young lady said, "father, I loved him; not for his appearance but for his heart!" I fell in love not with his face. I fell in love ... with his heart! indeed, sometimes the saying "love is blind" is true! the world has a different standard in love. that is why the song of Andrew E before, which is "look for someone ugly and love him truly!" is so funny! but if we analyze, this is what the Lord did when he gave his only Son. he looked for someone ugly and loved him truly. we became ugly because of our sins. but in spite of this, he loved us very much. in the letter of the apostle, Saint Paul, to the Ephesians, he said: "the mercy of the Lord is so bountiful and the love that he gave us is so great..." in the gospel, Saint John narrated how this was proven by the Lord: "the love of the Lord for humanity is just like that, so he gave his only son, so that those who believe in him will not be harmed, but have an everlasting life." which is why in the time of Lent, it is only right for us to understand the great love of God for us, and hopefully, this will also be our standard in loving our neighbor. the love of God excludes no one. his love has no condition. hopefully, we too can manage to show this to our fellowmen after experiencing the love and forgiveness of God. during this season of Lent in the Year of the Poor (Year of the Poor), let us strive to make the love of God felt by our neighbors, who are struggling in life. let us be one with them in poverty, as an act of unity with the suffering experienced by Christ. let us learn to understand, forgive and love without condition or looking for something in exchange. like Jesus, let us love not only those who are lovely. let us look for the "ugly and love them truly!".
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_91097827 Wednesday, July 6, 2016 the grass and the stone: a new kind of fable in the times of Digong. the grass and the stone: a new kind of fable in the times of Digong. by Gregorio V. Bituin Junior the grass and the stone are happily talking with each other in a park. when suddenly a sparrow came. the sparrow said, "friends, may I interview you?" before that, I interviewed a few beings and ask them what makes them happy. but most of them said that they are now happy. I asked the worm if he is happy. he said he's not happy because he doesn't have beautiful wings like that of a butterfly. I asked the butterfly if he is happy. he told me that he's not happy because he is still not able to sip from the most beautiful rose in the garden. I asked the rose if he is happy. he said that he is not happy because the young man that would pick and give him to the fairest young lady is still to come. I ask you, my friend grass and stone, are you happy? the grass answered, "I am happy for what I am now." not paying attention to the heat of the sun or the drops of rain. it's nice to feel the breeze of the wind. I am happy because I am me. the stone said. "I am a stone and I help to make living better." foundation of houses and buildings, used as gravel, construction material and many more. "I am happy with my purpose in the world." the grass added, "however, before you came we were talking about how we are not happy with the things that are happening with many other beings in the world." the humans uses our names for their vices. they call the marijuana that they smoke weed which often becomes the reason for the destruction of their future." the stone added, "the same as well, stone is what they call the vice named meth that causes the future of many people to be destroyed. the grass spoke again, "I am happy the way I am, but I wish that the humans would stop ruining my good name." "I have the same thoughts," said the stone. the sparrow answered, "it is possible that your names would be cleared soon." because the police are now capturing those who uses grass and stone. "those who use your names for wrong will die, if not, they will be imprisoned" in unison the grass and stone answered, "we really hope that our names would be cleared. we will wait for that day to come"
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78556032 <no-speech> the roundabout route has been opened for traffic in Bayanihan Park Balibago here in the city of Angeles . the roundabout route which was funded by the Clark Development Corporation and costs fifteen million pesos according to their invitation to bid document which is part of their preparation for the APEC summit next year . according to Juan Miguel Fuentes APEC Project Management Office Chairman of C_D_C the roundabout route project is a big help to reduce traffic going to the free port zone and S_M City Clark . the roundabout route here in Clark is a product of a study to solve the problem in traffic here . traffic basically because of the volume of vehicles here because this is the bottleneck of all the employees who are entering Clark and S_M . which numbers at Clark alone is already seventy thousand . seven -- seventy-five thousand and so you can just imagine on a daily basis the people who are entering . so we had to a -- we have to address the volume of vehicles which are entering and exiting here in this area what ? C_D_C Vice President for Operations Franco Madlangbayan adds that this project will have a huge impact not only for the preparation of the city for the twenty fifteen APEC Summit . one of the major projects in preparation for the APEC Summit next year . now -- but this is not only for the APEC right ? <no-speech> this is for the -- give a permanent solution as mentioned earlier by Red the traffic congestion here in the area of McArthur Highway entering here at the Clark . though the said project is not yet finished this has been made to open to alleviate the traffic and hasten its construction . this is also one way to practice the motorists as well as the riding public to the new regulations to be implemented by the Angeles City Traffic Management Division . according to Attorney Joseph Jeffrey Miranda newly assigned O_I_C of ACTEMO they are going to intensify the organization of traffic in the whole city by fixing the roads . putting traffic enforcers in the place which has large volumes of vehicles especially during rush hours . and most of all a thorough implementation of traffic laws . so huge -- this is a huge thing this this -- this traffic circle can help in -- in organizing our traffic situation here in this area in Balibago . so that's huge . is that wide right ? five lanes these are five lanes . so we cannot -- the the our objective is to have a free flowing traffic here so our vehicles can go straight way ahead . according to Mayor Ed Pamintuan it is time to restore the order and sanity of the roads in the city of Angeles . this will also cause inconvenience to some but the greater good for the majority is the principle and guidance in implementing these laws . <no-speech> for the storm %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52356458 crumbs in between fingers by Jolau V. Ocampo, Winona S. Sadia - September 26, 2016 Mario's big belly slightly bounced as he lazily laid it in front of the sink. he was again the last one to finish eating. his face was dismayed as he softly looked at the stack of dishes finished by the whole family. chicken bones were not segregated, spoon and forks, and greasy plates with dried soup of casserole sticking. added with glasses on the left side of the sink, pitcher with remaining one glass of iced tea, and two platters where rice and soup has dried. fortunately, his elder sister was tasked to clean off the rice cooker and pots used in cooking the viand. his mother took their youngest sister to bath while his father went out of the house, probably to visit his friends. only he was left at the kitchen, washing and filing the utensils. he has been doing this repeatedly the entire vacation. he's already fed up. he didn't think that even on Sunday, he won't be given a breath from the household chores. moments after, he wiped the sink using the rug, dark from being old. he left the rack of dishes open, and ran outside the house. the end of his shirt was a bit wet because he used it to dry his wet hands before he went out the gate. under the orchids his mother planted, his best friend, Anton, was sitting on the sidewalk. slouched, he was busy playing Pokemon Go. it was already noon, but it was obvious that Anton just had taken a bath because his hair was wet and powder was all over his chest. you can see from his big shirt, with cartoon character on it, that he's thin, especially when Mario crammed to his side to watch the trending game. "you're done cleaning up, right?" asked Anton while as he continues to play. Mario didn't respond. he irritatingly scratched his head and wrinkled his forehead while slightly closing his eyes from the scorching heat of the sun on the asphalt. he declined the offered Skyflakes of his playmate which looked like was his only lunch. "let's go to our house, and play Diner Dash!" Anton invited. the cement in front of Anton's house was wet from the hanged clothes. they went down the stairs in order to come in the house. in the left corner, their television was displayed. Anton's father was in one corner, one leg on his chair, and eating alone. he was eating the chicken marinade in the bag using his bare hands. in the small living room, the friends were playing the tablet alternately. Mario was really amazed, and wished that he could wash the dishes as fast as the character in Diner Dash. hopefully, as fast as one snap, the dishes used after meals are cleaned. moments after, Mario and Anton were shouting with joy because they finished one level of the game. Anton looked up from his tablet when he heard the voice of his mother from the alley. "Antoooon! wash the dishes we used. that was still from a while ago!" Anton went to the sink to fetch his mom. Mario noticed that he's scared to be scolded and embarrassed in front of him. Mario still not finished with one level of Diner Dash, Anton came to his side, hands still wet, waiting for him to finish. Mario stopped playing. he stretched his neck and looked at the cleaned table and dried sink. three plastic plates, two glasses, two forks, and one spoon were drained in the drainer. "you're finished already?" he wondered with how fast his friend was. he nodded as he snatched away the tablet. "you lose!" said Diner Dash. "why were you able to clean up so fast?" Mario asked with a hint of surprise. "we only used a few dishes," answered Anton, almost finishing the game. just as expected, Skyflakes were the friends' snacks. later that afternoon, as Mario came in his house, five plates, pairs of spoon and fork, platters of viand, one pitcher of iced tea, and five glasses were being prepared. his mother told him to sit down as she brought the cooked marinade from the kitchen. one, two, three... he counted each plate and utensils that he'll wash after eating dinner. the Skyflakes he ate at Anton's earlier were already digested. his stomach rumbled, and at that moment, he wanted to double the dishes he was going to wash. "let's eat," he said in front of the table.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_24194238 in other news the Armed Forces of the Philippines now reported that an investigating body was made to thoroughly investigate the death of the terrorist Basit Usman . the whole report let us continue from our partner Wayway Macaoma reporting live via phone touch . Princess because the information being retrieved by (()) is still sketchy (()) Basit Usman the A_F_P created an investigating body with regards to this . this is what A_F_P Chief General Gregorio Pio Catapang and sixth Infantry Division Commander Major General Edmundo Pangilinan immediately ordered its incoming leader . the leader of A_F_P didn't give a deadline to finish the investigation for now but this was formed in order to have a concrete basis and the reason behind the death of Usman last Sunday in Guindulungan must be one hundred percent confirmed by the A_F_P . according to Brigadier General Joselito Kakilala the spokesperson of A_F_P military the statement of the M_I_L_F about their separate version of (()) but how did Usman really die in Mindanao ? that's why the military won't comment yet because they will give the investigation led by Pangilinan a way first to collect further information about the death of Usman . the answer of Kakilala on the news about the attempt of M_I_L_F to remove the finger of Usman before he gets buried and if it's certain that it was Usman who died . but no there's no clarity on what Kakilala did . the A_F_P will accept it if it will be given to them because he said a (()) (()) has the ability to verify the sample via D_N_A if it was really Usman's -- D_N_A sample given . and the talk Pincess about the reward money is it's possible to be given to a (()) foreman the reward money from the government but he needs to not be -- working in the government . but this will go through a long (()) the A_F_P and P_N_P joint evaluation reward committee will compile the information if it's indeed true that -- (()) claimed the reward money is not working in the government . and this will be recommended to the national and after a long process only then will it be %incomplete if the government approves this if the reward money is given to an informant . (()) because aside from the America and even the government they offered a reward for the head of Usman . America released last two thousand nine a one hundred reward money while Philippines six point three million pesos was their offer or the released reward money for Usman . meanwhile the A_F_P firmly believes that some terrorist leaders that was almost consecutively killed or caught in Centra Mindanao is hard to be replaced . like Zulkifli Abdhir or alias Marwan that was operated by SAF forty-four this January twenty-five in Mamasapano Maguindanao . just recently Umbra Kato died the leader of the B_I_F_F who died because of his and just this Sunday it was reported that Basit Usman including his other companions died in Guindulungan Maguindanao . while this March Mohammad Ali Tambako another known bomb expert who's a member of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighter was caught . that's why A_F_P is hoping that the place will be peaceful in order for the military to focus their external defense . and just that Princess is the -- .
query661 Duterte friendship
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37040658 art of turning down Sheila Abarra the country's minority carried their music and colorful clothing in every situation they face - proof that the art they're preserving is still alive. nevertheless, for mother Liya Asinas, 58 year old bead-maker of the Higaonon tribe in Bukidnon, they strongly fear for their unique art and culture. the largest threat for it is the worsening violence caused by the militarization in their own land. the crafted accessories made by the bead-makers like mother Liya are important for the natives-aside from their colorful clothing, these accessories hugely contribute to their identities. these are called Salay which are worn during gatherings like Dumalondong. these have different kinds: a veil worn in the head and a belt worn by dancers in their waist. Mother Liya was sixteen years old when she started making accessories. despite the hardships in her life, she did not take her art for granted. she continued to make these despite losing her husband and children-four times, mother Liya suffered miscarriage and was not blessed with a child after because her husband passed away in 2011 due to illness. aside from creating her art, she serves in her community in other ways. she was formerly a teacher in a school for Higaonon, the Rural Missionaries of the Philippines. when she grew old and could no longer climb the mountain going to the school, she joined Health-Bukidnon, a group of community health workers of Bukidnon. the life of mother Liya completely changed when the military came. the military hurt and arrest the natives whenever they wear their colorful clothing and accessories as a symbol of them being Higaonon. because of these pressure and violence, fear got associated in wearing the previously simple symbol of their identities. the military disrespect and commit violence even in their schools. they labeled them as "school of the NPA," when only native children studying there. due to the pressure from the military, schools were closed down and were only opened back when the natives had a dialogue with the local government. nevertheless, the fear delivered by the threat of militarization stays despite all of these, the bead-makers like mother Liya still work hard to preserve their art. there are still many Lumad who make accessories. these are not only symbols of their identities - it is believed that these have medicinal uses too. they make the natives wear the accessories in the parts of their bodies that have fractures or sprain to correct the flow of blood and ease the pain. the country's minority are the ones who preserve the Filipino culture despite the colonial influences faced by the country in the hands of foreigners. it will be a big loss if they will be continuously violated and displaced from their ancestral lands. said mother Liya. "I've grown old being a bead-maker and like how we protected it (bead-making), it is fitting that we also protect our rights."
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58801168 letter: rightful to disqualify Anakbayan by letter to the editor October 22, 2012 Orly Marcellano of Fellows-TK the militant movement of farmers in the region of Southern Tagalog are standing on the principle that the heated call to disallow the Akbayan group from running in the party-list elections is right and legitimate. with the increase of the poor in the villages which combined and organized the militant tradition of struggle for land, the state is still desperate in supporting and spreading a deceitful ideology by those pretending as farmer's organization (pseudo-farmer's organization). the groups such as UNORKA, PAKISAMA, PARRDS, PARAGOS, PAMMBUKID-KA, KASAKA-TK, KMBP, CARET, AR NOW, CENTRO-SAKA and PEACE Foundation (Araro PL) are associates of Akbayan which are pretending as farmer's organizations. these organizations are serving as special agents of the psychological war of the government and the AFP to deviate the path of the masses of farmers from the liberal aspirations and maintain the feudal and semi-feudal reign in the villages. recorded 20 (20) smaller groups of reformists and pretending as farmer's organization in the region. they are attempting to tie the class of farmers to reformation, destroy the base of the militant movement and cooperation of the poor in the villages to continue the exploitation and reign of landlords and their accomplices. the record of deceit of Akbayan is long and its accomplices of pseudo-farmer's organization to the mass of farmers in the country. the irrigation in the villages will be dried out of water, but not the dirty list of deceit, snatching and stealing of Akbayan and its groups to the meager livelihood of farmers. the deceived farmers are the primary well of funds and fake power enjoyed by Akbayan! land agent the selling of land is widespread and asking the farmers in Southern Tagalog to surrender their rights led by Akbayan. pretending to organize the farmers, will blow a confrontation to the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) as if implementing the fake land reform which is the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). advance a clinching rally and long camping in front of DAR. and then later, their fight will be told as something in the win-win solution by receiving the Certificate of Land Ownership Award (CLOA), which is unknown from the knowledge of the farmers, has already been dealt by the animal leaders and organizers of Akbayan to the landlords and real estate developer! DAR will make a scene again in a give-taken-back scheme of the CLOA in a simple reason that the land is non-agricultural, not suited for agriculture, zoning ordinance and whatever reason which will be bravely accepted with shame by Akbayan to feed to the farmers to just let them take back the CLOA, anyway, they will be paid with a damage compensation. what can be learned from the pitiful Pedro Pilapil, accept the CLOA because this has already been sold! after the payment, the pockets of the leaders and organizers of the Akbayan are full with the huge commission that they have gotten as agents of the land. isn't it what the story is all about during the trend of selling lands in Cavite that the leaders of Unorka are carrying sacks of money to the villages of farmers? and who are they to bring the money? this kind of gluttony of the Akbayan and its group accomplices rules in many places of the region. the farmers in Silang, Cavite and Hacienda Yulo in Canlubang, Calamba City know this very well. CAFGU recruiter the fake farmer's organization of Akbayan in Southern Tagalog is a primary agent of the government, the landlords, and even the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) as recruiter of CAFGU (Civillian Armed Forces Geographical Unit). particularly in the province of Quezon, the group FMBP or Farmers' Movement in Bondoc Peninsula is actively conniving with the AFP. there are members of KMBP who are also members of the CAFGU. they are the machinery of the AFP in South Quezon and Bondoc Peninsula in spreading black propaganda against the progressive and militant farmer's organization in the localities. they cannot deny this because the statement released by KMBP is almost the same and those which suddenly appear with whatever names of organization that you have not even heard before. if the AFP is not full of ass wipers, the placards and destructive forces are just the same. the militant movement of the farmers in the region knows that the AFP has no capacity to write and think slogans released by fake farmers' organization. therefore, as replacement of the stupid writer of the AFP is the too brilliant writer of Akbayan! the AFP and the bastard leaders of Akbayan cannot deny that they are serving the interests of each other. campaign "resign Secretary Virgilio delos Reyes" Akbayan reached a grand scheme when it rode with the DAR Employee's Association (DAREA) to call for the resignation of Secretary Delos Reyes. rallying now in front of DAR is the call "extend CARP! Secretary Delos Reyes, resign!" the reality - the Akbayan only wanted to put their bet Arlene "Kaka" Bag-ao in the position as the secretary of DAR! should we still wonder about this? when this was even dreamed once by Risa Hontiveroz-Baraquel. that is why the landlord Noynoy Aquino is applauding this maneuver because, surely, if Akbayan sits on DAR, surely, they will feast on the rotten corpse of the CARP through the CARP Extension with Reforms which they have schemed themselves. the end - Hacienda Luisita will not be distributed! Coco Levy funds and because most of the leaders and representatives of Akbayan are in the government, they are smoothly flowing the anomalous coco levy funds towards the National Anti-Poverty Commission (NAPC) being led now by Joel Rocamora whose career as political analyst failed a glittering P56.5 billion is transferred to the office of the NAPC! this will be used for what is called as the "Poverty Reduction Roadmap of the Coconut Industry." the NAPC is leading in the Presidential Task Force to fight against poverty in the country. included here is the "To Pass Through Program" of the Department of Social Welfare and Development and the Land Tenure Improvement of DAR which is being funded from the general fund of the government. really shameless! just to sprinkle a perfume to the effusing putrid smell of the landlord government, stealing even the money of the coconut farmers. drunkards the militant movement of farmers will never pass the shamelessness of the Akbayan through its group Task Force Fortunate (TFF) when they let the farmers of Negros march 1,200 kilometers last 2007. they have already deceived the farmers after they have profited much from the funds they took from the funding agencies, church people, and other organization that they have corrupted, who believed that they are faithfully serving the farmers, the leaders and organizers of Akbayan has guts to disrespect the farmers face to face. when the delegation of marching farmers reached the National Capital Region and temporarily stationed at Caritas Manila, their slippers are worn off and the callouses of the farmers are thick. and where are the shameless leaders and organizers of Akbayan and TFM? they are in a hotel, cooling off with the air-conditioned room and drinking! a gossip? no! the militant movement of farmers of Southern Tagalog can prove this story. the long camping of Akbayan is repeatedly happening and the pseudo-farmer's organization mentioned earlier are doing it in front of DAR. notice that after few days, there are farmers who will be left in the campsite while their leaders and organizers are nowhere to be found. the neighboring camp of Kasama-TK in front of DAR can be visited today. know the condition of the farmers who are put in uncertainty by Akbayan. they are the evidence of the shame given by Akbayan to the oppressed farmers in the country! debate is already done there is no more to debate on, just because of different ideologies, belief and principle, so there is a war is happening between the Akbayan and the national democratic organization in the country. the debate about that has ended already. the Filipino nation should not belittle this happening conflict as a simple street debate. the issue now is above the real representative of Akbayan. they are in the government. whoever is upholding the program and regulation of the government has never been a leftist. Akbayan is reactionary. and the attacks given by the national democratic movement to Akbayan is beyond the ideological issue. they are representatives of the landlord President which are hated by the class of farmers and other oppressed sectors of the Filipino society.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_92085923 <no-speech> what did you say ? I was flown by Superman . <no-speech> <no-speech> Superman brought me here . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Superman brought me here . wow . <no-speech> <no-speech> you are so lucky . how are you doing there ? <no-speech> why me I'm in Japan . <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm travelling in other countries . how are you doing there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> ah yes there is a %incomplete <no-speech> I thought there was a dance competition there ? <no-speech> no there is none -- none -- none . that's not common in Japan -- that's not common in Japan . hello ? <no-speech> <no-speech> oh is there none ? yes . because here it is -- is it not on-trend in Japan ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> because here I'm just selling . <no-speech> I'm just making a living . really ? <no-speech> <no-speech> is the pay good over there ? <no-speech> what are you doing there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what about -- how much is your salary there ? <no-speech> just okay just enough . <no-speech> wow . <no-speech> just okay just enough . like maybe it could support about ten families . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ahh as for me I already left my new company . <no-speech> hello ? that's right isn't it ? <no-speech> I left the new company . why ? <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing the pay was low four hundred thousand . hmm . <no-speech> it was low because the salary was four hundred thousand . why ? <no-speech> I'm now here at my new company the salary is five hundred thousand . yes (()) . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech>
query1109 victim s corpse
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_43047927 editorial: 'joke' takes precedence than truth! one of the things liked by many Filipinos from the elected president, president Digong Duterte was his lack of pretense. saying what he wants to say even if others disapprove or if it would boomerang to him afterwards. he does not care! this was the president Duterte who spoke the day before yesterday who admitted that in the five things he states only two are true and should be taken seriously or believed by people. because the other three are purely nonsense or only jokes. he just wanted to be funny. which is why it is no wonder why every time a word is said by the president, his staff gets flustered, especially the communications group of Malacañang, on how they would explain it to the people. which ones are the truth and which ones are the joke in the statements of the president? this is hard for the country. the president should understand that his speaking engagements are not a comedy bar every time he faces the public. his every word is looked forward to not to find laughs but to listen to what his commands are, how he would resolve a problem, what position will the Philippines take on an issue. every blow or released word of a president should be taken seriously because these are the policies of a country. his every word, like a law being followed, specially by his loyal supporters. it is allowed to be comedic and funny but not on serious topics. especially if it involves the relationship to other country or about the extrajudicial killings, peace process and peace and order situation, drug personalities, bad cops, inflation, tax and many more. even campaign promises have what look like 'joke' only. take for example the 'endo' which until now is just spoken word and what was given to contractual government employees is a P2,000 bonus instead of regularization. there is no news on coco levy which he said he would immediately give away to coconut farmers upon getting seated. it seems like another joke is the additional P1,000 for senior citizens because there are a couple of elders complaining that there is still no adjustment in their February pension despite the promise. 'the 3-6 months elimination of drug, he admitted he cannot do. which ones should be taken seriously from the president when 2 out of 5 of his statements are silliness and funny acts only?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_79970414 the ongoing tragedy of the victims of Yolanda and the government by Pher Pasion November 7, 2014 one day before the commemoration of the grim assault of typhoon Yolanda, progressive groups marched to Mendiola together with some victims. there are traces of grief, regret and anger in them caused by the government's neglect. one year after the tragedy, the memories of typhoon Yolanda remain on the sight of Mabini Cajes, 38, from Salvacion, Samar. his wife and two children who passed away in the typhoon's assault will also remain in his heart. Cajes is one of the hundreds who went to Mendiola in Manila on the eve of the anniversary of the destruction of typhoon Yolanda to convey to the government its continuing neglect of them. Cajes is a farmer without his own land and supports his family with five children. because the P100 he earns from farming is really not enough, Cajes relies on loans and goes fishing too. sometimes, he works part-time in construction to add to his budget. he tells Pinoy Weekly, he saw his youngest child and wife first which he both buried. it took five days before he saw his oldest child who got buried by wooden debris. the body swelled and was already smelling foul. he brought his eldest child to the church first to be blessed before immediately burying him even if his own feet were swelling. "the next day after I buried my wife and child. it was probably Saturday. I saw a rope, climbed to the second floor of the house, I was thinking of taking my own life. I couldn't accept that three were taken from me," according to Cajes. he was saved from his suicide attempt by his two cousins who were on guard due to the advice of a friend because he was acting differently. he attempted suicide again, and that time, drinking too much medicine so he will overdose. but it did not work. story of tragedy according to Cajes, they evacuated to the house of his uncle before the typhoon because their house will surely not stand it because it was just made of light materials. but even the concrete house of his uncle did not withstand the typhoon. "I carried my family to the ceiling because water was rushing in fast. when the water further rose, I tried to dismantle the roof. I repeatedly kicked it. but it was just like paper when the wind blew it away," he said. because of the very strong wind, he chose for them to remain hanging on to the ceiling because the children can be blown away by the strong wind. "I told them let us just stay here inside the ceiling, come what may as long as we do not get separated. I grabbed my youngest child from my wife so she has nothing to think about but saving herself," Cajes continued his story. he added, when the strong waves arrived, the walls of his uncle's house were destroyed. after the wall collapsed, he lost sight of his wife and two children. one of his feet was nailed down and the other was buried by wood while his child who does not know how to swim continues to hold on to him. "even if I knew the nail was bent, I tried to remove it because if I don't, we cannot escape there we will drown. when I released my foot, that's when I was hit on the head by wood and lost consciousness. I lost hold of my youngest child," said Cajes. he gained consciousness again when his child woke him up. they were carried away by the water to a pomelo tree where his uncle was. he placed his children there. he handed his unconscious eldest child to his uncle. but they were struck by strong waves again. his eldest child was lost for good. he and his three other children met up at a mango tree and stayed there until the typhoon and water subsided. "there, I no longer had hope of seeing my three other loves of my life. I just cried and cried," he said. only his three remaining children give him the strength to move on. no assistance from the government yet Cajes resents, it has been almost a year but they still have not received any assistance from the Department of Social Work and Development (DSWD). the deceased wife of Cajes is a member of the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4P's) of the Aquino administration. but according to him the said agency is making it difficult for him to transfer her membership to him. currently, to be able to recover from the typhoon's assault, he is aided by the ACT Alliance, a private sector, he insists that he does not receive any aid from the government. like him are Miriam Rosario, 28, and Jesusa Hiponia, 33, from Estancia, Iloilo, who were also affected by typhoon Yolanda. one year has passed yet the likes of them have not received any aid from the government. Rosario shares, after the typhoon, they lived by harvesting their sweet potato crops even if they were not meant to be harvested yet. they were even forced to cook wet rice in order for their stomachs to be filled. what is sad, the children beg from the vehicles passing through the roads. according to Rosario, they were not able to adequately prepare for the typhoon because the information they received was not enough too. in case they were made to evacuate, there was no evacuation center close to their place that they can go to. aid from the private sector arrived one month after the typhoon but she said it is not enough for all of them. according to her, they have not received any cash assistance up to now aside from the assistance from the DSWD's food for work. but because Rosario's residence is near the mountains, it takes one month before the government can give them assistance from the "food for work" they work for. "that food for work, we are ordered to clean up our own place when we are the ones who are victims. then we will queue at the plaza after that just in order to get rice, noodles and sardines. that is what hurts," said Rosario. she even added, "up to now the government neglects us there. we receive no cash assistance even from the local government. we receive nothing from our barangay." so, Rosario felt bad when she heard about the relief goods rotting in the hands of the DSWD. also, with the assistance the government receives but does not reach them. "honestly I have great anger in my heart. because we in Estancia in Ilo-ilo have been neglected. we do not envy Tacloban. they must be helped as well. but we are the last to be noticed there in Ilo-ilo. their (the government's) obligation on us is not over yet," said Rosario. meanwhile Hiponia lives near the sea. before the typhoon arrived her livelihood is from the sea. in the peak of typhoon Yolanda, there was supposedly an oil spill in their place so they were evacuated. they were evacuated to an evacuation center on the 23rd of November. and it took two weeks before they were able to receive a tent from the private sector. according to her, they were not asked to return to their former place since then. "the government does not help us, then we are pressured too. we were not made to return to our place because supposedly we can get sick. but the military are there without even wearing masks. so some did not fear the military, they returned to their livelihood in our place," said Hiponia. currently, Hiponia still lives in a bunk house together with her only child, and because of the oil spill, they survive just by selling her vegetable crops. she earns only fifty pesos per day. "I prefer to think of feeding my child. you can endure your hunger but not your child's. so I accompany it with water or if there are still some vegetables in order to have enough," she said. Hiponia also felt bad, when an employee in their municipal hall said that those in evacuation centers are all burdens and always freeloads. "I said, if we ask for assistance it is only our right to do so. it does not come from your pockets, but from the LGU (local government unit), so what is your right to tell us that? we did not wish to have a typhoon like Yolanda that is this strong," said Hiponia. Janine Dizor, 21, from Magallanes (coastal area) of Tacloban City remembers only the relief goods from foreign companies. they survived by evacuating to their uncle's house in San Jose whose place was a bit elevated. she said. she never did see any assistance from the government. "from the government? I do not know what they have provided. seems like there was no remarkable assistance. we received no cash assistance or anything," Dizor said in an interview with Pinoy Weekly. the only food assistance she received was when they arrived here in Manila aboard a C130 from Samar. she and her sibling needed to walk from Tacloban up to Santa Rita, Samar in order to go to their parents who are in Hiporloas, Eastern Samar. she added, they tried to go to Guiuan, Samar to be able to ride a C130 because they could not return to Tacloban because of the news spreading that the place was already chaotic. Dizor admits that she is more dismayed by the government's actions in responding to victims after the typhoon. "disappointed (with the government) they should first respond first of all to the people but why do we see NGOs (non-government organizations) only?" according to Dizor. recovery and fighting back typhoon Yolanda left many difficult and painful memories for its victims. but the government's neglect on them remain a reality and not a memory after one year. for the victims, the responsibility of the government on them remains and not just about a shortage of basic needs like relief goods, housing and livelihood. the government also lacks the humanity to face them and consider them victims of one of the strongest typhoons in the country. tomorrow, November 8, thousands of victims will surge to Tacloban City to demand payment from the Aquino government for their ongoing neglect of those affected by the calamity.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15571415 death of Noel Delgado, a sign of breaking up the bandit group the shooting of Noel Delgado this December 1 is a punishment for his serious crimes against the revolutionary movement and the farmers in some barangays in Bacon District of Sorsogon City. the punishment on him was carried out by the operatives of the New People's Army in Barangay San Juan where he lived. we have just received the report that he died yesterday, December 5, in a hospital in Sorsogon City. Delgado was a former member of the NPA. since he quit from the movement, he became part of a bandit group involved in stealing water buffalos and other animals from farmers and driving out tenants of some farms in Bacon District. together with him in the group are some more former guerillas and elements of the military, police and CAGFU. the pretend to be NPA when committing their crimes. they also use the name of the NPA to extort from contractors of different infrastructural projects in the area. the NPA is still pursuing Delgado's companions in brigandry. the revolutionary Army will strive to crush the said group as answer to the cries of the farmers they oppress.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37800276 <no-speech> what do you call this -- not this I called there the one I told you about in Tektite the one in BayanTel's . <no-speech> <no-speech> ah . <no-speech> <no-speech> will you be able to come today ? the one in BayanTel (()) . today . <no-speech> (()) the <foreign> of the phone ? <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> Anne ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ? ma'am it's unclear . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> Anne ? yes ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ma'am ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I was able to talk to the one in BayanTel . <no-speech> and then ? <no-speech> maybe uhm what's that I was able to talk to the <foreign> in BayanTel to deliver the telephone . okay . can you go to BayanTel ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> -- and then ? huh ? I'll text you the address . <no-speech> <no-speech> please text it . ma'am how do you go there ? go there and bring the telephone but they said it can be claimed today . <no-speech> <no-speech> I will just give them our telephone here ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> -- yes -- yes -- just give the telephone and then uhm wait for it too because I asked him too . <no-speech> I said if if (()) can it be claimed today . and then he said yes it can be claimed . <no-speech> okay . how do you go there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> uh get on a jeep heading to I_T_I . upon arriving at I_T_I get on one heading wait heading to where again ? and then ? <no-speech> <no-speech> by F_X is possible . <no-speech> F_X ? <no-speech> F_X heading to uh heading to Crossing . Ayala ? say you will get off at uh at at Tektite . ah (()) . <no-speech> right at uh -- Exchange Road is what's written on (()) (()) back then . and then ? <no-speech> <no-speech> and then ? what is that ma'am is that a building or BayanTel itself ? <no-speech> yes -- you won't see a building it's not BayanTel . it's really a tower positioned there in the Philippine (()) Stock Exchange positioned there . ah Philippine Exchange ? Philippine Stock Exchange . <no-speech> and then ? huh ? and then ? no Philippine Stock Exchange is not what's in the tower it's called Tektite . <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> there -- isn't it from there from Citibank you will ride a jeep . what what . <no-speech> is it okay now ? you will get off at I_T_I . <no-speech> okay . when you arrive at I_T_I . <no-speech> <no-speech> F_X ? it's possible to not go by I_T_I -- is possible huh ? <no-speech> it's possible for you not to get on at I_T_I . F_X ? <no-speech> -- yes even if you don't it may be confusing but it's also possible to go via F_X in there heading to Crossing . -- say when you go past S_M uh Crossing I think that's Megamall . okay sure sure . <no-speech> tell the driver will you pass by uh by Exchange Road near Tektite ? if he says yes then good but if uh just take a jeep if you are confused it's just that the jeep itself does not stop there -- passes by . <no-speech> go down near Meralco do you know Meralco ? yes ma'am . <no-speech> and then ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> that's it that was the previous way uh you can also ride those heading to which itineraries are those again ? those jeeps heading to Crossing . um um . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> ah . and then what's this again . that's fine already ma'am . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's just which F_X ? ma'am just text it ma'am . <no-speech> heading to Crossing Megamall . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> ma'am text which floor who to look for . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes I'll text it to you . <no-speech> sure sure ma'am . I'll go today text it already . hello ? ma'am ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes bring the telephone .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64174165 31,000 jobs, to be offered on the Labor Day Job Fairs in Central Luzon April 23, 2016 Carlo Lorenzo J. Datu City of San Fernando, Pampanga, April 23 (PIA) - more or less 31,000 local and overseas jobs will be offered on the Labor Day Job Fairs in Central Luzon this year. according to Department of Labor and Employment regional director Ana Dione, around 24,870 local jobs will be offered by around 265 companies while 28 recruitment agencies want to fill up 6,104 vacant positions overseas. included in the vacant local positions are customer care representatives, call center agents, production operators, production workers, sewers, sales clerks, welders, masons, and sales associates. on the other hand, electrical/mechanical engineers, production operators, factory workers, nurses, staff nurses, house keepers, helpers, and service crews are wanted overseas. the May 1 Job Fairs will simultaneously be held in SM malls in Baliuag, Pampanga, Clark, San Fernando Downtown, Cabanatuan, and Tarlac. KB Gymnasium, Capitol Compound in the City of Malolos, and the municipal gym of Masinloc, Zambales will have it too. aside from these, there are also similar activities on May 3 in the New Municipal Building in Marilao, Bulacan and Freedom Park Capitol Grounds in the city of Cabanatuan. the People's Center, Provincial Capitol Compound of the city of Balanga and Rizal Triangle in the city of Olongapo are set to have it too on May 6. the 114th celebration of Philippine Labor Day is anchored on the theme "sure future in a decent job". (CLJD-PIA 3)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_43760437 well already gone . that number four . number four actively defend life the institution of marriage and the family . that actually contentious -- issue now that the following of bishops for the on the family last October two thousand fourteen and then also in the coming October which is larger more participation from the Bishop's Clergy and there are also lay representatives . that is what is being focused on the institution of the -- the family and then that . there in the U_S every year they have a March For Life they celebrate the supreme court decision I think it's the raw versus weight where it was allowed I'm not so familiar with it with abortion so there there is so much that the youth should focus on because -- the enemy of morality and doctrines today is the YOLO mentality . yes where I only live now . you only live once YOLO was used but I only learned from Gerard Garcia what it what it means ? yes -- -- just last year . but you know I didn't learn of it right away yes what does YOLO mean (()) you only live once mentality especially of the youth . so they get lost in different things . very fleeting very temporary very temporal are the relationships . very experimental experimental like they say cohabitation like that right ? so and then premarital sex like that . so there it's like what is being said is the family is sacred when -- when considered that is what is said to us in sociology or anthropology that it's the basic unit of society that's sociology . ah sociology yes . it's the nucleus of society the family . and with the church it is also the domestic church . that is the first church the mother the father and the really and like the foundation of the church inside the home that is what the child will follow and the model of the first domestic church is the holy family yeah Parish Kamias our fiesta on February eight so annoying that it was included . hay geez next is a good one . this I like this . promote a culture of respect for women . there . yay . because the Pope noticed that in U_S_T women participation is low he said . but what is saddening there is that he said to show the next Pope -- when the next Pope comes so that means he will no longer return . because isn't it -- what others are lobbying like they are pushing for the International Eucharistic Congress . on twenty sixteen twenty sixteen January two -- twenty sixteen that is the original schedule of Pope Francis here . but because of Yolanda and even before that he was early so he said when -- when the next Pope arrives he might go here but not to U_S_T anymore because he is in Cebu . there are more women but it is slightly actually -- you know when the Pope speaks he's like a president right because we anticipate it because maybe that is a policy statement like that yes . there are others who just used it especially the women's group within the Catholic church that are not -- there are those not within the Catholic church that one is pushing for women's ordination because the bible did not say that a priest is yes yes male only right . there are others within the Catholic church the greater participation of women that Pope Francis is doing that is what is being said that he is forming a he is reorganizing the Vatican structure and there will be a congregation for the Leyte and the family and what will head that couple and and he is appointing for the first time a woman as head I forgot but involvement like that . like that Pope Francis is really recognizing the contribution because in the church a woman is considered a nun nun -- mother butler (()) C_W_L but this is involvement really . like that didn't he say it there in U_S_T itself there women have much to tell us in today's society . there . sometimes we are too masculine and we don't allow enough space to women but women can see things from a different angle to us with a different eye . women are able post questions women are unable to understand . look out for this fact she is the only one who has put a question for which there is no answer Glistle May right ? she couldn't put it into words but express it with tears . yes because it's like women and men are different like they look at the same thing but the view of the woman is different the view of the man is different . right just with directions -- when you are lost a man will not ask a woman will be the one to ask -- yes that is true will find a way . yes so for me when we get lost I tell my crew to ask but they don't want to ask . it's up to you . then in the end I am correct because -- when I was in the field -- because of course right -- you ask with respect when others play a joke on you brother can I ask a question ? what if the answer someone answered us no like that but it's just a joke right ? that is probably what the uh don't like especially the uh our assistant cameramen to our pilots when they are answered that way they will get angry . so next . number six . make good use of the information available to me and make sure it bears good fruit . that is number twenty-four . what does number twenty-four say in number twenty-four read that . there go it's your turn . let's skip that he said real love is about loving and letting yourself be love . it's harder to let yourself to let yourself be love than to love . that is why it is difficult to come to the perfect love of God . we can love him but we must let ourselves be loved . it's long wait yes by him . ah this . there below . ah that's the one below . mm . actually it covers many things already but he said let us not have a computer psychology that makes us think we know it all . all answers on computers of course there are answers just google there will be an answer but no surprises right ? it's like he said let us use our know how so that it will bear fruit because right others are really very bookish . and then it'll lead to nothing . also at the internet age aren't there many things available that seems like I guess if you won't use what you read and what you hear in a good way you won't be productive so put it to good use that's what he's saying right ? information will just be information if you won't use it right . I remember the movie Angels and Demons their gut particle the antimatter . their intention is to make that their source energy . and then %incomplete at least -- because someone said I think Camerlengo Yuan McGregory said that it will defy religion faith something like that seems like they're not even considering because you just want to be too scientific about it . but as what the doctor said the physicist for example that research is for great use it will benefit many . yes . perfect morning is back with Trisha Roque . and Joey Villarama and we're still talking about the -- this is the post Pope Francis or papal visit what can we do or what should we do what did we learn our takeaways after the visit of Pope Francis in the country this is from the official website Papal visit P_H and we're at number seven think well feel well and do well . that can be a slogan of what health drink or was that gym ? what's it called he said that to U_S_T right ? yes he said think well feel well do well . actually if you notice it from Jesuits we noticed from the Jesuits before when they give an advise they always give it in three points Pope Francis is also like that there's number one number two number three . this is also his he said three prompts right ? you should do this altogether because if this is connected to number six you're just thinking like a cerebral machine . if you're just feeling and just pure emotion your judgment might be clouded because it's pure emotion . and you should combine thinking and doing and then you apply it . right . there . I cannot find the quote this -- this -- this is number twenty-three . for this the gospel offers us a serene way forward using the three languages of the mind heart and hands and to use them in harmony . what you think you must feel and put into effect . your information comes down to your heart and you put it into practice harmoniously . what you think you feel and you do . feel what you think and feel what you do . do what you think and what you feel . the three languages to think to feel to do all and all in harmony that's it . so those three should coordinate with each other . next is this let the tears fall because you know many people feel like sign of weakness that is correct Cindy papal visit dot P_H yes those are the -- because there are people who feel that crying is a sign of weakness . so as much as possible they avoid crying like uh they don't want to show emotion weakness like that because it is a weakness mm . yes . but like Pope Francis said there are things that that you will only feel you will really feel when you cry it out . and let us return to your being a child actress aren't there scenes where you don't need to speak ? earlier we talked about the eye but like that it was delivered via tears . cry . can you cry right now ? I don't want . ah can I just ask -- segwaying a lot if there is a crying scene were you motivated by does the director tell you or is there something you draw out from ? no when I was young I was always threatened that your mother will leave you she will go already like that I will cry already when is that said before the scene starts . three two one action . yes before -- before a take that will be said you are a bad girl you will be left by so you need to think like that . yes you know that is verbal abuse . actually it really uh on children true right because it's like the child is being tortured there are disclaimers on kiddie shows today right that in compliance with DOLE like that --like that but there apparently that's abuse . next allow God to surprise you that's also included in the quote of uh earlier there in the -- in to weep -- in information yes God is a God of surprise because He loved us first or first loved us . that is true because -- there is a song with the passage in the bible that's like what is man that you are mindful of him that I am just like an ant you don't need me God doesn't need us right ? it's like he made us and then he first loved us right . so it's like a debt it's like the least we can do is return the love the -- and be good mm that's it . God awaits us to surprise us actually Pope Francis was surprised too because he was elected Pope back then God reveals Himself through surprises right . that's it when it was given as a surprise to you by -- by God it happened in your life so it means God has a message for you and he revealed himself through that . saw a pin there is a pin joke there ha ha ha that's the last . number ten allow myself to be loved . ah that's also the the -- included with the computers real love is about loving and letting yourself be loved . it's harder to let yourself be love than to love . there that is why it is so difficult to come to the perfect love of God . so allow God and others to love to have this full experience of God . doesn't it seem very easy if if you will read it it's like it's really -- let's stick this to our cubicles it seems too simple . yes not the -- the very cerebral teachings right ? it's very basic that -- you will just apply in your life yes but the -- the the challenge is how you will apply it to your life . yes . right sometimes we're like -- not -- not just sometimes often we forget doing application of good works yes right ? the challenge really yes that's a challenge many here maybe the one to ten -- just maybe in order for us to be conservative at least one number the number two dream big for my family . I feel like people are able to do that -- that -- that famous defense lawyer who posted on -- that he doesn't participate in activities . yes . like that but he's there together with his family watching . he said it doesn't make me less of a Catholic because he established his family just like that without you knowing it others here do it . your effort in -- just those that you can't do for me number three is a real effort . yes . reach out to the needy the homeless and the abused . I am saying that even that is a corporal work of mercy . because people are somewhat cynical right ? people asked that the one with the Lord where he measured the sheep and the goats . -- when did we see you naked hungry thirsty in prison isn't it back that -- the one with the least of my brethren like brothers and sisters . so there what's really difficult is we have contact lenses that immediately judge .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_73020205 the A_F_P is now examining the recovered I_D and documents when leaving Sultan Kudarat where the Ansar Kalifa Philippines and the marines clashed last Thursday . some relatives of the student who was allegedly recruited believe that it impossible for their loved one to join the (()) group . news brought by Ian Cruz exclusive . aside from bullets guns and paraphernalia for making bombs there were also retrieved documents flag like I_S_I_S and student I_D at the hideout of Ansar Kalifa Philippines that clashed with the marines while leaving Sultan Kudarat this Thursday . five five of the I_Ds were named under females' . the mother of one of them cried when she was interviewed %incomplete the child bid goodbye last year . it was said that she got married with one Ustans and became busy with dawah or teaching and spreading the teachings of Islam . February was when she sent her last text message . she said because sir she had two sir . <no-speech> ma'am leave me be . the family believes that she will not be able to enter the armed group . she is intelligent and was said to have been graduated with the course of information technology . they should stop it . the children are pitiful . according to the military two zero are the members of the core group of Ansar Kalifa Philippines . an estimate of three zero were said to be recruited by them . the A_F_P is now examining the retrieved I_D and documents at the encounter site . we will start our investigation immediately on what is already happening and the recruitment here within Cotabato City . from here in Maguindanao %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87669855 oh here it is . <no-speech> <no-speech> that's cheating what's your hut according to them ? <no-speech> where is your hut ? <no-speech> comb Ma Ubeng is a comb . why didn't your sister oh your aunt go ? <no-speech> Ma ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Ma ? why didn't your aunt go ? <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> why is she not going ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> will you go to D_S_W_D ? ah . <no-speech> have they left or not ? auntie will go to D_S_W_D . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> not yet that's for Uncle Atan . <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> later at two o'clock . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> too bad I wanted to come . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I want to come . <no-speech> that's uh for Uncle Atan . (()) . that's why . <no-speech> why were they visited ? huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> they were visited ? you were visited auntie ? <no-speech> <no-speech> auntie were you visited here ? <no-speech> yes according to her . <no-speech> <no-speech> she was with Sister Tess and Auntie Diane . oh Sister Nilang Aunt Diane wasn't present . <no-speech> why was Diane missing ? <no-speech> the one with Bugoy . <no-speech> <no-speech> which is why she's missing . why is Diane absent ? huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Bugoy was also absent ? <no-speech> at work . <no-speech> Bugoy is included . <no-speech> <no-speech> who's going ? but they're not going with those uh those uh -- the sick ones . <no-speech> yes so who's going to Bugoy ? <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . Sister Ne . <no-speech> <no-speech> ah . <no-speech> Sister Ne . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> why is yours later ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> is it over ? huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> uh will you go ? not yet . <no-speech> Lot's already here . <no-speech> <no-speech> just now ? <no-speech> arrived just now ? huh ? <no-speech> yes just now just arrived . <no-speech> because she walked . <no-speech> just now . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I don't know why . <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Lot did you just walk ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes according to her . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Ma . <no-speech> because that one walked . Ma ? <no-speech> <no-speech> oh . <no-speech> according to her she just walked . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> if she %incomplete Mama when the youngest comes home later tonight give him the two hundred . change . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? how many candies ? <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51963247 even if modern wrestling is now popularized among natives of Ifugao they don't forget their traditional wrestling the Bultong . their own kind of wrestling is done to resolve to land disputes . let's hear from Victoria Tulad . <no-speech> an Ifugao forcefully knocked down the other by clinging on to his loin cloth . it seems like that the two Ifugaos are fighting but in reality they're just doing the traditional Bultong . this is the traditional wrestling of Ifugaos done to resolve land disputes . Marvin's father won the land where his house stands now in Bultong . I think this is the land he won . this was a cogon before but it was renovated because we're already modernized now . that's how Marvin's family gives importance to Bultong hence aside from his brothers he also teaches his nephews Bultong . so that it won't be forgotten -- by our race . that is our culture that may -- until the end until now it cannot be removed . Bultong that is witnessed in feasts has been an inspiration to grade ten students Arselina and Geoff to join modern wrestling . I was at grade eight when I started to join wrestling . I had an intention because we could also show our strengths there . in Hungduan National High School there are many like them that develops the discipline and courage when training after class . with their help I tried modern wrestling . so now Arci will teach us the basic techniques of modern wrestling . what do we do first Arsi ? first sir so in the warm up sir to avoid sir the injury like that sir . what Arsi and the others do everyday is not a joke especially when sparring . <no-speech> <no-speech> although we are not in the modern time and many have developed interest in modern wrestling Ifugaos still believe that Bultong will not be forgotten because this tradition is the foundation of everything they have today . from Hungduan Ifugao %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_35816126 Naga City awarded by the DA as top 16 rice producing cities in the whole country April 28, 2016 Danilo Abad City of Naga, April 28 (PIA) - the Department of Agriculture gave an award to the local government of the City of Naga as top 16 rice producing cities in the whole country. received by city agriculturist Edna Bongalonta are the trophy and check worth P1 million from Department of Agriculture (DA) Secretary Proceso J. Alcala and Assistant Secretary Edilberto M. De Luna. the Agri-Pinoy Rice Achievers Award (APRAA) 2015 was held in Resorts World in Pasay City, Manila last April 20, 2016. the city of Naga led the various cities and municipalities in the whole Bicol region through the highest production growth of 50.12% from the 6,298.94 metric ton in the year 2014 which already reached up to 9, 456.06 metric ton from the past year 2015. according to DA 5 spokesperson Emily B. Bordado, the city of Naga acquired a yield growth of 28%. from 4.05 metric ton each hectare, the rice harvest reached up to 5.20 metric ton per hectare. Bordado said that the rice area was also added with 16% from 1,555. 7 hectares have also reached 1, 817.65 hectares of rice. recorded also a surplus more than 64% in high quality seeds utilization in the City of Naga. the Local Government of the City of Naga acquired a budget allocation of 25.36% in their Rice Program from the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) which has an equivalent of 3 million pesos. the local government is also implementing the 13 projects which have a relation to the rice and agriculture programs in the city as a support to the farmers. The Agri-Pinoy Rice Achievers Award is part of the regular program of the said agency which is giving an incentive to the local units of the government as well as the provinces or the municipalities, the Irrigators Association, Small Water Impounding System Associations (SWISAs), Agricultural Extension Workers (AEWs) and Local Farmer Technicians (LFTs). the said program is for the recognition of their contribution to raise the harvest of the farmers in their place, augment their profit, to be able to aide in order to address the insufficiency of rice in the country. The Rice Achievers Award is under the National Rice Program of the Department of Agriculture. (DCA-PIA5/Camarines Sur)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_49970763 Freedom by Maria Concepcion Montajes March 14, 2012 I don't know how to start the story of my child, Freedom. she is Maricon Montajes. Freedom is now a political prisoner in Batangas Provincial Jail. our relatives are from the city of Davao, in Southern Mindanao. all I know is, she was born in February 25. this date is significant for many of us who were terrorized, who were oppressed and who lost their freedom and loved ones during the time of dictatorial. on February 25, that dark chapter of history ended. hence, Maricon's nickname is Freedom. she can't properly pronounce the "f" in "freedom", hence, as time passed, she was called "Eedom" by most. some time, I read in her blog that she doesn't like this nickname that much. but it's only time that she finally understood the meaning of the nickname. Eedom is a student taking up a course of Film in UP Diliman. June 3, 2010: she was arrested in the house of one farmer in Taysan, Batangas, along with teenagers, Ronilo Baes and Romiel Canete. a criminal case was filed against them. Freedom is one of the youngest political prison of the country. we celebrated Freedom's birthday in prison twice already. Freedom, I can't see it anymore, sometimes, I don't even know what it means. after her birthday is her schedule of hearing in court this February 29. it's been almost a year and a half that Eedom's in prison, and finally, her pre-trial case will push through. the formal hearings have just started. the case of frustrated homicide filed against Ronilo Baes was first heard. official of Air Force, subject of complaint and allegedly shot by Ronilo, didn't come. caught with illegal possession of explosives and ammunition was the next case filed against the three. because the evidences are delicate, it wasn't presented at court. there will be an ocular inspection before the next hearing on April 25 instead. after that, the next hearing will be on June 13. the next hearing after that will be on August 22. and that's if the schedule will be followed - and not postponed like the usual, as what we have observed with the case, the past two years. I don't feel just a simple impatience and boredom. not just a simple exhaustion of finance and patience is what I'm going through. while I counted the days of freedom and justice deprived from Freedom, I can't see the right road the President says. what I can't really understand is his statement, "you are my boss!", while the government also says "there's no political prisoner in the Philippines." under PNoy, more than 80 people who had no offense were arrested and put to jail. more than 340 are in jail and identified by the government as "criminals," because of their political stand and belief. this month is Women's month. last March 8, the world celebrated Women's day. what do we really need to call for? what I know is we have 36 women political prisoners in the country, which includes my daughter, Freedom, Charity, Vanessa. it has been two years since we've been calling for their immediate freedom. what I know is we have more than 340 political prisoners in the Philippines. what I know is it has been a left and right call for them to be given the freedom they've been looking forward to. what I know is everyone should be freed from the darkness we are trapped in now. Freedom! Freedom! this word is only true to my daughter's nickname.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83024703 <no-speech> for the basketball-loving Filipinos here is the smartest basketball shoe that will give maximum support safety comfort and performance for whoever wears it . despite being very lightweight as a product it's very supportive . those two combines to help really elevate your skill training . <no-speech> the signature shoe that was custom made for N_B_A M_V_P Derrick Rose was tried on the recent playoffs .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64720138 dining table by Emmanuel Jerome Tagaro it has long been my habit to observe on the road, most especially when I go to eateries. observing always brings me joy when I notice each move of those around me. for me, it is an escape from my everyday boredom in life. today, I am seated at a restaurant again, and I really notice each flick of the hand in the opposite table, the simple glances of the man to his companion every time he looks in the distance, or even the creases in the dress of the woman in the farthest table. whether I personally know or not the customers wherever I eat, there are always notable characters in these small spaces. security guard the very first to welcome you upon entering a restaurant is the muscly security guard. he is often alone, sometimes observing the place or greeting "welcome po!" he holds a baton and a gun without bullets. they may be the only ones needed in restaurants, because if some evildoers arrive, it is easy to ask for help. hopefully they won't be that many so that he will not be plowed before his backup arrives. crew next to welcome you are the hardworking crew. they always have smiles on the face, ready to get the order of customers. they may be often contractual and with low pay, but they continue to work hard to have something to feed their family. chef he may always be hidden and not always seen, it is still the cook who next offers service. he cooks food he cannot eat the whole day, and facing the kitchen he does not own. I also do not know if he has eaten, or if he can even afford what he cooks, but he is the one who makes it for the customer and for his family too. he should be thanked. manager for the long run of the restaurant it has undergone so many managers, and each one of them has a different style. there are the sleepy ones, strict with time, or focused on work, but many of them possess one characteristic - and that is putting the interest of the restaurant first, ensuring that the revenue is still high, more than the welfare of the customers. customer no one knows who and what each customer that will come out of the restaurant be, but they are now in the care of the restaurant. each customer may pay for their food, but they continue to have little freedom inside the restaurant. there should be acknowledgement that each grain of rice served is the sweat and blood of the people working here. often I end up smiling when I catch myself thinking about this in each restaurant I try. but maybe it is just better for me to share to those reading that all of this reflects the complicated business of society.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_29621754 the taxpayers with individual tax due of over two thousand were allowed to pay their taxes in installment . the first installment is on the day of filing with a deadline last April fifteen and the second installment with a deadline this July fifteen . once you pay your second installment after July fifteen there is an additional penalty which is the surcharge of twenty-five per cent J and then there is also -- twenty per cent interest per annum . so it is a big thing if the taxes this July will be collected . it is also the deadline of the monthly percentage tax for the non-VAT taxpayers on July twenty . and July twenty-five is the deadline for the quarterly vat returns . if all this are collected by B_I_R possibly after July their collection will hit more than one billion pesos . they target to collect a two point zero eight billion pesos this year . but if it would be based on the collection this May the collection of the department fell short of thirty million pesos . they are positive to reach the target . this is despite the explosion of the controversial pork barrel scam where the officials of the government are accused of squandered or pocketed billions of taxes of the citizens . it is slowly discovered where your payments are going I hope that you will not be discouraged because that is already here that is already discovered perhaps next year or their future . our payments is costly in the right way . for Ma'am Virginia the citizens should benefit from the taxes paid through hard work . those taxpayers they worked hard to pay the tax . then it won't be returned to them the %incomplete B_I_R said the problem is not with them because they are remitting all the collected taxes to the national treasury . so the taxes will be used in funding the projects of the government .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_93304590 secret voting for BBL, guard the Ad Hoc Committee of the Congress postponed the voting to approve or not the bill Bangsamoro Basic Law or only the controversial parts of it. in our understanding, if only parts of it will be voted on, BBL is already passed? but there added controversies: the proposal of some congressmen in the committee to make the voting a secret or an executive session. some opposed it so the voting will remain open to the media and the public. what will really happen on May 18-20, the election days? something's unclear the reason of some congressmen, the bill has unclear provisions so they requested to give them a chance to revise or carefully study these. and at the right opportunity, they can set and insert the needed changes. whatever those are, they are unclear to us. but this opportunity is also a time to campaign to convince the majority or all members of the committee to vote. is there a benefit to the congressmen who will vote impeachment style of former Chief Justice Renato Corona? and those who push for the executive session are part of the money system of voting that will prevail in the end? son of a gun, even the Constitution and the welfare of the whole nation are being turned into an act of comedy or a masquerade because of money? who are they? the committee should expose those who are pushing for an executive session and the members of the committee amenable to it. this is for the people to scrutinize and know what they will do in the coming years like the 2016 election. other hands that are pushing for a secret election should also be exposed, if it's the hand of Malacanang or foreigners, for instance. remember that there are many deaths and questions on the separation or not from the Philippines of territories covered by BBL for approval or not of BBL or parts of it. rebels there are no indication that the Moro Islamic Liberation Front has yielded on its position that it is still a "rebels or a revolutionary group." why? do you see, Bro, that MILF has no indications to surrender its arms with its 10,000 fighters as the primary sign of recognizing the authority of the Philippine government? even if there is a provision in the Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro that the disarmament should have begun a few months ago because the agreement was already signed? and it is with these 10,000 armed men that strength of the BBL depends and the Bangsamoro Transition Authority or the starting Bangsamoro government because the MILF wants that these will form the military and police in their "territory". for us, this is one of the controversial parts of BBL that should be given attention because the future of the places that MILF wants to take and rule depends on it and it is possibly the start of the separation from the territory and government of the Philippines. a different mess because of MILF's view of itself as a revolutionary if it does not get what is wants from BBL, including the control of its armed forces in its viewed territories, it will be in conflict with many especially those who disagree with it. we are sure that possible groups that will fight, tooth for a tooth and eye to eye against MILF will come from this, and if that's the case a big war will erupt. this is one of the things the congressmen and senators must consider. the request for an executive session of the congressmen for a secret voting to hide it from the eyes and ears of the people is indicative that something is not right. this is a sign of the lack of concern for the possible chaos or war for their mistake as long as they get money? you are all sons of grasshoppers! it is final if you will listen to what the congressmen are saying, Bro, after voting on the BBL, they will quickly pass it to the Senate. this is just normal work because they unify the statues of the Senate and the Congress and straighten the mistakes of the Bicameral Conference Committee as it is called or the third Congress as view by others. this means that the voting to approve or not the BBL that the congressmen are saying is just a mock consolation. and we let them take us for a fool getting money by making laws, just like before.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_46684330 the clothes to be worn by the family of president-elect Duterte for the inauguration are already prepared . the barong to be worn by the next president is Mindanao-inspired by the undershirt is still fit to the masculinity of Digong . JP Soriano has a report . <no-speech> the short-sleeved serpentine gown to be worn tomorrow by Honeylet Avancena the common-law wife of president-elect Rodrigo Duterte is simple but elegant . it colored green and will be matched by a bag made of Paua shells and beads with embroidered accent . the youngest daughter of Duterte Kitty will wear a champagne-colored pencil-cut cocktail dress with a back slit tomorrow . Chardin Davao who makes the barong and pants of Duterte before designed the clothes of the mother and daughter . she would always tell me (()) I want it simple even if she would attend a wedding like that . so now the president will have his oath-taking . same -- still the same what she said was only simple . the clothes were fitted last night by the mother and daughter Honeylet and Kitty and they were already placed in their boxes a while ago to bring to Manila today . together with the seven barongs for the president-elect which were designed also by Chardin . the barong is Mindanao-inspired the design is close neck but the inner garment is still coordinated with Digong's masculine form in his style . we provided the shirt inside his inner shirt is v-neck . it is not round neck that if you have to open the first button (()) it cannot be seen . Davao City Mayor Inday Sara will wear a royal blue Filipiniana-inspired gown . she sticks with something very simple ever since . no thrills . it is as if she would live up with the idea like if there's a formal occasion she will dress up for that but not -- not really like the gown speaks like look at me like she is really the center . Baste will wear a simple barong made of Mindanao silk . with embroidery based on Mindanaoan tribe designs . the set to be worn by his girlfriend Kate is made of piña . the child of Kate and Baste will also wear a barong . J_P Soriano G_M_A .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_70497989 <no-speech> the simple swelling of the eye of three year old Jared resulted in fever again . according to the doctors the disease that infected the child is possibly dengue . but when thoroughly examined it turns out that Jared was already hit with a serious kidney disease . <no-speech> former O_F_W Edwin Gabion was already forty-three years old when he had his own family . he might not have been lucky in life as a spouse but he was left with a single treasure that is more important than anything else . <no-speech> three year old son Jared . wish my wife was here so there's two of us guiding our child and not just me for everything . your son arrived something came something was lost too . despite persevering to raise his only son alone he was still challenged by circumstances . Jared was hit by a serious condition . <no-speech> the kid Jared is naturally cheerful . just a smile and he can already wipe out his father's sadness about the breaking up of their family . <no-speech> which is why Edwin immediately noticed the sudden lethargy of his child since eye swelling took over his smiles . I bathed him in the morning . I assumed his eyes simply reddened . maybe got some soap or because it's painful . that afternoon he had a fever already . the next day it was the other eye . I thought it was just sore eyes just the normal one but -- his fever kept on returning . sometimes it hit thirty-eight point four . we immediately brought him to the hospital in Bago Bantay . <no-speech> supposedly he might have dengue . we may need to confine him . the money he saved is not enough to be able to confine Jared in the hospital . even if Edwin is aware of the complications dengue might bring to the body of Jared he couldn't do anything . <no-speech> here Edwin called for help . <no-speech> there was a call to (()) a child supposedly has a fever and then his eyes are swollen or swollen . we will go to him today so that we can diagnose him better . <no-speech> (()) . he is swollen . a disease ? a disease . the child is healthy if you will just look in the eye the child has no problem . but when we held him it's there we started to see his real problems . okay open the eyes . really red (()) how is that . he didn't have dust in the eye . bring out your tongue -- bring out the tongue . big -- big even your tonsil is swollen . <no-speech> he might not be able to speak but the extreme pain that he has been bearing for a week is obvious in Jared's face . <no-speech> they said the fever for around two to three days is a possibility of dengue . but when the eye was checked it is a bit swollen a bit swollen and then reddish let us look there may be infection there . he was not chubby he was swelling . he was swollen . so that is when -- when we really checked if the child has problems in his kidneys . just after a moment the pitiful child burst into tears . <no-speech> <no-speech> that was the time we decided to rush Jared in the closest hospital . <no-speech> Jared acquired a sickness called acute glomerulonephritis in which in this sickness there was swelling in the kidney . salt is being retained in the body . so that is why when they eat salty foods their swelling will worsen . . it is also possible that the previous doctor thought it the child has dengue due to the same symptoms of having blood in the urine . Edwin was advised to carefully monitor the taking of medicines of his son to prevent possible worsening of the child's kidney condition . <no-speech> <no-speech> who as a parent would like to see their child getting hurt especially if he is still a baby . he said Daddy I'm okay now I am no longer sick . seems like he is also encouraging himself that he doesn't want me to worry like I'm okay don't worry Daddy because I am now healed . he even shows his thumbs up like this . ten months have passed and we went back to see Jared . with continuous medical treatment his condition is slowly improving and now preparing for the upcoming school year . I see my child playing playful I am happy with those kind of things and also when he eats every now and then he's a big eater . that is why I no longer gets sad . the father-and-son are thankful to the people who did not let them down in spite of the challenges they went through . I am thankful to rescue five for not neglecting us . so I focus only on my child he is my life .
query1584 tilapia
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_84969685 trusting in yourself. the most important element for success is trusting in yourself, and the important key to this is preparation. if you have a strong confidence in yourself, you could finish whatever you started. and all the people you have relationship with will also have faith and trust in your character and abilities. the most important above all is trusting yourself in every aspect of life but many of us keep on persevering just to find it. sadly, this is very hard to achieve if you have no faith in your abilities. if you do not believe in yourself that you can accomplish something, it will be very hard for you to succeed. because your colleagues will hesitate to help you and avoid working with you. if you believe in yourself, the joy in your work will give inspiration to others to also believe in you; from your colleagues, workmates, leaders, customers, and friends. all of them will trust and have faith if you believe in yourself. the good thing here is that believing in yourself is learned and made strong. it depends on your effort and approach on how to strengthen it. as long as you are doing good and improving yourself, your belief in yourself also grows stronger. the level of this can be shown in many ways; in your opinions, manners and behavior, in your actions, how you speak, promises, beliefs and fulfilling your duty. your integrity also plays a big part and how you take care that your reputation will not be tarnished. examples of believing in yourself. 1 - continue to do what you think is is right even though you are ridiculed because of it. 2 - ready to try and exert extra efforts to excel in your work. 3 - accepts mistakes and applies the correct lessons learned from it. 4 - Does not boast accomplishments or wait for praises for his skills to be known. 5 - happily accepts whatever praise and humbly appreciates it. 6 - easy to approach and ready to help whoever is in need as long there's an opportunity and is able. 7 - dependable and trustworthy, no matter how small or big the task is in all times and when help is needed. if you are not able to do these, you can sure that you have a low belief in yourself and often avoided by your colleagues. if this is your state now, start to change, it's not too late, there's still hope to achieve your dreams. this is if you will start to believe in yourself.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_21373371 Thursday, February 28, 2013 trust in order to be trusted is it necessary to dream? "dream anything you want to dream, go anywhere you want to go, maintain the happiness that you feel, and calmly play whoever you want to become." because you have only one life and one chance to do all the things in all your goals in life. many of us are only scared to follow their important dreams, because according to them they are not deserving, or they have no ability to achieve them. whereas the possibility of having a dream come true, is the one that makes life amazing and beautiful." why will it happen? "because if you have a wish, and definitely need it to be able to achieve all your dreams ... the whole universe will cooperate and connect all the things to your path to help you achieve them." what if our relationship is messy and full of arguments? "no one of us will only waste his life full of conflict and bitterness. others definitely do it, only to threaten and frighten as a form of control. if the relationship ever continues, one of them lets go. whether he wants it or not he cannot do anything. it is in line with, 'it takes two to tango.' there will be no argument between if the involved do not allow it. if you do not have permission, no argument will prevail. and it only continues, because you want and agree to it. objecting and being carried away by the passion of emotions are just part of the drama. all of us have the ability to fix any argument, if only we want to. for others, fighting or arguing has become a joy or delight. do you mean, they do not know they are hurting feelings? "if your love is real, you will not be able to hurt the feelings of your beloved. because you have responsibility to make your beloved happy. your whole world will revolve only around him. we have a duty to ourselves, to our feelings, and the result of our choices. we have no one to rightfully blame for any emotion that prevails in ourselves. because it is the truth and we do not need to apologize to anyone. many do not know; that if you are the one who hurt especially those close to your heart, you are the very first one to be hurt." what is the saying, "understand first, before deciding!" "the simple answer here is don't assume, and discuss it personally." think of the outcome of the decision you will make. often the intention is good and right, only that the technique is wrong and contrary. everything will be seen in its result, if it is correct or wrong. and if you are angry, never ever say words, especially of threats, that eventually will hit you and harm you. always put yourself in the shoes of others. if it hurts you, you will be sure that it will also hurt for him. and stop quickly making decisions without thinking first, to avoid impending misunderstanding. as long as you are alongside fear, lack of peace, and suspicions you will remain always in contact with the grief they bring forth." do you have to be always correct in everything you say? "it is written. everything started with words. careless and violent speech leave behind conflict. rude words destroy a life. it destroys sanity and causes illnesses. calm words at the right moment can be relief from boredom and reinforce your hope. words that plea create trust and faith, but more healing ... and blessed most of all, are words of love." what if you do not have experience or have not learned to say it? "whatever argument or conflict going on, just smile. true love starts at the sight of a smile, followed by caress and kiss, that ends when a tear drops. not a tear of bitterness and mourning, instead that tear filled with joy. remember, when you were born, you were crying and everyone around you was smiling and happy. live with joy because in your passing, you are the one smiling and everyone around you will be the ones crying. in the end, it is not important how many breaths you made, instead how many moments you lost your breath from the happiness that consumed you. and you can only give it if there is love in your heart." what if you are unlucky in love? "misfortune has nothing to do with this, because if there is love in your heart, you will continue to love. if it is not in you, there is nothing you can give. this is the misfortune of many of us. only those with self-love can love others. in case life gives you many reasons to cry, show life that you have a thousand reasons to smile. life goes on and it will not wait for you. how is it done? "simple actions only. work as if you do not need money, love as if you have never been hurt, dance as long as you want as if no one can see you. and live the life that you want. I always know that if I look back at my tears, I will laugh, but I did not know that when I return to my laughter, I will be reduced to tears. still, enjoy life, ... it happens only once. hmm, what if it happens again? if something took place, there will be effect. everything happens only once, and will never happen again. but each thing that happens twice, you can be sure will happen again on a third time. and if charmed and possessed with insanity, it is already a ritual for them. to my knowledge, love sometimes goes stale, is this true? "you are referring to drowning. do not listen to what others are saying and avoid even their provocations. love never goes stale. it will be recognized in the qualities of a person and in his actions. even if you have experienced love once, twice, thrice, or a dozen times ... you will always be faced with a new situation. if you are honest, nothing will happen, but if you are weak, it will prevail. love is not related and has no meaning here. because love will bring us even to paradise and hell. this can be answered well by suitors and those already married. in the first, he will offer his whole world. in the latter, if there is a good spouse, life improves and relationship peacefully grows. but if the spouse is selfish, it is complicated, does not grow and becomes despicable. just remember that the moment we start to fall in love, love will also start to drown us."
query753 light evf weight
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62072304 what were you able to buy -- what is Y_D's uh car ? <no-speech> <no-speech> his car ? <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe here . <no-speech> <no-speech> which is why I already had it notarized . it's probably here already . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I will give you Mister Park . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> the new one ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's under you name . (()) . what's the name of the new one ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it's a type . <no-speech> (()) on . what's the name -- ? <no-speech> <no-speech> just part one . shouldn't (()) be an example right . dad (()) sit park right . yes . <no-speech> (()) it's easier to park . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> those two are taking too long his uh . <no-speech> isn't it three for the Korean . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> school . ah only two are included . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> park million -- park . yes . <no-speech> it's his birthday . -- mine is for parking leisure . ah . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I wasn't even reminded of your companionship . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> um . wasn't even introduced . <no-speech> <no-speech> oh ? <no-speech> um turns out uh will buy uh the new one do you know how much ? yes . <no-speech> four hundred forty . where ? four hundred forty . <no-speech> <no-speech> mother fucker . <no-speech> (()) coughing right ? the idiot is fully crazy stupid -- stupid . <no-speech> <no-speech> maximum profit right ? yes the idiot even made money . but Y_D is smart right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> go one better than him . <no-speech> he's thick-skinned Marly . I was supposed to charge him with -- a large one for the notary . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . you'll see when he has a problem I'll make a jab at him . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you know how much was charged for the notary there ? huh ? <no-speech> only three hundred . only three hundred . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what a joke right . oh ? <no-speech> how much did he give to uh -- to Mister Sungyon ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I know it's just a few right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> around five hundred or none ? it's probably like that right ? (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's okay too . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> it's just like uh he doesn't have -- like he didn't spend much . <no-speech> <no-speech> maybe his biggest expense was the -- the repair of the uh -- didn't it -- it was submerged in the flood ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> right ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> that one . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> how stupid -- really stupid . <no-speech> you know how it is for (()) . the buyer was an idiot too right . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you know how it is for the uh -- the uh -- the ones with no -- no awareness . <no-speech> when it's me -- when it's me he talks to %incomplete he expects you're from K_A_D too . <no-speech> <no-speech> there's a new one . <no-speech> the what ? the new one . <no-speech> his wife is from K_A_D too (()) . his wife ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> really ? but %incomplete really ? <no-speech> but . maybe a teller right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> but in another branch . <no-speech> was cut short by uh (()) near uh . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> Hong Kong probably Singapore ? <no-speech> <no-speech> or London ? he said that .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_30035934 Residents of Puerto Galera, beneficiary of KPSM Instant Service September 28, 2016 CALAPAN, Oriental Mindoro, September 28 (PIA) - Public service was again carried out for the residents of Puerto Galera by the regular "Capitol" for the Residents (KPSM)-Instant Service. Various community services like medical and dental and other important services of the government were given free to the residents of Puerto Galera. in the medical services that was carried out by the Puerto Galera Hospital, 509 residents were given free consultation. Through the mobile dental clinic, 450 had free check-ups and tooth extraction, 165 were fed in the free soup kitchen, 741 were given free medicine, 180 became clients of PhilHealth. From the Education and Employment Services Division (EESD), 19 sets of sports materials were granted through the Provincial School Board while 13 barangay were given sports equipment by the Special Concerns Division (SCD). The Provincial Tourism, Investment and Enterprise Development Office (PTIEDO) conducted a film viewing about the production of seafood snacks and also gave away Guide to Business brochure to 24 people. there were also eight individuals who consulted with the Provincial Legal Office (PLO) about resolving various cases and legal matters. there are 13 barangays given with plant seeds by the Provincial Agriculturist's Office while 600 forest seedlings were distributed by the Environment and Natural Resources Office. Through the Provincial Veterinary Office (ProVet), 53 animals were vaccinated with anti-rabies, included here were the castrated pet cats and dogs. Here the doctors became the support of ProVet from the province in Marinduque. Meanwhile, there are 65 people who participated in the symposium conducted in the place by the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) about the anti-drug campaign of the national government. The KPSM Instant Service of the capitol is centered on the concept of fast and quick delivery of primary community services of various divisions of the Provincial Government and the agencies of the national government to the residents of all towns in the province. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_22197311 guest now is doctor Vic (()) . Doctor that's why I invited you because it's important we discuss and make sure of it of course there's the field of livestock . and you being a veteran you'll be able to infuse many things or additional information for the sake of our caretakers of animals . Doctor for now a lot of problems is faced by our backyard raisers . never mind the multi-nationals yes . that's true Francis through helping our government agencies especially our National Livestock coordinator Assistant Secretary Dave meets especially our backyard raisers Francis on how to liven up their morale . yes . their confidence of taking care to earn . there . and the assurance -- the assurance Doctor because it's already October now November December December December %incomplete yes . we already know the assurance if we have enough -- enough supply of pig chicken cow in the market until the end of the year . yes and let's ask that to Assistant Secretary Dave . okay . let's welcome our good assistant secretary Dave Catbagan with a good and serene morning . a very good morning Assistant Secretary Catbagan . good morning Francis . good morning Doctor Nilo . good morning . you're right about our discussion on livestock this morning . <no-speech> our topic is very timely because it's already -ber months . uh huh . and this is there is a preparation the rise of the demands of the agricultural products especially that of course the pork and chicken . uh huh -- you are right Francis we have been assuring to our public agriculture that the supply is sufficient supply for local supply of (()) agriculture chicken or pork meat or eggs in the coming Christmas in the coming months . we have seen this in the growth of the livestock and poultry appointed by the Philippines (()) authority . and you know in our group in the livestock group just say that many have expanded especially in broiler . and those backyard piggery is coming back . the backyard raisers . %incomplete that that (()) in fact this this first six months from January to June these two sub-sectors in agriculture you know Ka Francis that is actually four . those sub-sector in crops uh huh where the sub corn sugar are there . uh huh . those sub-sectors for fisheries and our sub-sector the livestock and poultry . in fact that two has risen to four to five percent this %incomplete oh it rises . in -- in terms of volume of production all right Ka Francis . wow . this this pork and then this poultry right for the first six months right that is how it rises and we have seen that this will continue to address the needs if there is a spike of the demand next month . uh huh okay but the support is there of course the price is not too naughty . <no-speech> right that we have monitored in fact it softened . the has softened as well the life price of the poultry and then the pork has somehow lowered a bit . but it does not get really low -- they lose or the producers suffer losses . we have many problems when it gets very low to benefit our consumers but our producers do not earn . so it is at the exact price and we also monitor it . there is a group in the agriculture marketing division that monitors the price . in -- in the wet market to correct the price based on (()) of the price of life life hazards and poultry . okay . Assistant Secretary Dave those in the poultry sector are worried because there are news from the suppliers of soya that U_S soya are depleted . so this is one of you are not happy when there are no more U_S soya . the supply here to the Philippines lessened but our we increased the importation of other sources of protein . so we should not be worried about the -- loss of U_S soya that is now the news in the industry ? that's the news going around but when monitor the price in the previous years Doctor Nilo their production cost is not going to be really affected . yes what's important is the continuous supply . unfortunately for soya we are dependent outside . yes . <no-speech> our producers have a mechanism when -- they reduce -- they reduce the proportion of soya in feeding . it maybe -- that the depreciation on other substitute isn't as low . just to somewhat lessen -- to lower a bit -- but I assure that we check that the market might stabilize in the future . there Assistant Secretary Dave the achievement regarding the livestock is very nice because here in Tarlac it seems that it is -- pushing through and a triple A dressing plant for our poultry raisers are being built . <no-speech> yes that is correct . our triple A that is being built in Tarlac from (()) actually is one of the first service facilities that our Department of Agriculture built and should be utilized by our small -- small livestock producers -- small poultry producers where they cannot have this . of course we have many triple A dressing plants here but they are privately owned . it's what we need now right . because we cannot -- although we already export chicken even Halal chicken as far as Abu Dhabi . of course Japan Japan has long been established poultry export two thousand five . that hopefully in the future this export of poultry products can also be felt by the United Raisers Broiler Association . not only the big ones actually Doc Nilo the reason why it was established is that it is for them yes yes and full time once it is finished it should be done within the before November we will inaugurate it . there are just a few -- finishing touches in the facilities . that's complete it has cold storage yes yes and hopefully with the established -- export markets in different countries small poultry producers can join too . hopefully Assistant Secretary Dave our small cooperatives that raise chicken hopefully will not have limits ? in dressing here in our triple A for the market's opening to other countries . you are right Nilo . it's for them actually which is why the (()) we already met with the art group so -- they will organize . and let us include all those who wanted to be qualified to -- they will utilize yes they will maximize the use of the that triple a dressing plant in Pampan . yes and because it is our perennial problem Francis yes all of our -- for the knowledge of our listeners . because every December Francis the volume of meat explodes . yes and sometimes when there is too much demand -- too much supply the demand is similar . what happens Francis is they incur a loss our poor -- broiler raisers . so this is perfect this -- previous project of our Department of Agriculture about poultry livestock . and this is one of the -- I think this will really ease the problems of volume in December . that is correct . that is right Francis doc -- Doc Nilo . okay now that is for chicken ? how are the what we consider advancements still Assistant Secretary Catbagan of our triple A abattoirs and this is really needed today because we are facing serious competition in the field of preparation slaughter until transport of our agricultural commodities . how is our abattoir ? that is correct Francis . when we began the one in Tarlac which is now close to completion we also had a a project . it will already be started because it's already been bid yes in Tanauan Rosas that -- that was discussed to be placed there in Tanauan to be posted by the mayor of Tanauan . yes . it will be started already . it is called triple A slaughterhouse for pigs . beautiful . <no-speech> eye -- to respond to the needs of backyard agriculture users especially there in Southern Tagalog where the concentration of raising pigs is small that yes (()) owners or backyard are there . yes . wow ah this is continuing Francis already continuing . I think Assistant Secretary Dave will set next the (()) the cow livestock Francis because in the towns here in the northern parts right yes . higher parts of our -- our lands many raise cows Francis . <no-speech> that is correct Doc Nilo right ? we do not -- abandon the those backyard fattening cattle fattening in fact ongoing is our distribution of -- proper genetics to our farmers . we have a program %incomplete
query573 your neighbor
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_57372475 Tokbang, election is searched for the Catholic Bishops's Conference of the Philippines has declared their position about the ongoing war on drugs. the Bishops said that they will not keep silent on the ongoing killings in relation to drugs and encourages the citizens to speak against it. they released a pastoral letter which was read to all Catholic churches last Saturday and Sunday. although there were some who agreed to it, many also wants the war to happen and continue, especially since there are still a lot of those who are not punished for spreading drugs that ruin people, family and community. continued talking in their letter to believers of the faith, the Bishops said that they will not stop criticizing the government regarding the thousands killed because of the said war. they also encourages the citizens to speak against the said killings and to not keep silent and look like "accomplice" or as part of the killings. more than 6,000 are killed due to the war but only more than 2,000 were admitted to be victims of legal encounters. in an explanation, others were results of killing between drug lords, pushers, and addicts, and also involved in drugs are dishonorable police and other authorities, with them are those who kidnap and ransom people like the ones related to the case of Korean national Jee Ick Joo. contrary to the bishops upon exiting the church after the mass, a different statement is coming from many citizens compared to those said by the Bishops. many of them wants the return of Tokbang or killing and not just Tokhang or just encouraging for change in ways of those in the drug list. there are still more to be punished with Tokbang and Tokbang is not enough because it does not have any effect anyway. they wanted to Tokbang those they know as notorious pushers and drug lords in each of their towns or barangay. if they do pity anyone, these are those addicts whose lives were ruined because they end up staring into space or mentally damaged and incapable of getting a job and live in a normal state. action versus corruption. if they supposedly see something important. which is - exact action against corrupt police. those fed-up with the corrupt narrate, whenever they arrest those involved in drugs, a lot of those are later released. apparently, they mooch off of those they arrest forever. including the innocent ones that got involved in arrests, got mooched off too. those who have enemies in the police are terribly scared because a lot of them are set up with drugs or are registered as involved in drugs despite being innocent. it is now the responsibility of PNP chief General Roland "Bato" dela Rosa and President Rodrigo Duterte what they would do to police who kidnap for ransom con Tokhang. they want those people get sampled with Tokbang. election again in the stories of parishioners, did you know that they wanted to have an election again even if it has not been a year since the election took place? even in the level of mayor and captain. only now did they see that the government is capable of doing something against drugs. those who are useless, negligent, and scared of drug lords, pushers and addicted captains and mayors became obvious in the middle of the war. tarpaulin nailed to trees or hung on electrical wires is the extent of the war against drugs by captains and mayors. they are scared to lose votes from clans controlling drugs and there are also those who won by getting funded by drug lords who are members of the family and other relatives or friends. already peaceful. many barangays and even churches have become peaceful as a result of the war against drugs, said churchgoers, even if the problem has not been fully solved yet. in the past, parents were terribly scared that their children would reach night time on the streets because of numerous rapists who murder and seize cellphones and hold up cars who also murder. it has also stopped house-climbers, numerous teenagers who get into fights day and night, teenagers who get involved in group sex and disrupt and steal from their family, all because of drugs. which is why they presently like the "no talk" opposing the war against drugs and approves the quick action against those involved in drugs, even if they get called as "accomplice" in the killings.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_46369336 Pacquiao has won! posted by: hataw tabloid on April 24, 2015 in sports eight days before Manny Pacquiao climbs the ring in May 3 against Floyd Mayweather but the People's Champ has already knocked out his opponent in one of important aspects of this mega-fight: in commercial endorsements. in spite of Mayweather being an American, Pacquiao is the boxing superstar that gains continuous endorsements, left and right, in United States. in the past six months, Pacman managed to sign contracts with some big companies, including nike and nestle, that gave him US$5 million, based in the report by Kurt Badenhausen of Forbes magazine. based also on the said report, Mayweather hasn't profited yet in any endorsement. American snack brands like Butterfinger and Wonder Pistachio allegedly plans to execute a broad advertising campaign with the People's Champ. related to this, Nike is soon to launch the new line in the Pacquiao apparel. "this will be exclusively available in foot locker, nike. com and nike stores in the West Coast, where the biggest fan base of Pacquiao in the US could be found. the royalties in clothing and sponsor deals in the Philippines will inflate the 12-month endorsement income of Pacquiao to almost US$5 million," Badenhausen said. "many companies are doubting boxing, but they really love Manny Pacquiao," Lucia McKelvey of top rank said, the point person for merchandising Pacquiao in the US. meanwhile, Mayweather's camp is not worried about the growing marketing money of "Pambansang Kamao". "this is like a 'badge of courage' for Mayweather that he has no endorsements. because of this he does not need to abstain to any company, and Mayweather said, he would like to get a piece of the action than any other deal that he is involved," Banhausen added. the American champion also carries baggage from multiple domestic violence charges, and even the three-month imprisonment last 2012 in plea deal of the batter case and harassment that was charged against him. "he is the highest-paid athlete in the whole world between June 2013 and June 2014 with his earnings of US$105 million, but not a cent from endorsements," Badenhausen ended.
query4373 poorest families
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51828773 soldier - my experience when my siblings and I were still young, my father who is a soldier brought us to live with him in a camp in Mindanao. because it was a pity to see father alone in camp. and it really is different if the family is complete. there are also many soldiers who bring their family to camp so maybe mother went along with the flow and decided that way. we grew up together with the soldiers. wherever they are stationed, we the family also go along. we have lived in South Cotabato, Davao del Sur, North Cotabato, and Maguindanao. so it is not new to us if we have many schools and even us siblings do not have the same alma mater. all of us kids at camp, idolize the job of our fathers. why? because they do what they can to divert the people who want to cause trouble and so that civilians do not get hurt. from the rebels, the soldiers had an encounter with the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) in the province of Maguindanao and some towns of North Cotabato. there were even times when we children were the ones who brought the ammunition of the cannon from its storage to give to the gunner, who will pull the rope to make it explode. that is because our fathers were absent and the soldiers left at camp were few. when the MNLF became integrated and the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) came to be, it was somewhat peaceful already. but, it lasted only a few months because a conflict arrived wherein the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) became the opponent of the joint force of the AFP and Integrated MNLF. year 2000, the peak of the fighting in Mindanao, we passed by a school near Buldon. we were just coming from a school press contest held in Visayas and this was the only way (Marawi to Cotabato route) near the way home to Parang, Maguindanao. even if it was an ordinary school you could feel the tension. because it was also one of the places that was always bombed by the military. one student carrying a gun caught my attention. and as if he was angry at me upon learning that I am the child of a soldier. his classmates were the ones who stopped and calmed him down. I heard from them that "he is not included, he is innocent". he was just a student like me but there was something he was already fighting for. all-out-war! the fighting is intense. the route I sometimes passed through is no longer safe. I was studying in college when my father was wounded in an encounter. and in my semester break from class the shaking from the firing of a cannon welcomed my vacation. many died. some of them, were close friends of dad. sometimes I cannot explain the war in Maguindanao. because there are times when the rebels are already near camp but no fighting that takes place. as they say "if there is no instruction, there is no war". I also cannot understand why there is a need to fight when it is possible to live peacefully and without conflict. the terrorist and the Bangsamoro Basic Law. I have encountered many Muslims. they are truly deserving of change and peace. the BBL will likely be the key to it. still, because the bandit group is supporting it, for me, it is unlikely to happen. how can the flag of peace be erected if even now they are committing so much violence? hopefully the civilians killed in Lanao del Norte back then and the round-the-clock bomb explosives that target civilians today will not be forgotten. what if their military power becomes legitimate? what of the government militaries? which is why there is only one rooster in our pet chickens, because they fight if there are two of them. if the MILF was made from the MNLF, and because of the MILF there is the BIFF, has the government not learned from the further increasing problem? it just gives birth. the MILF is stronger than the MNLF, the BIFF is slyer than the MILF, what are their next branches capable of? these groups have the capacity to take in terrorists and cause trouble in different parts of Mindanao. I agree with the Bangsamoro Basic Law but I do not agree on reconciliation with a group whose style of government and perspective we already know. this law should be for the Muslims peacefully living in Mindanao and not for the benefit of one group. consider that not all Muslims in Mindanao are members of the MILF. hopefully the government has a long-term solution for this. not just a temporary one. one that is polished and not just a patch. because even if it is said that war in this place is only normal, our ears also become tired of shots and cries. mourning for the 44 heroes of the PNP-SAF. I grieve for the police killed in the encounter that happened in Mamasapano. thanks a lot and I salute you! you are true heroes in the eyes of the whole nation. I also desire for justice on your passing. for us who have family and relatives in the military force, we know the feeling of losing a loved one because of a military operation. still, it is something we can prepare for because of their sworn duty and maintenance of peace. not only in the troubled towns of Maguindanao but in the whole of Mindanao and the country.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95130301 Occ Min, declared "Conflict" Manageable and Ready for Development' by AFP November 04, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina San Jose, Occidental Mindoro, November 4 (PIA) - Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) officially declared the province as "Conflict" Manageable and Ready for Development' recently at the Provincial Training Center, Mamburao. in the message delivered by AFP Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Ricardo Visaya to Southern Luzon Command Lieutenant General Ferdinand Quidilla, it is known to the chief of Armed Forces, the huge potential of the province for growth. according to him, if there is security within the community the attention of the citizens is on the development of their businesses, which hugely affects the growth of the nation. "only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity (only through peace can we realize progress and prosperity), added the general. A message was also delivered by Philippine National Police (PNP) Regional Director PC Supt Wilben Mayor to Provincial Director PS Supt Reynaldo Jagmis and said the declaration (Conflict Manageable and Ready for Development) is one invitation of the province to investors. according to the director, the Philippine Army will be helping the police force in implementing the law especially in the fight against drugs. mayor also reminded that although there are talks of peace between the leftist group and government, everybody must remain prepared. 'let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic and foreign (let us remain vigilant and ready to defend against terrorist threat and aggression whether domestic and foreign)," said the PNP Regional Director. meanwhile, Governor Mario Gene Mendiola thanked AFP and PNP in their continued efforts in keeping peace and quiet in the province. the governor said that the cause of struggles is poverty which is why they keep looking for solutions in his administration. he stated that included in his many projects is the continued enrichment by the provincial government in creating irrigation and farm-to-market roads, providing modern machinery to cooperatives, financial assistance to farmers and fishermen, and improving the health condition of the province. "let us strengthen the agriculture and tourism in the province," according to Mendiola. the said activity were attended by local government units, Local Chief Executives from eleven cities of the province, PNP, AFP, and other agencies of the government. (VND/PIA MIMAROPA/Occ Min)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_28725247 sidekick of Lopez has a racket. it was suspicious when DENR Secretary Gina Lopez ordered the closure of several small mining companies, while she allowed the operations of big companies with a lot of environmental violations to continue. it was contrary to what Lopez promised when she was appointed by President Duterte as secretary. she promised to close down mines that have been abusing our natural resources for a long time. so there are some who ask: is the DENR secretary crazy or does she have another reason for immediately going back on her promise? I decided to investigate and I found out from DENR insiders that one "silent partner" of operators of erring mining firms is a ranking official and adviser of Lopez. no wonder now! and here are some companies that were identified to have not passed the DENR audit and inspection, but are being allowed to continue abusing the environment: Libjo Mining Corporation; AAMPHIL Natural Resources and Development Corporation; Krominco, Incorporated; Carrascal Nickel Corporation; Marcventures Mining and Develeopment Corporation; Filmenera Resources Corporation; Strong-built Mining Develeopment Corporation; Sinosteel Philippines Mining Corporation; Oriental Synergy Mining Corporation; Wellex Mining Corporation; Oriental Vision Mining Philippines Corporation; CTP Construction and Mining Corporation; Agata Mining Ventures, Incorporated; Hinatuan Mining Corporation; Benguet Corporation; Lepanto Consolidate Mining Company; Oceana-Gold Philippines Incorporated; Adnama Mining Resources Incorporated; SR Metals, Incorporated. this was seemed to be noticed by the Commission on Appointments, which was why her appointment through the faulty selection of Brother Digong cannot be approved. Brother Digong should think twice before extending Lopez as DENR chief. she doesn't care, anyway, if she is confirmed or not as long as the president keeps extending her term as DENR secretary. what kind of thinking does Lopez have? Tsk, tsk... Deadshot/ Erwin Tulfo.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64866660 PNP Romblon, the application of those who want to become a police is still accepted February 28, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo Romblon, Romblon February 28 (PIA) - the PNP-Romblon continues to receive the applications for those who are desiring to become police. the leadership of Romblon Police Provincial Office (RPPO) are recruiting members who are going to enter into service as Police Officer. the qualified applicants who are desiring to become police are needed to submit the following requisites. the applicant needs to pass in the psychiatric and psychological, drug and physical test in any of the PNP-Napolcom accredited hospital, college graduate, no bad record or cases in the police, military and other branches of the government. the applicant must be in age of 20-30 years old. just personally visit the Admin Division of the Police Provincial Office which can be found in Barangay Capaclan, Romblon, Romblon and look for PO2 Mark Karry Madeja. an examination will be held along with this for those who want their ranks to be raised as servants of the law. also bring an amount of P400 as fee for those who are going to take the PNP Entrance and Police Officer Exams, P450 for Senior Police Officer Exam, P500 for Police Inspector Exam and P600 for Police Superintendent Exam. the examination will be held at Odiongan National High School on April 24, 2016. (DM/PIA-IVB/Romblon)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_62816968 Saturday, August 2, 2014 poet Pablo Neruda, died in cancer or murdered? poet Pablo Neruda, died in cancer or murdered? by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr. exactly forty years when the poet Pablo Neruda (July 12, 1904 - September 23, 1973) rested in peace in his graveyard, but a big controversy about his death has shaken the world. Pablo Neruda had been said not to have died but he was poisoned. Pablo Neruda is a famous poet, not only in his country, but also in the various parts of the world. in fact, I have known him better when his book "Pablo Neruda, Selected Poems" is published last 2004 in our country. this is a project of Filipino poets in translating the poems of Neruda to our language. among them are national artist Virgilio S. Almario and UP Prof. Romulo P. Baquiran Jr. the editors of the said book. Pablo Neruda, the pen name of the Chilean poet Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto. said to have based this pen name from the Czech poet Jan Neruda. he is a member of the Communist Party of Chile. Pablo Neruda was awarded a Lenin Peace Prize last 1953 and achieved a Nobel Prize for Literature last 1971. so the news that Neruda was murdered and had not died in cancer was shocking, especially those who idolize him as a world poet. he is hailed as "the greatest poet of the 20th century in any language" of the late Colombian novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez. according to Manuel Araya, driver of Neruda before, Neruda was murdered. the poet was said to have been injected with poison while he was lying on the clinic. according to the report, a mysterious Mr. Price had injected, which in some investigations identified him as an agent of the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency). Neruda died twelve days after the successful coup d'état of General Augusto Pinochet, and ousted the socialist president Salvador Allende. the poet Neruda is one of those who are severely criticizing against the coup d'état and Pinochet. not more than two weeks, the poet died. he was said to have been planning to leave the country the next day. because of this revelation by Araya, the Communist Party of Chile is taking interest so it is calling for an autopsy again on the corpse in order to know the truth. there is said to have been a third party involved, according to Atty. Eduardo Contreras, lawyer of the Communist Party of Chile. that is why Judge Mario Carroza mandated for the examination of the corpse last February 2013. nevertheless, the leader of the Pablo Neruda Foundation, who is Juan Agustin Figueroa, does not want to exhume the corpse for examination, because this is a spit on the memory of the poet. the Pablo Neruda Foundation is founded by the widow of Pablo Neruda in order to support and retain the legacy of the poet to the next generation. the poet has been buried for forty years, and at the length of that time, surely, the corpse has already disintegrated. Dr. Luis Ravanal, an investigator from the Ombudsman of Chile, has doubts. according to him, "time is a heavy aspect, because this is an aspect which may erase the evidence. the flesh is going to rot, and if there is a poison used in the murder, it is possible that there has been no traces." last 8th of November 2013, after seven months of investigation of the 15 members composing the forensic team, they released the result. according to Patricio Bustos, head of the medical legal service of Chile, no trace of chemical or poison that can be related to the death of Neruda. Neruda is a great poet known in the world, even here in the country. because of this, I have translated in Filipino his two poems - the Clenched Soul, a love poem, and the poem Chant to Bolivar, which he dedicated to Simon Bolivar (1783-1830), one of the great leaders of the revolution against the imperialism of Spain, and serves as an inspiration of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and other countries in Latin America for Bolivian revolution. I also wrote a sonnet about his death. Clenched Soul, poem by Pablo Neruda, translated by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr. we have lost even in twilight. no one saw us this evening hand in hand while the blue night dropped on the world. I gaze through my window the arrival of darkness in the nearby mountains. sometimes a piece of sun burned like a coin in my hand. I remembered you with my soul clenched in that sadness of mine that you know. where were you during those times then? who else was there? saying what? why will the whole of love come on me suddenly when I am sad and feel you are far away? the book fell that always closed at twilight and my blue sweater rolled like a hurt dog at my feet. always, always you recede through the evenings toward the twilight erasing statues. Chant to Bolivar poem by Pablo Neruda translated by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr. our Father thou art in Heaven, in water, in air, in all our silent and broad latitude everything bears your name, Father in our dwelling: your name raises sweetness in sugarcane Bolivar tin has a Bolivar gleam the Bolivar bird flies over the Bolivar volcano the potato, the saltpeter, the special shadows, the brooks, the phosphorous stone veins everything comes from your extinguished life your legacy was rivers, plains, bell towers your legacy is our daily bread, oh Father. In Your Death, Brother Pablo Neruda poem by Gregorio V. Bituin Jr. 15 syllables for each verse few days after the coup d'état of Pinochet when you passed away in the time of cruelty did you really die in your cancer illness? or murdered in the hands of your enemy whose anger was great? forty years from this world you have left when your driver revealed the murder that happened how great is legacy in the world the reason why the murder is unforgivable shocking, this is really a big controversy until your body is exhumed, autopsied, said the government, you were not murdered, Neruda, your remains did not have traces of poison, according to them long live and your legacy to the world your poems will be read continuously, heard
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_17206838 <no-speech> in the island of San Salvador in Zambales . <no-speech> <no-speech> fourteen year old Alfie woke up groggy . <no-speech> preparing for a day of diving for marine resources that is the source of their livelihood . <no-speech> mother Elenita was busy on the other hand on the packed food they'll bring in the sail . <no-speech> she narrates that Alfie is the youngest of ten siblings however only four of their children is living in the island . <no-speech> good morning . good morning . oh my that looks delicious . <no-speech> what time will we dive . in a while around nine . nine . just after Alfie who stands as the man of the household while his father is in Aparri sailing . <no-speech> their means for additional income in the house is catching aquarium fish which is brought to Manila . it's also my desire to to dive . <no-speech> they didn't stop me . pity because he gets old sometimes . sometimes he gets sick and now he can't carry -- heavy things unlike before . <no-speech> he's having a hard time . I pity him . that's why -- that's why I help him with the chores if -- heavy I help with the task . <no-speech> . he borrowed one hundred pesos for gas for us to be able to sail . <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> so how long will that be ? we use one liter in two days or about two days . <no-speech> that is frugal too ? yes . it is very good value for money . <no-speech> <no-speech> . <no-speech> fishing is prohibited at the front shore in San Salvador even from nineteen eighty-nine this was made in to a marine sanctuary . <no-speech> we even need to cross the other island to catch fish . <no-speech> <no-speech> Alfie prepared to cross the water . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> one old mask and flippers made of wood are the only things of Alfie to do diving . <no-speech> holding breath under the sea is his style to catch aquarium fishes . <no-speech> using one small net Alfie chases the fishes to catch it . <no-speech> <no-speech> it is called to us (()) as only . even all of children here also do that . no one gets sick . for that also helps us -- strengthens the -- . strengthens resistance brother (()) we . <no-speech> in a short while I almost cannot view Alfie in how far he swam from our boat . <no-speech> <no-speech> the middle of the sea is rough and stony . <no-speech> Alfie dived more than ten feet . <no-speech> here he can freely dive and catch aquarium fishes . <no-speech> seems Alfie does not run out of breath when he dives . <no-speech> you should not have -- you have not breathe much because the bubbles are like -- they are afraid of the bubbles . so you really you hold your breath . <no-speech> <no-speech> aside from the small net he is holding he has another net laid on the sand under the sea which serves as a bait for the fishes . there are fishes there in the depths because of more space there . you move around compared when you are on surface when you do that it is there . <no-speech> <no-speech> Alfie is also looking for a Harlequin shrimp . he can sell this for twenty pesos for each piece . <no-speech> <no-speech> like playing simply . like he is very familiar on on the territory . just playing catching fish but if if you will look at that he is in the middle of the sea . the waves are strong . you do not know what you can hold . you do not know what is dangerous or poisonous . so if you really think about it what he is doing is really dangerous . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> Alfie moves very fast in -- in underwater . <no-speech> he is chasing those fishes . he has -- caught a lot . me I have tried but really difficult . the high low I cannot control I do not know when I would rise when I would lower down then you would still need to catch the fish . it is difficult . <no-speech> brought by the strong waves I have deemed it necessary to rise . <no-speech> I have risen now because it is too tiring and I feel like dizzying . I do not know if my baggage earlier is too heavy or the way -- way I breathe but Alfie there until now still fishing . seems so tireless . have made it a playground . <no-speech> <no-speech> Alfie dived the whole afternoon with his mother Elenita . <no-speech> uh I already know his the what well his ability in diving . he is used to it . because I will not allow him to dive like that if I know he won't be able to bear it . <no-speech> if Alfie is catching aquarium fishes in the middle of sea mother Elenita is only diving in around six feet . she puts starfishes sea urchins and other small fishes in her pail . <no-speech> the starfish they are able to sell for ten pesos and above . while the sea urchin they can make it their dish . <no-speech> these mother and son are doing this even if some parts of the ocean of San Salvador is a marine sanctuary . <no-speech> the local government has also prohibited the fishing and catching of aquarium fishes before . <no-speech> later on they have just permitted because those who live in the island of San Salvador has no other means of livelihood . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_75823436 they are the kings of the sea in La Union . the altitude of waves reaches up to fifteen feet . especially every August until January . and now Junvi and I will prove that we can be surfer dudes . <no-speech> Junvi let's go to the beach Junvi . what can you say overreaction . Aljay -- La Union -- finally we've arrived after five hours from Manila . La Union -- La Union . the surfing Mecca of the north . everything is ready the surf boards are already there . but where are the waves ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what -- what wave do you have here ? seems like our trip to come here was a waste . what was our trip for if there are no waves I don't know . that's why how what will we do here . what a bummer . <no-speech> hey boys . hey girl . hey hi girl . (()) . beautiful . your surfboard is very thin what -- what will we do with that ? you know since there are no waves now don't worry . yes why ? if why -- why ? there's always an option of course as a surfer and there are no waves it's slightly depressing right ? I'm sad . this thing called paddle board . paddle board so here because -- (()) -- we'll board there . is that what we'll ride ? are you good at balancing ? how do you reach that ? (()) . it's not everyday that the waves are good so today incidentally it's flat but I give them alternative assignment right instead of surfing we paddle boarded . our surfing guru the celebrity guest tonight is the surfer chick slash survivor castaway Mara Yokohama . <no-speech> Mara why are you good at surfboarding ? how long have you been surfboarding ? surfboarding ? yes I'm good at surfing because my dad built a surfing school here in La Union . wow is that you ? Yokohama -- Yokohama yes you know three weeks ago I bought that . really ? yes four . you should have called me . tires . you should have called me so I could have treated you . such a shame . are you ready now ? yes sure game of course before you are taught paddle boarding I will give you the basics in surfing too in case there are waves later like that . there there is already a wave Junvi . ah there is already one as far from there (()) our wave there there's a wave already . so are we allowed there already ? that is possible ? that's already possible just like that ? if it's close but you can stand too ? ah sure sure sure . sure sure . so Mara -- yes (()) ready ? ready . it's survivor already . let's go . let's go . let's go . <no-speech> <no-speech> so this is what you call a paddle board . paddle board . it's bigger than a normal surfboard because you need to balance more easily . the bigger the board the easier it is to balance . ah the bigger the board huh alright . so are you game ? harder we fall -- the bigger the board the harder you fall yes I'll give you the basics already . <no-speech> we were taught how to paddle or paddle the board using the hand . you are standing just balance here by the center . yes sorry sorry how is the paddling -- you cannot use your hands right ? okay okay . so here is your hand it's the one you'll use to paddle . ah like an extension of the hand . like that so like you are already kayaking just like yes right exactly standing so two sides should be should be while paddling ? it's possible too possible too just one side just one side . Mara also taught us a standing technique . when you know how already we will race . ah races -- ah race you know that's just like a bicycle right ? it's the same principle of the bicycle you should just get your balance there as soon as you learn it and as long as you practice it you will get it too . if considered what is called the paddle board is just simple . you just need to stand and paddle on top of this big board . <no-speech> this sport started as an alternative to surfing . <no-speech> there are no waves but that does not mean we are not allowed to enjoy . <no-speech> <no-speech> looks like we bit more than we can chew here Jun . just standing on the board is hard . at first I taught them in the sand they were able to do it properly . when it came to the sea they had some difficulty probably because of balance .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_60933988 more than the challenge and our last chat with Mistress Ordoñez they will also set up a laboratory . yes . also to start on other good plans for our coconut farming . like this they are already planning to establish a coconut laboratory . the %incomplete wherein we can based -- breed coconut the coconut is rare in the market now deputy no longer us very expensive when you see it . oh yes it's good that we'll further develop coconut farming . because there is a demand in the confectionery industry in ice cream in cakes and can also be used in industrial application . yes . candy wrapper milk wrapper the uh can be used for this purpose depending on coconut . so what -- regions in the country which region has -- a somewhat lively coconut production ? it's lively here in Bicolandia . the only problem here in Bicol despite (()) the coconut they can produce there is we have a quarantine there . we cannot bring out the crops outside of that area . so our cultivation is in Masbate . here in mainland Bicol area . yes . there are also many coconut we breed in Zamboanga Research Center and in Davao we have some there . so we had a facility here in Pangasinan before but it somewhat closed down its productivity was somewhat low . we want to revive it again . we have a project where we will revive our laboratories again . here in Pangasinan in order to cater while waiting here in in Pampanga we can start it and help in developing the coconut industry here in Northern Luzon . maybe I will use this opportunity . Deputy Administrator Roel yes we are inviting you to become our resource person in our Agri Techno Demo Forum on Saturday . and you can give appropriate comparison and emphasis on the importance of coconut versus palm oil . and yes those we are developing tissue culture of coconut that as they say in the soonest possible time can appear in the market already deputy . oh yes that is a good opportunity so I can express better the technical stuff about palm oil against coconut oil . and then these new technologies on created by the Philippine Coconut Authority about increasing crops . and other -- we can use in our coconut farms . included here are the livelihood enterprises . those we can enter . yes that is one of the important ones . and then bring us some reading materials deputy . oh I will bring those I'll do it . ah it's good you reminded me . yes . I'll bring some reading materials . that is very important so that for those really engaged in coconut farming we can give them additional awareness deputy . yes not just our coconut farmers here in the Philippines we are also inviting our O_F_W that it's not so big the necessary capital for us to go back to farming and coconut farming . just a little investment from their earnings . in order to help our local agricultural industry together with the coconut industry . they can allot their investments . put it in again . it's a big thing if we can harness our O_F_W the O_F_W if they can again look back to their origins majority of them come from farms let us bring back our love for farming . included here is the coconut industry . let us invest (()) here in our country . we have a text here Deputy Administrator Roel . good A_M . I'm just asking Deputy Administrator Rosales if aromatic coconut is available . thanks . Mon of Luna La Union . right now sir there is none . because that aromatic one is really in demand . it still came from Mindanao either in Zamboanga or in Davao . but we'll push to have some delivered in Luzon . just give me the name . I'll forward it to you . I'll forward it after the program . because we have one here but limited -- just limited edition . our planting material on aromatic is very scarce . there . okay mister and deputy how is the reproduction of coconut in MIMAROPA ? and what breed of coconut are you using ? what product of coconut is big in the region ? good A_M . Lyndon of P_I_A . in MIMAROPA that's widely spread . majority is still local variety . aah okay . so these are local . yes . also because they want . but we're adding dwarfs particularly here in western coast because dwarf gets easily affected by storms . so here in Western coast we're planting dwarf . but again it's not that much yet . we're breeding it for the next generation to just get their dwarf coconut requirements here in MIMAROPA . so we're also planting dwarf but more than that is this local variety because it's more resilient . the planting materials is more available . majority here they only sell whole nuts in MIMAROPA area . we also have different projects for the development of our coconut industry . we have virgin coconut oil . I know we have that there in Mindoro . yes . and there's also an investor in Mindoro in in coco (()) yes . for our environmental requirement . okay . we have a text here . my brother or Chucky what is the particular substance in salt that is good for the coconut trees ? does using human urine have the same effect as salt ? Wilson Ng . chlorine is good for coconut . because it helps in the propagation of coconut fruits . we're saying twenty-five percent is with that -- increases our fruits by twenty five percent application of of salt to coconut . two kilograms per tree per year . so there . with that also the coconut is aided to be able to replace the effect of dry season of drought as well as increase the resistance to pests and disease according to the research of our experts . but urine is not possible ? I still do not and because that is ammonia . I don't we still don't have scientific basis . okay . good A_M Francis and to your guest here in Binakayan Cawit Cavite many coconut trees were infested . what is your program for replanting and who should we contact to replace our infested trees and join the replanting program . thanks . Rose of Binakayan . this is the coconut scale infestation in affected areas . <no-speech> by the mercy of God we are already past the most difficult stage . wherein we were able to lower the level of (()) infestation in the Southern Tagalog area . and we are now starting our livelihood projects rehabilitation project . very soon we will distribute fertilizers in order to rehabilitate our affected areas . and very soon sir this El Niño that we are -- observing once the condition for planting is already a bit suitable we will continue the coconut planting program . mm . but even before that we already have livelihood projects . rehabilitation project to be implemented in different areas with C_S_I like intercropping we have crops to distribute . we have a provincial office here in in -- in Cavite . I will give the number of our (()) coconut development manager Jimmy . Jimmy so that we can talk to him . for the rehabilitation efforts here in the Cavite area . no matter deputy -- I will forward all these texts to you . yes yes after the program . good A_M Francis and director . how can salt be used on coconuts that are still small or ready for transplanting ? Sonny Estrella of Taytay Rizal . because the -- the ideal is we are using the salt here in trees already bearing fruit . ah okay . because the -- our frequency is in the soonest possible time our coconuts can bear fruit well . that is our investment on the coconut industry . we apply the salt on fruit bearing trees . two kilograms each tree . we will dig around . around one meter away from the base of the coconut and there we will put again the salt around the tree . one meter away from the tree and cover it . let us pierce let us uh also uh a circular -- that we can put the the salt and let us cover it . and that's it . it will be absorbed by the soil . okay . hi deputy director Roel hopefully you make K_D_F your partner in developing the tissue culture of coconut . which Picart is doing for P_C_A . thanks . Sylvia Ordoñez of Kapampangan Development Foundation . hi good morning Sylvia . yes . once our coconut project with Picart ends similar to what we did with coconut we'll do a commercial . there . we're just settling the protocols on how to do this . but once we do it we finish it certainly we would welcome investors we would welcome the private sector and our interested groups to enrich and breed more coconut here in the Philippines because it's a high value commodity . the price of this is different compared to the ordinary coconut . okay we just want to add before we go separate ways . thank you mister and deputy . if O_F_Ws invest how much is the lowest and how much is the income ? Lyndon of MIMAROPA . and how fast is the income ? what we're saying is we can start small by having a business in coconut farming . we can plant annual crops corn field under coconut . cocoa coffee . cocoa coffee for medium term we can do that . for corn including the nursing of coconut it will reach just around thirty thousand . we'll also earn about thirty thousand in -- with two cropping . we can plant vegetables bitter gourd eggplant or also similar if for long term possibly cocoa water yam we'll earn more there . however we'll wait for a couple of years . to raise our harvest . okay . we can plant banana or even pineapple or even take care of an animal under coconut . yes . aside from that we can do a coconut sugar venture . coconut wine that's the . on Saturday if I can or yes talk about the (()) mm . we're short on time alright to our fellow farmers . deputy administrator Roel Rosales is our visitor in our Agri Techno Demo Forum this coming Saturday . thank you very much deputy . thank you very much . I'm thanking you because in many ways we're reaching various places about paging .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_19568372 Jason Abalos proudly worked with Nora by Ruel Mendoza December 21, 2016 Jason Abalos Kapamilya actor Jason Abalos did not expect that his wish to work with superstar Nora Aunor will come true. it became a reality when he was cast as one of the children of Ate Guy in the 2016 Metro Manila Film Festival official entry Kabisera. incidentally, it is also the first time that Jason has a movie in the MMFF. "I have been in showbiz for eleven years and I have never had a film in the MMFF." so it is fun to think that my first movie with Ate Guy is also my first movie in the MMFF. "before I merely watched the MMFF movies of my friends with entries. now it is me they will watch and in my first MMFF movie I even get to work with Ate Guy," he prides. Jason's mother who is a solid Noranian was supposedly the first to be joyed. "Mama was extremely happy when I said I have a movie with Ate Guy because Mama is a Noranian. so in the premier night, I will bring along Mama so she can personally meet Ate Guy. I do not know what her reaction will be because she has wanted to see Ate Guy in person for a long time," smiled Jason. when Jason got to work with Ate Guy in Kabisera, he saw that the one called Superstar by many is just a simple person. "at first, it's like you will be intimated by Ate Guy because she is the superstar. but she did not make that felt on the set of Kabisera. "when we are on set, she is just simple, with no airs. "so the intimidation I feel disappears because we are relaxed when we are with her. "I was delighted by her because she even gave me a book. the book of Himala. she even signed it for me. "so the feeling is unique. we can really approach Ate Guy," Jason Abalos ended. John Vic de Guzman, from sports to showbiz John Vic de Guzman one of those introduced in the horror-thriller film and 2016 MMFF official entry Seklusyon is volleyball player John Vic de Guzman. Director Erik discovered John Vic and made him take workshops to act as one of the deacons in Seklusyon. John Vic is team captain of the volleyball team of College of Saint Benilde Blazers, so it is a different career he entered after a few years of playing for his university and for the national team. "I really have no acting background. really none because I'm more into sports. "but Director Erik asked me to audition for the role of Marco. I did not expect to pass. until now I still can't believe I'm doing a film that then qualified for the MMFF," stated John Vic. John Vic supposedly was worried on his first days in Seklusyon. but he could not forget what he learned in the acting workshop. "because I have no acting background, I used what was taught to us in the workshop. "Director Eric wants me to release all my emotions through my eyes. based on the feedback from Director Erik, I was able to do my acting properly," he smiled. John Vic is about to graduate from his course Human Resources Management. so according to him he is ready to enter the new career showbiz. "since I am graduating next year and it's also my last year in the volleyball team and national team, I am looking forward to have a new career, particularly here in showbiz. it's different from where I came from. but I learn a lot. I'm a fast learner, so I will also give this a chance," he stressed. John Vic has a leading man aura because of his height 6'2" and his tan features. there are surely many that can be paired with him. John Vic no longer has a girlfriend so no one will be jealous. "we had many disagreements. we argued most about time." because of what I do for the national team, I spend less time with her. "and then I entered showbiz, further lessening my time with her. "it's better for us to separate than if we always fight," ended John Vic de Guzman.
query1690 guard syn watchman house
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_45686180 oh dear one of the problems of our parents is fixing our ah schedule or everything we do in the house to attend to the needs of the family right Ariel ? what is that the the ah for example ah multitasking like that geez . because what what what happens is that only mothers are expected to clean to cook what about you fathers what are you supposed to do we are breadwinners then after -- bonding with the guys . that's it oh dear it does not it does not ah it does not seem to be a good bill (()) because ah the the mothers they should be the caretaker of the family that is your job . meanwhile you have a happy hour but we have none . drinking while bonding with our friends that is necessary that is necessary . uh if your wife suddenly goes missing because she wants to have a happy hour what will you do ? because it is really important most especially now yes the classes have just begun our support to our children now that we do a lot things how should this be addressed for that we have with us our relationship and parenting expert miss Maribel Dionisio welcome back to the show Maribel thank you Winnie . there . a beautiful morning to the viewers (()) no thanks big brother . ah alright . okay Maribel first of all how important is the support of a parent to a child while studying ? it's -- important while studying . this is what you said earlier to -- give attention in the morning and to focus on homework -- is important especially for ten years old right ? so not really -- it's not possible for me to not pay attention I'm very tired from washing the laundry in addition to that I'm also carrying a baby . why won't you get a maid to focus on the homework of the children you fathers are animals and you still expect us to get a maid . you know I want to -- if I'm going to pick a wife now ah ah I want my wife to be able to focus in helping my children with their homework even only until grade three or grade four . because if I only get someone pretty and if you ask them the questions like what is six times six ? oh my son I don't know that . just all mothers Maribel ? no . fathers should also help because most of mothers are also working whether outside the house or inside the house also it's important for the children to have their father helping for the father and mother to have a happy hour isn't it when they teach their children altogether yes you don't have to be with all men at happy hour include the missus you know Wennie correct me if I'm wrong Maribel don't we need fathers only when we have a son ? oh . isn't it necessary yes because there's a father figure if there's a daughter like you isn't it like that is there a gender assignment ? that's the old-fashioned outlook but what the girls need are also fathers because when they marry they look at the characteristics of their father and that of their chosen partner which are alike or if they don't know their father (()) that will cause a problem there will be a problem kids will long for their father's attention father's and mother's it's not about being a man or a woman . how will be our assignment how will be the division of labor . umm um . because in choosing if you're good at for example Filipino we won't give you the Math right so let's talk about which subject of homework can we help with so when there's homework there should be at least one of us ? one of you or if he's not yet home then schedule later when dad arrives he's better at Math that's why dad helped Maribel and what about what I've been doing I'm bribing the sister to teach Math the younger grade six the other one the grade two he can teach him teach his sister . (()) .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_74112172 164 youths in Bulacan, will be given a summer job. March 08, 2016 Vinson F. Concepcion CITY OF MALOLOS, March 8 (PIA) - There are 164 youths in Bulacan who will work for the provincial government this summer under the Special Program for the Employment of Students or SPES that is carried out with the help of the Department of Labor and Employment or DOLE. According to Governor Wilhelmino Sy-Alvarado, SPES aims to help those in need and deserving youths of Bulacan to support their studies through additional income every vacation. The beneficiaries of SPES will receive a salary where 60 percent will be coming from the office they are servicing while 40 percent will come from DOLE. SPES was established by the Provincial Youth, Sports, Employment and Development Office-Provincial Public Employment Service Office. (CLJD/VFC-PIA 3)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_73611356 news F_M . and talking about beach tennis the one promoting is on the other line of the telephone . enthusiastically promoting this sport is none other than Miss Lotlot de Leon . good afternoon Lotlot -- miss Lotlot . hi Tito Ron good afternoon how are you ? wow fine and I understand there is a beach tennis clinic again later right ? there is in sand S_M by the bay beside Vikings at Mall of Asia . yes . so I hope all who wants to learn how to play this newest sport that we have brought in the Philippines just go -- all can just go there and welcome to play . yes and that game is exciting ? perhaps before we talk about that is its difference ? what is the similarity of -- of tennis and volleyball perhaps I should first miss Lotlot how how did it come to your mind to bring that game here and introduce it to those who like sports ? it happened I have a friend from a foreign country and then he said are you playing beach tennis ? I said what is beach tennis ? he said it is played on the beach then you have a racket then you are using a tennis ball . so I became interested in that . I searched for it and googled it . then when I saw it I said wow this is possible for us there in the Philippines . especially that we have so many beautiful like the beaches . that's right . we are full of beautiful islands . so why not I said why not bring it here in the Philippines . yes and it really fits nicely for us ? and also yes what is its difference from regular tennis aside from the playing court right ? the -- the lawn tennis depends on how you play on concrete or on a shell court or grass court right ? but beach tennis is definitely on -- on sand right ? but what are the differences in the rules what are their differences ? <no-speech> so to make it more simpler uncle Ron if you know how to play badminton okay then you know how to play tennis bring it to the beach and play it there then it's already beach tennis . yes . because here a racket is used others are made from wood and the others are made from carbon fiber but the ones that we have here in the Philippines are made from wood and it's imported . hmm hmm . then the scoring is like tennis but the game play is like badminton . so don't we like playing badminton on the street even though the ball is dragged by the wind ? yes yes really . right ? so here your ball will no longer be swayed because what you use here is a tennis ball . tennis ball . so even if it's windy outside and the children or the teenagers or those our age just want to play at the age of %incomplete <no-speech> thank you we're the same age . you will really -- really enjoy because it's really an outdoor game . yes . yes the ball is really the same as the one used in tennis right but depressurized -- please explain what depressurized means depressurized means the ball is light . because the usual tennis ball is slightly heavy . if you smash it with a racket it can go a little bit farther . alright oh . yes . but the the ball used in used in beach tennis is just also like a tennis ball but lighter . if you smash the ball it exactly hits there on the opposite side opposite side (()) where you have thrown it . <no-speech> and then I have also read Andre Agassi and then Steffi Graf the couple have also taken an interest here ? yes . all the famous tennis players are also playing that . I think considered as professional tennis players in terms of the sea and they want to take rest and they cannot play there their regular tennis game . so they are playing this beach tennis . hmm . is this for -- doubles only or does it have also singles and has %incomplete when you were having a clinic so I have seen there are three . three a side so seems triple . yes leisure games Tito Ron can be for three . okay . like if only for a bet but if we are discussing a real tournament and you want to do that in a competition with other group it is good to have mixed doubles and singles is also possible . <no-speech> its court is as big as like a volleyball court eight by sixteen . and then its net is too high one point five meter . so if you want singles it will be divided in the middle and then you can play singles . for doubles the whole court will be used . uhm and then the scoring like this one match is good only for one match -- ah one set ? ah is it right ? yes yes its regular is one to fifteen thirty thirty five forty then match point one point . then in each first side for example you will be the one who hits the ball first three times -- three times you will serve ? will -- will hit the ball if you cannot get it it will be changed in the opposite side -- opposite side . hmmm like in badminton it really needs the -- the ball to be always aloft ? and when -- it hits the ground it should not fall down to the floor . because if it slips off to the floor that is the score of the other side . yeah right . seems the rules here are simpler right ? not complicated and what is good there it is fun to play because (()) I really have a question I am a badminton enthusiast . I really became sexy there in playing badminton not so of a tennis player . because I really want to play badminton . and when I started playing badminton before I really lost (()) pounds . wow . just by playing badminton in three months . so if you -- if you can just imagine this beach tennis is more -- I become active because you play it on the sand . so really good for the health because it has a cardiovascular exercise . and you will not really notice you are already sweating while playing . yes . so it is fine even on the knees because the sand is soft anyway . jump or fall injuries are less here . you will not get hurt because of course if what you will fall on is sand it is very safe . you saw there seemed to be well the game was a bit acrobatic right ? like you will fly you will jump and then will dive will fall on your face on the sand like you will see a lot of action . yes . so for example when they search for a beach tennis they will surely enjoy because it is a fun sport it is a fun game and then while playing it after you finish playing you will yearn for it because it will apparently unleash your activeness . and then if you are a competitive person if you like to compete this is also a great sports play . hmm . well last Sunday when you had a clinic and the first beach tennis mini tournament you had guests who are players from the National University from University of the Philippines from Saint Benilde . and those national players too like Marian Capadocia . and most of them played for the first time like from lawn tennis they shifted to beach tennis and they adjusted quickly . right . that's why it's satisfying because our true athletes like Miss Marian Capadocia are encouraged more to try it too because it's really fun . it is a fun game it is a fun sport not -- you do not need a lot of triviality to learn the game . yes . what you only need to do is you have a ball you have a racket then you go there and you just play just passing the ball until you no longer know that you are playing at the beach -- that's it that's beach tennis . recently there was an Asian beach games in Thailand right ? was beach tennis played there too ? I'm not very sure Tito Ron right ? but we really are pushing for beach tennis to be known here in the Philippines . yes . and what I really want is my dream is for us to form a group that would become professional beach tennis players that we can send abroad to compete internationally . so that we can have someone to raise the Philippine flag of beach tennis in other countries am I right ? especially us Filipinos we're very competitive . right . and then we're really good so once we set our hearts into something we will always win . that's why I believe that beach tennis if learned by Filipinos and if we get really good players we will win instantly abroad and we won't have a problem . you know in watching last Sunday I can feel that this sport really fits our fellowmen because (()) you don't need to be tall . you don't need an expensive shoes because you have to be on your bare feet . and the energy of the Filipinos really fit this sport as long as you're quick and good at placing right ? right also because we're sharp . Filipinos are brisk in moving . <no-speech> that's why for example in basketball you won't be outweighed by the -- the ball right ? it's necessary that you're also like that in beach tennis you need to concentrate and stay focused . -- positive anyone can easily learn this and they will really like this game . and hopefully Tito Ron because it's twenty sixteen the International Federation of Beach Tennis abroad they're pushing to include beach tennis in the Olympics . oh my that's really great . twenty sixteen so hopefully as early as next year we can form a team for us to have a representative in beach tennis in other countries and to -- you mean to be regular sport or regular event in the Olympics is that the proposal or will it be just a demonstration sport ? yes . actually we're getting updates from I_F_B_T International Federation of Beach Tennis because they're the one doing business in other countries . if our group forms a team we'll join there and see which tournaments and championships we can join abroad until we can reach the Olympics . okay now we have plenty of tennis coaches but do we have regular beach tennis coaches ? actually now the one supervising the team (()) Professor Keith Tobias . he's a U_P professor of Human Kinetics in U_P and it's really heartwarming because their support is at the highest level . hence altogether we unite to push beach tennis . so eventually we're also announcing it here Tito Ron when we really have a place that we can go to . and if they really want to learn we have one place tell them where we can find us and then they can play beach tennis . similar to what we're doing starting now in the sands of S_M by the bay . okay aside from the sands in S_M by the bay here in Metro Manila are there any other beach volleyball court . because what's good here is what we've been using in the past for beach volleyball can also be used for beach tennis . what I know is in the past we've already had a tournament in Philippine Sports Commission in P_S_C . they have a Rizal Memorial Stadium Tito Ron that is a beach court used for volleyball tournament last year . that's it -- actually it was just this year . I think you can go to Rizal Memorial Stadium Coliseum to ask because they have a beach court that can also be used for beach tennis . I think U_S_T has also built something like that if I remember it right . yes they have U_S_T have (()) I think . don't quote me Tito Ron but I think other universities also have sand court that can be used to play beach tennis . that's very good . meanwhile there is no problem in coastal towns because of course it is amusing that there are also some when you noticed last Sunday at sands S_M by the bay did you see that children aged nine years old ten years old wanted to learn and it is gratifying because we don't know it but these could already be our future athletes right ? so I'm really encouraged this has no umm age range Tito Ron so anybody can play . yes so maybe in the future you will also have something like age group competitions right ? there are . actually they have levels . they have what is called G_one (()) . the fourteen-year-old's those under eight years old they each have their own level of tournament . okay you mentioned that this game is simple and you only need to have a racket have a ball not needed of course shoes are not needed but how much would it all cost ? for instance you will buy a pair of rackets and the balls around how much would they cost ? the initial investment for a prospective beach tennis player . right now what's available here is around three thousand but that's already two rackets with a ball included . so of course you can't play alone if there are two of you you already have a -- a racket for that amount . then you can use it for a long time . until if you really want to be professional beach tennis players maybe later on we will also have beach tennis rackets made of carbon fiber . wow nice and hopefully these rackets are available right ? at Toby's Tito Ron we already have tennis rackets available there . so if they visit all the Toby's within Metro Manila we can already buy rackets here . there . and well I understand that you have your free beach tennis clinic today and there will also be some on the Sunday after next on December twenty-eight December twenty-one and December twenty-eight we will have one too . then we're still working out some other beach tennis clinics still at sands S_M by the bay . we will just finish this holiday season then we will announce a new a new date for the beach tennis clinic . wow that sounds really nice and maybe let's talk about something else shall we ? do you have showbiz commitments that are slightly Tito Ron I have a movie I'm included in Kugot and Aswang chronicles . it will be shown at the M_M_F_F December twenty-five . so hopefully they will watch out for it . I also have a show in one channel that airs every night hopefully they would watch out for that too . yes . ahh it's good that you can squeeze in this promotion of beach tennis because you are still active in showbiz . yes . no Tito Ron (()) I really do believe in this sport . I don't mean to insinuate but I really believe that they -- this sport which is beach tennis will be huge and go far here in the Philippines because we have a lot of islands we have a lot of beautiful beaches that it is impossible for you not to play . that can be played anywhere here . that's right . and well thanks a lot -- for joining us here in Action Sports thank you Tito Ron and I hope to see you in our coming beach tennis clinics . yes maybe that will be next -- next -- next Sunday maybe -- because I also want to play . just last Sunday you should try you'll really really enjoy it Tito Ron . I just wasn't able to try last Sunday well because I was not wearing shorts . yes as long as you come in shorts and slippers then that's it we will teach you how to play beach tennis . yes . and it's fun to annotate it too right ? because I also tried being a commentator before right . it also seems easy and exciting to annotate . -- the action is sometimes fast-paced unlike with regular lawn tennis where the rallies are long and sometimes you don't talk as much . but here you always have something to say because it is full of action . (()) me Tito Ron . okay maybe just one more question what is your Christmas wish for this sport and also for our athletes ? for our athletes I wish that all of us would get all the support of the government because the Filipinos are really very good . I believe that the Filipino athletes %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96577687 100,000 kilos of seaweed seedling to be distributed by DA-BFAR in Palawan November 06, 2016 Puerto Princesa, Palawan, November 6 (PIA) - up to 100,000 kilos of seaweed seedlings are schedule to be distributed by the Department of Agriculture-Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (DA-BFAR)-Mimaropa for the fishermen in Palawan. this was announced by DA-BFAR Regional Fisheries Research & Development Center Chief Roberto Abrera at the press conference held yesterday morning on the implementation of closed season or the ban on fishing of mackerel near the north-eastern part of Palawan which started on November 1 and will last until January 31, 2017. according to DA-BFAR-Mimaropa Officer-in-Charge Regional Director Elizer S a public bidding for the distributors of seaweed seedlings was already done and when everyone is ready, these will be distributed before the end of year 2016. the fund for this program is allegedly worth a total of Php11 million. this step of the DA-BFAR is to support the fishermen of Palawan faced with problems such as closed and open season in some type of fish like mackerel and lapu-lapu. Abrera said the planting of seaweed or tambalang can help the fishermen to have an alternative livelihood during times when fishing some types of fish are prohibited. he added the primary beneficiaries of the seaweed farming program are the fishermen registered with the municipal fisherfolk registry of each municipality in Palawan. currently, there are already more than 30,000 fishermen registered and there is an ongoing registration of fishermen who were not included in the municipal registry. Abrera said only 25-30 percent of the whole farmable area for seaweeds are used by the fishermen, and 70 percent are not utilized and this is now target of the DA-BFAR for the beneficiaries this program. (OCJ/PIA-Palawan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50794480 (()) six o'clock in the morning . mm and here is our guest this morning . miss Francis Grace Duka-Pante director of ASEAN Training Center for Preventive Drug Education . and we will talk about how to veer away especially our youth from illegal drug addiction or those drugs . good morning director Francis Grace . good morning also to all of you . yes good morning . to our television viewers %incomplete and welcome to RadyoBisyon . mm . primarily ma'am we will ask you a background first to explain it well to our patronage . what is the give us a backgrounder here on ASEAN Training Center for Preventive Drug Education . yes please . this is an office . which is in the University of the Philippines uh huh in the College of Education . mm and the mandate of the office is to give training for the prevention of drug abuse . okay prevention . it means how to avoid mm yes our fellowmen from illegal drugs . mm that . it is like that mm what you said Sir Allan is exactly right . mm so where are you giving or -- serving the training ? actually we are hosting it here in the Philippines but in Southeast Asia right our target (()) participants . aah so just like last year mm we gave live skills training for them . that one conducted at Manila Hotel . okay . and here almost nine countries in Southeast Asia participated mm and they usually send us delegates those mm officials whose mandate from the office is prevention . right . aha okay . so training through seminars how about your school visit ? is there also actually it's because drug use prevention is extensive . mm this is also for various settings yes okay . so like sir the schools mm those communities . mm here in the Philippines we have anti-drug abuse councils yes yes okay that are focused on our barangays mm so they are included with those we are training sir . uh huh okay . and the dangerous drugs board is the funding agency mm of the center . mm then earlier Ma'am Grace had been mentioning also about the protective factors . what are these ? aah the protective factors of course include their that faith no in God . mm that is very important . mm and of course one solid family . that . because that very strong value in the family that is sure to be helpful to avoid the youth yes on drugs . and of course everything starts in the family right ? mm right okay . so the basis is your studies right because you mentioned family right ? what are the situations in one family that possibly directly or indirectly induces one child for example to turn to illegal drugs . example of course maybe that situation in the their family he does not like and as a form of escapism turn to drugs illegal drugs mm these youth . without knowing that this have an intense effect on their health . what are those factors usually that cause that in the family ma'am ? many situations mm because example sir dysfunctional families . that uh huh . those who separate mm the husband and wife right so the children are really affected second those parents who are not good models . mm mm because let us remember drug abuse starts with what is called gateway substances . mm and gateway substances are those cigarettes and liquor . yes . so if they are seeing their parents drinking liquor or smoking cigars that is one big aspect mm why our youth are also using too . because they are seeing what father they tell usually drinks every night or mm have imitated then the children also ask to taste . or smoking or the children ask to taste smoking . so what is it called gateway substances gateway substances . like it is started there aah because that is the start . mm like it is the gate . yes before you use slightly strong drugs mm you will really start with cigarettes and with cigarettes sir the nicotine in a cigarette is very addictive mm uh huh . mm . and ma'am in your experience Filipinos are easy to teach . I mean they can easily be veered away and their selves are really dedicated to avoid these kinds of activities . because what is good with Filipinos the faith in God is very strong . mm mm and then our family values are within us . yes . we are so filial . so educating them for instance if all stakeholders right come together mm really (()) we could resolve the problem in drugs so prevention is really very cost-effective . mm hopefully we should also invest in prevention . mm . because currently the focus is like on the treatment and rehabilitation but better if balanced . the prevention then the treatment . to not give the opportunity to be exposed as said . right mm yes to those illegal drugs these these %incomplete we do not need sir to rehab anyone %incomplete if in the first place we prevented them from using substances . okay . earlier you mentioned madam that we have anti drug abuse councils what up to the level of the L_G_U . yes . okay . so there in the aspect of prevention a strong advocacy and the information dissemination to the level of the barangay also to the level of the families . do we have mechanism in place to reach down to the grassroots these information here that should well from time to time really we repeat and repeat to our fellowmen to be what reminder maybe to those people who forget . mm how do we send our messages to the grassroots level ma'am . actually sir the D_I_L_G mm very clear actually sir of the structure there below so all the barangay should be with us okay -- in our country there is an active anti-drug abuse council . mm so from the barangay level upwards and I am delighted that many anti-drug abuse councils are very active . we can say that their partnership with the dangerous drugs board is very healthy . mm . and many activities on the ground are being done on prevention . mm . and how about your reaction on our curriculum at present because I'm sure it is also stated there educating the youth about drugs and vices . is that already enough for you ? and beauty of k to twelve curriculum mm because life skills is the approach we use right now . so as of the moment drug education is under the health education subject area . mm uh huh yes sir so it is already integrated ? it is included mm in our learning areas particularly health education . uh huh so from grade five we are educating them about the dangers of smoking . mm uh huh . then that escalates to the dangers of illegal drugs sir . correct . mm . mm . at least because your school -- your school would secondly be given attention by the youth . first is the home . which is why ma'am said family is really important . the cooperation of the parents that you've spoken to is it okay sir ? there is really no problem Sir . mm . yes very open-minded actually sir mm our parents . mm . okay . so in totality what is sir the ultimate target of your center sir and every year really there are changes or is there a number mm that needs to be attained ? actually because it is the ASEAN mm uh huh so it is really Southeast Asia regional yes sir this is really regional . so what we are targeting here are the ones called -- prevention professionals mm yes Southeast Asia . so it is really every year that we conduct an ASEAN training uh huh or conference . and our target are the various sectors . no the various stakeholders . last year we focused at schools . yes mm the -- our educators in Southeast Asia . mm . and in the past last twenty thirteen it was in the community . in the community based drug prevention approach was our focus . that's okay . I suddenly thought of course because of the power of internet it was made possible -- to create maybe a positive or negative effect to those who are using . for example there may be close supervision of the parents and the teachers towards the children but of course if you give them access to the internet all kinds of information are skimmed by them right ? that may be positive or negative this could have an effect on their belief their values their beliefs in life . we also have a campaign or information dissemination from the side of the internet or various websites which are frequently accessed by the youth by millennials to somehow in that aspect they can obtain information about the bad effects of illegal drugs . mm . I know sir of media literacy mm for you to be critical on receiving information mm because we know right now in social media yes you should not just accept and accept true true which is why you should find out the source of information mm what is the reputation of the information source . yes . that is discussed in our schools there on how to be critical . mm not just accepting whatever we read you read is true gospel truth won't you share that yes you'll even share it it's embarrassing you'll like it you'll share it it's not even true ? it's really good to check the source yes . that's what we lack now especially with our millennials . if possible avoid it . Ma'am to change the topic . let's be issue-based . as you can see there have been many killings because of illegal drugs . what is your reaction here that this is the importance of prevention Ma'am ? you're right we won't reach this if at we already prevented it in the first place . we prevention professionals strengthen more the advocacy to stop them from using because as what I mentioned earlier prevention is the best investment . of course isn't it correct that it's also like health right ? correct . an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure . but that's English system . we'll convert the metric to Tagalog . yes there the last message is yes Miss Francis . yes . there I'm inviting the public for the upcoming ASEAN conference on drug use prevention international standards . we'll conduct this on December five to seven . it is near on yes on Monday . in U_P college of education . the office is there but our conference will be held in the National Institute for Science and Mathematics Education Development or NESMED . yes . it is also inside the U_P campus in Diliman . okay . so I hope the prevention professional in schools yes and in communities yes will be able to come and in case of course maybe their first question is that will there be a seminar fee to pay ? yes there is . if ever . or that there is . there is . yes of course we can get kits . yes . and adequate information that is right there is also some for than um yes seminar fee . yes okay . because our invitees here are coming from different countries in Southeast Asia . aah wow they are really experts . yes and this is a platform for sharing best practices . yes of course of course okay . so here in this seminar there could be additional questions from our viewers and listeners . is there a special website that you have created for this or hotlines that can be called or mobile numbers that can be dialed ? just in case there are still who want to ask question interested to attend there in the seminar you are mentioning actually there is a member of -- of ASEAN Training Center right from P_I_A . so our website is W_W_W dot pia dot gov dot P_H slash A_T_C_P_D_E mm or they can just google the acronym A_T_C_P_D_E . that and all information about the conference they can see all the details . mm all right . thank you very much miss Francis Grace Duka - Panye director of ASEAN Training Center for Preventive Drug Education . and good morning . thank you ma'am for joining us . thank very much too . okay .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_38519415 32 swine raisers, benefited from the Organic Pig raising August 16, 2016 Ibaan, Batangas, August 16 (PIA) - around 32 swine raisers have benefited from the Organic Pig raising seminar conducted by the local government last August 9 which is upheld in partnership with the Municipal Agriculture Office and International Training Center for Pig Husbandry (ITCPH). Ibaan Mayor Juan Toreja said that the training has an objective to be able to give knowledge and widen the skills in raising swine in a natural way. "aside from raising swine, I want to give assertion on the importance of recycling the manure of the pigs to avoid this in affecting our surroundings especially that this is one of the contributors of pollution," Toreja added. Mrs. Amy Eguia from the Career Development and Management Services of the ITCPH discussed the different breeds of native pigs such as Meishan, Landrace, Berkshire and Pietrain as well as those needed to be considered in raising pigs such as having a forage area for feeding and concoction every time the pig eats. some of the pointers given in making a proper shelter for the pigs is the use of Nipa palm as ceiling, creating spaces between the cogon or cogon grass for a good ventilation; putting a one-meter rice husks or sawdust as bed materials and container or receptacle of water for drinking near the water source. also explained by Mrs. Jenny Hornilla that a natural pig medication is not used with any medicine or antibiotics but rather herbal medicines are applied. some of the illness of the pigs that can be treated using herbal are scours or diarrhea, internal parasites, dehydration caused by loose bowl movement and shingles or other foot diseases. Hornilla is reminding that in case the treatment of herbal medicines are not going to be effective to the pet pigs, veterinarians can be consulted. (Bhaby P. de Castro-PIA Batangas with reports from Mark Lacsamana-Ibaan LGU)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51984110 50 children and babies in North Cotabato were operated for free August 25, 2016 City of Kidapawan, North Cotabato, August 25 (PIA)- up to 50 infants and children here in the province recently underwent free operation. the two-day activity was headed by the Integrated Provincial Health Office (IPHO) together with the Brotherhood Operation Sweet Smile (BOSS). according to IPHO officer-in-charge Doctor Eva Rabaya, the beneficiaries had ages four months up to ten years old. from the aforementioned number, 23 had cleft palates and 25 had cleft lips. it was noted that the free surgical mission is part of the activities of the 102th founding anniversary of the province and made to coincide with the 69th founding anniversary of the town of Kabacan where the activity was held. meanwhile, Governor Emmylou Mendoza emphasized that the provincial government continues to offer the right service to the people especially to the poor and those with no capability to consult a doctor. (SJDuerme- PIA12 with report from JSanta Cruz-NorthCot Media Center)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_10791131 31 councilors of OrMin, honored July 29, 2016 Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, July 29 (PIA) - to thank and honor their service as municipal councilors, 31 3-termers of the municipal council of Oriental Mindoro were awarded in the Philippine Councilors League-Oriental Mindoro Federation (PCL-OMF) End-Term and Recognition Activities 2016 held at the Provincial Assembly, City of Calapan recently. the activity was headed by PCL-OMF president and ex-officio member of the provincial council (SP), Board Member Gideon B. Abuel. focusing on the theme "integrity and social responsibility: commitment of the councilors to its constituents in the province of Oriental Mindoro", the outstanding councilors of the town received plaques of recognition and their own copies of the resolution passed by the SP recognizing them for their contributions to the field of local legislature in the province. Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Provincial Director Maria Victoria J. Del Rosario became the guest of honor of the event. in her speech Del Rosario emphasized giving honors to the municipal officials. also, she encouraged the officials to lead in supporting the local government and legislature to answer to the true needs of their constituents. from the councilors honored, those in high-ranking positions in their own towns were also recognized. included in these are former councilor of Calapan who was elected as member of the provincial council from the first district Board Member Edilberto Ilano, Junior and former Roxas councilor and now SP member from the second district, Board Member Ramil O. Dimapilis. former municipal councilor who was elected as Gloria mayor Bitoy Rodegerio was also honored as well as the former councilors who now serve as vice mayors. Calapan City vice mayor Engineer Gil Ramirez, Naujan vice mayor Sheryl Morales, Victoria vice mayor Mel Callo, Puerto Galera vice mayor Marlon Lopez, Socorro vice mayor Roy De Claro, Pinamalayan vice mayor Rodel Magsino, Bongabong vice mayor Richard Candelario, Mansalay vice mayor Lhay Postma and Bulalacao vice mayor Ramon Magbanua. in the said event, the officials of the city council of Calapan and municipal council of Pinamalayan also formally accepted the P75,000 reward each as the outstanding council in their category. recall that it was November last year when these towns were formally recognized as the best council in Oriental Mindoro. (CPRSD/LTC/PIA-Mimaropa/Calapan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_86397045 tax incentives for sports donors by Tina Mendoza November 20, 2016 the House committee on youth and sports development has approved the proposal to give incentives to donors of athletes who win medals in the Summer Olympic Games. according to House committee on youth chairman Representative Conrado Estrella III under House Bill 4054 supported by House Speaker Pantaleon D. Alvarez, Majority Leader Rodolfo Fariñas, Minority Leader Danilo Suarez and 1-Pacman Party-list Representative Michael Romero and PBA Party-list Representative Jericho Jonas Nograles individuals and corporations who give donations or contributions to winning athletes will be given tax incentives, the said proposal aims to encourage the majority to support Filipino athletes. the committee will pass the proposal to the committee on ways and means who will decide how much incentive can be given. it can be recalled that Hidilyn Diaz, 25 years old from Zamboanga City was able to bring home a silver medal in weightlifting for the country in the recent Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Olympics, it was year 1996 when the Philippines last obtained a silver medal when Mansueto "Onyok" Velasco won then in boxing. "the bill provides that any donation, contribution, gift and grant of real and personal property to any Filipino athlete who has won for the Philippines a bronze, silver, or gold medal in the Summer Olympic Games shall constitute an allowable deduction from the income of the donor for income tax purposes and shall be exempt from donor's tax, in accordance with the provisions of the National Internal Revenue Code" stated in the proposal. the exemption from donor's tax is limited to P1M only every year and it covers the incentives from the government and private sectors.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_42187214 <no-speech> yes let's make Pareng Inot cook because Inot has no work . <no-speech> right ? that's war war . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello . hello . Inot doesn't have work right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> but . <no-speech> later ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> he hears you . <no-speech> yes that's it later let's ask them to go drinking ask him to cook snacks tell that to Pay-Pay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> sure . <no-speech> <no-speech> right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> later . so . <no-speech> after them let's wake up Ilong . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> in order to play . he's always drinking so he needs to play . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . yes . yes . <no-speech> because when you say play bro bro yesterday bro yesterday wasn't so lively we teamed with uh shout . huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> does he know how to imitate and do that to me . <no-speech> I know that that will be the uh what his enemy . (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> parent parent . <no-speech> <no-speech> parent right parent ? free right . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes here there seem to be many natives here with Bebe . yes . he probably doesn't want us to just hide it there bro motherfucker instead of our game becoming a good council member immediately went down so we ended up uh . <no-speech> <no-speech> let's cream them . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15377148 they will have everything they need to succeed . which is why President Noynoy Aquino boasted during the World Economic Forum last Thursday insufficiency of classrooms this school year will still be the problem of Batasan Hills National High School . it is because they have more than twelve thousand students and only have almost one hundred classroom which is why it turns out that one hundred students will have to share every classroom . in this large classroom they divided the classroom with the use of a wooden wall so it will seem that every classroom has forty-five students . but the case is even if you divide a large classroom into two four shifts will still be done here all afternoon . two in the morning and two in the afternoon . and if it exceeds forty-five students contained in this classroom the class can be conducted here in the corridor . if classroom shortage were not a problem would you still offer this partnership ? of course definitely -- definitely no of course then so what . but given the -- given the situation no of course you only move to what -- what is being given of course as a situation . only temporary solutions . but the Department of Education insists that there is no insufficiency in classrooms because even before the year twenty thirteen ended more that sixty-six thousand eight hundred classrooms were built . this is the insufficiency mentioned by the president in his speech but for the year twenty ten . in July of twenty ten when we %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12153395 the alleged use of biological warfare by the rebel group New People's Army or N_P_A will be investigated . that is after the land mine that exploded causing the injury of four soldiers in Pantukan Compostela Valley was discovered to be mixed with toxic . supposedly it is possible that the land mine was mixed with toxin from snake venom as well as human waste . Raffy Tima has a report live from Quezon City . Raffy . <no-speech> Jessica it is only now that the Commission on Human Rights heard of the use of (())(()) needs to be thoroughly investigated (()) . <no-speech> the military is used to facing danger . they are ready to catch bullets and be used as pawns for the bombs from the rebels . but it seems like they were not prepared for this . the explosion of a land mine mixed with toxin in Pantukas Compostela Valley . seven soldiers were injured and because the shrapnel of the bomb supposedly planted by the New People's Army includes poison the soldiers sustained bigger damage . the wounds ma'am they really look like uh ma'am they really mixed a lot (()) of chemicals ma'am . because uh ma'am the skin seems to have really burned ma'am . a former rebel who is now a member of the CAFGU supposedly detailed the origin of the toxin in the bomb . (()) . (()) . (()) . in the doctors' examination the bombs had enterobacter cloacae and streptococcus (()) . some of their effects are lower temperature of the patient and gradual loss of oxygen in the body that can result in cardiac arrest . if it is not prevented it can spread to the whole body in the blood stream like you can have sepsis and can cause your death . the doctor we talked to explained that it can affect the patient via injection . but what if it exploded and the uh those uh were ingested by him right ? that can become uh become cause of disease . it does not go through the skin . according to the Commission on Human Rights the use of toxins is biological warfare . it is a serious allegation and needs to be investigated . it is supposedly a clear violation of the agreement signed by the C_P_P-N_P_A and government of the Philippines . in their case if it can be shown that first of all there's already violation there in the used of landmines and then they will add toxic uh materials and waste . this puts them in question with respect to their the uh the integrity of their forces . the use of chemical or biological weapons is strictly banned under the International Humanitarian Law or I_H_L particularly the Geneva protocol . even if it still needs to be proved that the N_P_A voluntarily included bacterial infection in the bombs they used the very use of land mine is already a violation . when proven the Armed Forces of the Philippines can report the C_P_P-N_P_A to the United Nations or to the Hague Netherlands which mediates peace talks between the government of the Philippines and the communist group . A_F_P Eastern Mindanao Command already ordered all their units to help in the investigation of the P_N_P so they can file charges . <no-speech> according to A_F_P Jessica they will pursue the collection of evidence in order to file charges to the uh culprit behind the land mine that supposedly contains bacteria . even if there have long been incidents of land mines in the forces of the rebel group it is only now that they experienced being infected by a land mine that exploded Jessica . okay can you please repeat the name of the bacteria found there in the shrapnel from the land mine Raffy ? Jessica according to the doctors who culture these bacteria they are enterobacter cloacae and streptococcus agalactiae . these are supposedly the bacteria usually found in our intestines and can infect when they contaminate other people Jessica . okay and it is dangerous right when mixed because it will go to the body hit by the landmine and mix with the blood . what kinds of illnesses can cause these bacteria ? <no-speech> well Jessica according to the doctor we talked to they are (()) it cannot be seen but it is rich in these two bacteria . and it results in dehydration of the body and the blood gets poison this is what is called sepsis and if it is really not treated it will end up in septic shock and the patient will have a cardiac arrest and can cause his death if it is really not treated in a hospital Jessica and let us just emphasize it is only now that this kind of weapon was revealed or existed if there really is it is already confirmed (()) the doctors in Davao already have a report right they identified the bacteria it is only now that this happened right Raffy ? you have covered the military for a long time . <no-speech> yes Jessica we hear about land mines but the use of biological weapons because the C_H_R considers it a biological weapon we haven't heard of it yet . even if the use of poison uh is done being done too Jessica by different sectors . but this use of biological weapon through these bacteria found in the stool it is only now we have heard of it . but according to the C_H_R it still needs to be investigated especially because according to the doctor we talked to it is somewhat difficult to happen because the one uh the two bacteria we mentioned earlier has a life span so in order for them to be effective they need to be placed there in the bomb some less than an hour or less than two hours before it explodes so it is more effective and it can't easily infect through wounds . it really needs to be ingested so whether it is the real cause of the soldiers' poisoning should be really investigated . okay and can I just mention that every time there is a demolition the police complain that they are thrown bottles containing dirty stuff including human waste . this is somewhat similar in any case what will the C_H_R do with this incident ? <no-speech> actually Jessica earlier when I talked to the C_H_R the staff themselves experienced something like this in an impending demolition . they were there to observe and in order to see what will be the result of that impending demolition . their very staff were thrown human waste . well what they did is of course immediately return to their office and bathe . fortunately their uh did not become sick here in this case there is uh definite . here in this case Jessica the suggestion Jes the suggestion of the C_H_R Jessica is if it is proven to have truth it needs to be reported of course file charges on the culprit but should be reported to the U_N or to the Hague in which it mediates between the government of the Philippines and the C_P_P-N_P_A here in our peace talks . they should be the ones to receive complaints so the C_P_P-N_P_A can be said to violate the uh adhering to the International Humanitarian Law Jessica okay thank you very much Raffy .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_99612705 I will try Alex . the question is is it the end of the famous Gangnam Style as we enter the year twenty thirteen ? this seems to be what the Korean Pop star Psy is referring to in his official Twitter account with the hashtag Gangnam finale . Psy posted on his Twitter account after his performance at Times Square in New York along with M_C Hammer . he has already mentioned this in an interview for a music channel . Psy said that he needs to write a new single especially since Gangnam Style was so famous but he said he will still dance Gangnam in Paris and China . he is also set to have a concert in the Philippines in February . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37349356 blood donation drive of Bombo Radyo Dagupan was a success November 21, 2016 Elsha Marie B. Soriano Calasiao, Pangasinan, November 21 (PIA) - the blood donation drive held by Bombo Radyo Dagupan at Robinsons' Place in the town of Calasiao on Saturday was a success. according to Josie Sarmiento, manager of Bombo Radyo Dagupan, the activity together with the Philippine Red Cross (PRC)-Pangasinan Chapter collected 190 units of blood from donors and employees of Bombo Radyo who participated in the blood donation drive. according to Sarmiento, the annual blood donation project aims to help give sufficient and clean blood to those in need in the province. she added, the activity which is now on its 14th year, is held every November coinciding with the birthday month of Bombo Radyo Philippines chairman Doctor Rogelio Clorete with the aim of giving back to the community the blessings received by the station by holding voluntary blood donation for those needing it. "our office and PRC-Pangasinan Chapter are absolutely thankful to all who participated in the project and ceaselessly support the donation of blood every year to help our neighbors who need blood," Sarmiento stated. meanwhile, the activity which was simultaneously held in the whole Philippines, was also held in Plaza Enrique Braganza Complex in the city of Alaminos where more than 30 units of blood with the equivalent of 450 cubic centimeters per unit were collected. (JNPD/EMBS/PIA-1, Pangasinan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_92446954 new officers of senior citizens of Calapan, swore an oath to duties June 11, 2016 Calapan, Oriental Mindoro, June 11 (PIA) - the new leadership of the federation of senior citizens association of Calapan City (FESCACC) recently took oath which is headed now by Imelda Dacillo for Calapan city Mayor Arnan C. Panaligan. other officers from their respective associations that swore an oath with Dacillo are Angel Albo as vice president; Francisco Mercene, secretary; Fely Del Mundo, treasurer; Nieva Manansala and Angel Tuquero, auditors; and Honoria Romero and Ricardo Lineses as PROs.. according to Panaligan, the strength and being alive of an organization does not only depends on their officials but in the unity of every member. because of this, Panaligan asked Dacillo to encourage the members to participate in their activities because he believes that they can easily fulfill the good intentions of their organization. according to the mayor, the gold card ordinance must also be amended to include the extension of its benefits such as free ultra sound, to the echo and CT scan which are of great importance to senior citizens. the gold card will be given to the senior citizen's depending on the category of their living. (cio/ltc/pia-Mimaropa/Calapan)
query1963 culture evf arts and humanities student
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51382579 but this photo said to be of John Regala spread on social media just this week . that this time seems to be helplessly collapsed just outside a supermarket in Cavite . faint and seemingly unconscious . the famous actor is pitiful hopefully someone helps him . John Regala had an attack in Zapote earlier . oh my God save him . how pitiful he's my idol is that true ? <no-speech> so just this Friday our team went to Zapote Bacoor Cavite to discover the truth . and according to the vendors and barkers there it was really John Regala in the picture . and he really hung out there . often plays bingo . he has been checked in in a nearby hotel for almost two months . can John Regala always be seen here ? always . plays bingo . no we always see him seated . when I first saw him he was still fat but recently he had an attack it was long ago maybe two weeks already . but now he's too thin . he had on a blue jersey yesterday . sometimes it's already noon when he's seated there . our team got to know the man in the photo who helped John . Toto . he shares everything happened around afternoon just this Wednesday . here here he was sitting here . he was like that here . <no-speech> carrying his gambling money he noticed the mass of people who seemed to be crowding over something . John Regala who collapsed . when we let him drink water his face blushed a little it reddened . I even joked idol we sill have a taping don't sleep . he talked but in whisper and said yes . after almost thirty minutes the actor gained consciousness . there was an ambulance already on standby but John Regala declined to be brought to the hospital . he felt better I said idol are you okay now ? he was doing this I said I'll bring you to Saint Dominic he doesn't want to . <no-speech> <no-speech> sir good afternoon . hi good afternoon . is it okay to interview you ? yes it's okay . John accepted the interview . he confirmed that he collapsed . oh . this is you ? yes that's me . (()) it happened yesterday February fifteen when suddenly you there here here and then they brought me up here . here . yes there . I was very dizzy there . my head was spinning and my knees were shaking I can't move it . he was supposed to go back to the hotel when he suddenly fainted . I went down to buy from a convenient store . yes . it was very hot that noon -- that noon . when I was about to return my head was suddenly spinning . so I sat down for a while also because my knees were shaking suddenly lost I really passed out . he cleared that he didn't have a heart attack or stroke like the hearsays . I didn't have a stroke . I didn't have a heart attack . I'm strong . well in fact I can still -- well what right ? we're very strong . we can still go out . he suspects his sugar level dropped down . because of his diabetes . our difference that's diabetes . of course there are medicines to prevent it . uhm like his disease ? in his spinal column he has arthritis yes and also gout . he has a small in the heart but that's okay it can be cured . and now that I learned that when I saw it the next day I reprimanded him . why didn't you call me I could have went to you directly from -- from that work but he doesn't want me to worry . at present his house is being renovated and painted that's why he's checked in at a hotel . heat is extremely not allowed for me because I just came from the hospital that time . but I really needed to rush the painting of the house . of the many things he already went through in his movie-like life there's nothing more he can't take . John Regala or John Paul Guido Boucher Scherrer was born in September nineteen sixty-five . his parents have a blood of German and French . being an actor is in his blood . the only son of the former actor and actress Ruby Regala . and Mel Francisco . he's very helpful even if he already loses a centavo he'll give it . just don't abuse any of his family or him because he'll really fight until death . because his mom needed to work in Visayas John was left at Quezon . at an early age he experienced cruelty or abuse from his relatives . my childhood was rough right ? I didn't grow up with my mom . I didn't grow up with my dad . I was left with a distant relative . <no-speech> <no-speech> at an early stage of my life I already fought the world . our relatives didn't treat me as a good relative that's why I experienced abuse . <no-speech> to be hit with a two by two that has a nail on the edge . in three years I only tasted two kinds of food . just oatmeal and porridge . morning noon night they wanted to feed their leftovers more to the cat and dog . than me I had the dog beside me while sleeping . I was angry at the world before because everything seemed against me . I'm jealous when I see a whole family . <no-speech> after his mother took him they lived in Marikina and to help with their expenses John grew up in the streets . he became strategic . just to have an allowance I'll be selling in the streets until twelve . and then I'll say I'll come in . sir yes sir . he really dreamed to become a soldier that's why he entered as jungle fighter in Mindanao . I trained for two years in jungle fighter when they were about to send me to Mindanao I said there's no money here I said I'll die and I'll be AWOL . until he thought about being an extra in films . I'm more attractive than this why are they in T_V . I can be in T_V I said I'll try it . I applied in Escolta how shameless all of them are there -- the producers in Escolta . ah ah ah ah I hung out there . I requested to the directors if you need an extra or a minor actor please try me . I am the child of Ruby Regala sir . that's how much I had confidence on myself . that's how direct I was . became a member of That's Entertainment in the nineteen eighties . it was just fine with me if I had a starring role that was fine with me . but I didn't star in everything because I will lose popularity here . well it's hard to maintain when you're in the peak . according to him he had everything before fame wealth . I had a lot of money back then . I didn't use a bank . all my money were filed in the cabinet . I looked like a hunchback back then . why you ask ? my jewelry were heavy . all that had it and then my money just here in the pocket was always thick . he was involved in some issues . so since two thousand one he wasn't given any project anymore . that's when his showbiz career started to go down . I said how will I be in many films if I won't that's what I the drugs problems with my father even came along mhm . he regretted all of that . he decided to once again have faith in God . at first I can't accept it it's hard to accept . until I realized I can't do anything . whatever way if God won't permit to it to happen still can't do anything . so I said I'll just accept the truth that this is what happened to my destiny . until I reached the rock-bottom of life . even my relatives before they lend me one hundred pesos I get curse and insults first . but when I had the means well I helped my relatives just like that . at present the actor is busy with his environmental project . couple of businesses and advocacy for the farmers of Nueva Ecija . my advocacy there is to help the farmers . because no one pays attention to the farmers . he still wants to be back in showbiz and hopefully this will serve as a lesson to some the mistakes and vices he did . meanwhile John didn't forget to thank the guy who helped him when he fainted . we arranged for Toto and him to meet . I thought no one loved me anymore no there are still a lot idol there's still a lot I thought people has already forgotten about me . that's why sometimes I get depressed . that hurt because I truly love my fans . now I have proven that until now the love of man is still in me . whenever I encounter something like that I will really help anybody . yes is this correct sir right ? yes to those living in Zapote a great many thanks to you for helping me right sir . I have proven that you truly love me and that gives me encouragement . for me to fight in the world . don't worry when I return boom . okay we will return . I truly love you okay . thank you all right .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_24160347 differential of AFP/PNP held off and issues on Pacquiao fight retired police and military pleads, begs, implores, and kneels because their expected money for Noche Buena is currently a living for the followers of Satan! what we're pointing out is the "differential" that amounts to more or less P7,400 for each that is still not being given out! according to the complainants, there's information that some officials of Crame conspired to maintain the funds in the bank, to benefit from the interest! at this point, we're giving a chance to the agencies responsible for the release of "differential" of retired police and soldiers to release it before Christmas. if not, we'll investigate which demon is behind this deceit, and we'll skin them, brother, alive! promise! and we'll tie those animals, headfirst! why can't we move on from this, the defeat of our national fist? for that reason, the game was lost for Pacman and Bob to get money in the next game. in that sense, the hit that knocked off Pacman wasn't actually hard! son of a bitch, can't you see that Manny grimaced! why don't you try getting a hit from Marquez so that you'd know! your abdomen might swell from the impact of Marquez's "dynamite"! according to Pacmom, the reason behind her son's loss is his change of religion or his deviation from being Catholic! why, aren't there Catholics who lose? there are lots! for that reason, he's not wearing a rosary anymore. hmm, I think, brother, even if Pacman romances with Rosario, Magdalena, or Alma, if the hit was really that strong, surely, you'll be knocked out! why are we only blaming Rosario? hahaha, even if we say that it was only luck, in other words, that was really a loss. and it only proves that luck is more dominant than fortune!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_49022181 one of the biggest problems of education of the country is the lack of teachers . the search for qualified teachers to guide our children is difficult . in the data of the Professional Regulation Commission or P_R_C do you know that for those who are getting their licenses to become teachers those who have passed have not almost reached fifty percent in the past nine years . so more than one hundred and forty thousand -- forty-five thousand teachers are lacking in the whole country last two thousand ten not half is addressed . the question now are all the new teachers hired to teach are licensed by the government ? Hadji Rieta looks closely . <no-speech> year two thousand nine when the first series of Real Travels featured this young teacher . only in second year high school and teaches voluntarily to a group of grade ones in the town of Datu Odin Sinsuat in Maguindanao . more than three years have passed but the problem of Maguindanao before is still its problem now . really difficult . too many students -- our teacher is insufficient . in the whole country here in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao or A_R_M_M has the largest insufficiency of teachers teaching elementary . for each teacher it reaches to fifty-nine students she handles in one class . <no-speech> stated in the Philippine Teachers Professionalization Act of nineteen ninety-four that only those who have passed the Licensure Examination for Teachers or L_E_T at least (()) and only P_R_C can teach elementary and high school . but because of the insufficiency of licensed teachers in the provinces the volunteers are allowed to teach here . in one hundred and three teachers who are teaching in fifteen schools in Kabuntalan for example thirty-seven of them are volunteers . like Teacher Normina who finished an education course but has no license in teaching . but every year I take the exam since I graduated last two thousand I have always been taking the exam . I have not only taken the exam for two years last two thousand and then two thousand three . Ma'am Rosas Sulayman a former Overseas Filipino Worker have not finished college but a facilitator now in a pre-school in Kabuntalan . financial problem so I was not able to continue in college . I have not yet graduated . I'm an undergraduate . although they're volunteers they're very diligent in teaching . whatever our permanent does they're also like that . because of the shortage even the licensed teachers are forced to teach subjects outside the scope of what they've studied . Teacher Jomari for example majored in Technology and Livelihood Education . but he's teaching Values Education now . (()) of course there are things you need to study but at least somehow you've already done that . in the latest record of Department of Education or DepEd public schools in the country lacks more than one hundred and forty-five thousand teachers . but this problem is gonna be solved soon . the budget to hire teachers is only enough for ten thousand to thirteen thousand sixteen thousand . you might say even lower . now sixty-one thousand five hundred ten teachers . this January almost thirty-five thousand teachers was hired by the DepEd as new teachers . and before this year ends this will be added by more than sixty thousand new teachers . this does not include the approximate of five thousand teachers that will be hired by the local government . but it seems like there is another problem . many of the teachers in the country are almost gonna retire %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32253112 Aiza Seguerra, Ryzza Mae and other EB Dabarkads displayed skill on their Eat Bulaga Lenten Special drama "mystery". posted by: hataw tabloid on March 30, 2015 in show business while the EB Dabarkads are having their vacation in Osaka, Japan, staring this Monday, March 30 through April 1, six back to back stories in "mystery" Eat Bulaga Lenten special will be available for public viewing. this holy Monday, we will be able to see two stories: "destiny's joke" about the May-December love affair of Keempee de Leon and Nova Villa accompanied by Paolo Ballesteros and Jimmy Santos directed by Mark Reyes which will be immediately succeeded by "a leaping in the blood" which will be the first pairing of "little miss Philippines" products Aiza Seguerra and Ryzza Mae Dizon who both already displayed competence in acting. and this will be under the direction of Gina Alajar with the cast including Pia Guanio, Julia Clarete and Ricky Davao. on holy Tuesday, we will witness stories reflecting the true meaning of love and how long you can endure for your beloved. it will be starred by Pauleen Luna and Rocco Nacino who will play a married couple and supported by two multi-awarded actresses Jacklyn Jose and Dabarkads Anjo Yllana. it will be from the direction of Jose "Javier" Reyes. much anticipated is the dramatic encounter in "Pinagpalang Ama" of Joey de Leon, Wally Bayola, Jose Manalo and Ryan Agoncillo who will be portraying a gay person who is fond of joining gay beauty pageants, and Miss Joyce Bernal is the director of the episode which will have an important role played by Miss Pilita Corales. for the final back to back episode, the GMA-7 primetime queen Marian Rivera and the hottest young star Bianca Umali can be witnessed on "caring of the heart" this coming hole Wednesday. Bianca will be playing a retard and they will also be accompanied by one more excellent TV, movie, and stage actress, Miss Irma Adlawan, and Miss Joyce Bernal will again be directing the heavy drama episode that will make the television viewers tear up. you will be able to see boss Vic Sotto on his excellent portrayal of a teacher in "love's change", which will be the last story you will get to witness in mystery Eat Bulaga Lenten special, also including Tito Sotto, Ina Raymundo, Seff Cayadona and Allan K and the high caliber Joel Lamangan will be directing the said episode. before the release on the Kapuso network, Eat Bulaga screened the series to students in selected schools which gained praises. the said EB Lenten special is delivered by OPlus Grande, Kopiko Brown Coffee, PLDT Home DSL and Tide. by Peter Ledesma
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16708648 return of US bases by Yanni Fernan March 30, 2016 No time was wasted by Aquino and the US to implement EDCA. Under this, the whole country would seem to be US military base while the Filipino soldiers are security guards. it was in the year 1991 in spite of the objection of then president Corazon Aquino, the Senate of the Philippines answered the widespread protest of the people and close the US military bases in the Philippines. the following year the US military force left bringing along their armament. on their departure, they left Clark Air Base and the Subic Naval Base, including Camp John Hay, Naval Air Station Cubi Point, Naval Station San Miguel and Naval Wallace Air Station. but after 25 years under the her son and current president Noynoy Aquino, the US military bases are being reinstated under the EDCA (Enhanced Development Cooperation Agreement). US President Barack Obama even came here in the Philippines in 2014 to sign the EDCA with Aquino which did not pass through the Senate. a lot of people questioned this but this January 2016, the Supreme Court sided (in a decision 10-4) with Aquino and declared that EDCA is not against the constitution. EDCA implemented: the whole country a US military base Aquino and the US did not waste any time to implement the EDCA before Aquino descends from his post in June. EDCA will last for ten years and because this is an executive agreement and not a treaty, it depends on the next presidents to extend its term. the five US military bases to be built in the Philippines was set forth this March. the difference, these are located inside the camps of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP). more than this, according to the EDCA, the US could build their military base where there is a military camp. with this, the whole country would look like a US military base while the Filipino soldiers as security guards. thousands of American soldiers will have facilities, armaments, and rotational access inside the following bases: 1) Antonio Bautista Air Base in Palawan, (2) Basa Air Base in Pampanga, (3) Fort Magsaysay in Nueva Ecija, (4) Lumbia Air Base in Cagayan de Oro, and (5) Mactan-Benito Ebuen Air Base in Cebu. but this is not the beginning of the deployment of US troops in the Philippines. before EDCA, there was the VFA (Visiting Forces Agreement) between the US and the Philippines, that was approved by the Senate as a treaty in 1998. under the VFA, there are no permanent US bases but American soldiers are allowed to go inside and outside in any place in the Philippines. they are also allowed to serve as advisors and trainers of Filipino soldiers, conduct military ("Balikatan") exercises of US and Filipino troops, and the docking of US warships (like the USS Ohio earlier) in the Philippines for repair and refueling. in fact, 600 American soldiers from the Navy SEALS and Special Action Forces were assigned in Mindanao called the US-Philippine Mission. to recall, two criminal cases of abuse and murder of a Filipina involving Lance Corporal Daniel Smith and PFC Joseph Scott Pemberton, both US Marines, occurred under the VFA. the US warship USS Guardian also caused damage to the Tubbataha Reef when it crashed in 2013. when the US-RP Military Bases Agreement was in force, many crimes were committed by American soldiers such as shooting of indigenous people, battery, rape and others. this also triggered the widespread exploitation of women in the form of prostitution around the bases especially in Angeles and Olongapo. they also left toxic waste in their military base. the real purpose of the bases to defend the Philippines against China supposedly is the reason being used for the return of the US military bases. the tension between the Philippines and China is intensifying in the West Philippine Sea. the armed forces of the Philippines are weak and in exchange for EDCA are the millions of dollars of support in military equipment will be given by the US to the Philippines just to have US military bases in the country. of the five military bases, the Antonio Bautista Air Base in Palawan is the nearest to the Panatag Shoal which is also being claimed by China. it was in 2012 when China began its militarization, land reclamation, and patrolling of the Chinese Coast Guard on the ocean and small islands in the West Philippine Sea, which are claimed not only by the Philippines but also by Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia and Taiwan. but EDCA cannot solve the entry of China in the West Philippine Sea, according to Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, instead, what EDCA mainly addresses is the interest of the US to continue to be the most powerful in the Asia-Pacific and to protect its free trade in the West Philippine Sea. the US has no commitment and it is doubtful that they will defend the Philippines against China's aggression. what's certain is the strong military presence of the US will further control the future of the Philippines. EDCA is an explicit violation of Philippine independence. furthermore, in the "rebalancing act" being done or the transfer by the US of 60% of its naval force in Asia, some political experts say that the Philippines and its neighboring countries in the Asia-Pacific might be the "next Middle East". direct intrusion it is also surprising that four US military bases are far from the West Philippine Sea and in fact, are in the central regions of Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. in these areas, the main problem of the US and Aquino government is not China but the pursuing struggle of the New People's Army. additionally in particular areas in Mindanao, there is the threat of intensification of the armed uprising of the Moro people. many fighters and cadres of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) are disappointed on the proposed Bangsamoro Basic Law even if it has not been approved yet by the Congress. the BIFF (Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters) and Abu Sayyaf are not denying their alliance with ISIS (Islamic State of Syria and Iran), apart from the newly formed jihadists groups. all indications show that American soldiers will intervene and intrude to suppress the armed revolution and rebellion in the Philippines which they claim as terrorism. the direct participation in the combat of American troops against the NPA or Moro has been reported not only a few times. it means that they exceed the terms of the agreement which is only to train and advise. in Mamasapano, the investigation of the Senate shows there are six American soldiers that may be directly involved in the operation to kill the alleged Malaysian terrorist, Marwan. this is aside from the intelligence support from the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency) and surveillance plane while the operation is ongoing. if they can do this under the VFA, what more under the EDCA with designated US military bases in the country. the US bases brings forth a dark future with the outbreak of more violence not only outside but within the Philippines itself. regardless of the denial of the Aquino government and the Supreme Court, the military bases will continue to be targets of attack by enemies of the US and the Philippine government which is subservient to the US. while this is not yet even happening, the US is already directly intruding and participating in the internal conflict of the Philippines.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_58114187 gang rape on the street by Cherk Balagtas August 19, 2016 a female deaf and mute was met with tragic fortune when she was gang raped on the street by three male neighbors at Caloocan City yesterday at dawn. news from Caloocan City Police - Women and Children Protection Desk (WCPD), stated that at around one am at early morning that the incident happened in a corner of a street just in front of one of the suspects' house, Mark Gonzaga, 29, unemployed and a resident of Biglang Awa, barangay 95 of the said city. before the incident, Gonzaga was said to be drinking with two of his friends, whose identity are still unknown, when the victim, alias Dominique, 19, deaf and mute, happened to pass by. when the drunkards saw her, they invited her to join them. the victim refused at first, but Gonzaga managed to convince her until they all got drunk and by then, they started to molest the poor victim. the suspects started to touch the teen victim's private body parts before they forcefully shoved into her mouth their private parts. fortunately, one neighbor, who has CCTV installed in front of their house, viewed their monitor in there, he saw the indecent doings of the group of friends to the victim, prompting him to immediately inform the victim's aunt who quickly went to the place and when she was seen by Gonzaga's friends, they hastily fled. the victim's family was able to call for help at the station of Caloocan PCP I which led to the immediate apprehension of Gonzaga who got filed a case against violating RA 8353 or anti-rape law. the continued search is ongoing for the companions of Gonzaga who would not speak a word to the authorities regarding their identities.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12212019 and the cold right . we have red tide alert on Balite Bay in Mati Davao Oriental . yes . in -- in Bohol we also have -- in Dauis Bohol in the coastal waters of Daram Island in Daram . Villareal Maqueda Irong-Irong and Cambatutay Bay Eastern Samar . similarly in Carigara Bay in Leyte we also have that there . and even in Sapian Bay in Capiz too . and the coastal waters of Altavas Batan and New Washington in Batan Bay Aklan and the red tide . <no-speech> quite a lot because even Higantes Island which has not been visited by red tide for a while yes also has it . and the coastal waters of Naval Biliran province is also positive for red tide . even President Roxas in Capiz . wow . and even Leyte Leyte is positive already with red tide toxins . so somewhat as of December our latest red tide bulletin is five and we are not taking that back because ongoing is our monitoring what the status is in these bays . does this Usec Perez does this red tide organism normally become active during cold weather situation or cold weather climate ? no actually Sir Francis because sometimes -- we saw that we are more we have had a somewhat long drought right ? yes . maybe we have El Niño . the others looking at it they seem to attribute it here . but for now there is still no clarity on (()) you know this red tide organism when the blue mark is full that's good . it's still not thoroughly understood why . so for some reason now we are observing that when the rain is somewhat lacking well it seems it then appears . but is this Usec Perez only there with the shellfishes ? are shrimps and some crustaceans not included ? oh no . what is included here is only the shellfish particularly and also this shrimp is also prohibited nowadays aah shrimp that is okay because yes because it also eats planktons and maybe the concentration of toxins of planktons will increase in the shrimp so it will also affect those who will eat . oh dear the shrimp paste industry is affected . they do not really catch during that time because we are prohibiting that there according %incomplete okay so you still don't have a time frame set until when um but how are our shellfish farmers who are only depending on those mussels oysters clams scallops . how about their everyday living Usec Perez ? because the harvest of grow of our -- fishermen here is doing dual . that is not their only livelihood . so there is also fish those fishes is still fine and also normally the process although mussels and oysters are prohibited -- prohibited to harvest today those on the other hand are still getting bigger . this means these get even fatter and gets bigger so when they sell it is more expensive . but in the meantime in some areas already declared for example Capiz and also Roxas . I understand that (()) so that is to enable them to help their -- fishermen who depends here in this industry . so generally because it is actually true that these mussels and oysters do not die what just happens is it seems like these get bigger and of course -- the -- the production will only be delayed but we understand that to the others who really depend on this their livelihood is affected . oh no those -- seafood our shells are so delicious . most especially during these times right . when you bake mussels that is really delicious . yes but we are somewhat resting for the meantime . can we really say Usec Perez that is really dangerous to eat those affected by the red time organism ? when there is a red time we are really that is we really um -- we are really doing all the ways for people not to eat because we already know that people will die (()) accident yes your death if ever you really eat these yes shellfish with red tide . there in our waters where it is that organism if in case we have fish caught there wouldn't it be dangerous for our fish to eat those ? no -- no . we just need to remove the gills . yes (()) the cleaning we normally do . yes . that is what we need to do but fish are not affected by this shellfish organism . because they do not bio accumulated much and unlike these shellfish which are filter feeders that as they say are really -- what they eat are the the deep lettuce like that those organisms . they are not like yes fish so so so with fish we do not need to worry there . now I have something I want to ask an explanation about our fishing aspect . used Perez because once I talked to someone still from the D_A right . related to what is said to be what is this the aspect of micro -- organic -- what is this ? %incomplete the one which can affect food too in pigs in animals in -- microbial antimicrobial organism resistance . antimicrobial resistance Usec ? about that . there is also supposedly stuff that no like it can affect our fishing not just in agriculture what is supposedly being discussed now . the antimicrobial resistance . the use of antibiotics or feeds on -- on animals as well as on fish . ah yes yes . that is the use of antibiotics in feeds . yes . where is the reason in order for the people (()) to still eat fish . yes . or animals will become the germs will become resistant to the antibiotics . yes -- yes -- yes . and then it will become difficult -- to treat the people doesn't it mean you must be the use of antibiotics in some (()) reasons . which and then will result into like (()) yes you will become immune . yes . yes yes yes . and you already had many medicines you will no longer be affected like that . yes yes . that is a matter we will address because you know our feeds now you know -- our feeds now certain chemicals are banned to be added particularly certain antibiotics . yes . so we have that too . what is done to animals that is also what we do to -- to fish food . wherein the presence of banned main ingredients like antibiotics is also being monitored there . yes especially for those who culture the our marine culture parts that if they can somewhat see that there are lethargic fish they will give feeds with antibiotics like that maybe they should consult first with the authorities at B_F_A_R before they dispense any medicine for their fish right ? ah that is correct . but not too much -- not like in other sectors perhaps . this is not much the use of antibiotic on fish . un huh . yes it's not that widespread . on how to use it because they know that most of our fishes are exported okay . and also the shrimps . okay . and our trading partners are so strict . if they noticed that you have banned antibiotics they will send the shipment back . wow . so yes they return it . it's not that it's not that many times that we have received a return and why we are strict in monitoring there and in the end this is not on -- on for for -- for health reasons but because of those taking care of the export themselves (()) otherwise when one container of shipment costs a lot when returned to them . there . so that is why we are a little bit conscious when it comes to our -- our fisheries that certainly should not be using banned antibiotics or ingredients in the feeds . and it is only right for them to carefully check the feeds that they feed right ? or and actually in that level of manufacturer they motorized the feeds because it will be very difficult for the individual farmer . so that is for the level of feed manufacturers . there . now please let me check about the please tell us some stories about your successful travel in Malaysia for a big meeting Under Secretary Perez . this was in Indonesia in Indonesia . yes Indonesia was our . yes that was our last travel where we attended in the Western and Central Pacific tuna (()) meeting . okay in tuna . yes that takes somewhat long . I spent this five days in straight meetings . yes . and six days in H_O_B . the somewhat shortest one there is still the (()) continuous fishing there in the Pacific . yes . wherein what is always discussed there is what we will do . so that we can maintain the number of tuna . yes . and at the same time we can remove the threat there to our (()) species of tuna . you know Sir Francis maybe our fellowmen do not know that when you say tuna there are many kinds . yes . yes we have what we call yellowfin yellowfin the yellowfin . yes . that is the its back its fin is a bit yellow . yes yes . there is a shade and in yellow yes . yes with a shade of yellow but there are two there is a shade of yellow there is also what we call frigate tuna . yes . the fin is also yellow but the eye is a bit bigger when it is already growing . well yes . the -- the frigate tuna that is made into sashimi as well as the yellowfin . those two what is their difference from the Matambakol ? <no-speech> again the Tambakol that is the Yellowfin . ah that is the yellowfin yes . that is the yellowfin . yes yellowfin and then depending on the area the fins there in the bigeye are matambakol too . yes but the -- the point there this big eye are a bit rare now . ooh . yes unlike the tambakol or the yellowfin which are higher in number . that . so %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_95230579 fraternity and sorority, prohibited in public schools by Mer Layson Manila, Philippines - the Department of Education (DepEd) strictly prohibits the creation of fraternities and sororities in public elementary and high schools in the country. the statement was made by Education undersecretary Tonisito Umali after the death from hazing of Guillo Cesar Servando who is a 2nd year Hotel and Restaurant Management (HRM) student of De La Salle-College of Saint Benilde on Saturday evening. according to Umali, the order was made to protect the students from violence caused by the said organizations. according to him up to now the DepEd strictly orders all their regional officers and high school heads to carefully monitor the groups being set up in their school jurisdictions. Umali clarifies, only clubs related to education like the art club, math club and science club and the likes are allowed by the DepEd to run in public schools in the country.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50805427 Pastor Ariel Hernandez proves that it is possible to change a ruined life. posted by penpowersong Pastor Ariel Hernandez... proof that it is possible to change a ruined life. by Apolinario Villalobos when Perpetual Village 5 in Bacoor City (Cavite) opened, I was one of the first occupants, and also became the first president of the Homeowners Association. we had a hard time then. because of our haste to move immediately, we did not wait for it to have street lights and proper roads anymore. what we did was to be extremely patient in dealing with the traffic in Zapote, Las Piñas when going to work because there was no Coastal Road back then. after one year, a couple from Makati, Ariel and Precy Hernandez and their little child, Jaymie, transferred to the subdivision. when I visited to welcome them to our place, I found out that Ariel was a basketball player so I immediately asked him to be the sports and youth officer of the homeowners association. I was not shamed because he graciously permitted even if he has a job in the bank from Monday to Friday and sometimes until Saturday. I was not disappointed in appointing him because just after a few weeks, the youth in our place immediately became active. his recognition as a basketball coach reached the "farm" and nearby subdivisions that are also covered by our barangay. since then, when basketball is mentioned, it is Ariel who immediately crosses the minds of those who hear it. even then I already saw a compassionate attitude in him - easily handing out money for those in need even if nothing remains in his pocket. others who do not know him that well are just intimidated, because in his youth and while he was with us, he seemed like a "wall", because he had a large body, was somewhat tall, and had a thundering voice. it was also Ariel who encouraged the homeowners to go jogging from our place to Imus Cathedral/Plaza every Sunday at dawn. those who are lazy to get up can't do anything because he works hard to rouse the homeowners at dawn, and with his big voice, anyone he calls will really wake up. he was also one of those who worked hard to build the basketball court in our subdivision. his temperance gave in because of trying too much to get along with friends that led to his frequent drinking which became the reason for the couple's recurring fights. they are like family to me, so I often gave him advice but because he was still young then, he also often forgets my pieces of advice. in spite of everything, Ariel did not fail to carry on with the goal that he started, which is to impart his knowledge in basketball to the youth. he was also able to encourage the parents of the youth to play when there is a special occasion or as a pastime. after a few years, they moved to Camella Homes at Bayang Luma 3, in Imus City. their move was a huge deal because, in a way, Precy was able to distance him from friends who like to drink. however, it was inevitable that he will be visited by them, and with newbies too, which was why his supposed voyage on the "new path" was postponed. nevertheless, Ariel still continued sharing his knowledge in basketball with the youth of Barangay Lumang Bayan 3, which he started in 2006. (I will blog separately about the advocacy on the field of basketball because the challenges that he faced in order to fully succeed and be more famous were also colorful). the misunderstanding between the couple led to hurt feelings, until his wife temporarily left Ariel to live with their child, Jaymie, who already had a family. the intentional separation lasted for almost a year, but his eldest sibling and brother-in-law, named Nora and Jett Crisostomo, served as a bridge in convincing Precy to return to their home. this time, they became active in spiritual sharing so they also hosted a bible study in their garage. because the desire to change was seen in Ariel, he was made to study to become a pastor of WWCF-Imus with the leadership of Pastor Eli Famorcan. Pastor Ariel is now among the ministers of the Word for the World Christian Fellowship-Worldwide and is assigned in Noveleta. in the group of pastors, he was the "eldest" when it comes to age, but the "youngest" when it comes to experience because he started in the ministry only in 2010. it is not easy to be appointed as a minister of a church that is newly "planted" in a community because twice the effort in introduction is needed in order to attract members. pastors who are being followed by old allies are lucky because they are able to help in spreading the faith. also included is the responsibility of gathering funds because they rely only on love offerings or tithes from followers. nevertheless, Pastor Ariel endured all the challenges when he was fleetingly assigned in Imus, General Trias, and currently in Noveleta. he humbly admitted that he was weak in English, so as much as possible, it is Tagalog that he uses. his use of Tagalog was effective and good, and he bases what he shares from real events in the environment and life of people. for instance, he can manage to expound a simple message from the Bible, so it can be applied to the lives of those who are listening to him by giving examples that can be seen around. he may have unintentionally patterned his "preaching style" to be similar to the ones used by "Born Again Christian" preachers, whose gatherings are mobbed by thousands of followers. he is not the type of preacher whose speeches are mostly quoted from the Bible, which I think is "complicated" because it will cause confusion to the listeners. how, for example, can hypocrisy or hypocrisy be ingrained in the mind of the listener if what is said are all from the Bible, when there are many things that can be mentioned from events in our surroundings which can open their minds? whereas, what happened to Pastor Ariel proves that all persons who have the aspiration to change have a chance to achieve this as long as he works hard. also amazing is the avoidance of his wife because of their misunderstanding before, which was why it did not lead to their absolute separation. the perseverance of their friends who mediated can also be added to this, which was why the damage in their relationship as a couple was completely resolved. to strengthen the love that became stronger the second time around, the whole family is bonding in the home of Jaymie, together with her husband, Aris (Gatdula), and two children, Lance Quint at Luke James. Jaymie is an only child who was not able to pursue being a lawyer like her grandfather, the father of Ariel, but was luckily able to work at the Regional Trial Court in Las Piñas. Precy, meanwhile, works at the Regional Trial Court in Imus. Pastor Ariel is lucky because those who believe him include the current mayor of Imus City, Emmanuel Maliksi, who appointed him as a sports consultant since 2008, and Joe Lipa, consultant of Mahindra-Kia, who is able to help him obtain a sports scholarship for deserving graduates of the basketball clinic held by the King David Basketball Camp. many youth who have gone astray were changed by the basketball clinic of Pastor Ariel. some had more confidence in themselves so they were able to finish their studies, or became a manager in the company they worked in, and others were able to work abroad. Pastor Ariel preaches about his principles in life about unity among people which could happen if understanding one another will prevail, especially among those with different beliefs and religions. I just felt inferior when he told me that principle was strengthened even more by the things he had seen me doing and how I dealt with different people, whoever they were or whatever their belief was, when they were still living in our subdivision. he said that in reading my writings, his belief about "universal love", which should be forever, was strengthened even more. my heart was filled with joy when he mentioned that he boasts about me to his co-pastors and friends. but most of all, I was happy because there is apparently someone who is spreading the advocacy that became my guide in life. and a new Christian pastor at that!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_29233474 World War II World War II (Mark 3:22-30) second world war people saw the consequence of fighting among nations. the people experienced the difficulty of being divided and misunderstanding. many died. many buildings were destroyed. many dreams did not come true. because of this experience, many leaders of the countries talked and discussed on how this huge conflict will not be repeated again. this was when the United Nations was formed on October 24, 1945 that will give a peaceful arrangement in instances where nations are in conflict. this will also help those countries experiencing calamity and poverty. this is the result of nations seeking for unity for the people. this is also what Jesus wants for the people... that all will be one just like he and the Father are one. Jesus was accused that the healing he does comes from evil. but Jesus said that this is not possible because if a demon will go against a demon too, they will be divided and they will be destroyed. Jesus brought healing because this is what cures wounds caused by sins. in the home, when members of the family are fighting and clashing, the family does not cause happiness and instead leads them to become more distant to each other. in a country where the people especially the leaders are not united, the nation also does not grow instead it pulls each one down. it is likewise with the church. if the members of the Church are jealous of each other, gossip, and do not trust the ability of each one, its growth will also be not good. if all of us have our own selfish agenda, the Church will surely go nowhere. if we are always fighting surely our destination will be the swamps. let us unite under the one banner of love!
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_31612837 Josh a seminar for a cause will be launched by a group for us to -- raise the -- the youth better . this is particularly about special education . all right to talk about that Dianne we have with us here in the studio this morning the Kislap seminar speaker none other than Miss Madelene Marcon good morning . good morning . and of course the principal of Cornerstone Christian Academy none other than Miss Alice Foronda . good morning ma'am . okay so let's start with Miss Madelene Marcon . for the knowledge of everybody she was previously part of P_T_V four . welcome back to our new studio it's nice to be home again . all right . coming from P_T_V before what learning did you get from here ? that you're applying to your work now ? you know that's a very good question because when you gave me the question last night I thought there's a big -- correlation between being a broadcaster and a teacher . because when I was here I was a continuity writer . I was also a -- copywriter . yes . so there it really helped me in teaching %incomplete mm . because of continuity . remember when you teach you have lesson plans -- mm . and so it's not like it was just block by block . mm . there really should be transitions . yes . so the continuity -- being a continuity writer then helped me a lot to transition to teaching in an hour . mm . you know the difference is as a teacher you're a writer and a performer as well -- yeah . you are already the director then the producer too financier also . yes correct . you have to just really do everything for the kids . so there's a chance we could make it our second profession right . become a teacher . we're inspired by miss Madz . let's go to Miss Alice . I believe there was a workshop -- is -- there was also a seminar last January . tell us about the Kislap seminar ma'am . she was our speaker . the response was overwhelming because we had participants from all -- all parts of the country . mm . there were from Cebu Davao Leyte Baguio Isabela and N_C_R . and they learned a lot from the sharing of Miss Madelene Marcon . all right . so -- why do we call it Kislap and what is the main objective of this workshop ? okay . Kislap it's really a catchy phrase -- mm . which means -- Kislap knowledge of an innovative system -- mm . learning accomplishment profile . okay so this is what we're talking about in the seminar . mm . LAP three and then this upcoming seminar we will also be talking about early LAP . mm . now what are these okay books about or manuals ? mm . these are assessment tools -- mm . for children zero to five years old . okay . okay so the main purpose is early intervention . okay . because early intervention it's very important in education . because that produces trajectory of people in success . mm . that's why zero to five brain development is very important . okay . that's why the U_S gives this emphasis . mm . actually this one I got this from as a teacher -- mm . in the U_S and I found this as a very effective tool -- mm . because as a child and as a Special Ed teacher I can really catch here the deficits of children -- mm . okay . I catch the deficits of the child and then I'm able also to give the corresponding intervention . mm . that's so -- that's one thing nice about this . this and this . this one is for three to five years old %incomplete okay . while this is zero to -- it's really three . (()) okay zero to three . and let me just show you something is that okay ? go ahead . the reason why I have passion for this is and also the change of career . mhm mhm . okay . why from continuity writer you became a teacher why a change of career ? the thing is I have a -- child and she had atypical behaviors . mm . okay . zero to five isn't it that if you're a parent your child is so precious to you and you see behaviors you can't explain -- mhm . and then you want to go see a doctor right away to see it . how can I help ? is there something wrong ? and so I had gone through that difficult experience -- mm . of watching my child grow but I observe something atypical . mm . so I had I went to P_G_H which was still the number one then and at that time because autism suddenly appeared yes . it was becoming phenomenal what was that which is new during that time new during that time . so there was no way of explaining really what I have to find out what is it really ? and then I have to line-up at the P_G_H for a doctor six months and six months is too -- too long -- yes . to wait . if you are seeing -- how do I -- address this ? yes . I was in a difficulty before -- yes . and so I had to wait for six months and then after that will be given a therapy . yes . you have to wait again . okay . how many months ? so what do I do as a parent ? so my passion for this is very very deep . and then I'm finding out based on my partner here that this is the same problem all throughout . even until now ? until now the queue is still very long . there's still a long waiting line for kids to be assessed -- yes . and remember that zero to five is important . yes . in brain development . if so it's I think the most crucial years -- yes . for learning . so if we have neglected the zero to five what will we make of it ? they are candidates for school failure -- yes . and we don't wanna do that . so based on what I learned from the U_S when I was asked what do you think you can share here ? yes . I think that's the number one best thing to share is the early childhood . long live ma'am because of your passion this is going to help a lot in our country . <no-speech> ma'am my question what do you think will be the good outcome of this sparkle seminar ? since she started the seminar last January there are schools which are already using lap and because of this many children are given the appropriate systematic way of observing the child so we are expecting that in the next seminar this March twenty-five there are a lot to learn especially in E_LAP -- yes . from zero to three years old what are the methods observe there . all right . thank you so much for your time and hopefully -- we have inspired more parents to attend here in our seminar this March . again we have been with the company of Sparkle seminar speaker none other than Miss Madelene Marcon the principal of Cornerstone Christian Academy Miss Alice Foronda . thank you . thank you . thank you so much .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_33760601 <no-speech> the authority also monitors the level of water of the dam in the country especially now that thunderstorm Buchoy has already entered the country . Angat Dam the primary source of water in Manila is still far from overflowing and can still catch water regardless of strong rain . from Bulacan reporting on the spot Dante Perello . Dante ? <no-speech> yes Raffy . the water of Angat Dam here in Bulacan remains on normal level . <no-speech> in the last record of Napocor as of ten in the morning water elevation is at an estimate of one hundred eighty-nine point ninety-six meters this is far from the spilling level which is two hundred seven meters and two hundred ten meters critical level . that's why Angat Dam doesn't need to clear water actually it can still catch plenty of rain . it's slowly reducing . even there is we already have experienced rain not that much to rise . what have made it to rise higher is the simultaneous rain which is generating a bad weather similar to a typhoon the Angat Dam is set to undergo a rehabilitation forty-three years past after it was built on the last seventies decade the approved fund of the Department of Budget and Management is point seven billion pesos through the mandate of President Noynoy Aquino . the bidding of the contractors will be on the coming month . and the project is expected to start on April next year and will be finished on the year twenty sixteen the slopes of the dam will be lessened because it is too steep and will add a spill way . M_W_S_S had assured that the supply of water in Metro Manila which is taken here will not be affected while the rehabilitation is being done . the three year project is a result of six month study and examination on the structural integrity of the dam . because according to the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology or PHIVOLCS the dam is on the West Marikina Fault Line and can last a seven point two magnitude earthquake . they have also discovered now that it has a splay or root under the main dike of Angat itself . but there is nothing to be worried about . because the materials used in Angat Dam does not easily break or crumble due to the movement of the land . <no-speech> PHIVOLCS also clarified that the dam has no clefts similar to what is reported . the PHIVOLCS has been saying that connected to -- of the West Valley fault but this is far from the two hundred meters there on the dike . so still until now %incomplete so no -- this will not be affected if there would be a repeat of that seven point two earthquake . <no-speech> Raffy the unstoppable illegal logging and mining around Angat Dam Watershed is compromising the dam according to the M_W_S_S . that is the hot new from here at Angat Dam .
query991 adobo beef
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_91063613 Veneracion . Jun ? Jessica the first anniversary of the Mamasapano is being held here sincerely . some relatives of the S_A_F forty have come to the place of encounter to offer prayers . <no-speech> no cameras no cameras they call this Aray-ab . a ritual from Cordillera to bring home the souls of the victims to Barangay Tukanlipao in Mamasapano Maguindanao . where many of the S_A_F forty were killed the Aray-ab was held . families of some S_A_F forty that arrived are hoping that the souls of their loved ones are at peace already . meanwhile in Camp Crame President Noynoy Aquino said that the only thing that can make them and the families they left at peace is justice . you can expect together with the guarantee of support that will be given to the families of S_A_F forty four . are efforts to attain justice is thorough . <no-speech> but one year has already passed not even one has been filed with a case . the investigation of Department of Justice has already been submitted for resolution . in their first recommendation twenty-six members of Moro Islamic Liberation Front or M_I_L_F should be sued . twelve members of the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters of B_I_L_F and fifty-two members of private armed group . in the report of senate the high ranking government officials including the president also have responsibilities . and they will open the investigation this Sunday once again . while the process is rolling mourning goes on . the wife of Police Chief Inspector Ryan Pabalinas Erica didn't come to Crame . they already received the benefits including the scholarship of their children . but the wound is still not healing . that's right . yes I (()) for my child I hope this can be cleared or we can be given justice . the relative of P_O Three Chum Agabon in Iligan is still waiting for the promise of the government to finance the operation of Agabon's child who is sick . Agabon's widow is already planning to work overseas and leave the children first just to provide for them . whoever just help hand in hand . mm . those who are accountable should really take account in the system not just if they don't have any offense . the mother of P_O Two Romeo Senin is still thinking that her son is just in Zamboanga up until now . <foreign> and will just come home one day . according to the Philippine National Police or P_N_P there are groups that told the relatives of S_A_F forty-four to not attend the commemoration in Crame . our commanders have accounts . there were really efforts from some groups to prevent the families of our S_A_F forty-four to come over in . P_Noy awarded the highest recognition the Medal of Valor to the line of uniformed Senior Inspector Gednat Tabdi and P_O Two Romeo Cempron . Cempron is the lead gunner of the fifty-fifth special action company . the one who served as cover and was targeted by the enemies . when he used up the bullets and had no arms he blocked the bullets with his body to save his comrades . and Tabdi led the eighty-fourth S_A_C that fulfilled the mission to catch Marwan . wounded tired and thirsty he still efficiently commanded the group to counter the force of the opponents regardless of their disadvantage in count . <no-speech> the families of Tabdi and Cempron will receive twenty thousand monthly life-long aside from the pension . their children will also have scholarships until college . I give many thanks to the Lord that my heart is even though it's dead it's still here seems like it's still alive . thank you God the one who the forty-four S_A_F . I hope they find justice . <no-speech> medal of heroism was awarded to the remaining forty-two S_A_F . as well as with the five S_A_F commandos who survived . this also has benefits . together with the recollection of S_A_F M_I_L_F also offered prayers to the souls of their comrades who were killed in the encounter . the help of course attack of ancestry gave us help . not just for the (()) also the families of the (()) we also gave help but it's never enough . the local government of Mamasapano has an appeal for the five civilians that were killed in the combat . well it is only saddening because only the S_A_F is being noticed . I'm not saying they should not pay attention but I hope they include the civilians . even the fighters of M_I_L_F they didn't want the encounter that happened . one year has passed but this bridge that has been the symbol of the bloody encounter here in the town of Mamasapano remains up . this is no longer being used but the local government plans to restore it for this to be a reminder to all about the bloody history that could have been prevented . many has changed in Mamasapano . the road to Tukanalipao is now concrete and wide . rescue and reinforcement unit can easily pass in case of disasters . the wooden bridge has also been replaced . there are irrigation projects . there are new classrooms . all of these are programs they have not experienced in the past before the tragedy happened . like the signal is this needs to happen for them to implement the previous projects here . in coordination with the local government units here the projects are concentrated mm so that's part of the healing process . (()) . (()) . Jessica it cannot really be denied that the change in Mamasapano has been somehow big one year since the bloody encounter happened so the local officials are appealing as well as those residents that hopefully they will not be forgotten especially the following years Jessica . Vene those residents in Mamasapano are they confident that this encounter that has happened will not be repeated ? do they have more peace of mind one year after it happened and we have seen there are projects finally made for them . <no-speech> you know Jessica I had arrived here last one day after that Mamasapano encounter happened and I came back around two or three weeks after the military offensive against the B_I_F_F started and I have really seen the difference . that that that is different -- if you are able to talk those people there when they become secured . and the report also of the Armed Forces of the Philippines Jessica is they have not seen or monitored sightings of the armed groups here in their area of Mamasapano so they said based on their observation and in their security analysis is that Mamasapano has really changed a lot not only about the projects on progress even in the aspect of security Jessica . mm the livelihood of our fellowmen there which has been disrupted for such as long time . because we are seeing in the video itself its farmlands could have been beautiful right ? flat lands then there is a river the soil is fertile . but that was disrupted after the encounter because it has been long time since there are many people living in the evacuation sites . now is it back to the you know the natural grind of the lives of our countrymen there ? <no-speech> aah you are right there Jessica that those farmers here because mostly those who are here in the area of Mamasapano especially here in barangay Tukanalipao are farmers Jessica . if you can remember the that bridge over there which had become a symbol of the bloody encounter in Mamasapano that wooden bridge . the the bridge constructed there now which is only made out of wood Jessica that that is made as a bridge of the farmers to cross from the cornfield over there . that cornfield over there where most of the members of the SAF forty-four are pinned down and the farmers are crossing the wooden bridge now to send their harvest to the villages . now is the video you are watching that bridge has already been replaced . that is not being used now . this bridge here is crossed by the residents crossed by the farmers . this this wood has been done with a stronger wood metal that our farmers cross there in the town of Mamasapano Jessica mm I have seen there are relatives who went there of those who have died right ? because we have been seeing that there has been an effort by the government to really address all their concerns now that two medals of valor no less were given there to some of the SAF forty-four so that is the highest honor right ? then the government also is always saying to address all they have promised to the relatives of these SAF forty-four . but we are seeing that -- still in fury the anger what is the how would you describe that emotion ? is it still because of the manner of death of those their loved ones Jun even if one year has passed still seems to be very difficult for them . <no-speech> of course there Jessica number one is their search for justice and second is they still can't overcome the thinking the feeling of being neglected at the very moment when they really needed help . that is maybe where the source of the grudges of these families of the fallen members of SAF forty-four comes from although the needs they are asking are being addressed already . our government is addressing not only those SAF forty-four right but also those civilians who are implicated here those five civilians killed here in the encounter are the local government of Mamasapano said the government is addressing their concerns their needs . but of course but this is difficult to forget Jessica huh . only one year has passed since this happened so they are still in the phase that they cannot still accept the whole incident because they feel that something could have been done to save their loved ones Jessica mm because we heard all the details there on who many hearings are conducted what in the Senate even in the Lower House . but will you say that it's that feeling that they are abandoned and -- just left there to die those SAF forty fourth that -- that -- that is the most difficult to get over by those relatives . <no-speech> anyone perhaps Jessica who will be placed in this situation in that situation and you feel there is something that should still be done has something that can still be done the government can still have something to offer . their counterparts from other armed services can still have something to offer . oh you will really think that hopefully if the deaths could not have been that numerous at least the number of casualties were minimized right . but of course on the other hand their counterparts have been saying I'm referring to the Armed Forces of the Philippines so on that moment they are really groping in the dark . they do not know how to address the situation . they do not know how they are going to offer to offer help there to their comrades who are pinned down there in the cornfields . there in barangay Tukanalipao Mamasapano Jessica . thank you very much Jun Veneracion . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25000370 <no-speech> is Leng-Leng there ? no (()) . knock and tell her to get my bra get my bra . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's still there . it's closed . <no-speech> <no-speech> it's closed . <no-speech> tell her that . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> tell her to get my bra . <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> my bra was left in there . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> yes my bra was left there at Leng-Leng's . <no-speech> really ? <no-speech> <no-speech> the blue one . you . <no-speech> have her get the blue one . <no-speech> <no-speech> which one . <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> hello ? where are you ? are you outside ? <no-speech> <no-speech> I'm here . still standing here . <no-speech> have my blue bra retrieved . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> are you really there outside ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> Lyn . wait . ohh Leng-Leng is already here . <no-speech> Lyn . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> oh . <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> already here . <no-speech> did he bring it too ? yes Leng-Leng is already here . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_15981617 Malacañang denied they were connected to the arrested Lieutenant Colonel Marcelino January 22, 2016 an official of Malacañang denied they were connected to the arrested Lieutenant Colonel Ferdinand Marcelino. the Palace made the announcement in the midst of news that Marcelino is connected to the office led by Executive Secretary Paquito Ochoa. according to Presidential Anti-Organized Crime Commission (PAOCC) executive director Reginald Villasanta, their office has no ongoing operation together with Marcelino. Villasanta even insisted, the apprehended official of the Philippine Marines has never been an operative of their office. the information started after PDEA director general Dionisio Santiago said that Marcelino directly reports to Ochoa. supposedly there were instances too when Marcelino himself gave briefings of his operations to President Benigno Aquino III. despite this Santiago said that up to now he does not know if Marcelino is still connected to the office of Ochoa. Marcelino was apprehended yesterday inside a clandestine shabu den by the members of the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) and Philippine National Police (PNP) in Sta. Cruz, Manila. Marcelino earlier said that he was in the area where the PDEA operated to gather information. according to him, he supposedly can prove that his mission in the area was legitimate. earlier Marcelino was placed under inquest proceeding in the Department of Justice together with a Chinese he was with when he was apprehended. they were charged with violation of RA 9165 or violation of the Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002. -DCR
query1661 situation syn circumstance creator
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_27410160 PKP to AFP: stop serving mining companies as private armies. bureau of information Communist Party of the Philippines December 30, 2012 translation: CPP to AFP: stop serving as private armies of mining companies the Communist Party of the Philippines (PKP) denounced the hypocrisy of Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine Army in challenging the New People's Army in declaring a cease-fire in dangerous areas of natural disasters and accused AFP of conspiracy with large mining, logging companies and large plantations that long damaged the environment and imperils the lives of the townspeople. PKP charged Brigadier General Gregorio Pio Catapang, commander of the 7th ID who declared a challenge, being "closely tied to the care of mining companies in Aurora, Nueva Ecija, Kalinga, Ilocos Sur and Southern Mindanao." the 7th ID unit is stationed in the provinces of Northern Luzon even in Davao. "he shows crocodile tears and he pretends to sympathize with the people while his men are used as lackeys by mining companies to suppress the counter-mining struggle." "It is a joke for the BHB to declare a ceasefire in areas considered as endangered by natural disasters because it will liberate the AFP to carry out its campaigns of suppression of peasant communities and national minorities who are defending the their land and livelihood," said the PKP. the CPP stresses that the Aquino regime is implementing the Arroyo regime's policy to allow large foreign mining companies and plantations to use the AFP and paramilitary groups of the state as private security guards under the known "investment defense force." under the IDF program, foreign mining companies are allowed to fund the purchase of powerful caliber rifles and other weapons to arm their security forces to be trained and subject to the AFP's command. "The IDF has legitimized the establishment of private mining and plantation firms in order to suppress the people's resistance to the destructive operations and land grabbing of these companies," the CPP emphasizes. "many of the victims of the extrajudicial killings committed by the Aquino regime for over two and a half years are advocates of anti-mining struggle and peasant activists and national minorities who have been defending the people's economic, political and cultural rights against mining and plantation companies." "the CPP is pertaining regarding the killings of the Capeon family in Kiblawan Davao last October 18 by the elements of the 27th IBPA. the Capeon family strongly opposes, with all the B'laan tribes they belong to, the SMI-Xstrata company who illegally enters and grabs their ancestral land.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51211500 PNYG-young Filipino set earlier by Ramil Cruz October 8 2016. the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) changed the original dates and venue of the only remaining leg for the 2016 Philppine National Youth Games (PNYG) - young Filipino championships. from December 8 - 13 in Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental, the games will now be held on November 27 - December 2 in Tagum City, Davao del Norte. PSC chairman William "Butch" Ramirez confirmed yesterday after the planning session at the PSC Program Research and Development Division headed by Doctor Lauro Domingo, Junior two days before Thursday that the details were finalized. "yes, it will be held now in Tagum and at earliest dates from the previous one we announced last month," said Ramirez about the competition which has also raised the age bracket of the participants from 16 years and below to 17 years old and below in accordance to the Department of Education (DepEd) K12 program. young Filipino will be the second multi-sport event to be hosted by Tagum after the 58th national games 2015. there is a more strict implementation of the representation of players of their local government units (LGUs), whether provincial, city or municipality. an athlete will not be able to join without the accreditation of the LGU. it is expected that that the LGUs will send their best athletes to be able to receive sponsorship subsidy from PSC which has a maximum of 75 athletes subsidy from 75 athletes per LGU.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64361863 Saturday, August 20, 2016 the narrow door: reflection for 21st Sunday in ordinary time year c - August 21, 2016 - jubilee year of mercy in hell there's new word, and is asked to choose a door to punishment. first door: opened by a caretaker and he saw the people, hanging upside down while being immersed in the sea of fire. new word: "I do not like it there I do not like it there!" second door: opened by a caretaker and he saw the people are tied while lashed with a red hot whip new word: "I do not like it there I do not like it there!" third door: the newcomer heard singing "do not form waves do not form waves do not form waves" new word: "hmm I like it here looks happy they are even singing!" third door caretaker: "are you sure of your decision?" new word: "of course sure! I even know what they are singing do not form waves do not form waves" third door caretaker: okay you said so opened the door the new word fainted the reason people are singing "do not form waves do not form waves" because the people are submerged in feces up to their neck! hehehe they said, the after-life is filled with surprises! in actuality we have only two destinations in the after-life: heaven or hell. the last door is easy to enter, effortless, happy, with singing even! the first is hard to enter. in actuality very few pass this way because it is narrow, hard and many sacrifices are needed to be done. but the lord said, there is only one way to enter heaven the narrow door! that is why if our search in being Christian is only "good time" and "easy-going" in our being Christian then we are mistaken we cannot be lukewarm in front of god. damned if you do damned if you do not! being Christian asks only for one thing to be like Christ we pass by the narrow door everyday. always open inviting but because it is narrow many of us do not want to pass it is hard to forgive. it is hard to be honest to family. hard to understand. hard to be giving hard to act with dignity. it is easier to disobey the command of god. it is easier to steal. it is easier to cheat. it is easier to lie. it is easier to cheat than be faithful to your spouse. it is easier to commit a sin than do good. the offer of the convenient door is more inviting no hardship. no suffering. but we also know where the convenient door leads never ending danger! let us be wise Christians. this year of mercy let us strengthen our belief that there is a god of compassion who continuously shows us concern and understanding. he knows our desire to enter the door of heaven and he is aware of our weakness in deciding to choose good and bad of right and wrong! there is a reward waiting for us if we trust in the goodness of god that he will not neglect us in our effort because he loves us. there is a "heaven" we can reach if we endeavor to follow his will, persevere and be humble as we follow his commandments. remember there is only one way to Christ and where you end up depends on the door you will choose.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50948012 bad news my siblings the Commission on Higher Education approved the tuition free increase of more than two hundred colleges in the whole country . what's also tragic is that it's like us parents are just going to be surprised because the CHED declined to reveal which schools they gave a go signal to . Gerard Garcia tell the story . Mercy doubles her hard work in selling food to have something to pay for the tuition in college her seventeen year old child is taking Business Administration . we work hard everyday so somehow we also earn fare for my child . but starting this June people like Mercy will have a more difficult time . because Commission on Higher Education has already approved the tuition increase up to ten percent of more than two hundred private colleges . thirty-three here in N_C_R . that's why the twelve thousand that Mercy pays every semester will be added with one thousand two hundred pesos which could have been used to buy school supplies for her child . they shouldn't have increased the tuition fee so that the students and parents don't have a very difficult time . the Kabataan party list condemned the tuition-increase . access to college education might diminish . that's why we're anticipating that there might be an increase on dropout rates . but CHED insists that tuition-increase underwent due consultation with schools and parents . it's a necessity to also increase the salary of our teachers . they can apply for CHED scholarships as long as the student's grades are high and the parent's earnings won't go higher than thee hundred thousand pesos . it's possible that there will be a higher number of colleges that will increase their matriculation in the opening of school year this June . but CHED assures that the tuition of state colleges and universities won't increase . Gerard Garcia %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_48744503 Alaska Milk Fun Run accelerating by Ramil Cruz June 11, 2016 the importance of proper nutrition and exercise will be highlighted in the 5K, 3K and 1K Fun Run in celebration of Alaska Milk Day now at Mckinley West Taguig City, SM City-Naga City, SM City Davao City, and at SM Seaside Cebu City. this is in relation to the celebration of World Milk Day, highlighted also in the AMD after the run, which will be started at 5:00 a.m, is the milk toast at 6:00 a.m, Zumba sessions at 6:30 a.m and free breakfast for all the participants. registration is free. for each participant, Alaska will be donating their products at the Children's Hour. around 5,000 runners have registered for Metro Manila leg. Alaska Milk Day is strengthening the importance of drinking and maintaining healthy in lifestyle. the categories in the run are 5K and 3K for individuals, 3K family and 1K for 6-8 age group, who are also going to receive free Disney and Marvel character-themed freebies along with finisher's medals. the WMD is celebrated every year in the whole world. it is centered on milk as a global food for the health and good physique in each culture and country. Alaska Milk is encouraging the youth and those who are aging to make a habit of drinking milk and have sports to achieve good health.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_37051638 education not condom posted by: Hataw Tabloid on Devember 7, 2016 in opinion was the health secretary not thinking when she said that next year they will start giving away condoms in schools to prevent the continuous increase in cases of HIV/AIDS among the youth? as early as now, objection can be felt not only from the Catholic church but also from parents and different groups against the plan of the DOH. why the department is not properly focusing on information campaigns about HIV/AIDS and the problematic root causes like premarital sex, having multiple sexual partners and correct family planning, either through natural ways or through the use of contraceptives. the DOH should not have pressed on with their plan of giving condoms to the youth in schools because it will only worsen the situation and give ideas to the children that having sex is okay because they have condoms or sex is okay as long as they are protected. we can see the DOH's strong advocacy to control the spread of HIV/AIDS in the country, but not through the distribution of condoms only. education is still the best response and defense against the continuing increase in cases of this deadly disease.
query1068 jeepney passenger
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20609703 Living by the Honor Code: My personal experience (Part 3) we, the military, are exposed to the real outside world during the time when we are interacting with the community where we are moving in. because we needed to interact with the civilians and even the agencies of the government, there we are seeing the difference of the ideal environment in an institution such as the PMA and the reality that we need to face outside. my experience in my field assignment in San Miguel, Bulacan is the first challenge for me on how to stand by the Honor Code learned in the Philippine Military Academy. in the story I have shared first, my ears fumed when I have watched the segment in Magandang Gabi Bayan where the Army was accused to have received P500.00 per truck from the illegal quarry operators in Mt. Mabio. for me, that was indecency and disrespect not only to our honor as soldier but to the whole Armed Forces. how would it be if the military will be known as corrupt boys? while I am in service, I am not going to allow that to happen. our conversation with Captain Ado bore fruit when the 7th Scout Ranger Company already got a document that deputized us to arrest the trucks with loads of tea rose marble. for us, that was an easy mission. even if the bandits, who are difficult to search because of good skills in hiding, are outwitted by us, why not those noisy trucks? starting then, we have been arresting the trucks one by one which are forcing to load tea rose marble. we have been immediately bringing this to the PENRO office in Malolos to be turned-over to them. but the bitter part is, we are hearing the news that those we have tiresomely caught are released and also vanished like bubbles. seems there is magic why it happened. because of that, we decided that the trucks we caught will be brought to Fort Magsaysay. because there in camp, there is also a Task Force whose in support of the DENR to protect the environment. so we wanted that the turn-overs of the trucks would be there because the bosses there do not have settlements at 71D on those times. the game of the quarry operators and our rank became a cat and mouse chase. they made tactics such as using new roads to pass through. good thing, those angry residents themselves pointed to us where and when to anticipate the illegal quarry operators who are playing tag and chase with us. to make sure their use of dynamite itself would be stopped and the quarry of rocks there in the quarry site itself, I decided to patrol to surprise them there. in summary, we surprised the people there in the quarry site itself and confiscated their equipment as well as their explosives and low-powered firearms. that incident became a signal to stop the quarry operations in the place which became the reason why a part of the mountain was largely cleft off. I felt their anger at the stoppage that we have done against their disrespect towards nature. the settlement it was afternoon then when there were two visitors who had been arriving to visit me in the office. by chance, on those hours, I was with my Company Commander who is Lt Aquino and his colleague Lieutenant Jono Pasamonte. our First Sergeant who is Msg Rufo Guige approached us who had first talked to the visitor who was then waiting at a store outside. "sir, one quarry operator is there. has brought alcohol and foods," he said. "might want to make a settlement because we caught his new truck which is now in Fort Magsaysay." two of my upperclassmen had smiled and had immediately thought of a dark plan. "we would do this, Harold. you sit at my table and pretend you are the CO. just listen to whatever they say and decide on it," said Lieutenant Aquino. "we will be listening here in the room. do it well," Lieutenant Pasamonte added who had been laughing while quickly entering the room beside the office itself. I took my favorite rattan and leaned it beside the table. "first, let them in and I will wait for them here inside," as I also tell Msg Guigue, my good First Sergeant. bowed down and seemed shy, the two fat men entered our office. I looked at them from head to foot. the man with golden jewelries worn and a cellphone tucked in. my feeling then seemed that they were going to spread gloom in our camp. one had naughty eyes and seemed to have been estimating my look. "good afternoon, sir. the CO of the Rangers here is still too young. oh, I thought of the same age as ours," flattery of the one of them who was distinctly from Bulacan when he spoke. "Good afternoon too. what can I do for you since you happened to pass by here in my camp?" "like this, we just wanted to make friends with you. we have brought lobster here and Black Label, you are going to like these," Mr. Jewelry said who was panting while speaking, who seemed to be going to have a heart attack due to obesity. "Oh, I'm sorry. in fact, I do not drink. it is not my type to drink but I eat lobsters. nevertheless, let's make this direct. what is your purpose in seeing me?" I noticed they were shrugging elbows at each other on their seats. pushing each other as to who will be the one to speak. seems Mr. Jewelry is forced again to speak. "Sir, we want to plead if it is possible to return our truck which is in Fort Magsaysay. we also want to continue our small livelihood which was stopped," he said. brother, about the truck, you claim it there at Fort Magsaysay. you are charged with illegal quarrying. how is it, because Mt. Mabio is a protected area. did you not have any conscience to cleave and destroy it?" "we understand it is prohibited, sir. that can be discussed similar to what we do with our friends who are officials here. and... so sir, not to be forward, we can set aside for you P5,000.00 per truck that we fill." that's it. my anger is too much because of the offer that I become part of their foolery by accepting bribery. just imagine, a minimum of 5 trucks being loaded in one night. rapid way of getting rich, just closing an eye! "mister, I do not care about your money. do not teach us foolishness. did you see that rattan? do not wait for that to be used in decision-making!" in that moment, Lieutenant Pasamonte could no longer resist going out from his hiding place. "son of a gun, what do you really want?" as if having seen a tiger, the two visitors stood up quickly and went out through the door. "no, sir. no, Sir. don't. just let it be!" when the vehicles of the two revved up, my two upperclassmen in PMA laughed hilariously. "you are a frightening CO! that is right, do not be swayed by those fools!" for the first time last 1996, the marble operations in Mt. Mabio which is part of the Biak na Bato National Park completely stopped. I thought, perhaps the soul of Emilio Aguinaldo is smiling because of the success that we have achieved in those times.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_64208138 Saturday, August 03, 2013 it's my last day today where you were born, what course did you finish, your status in life and how many people do you know will not be talked about but what you are doing right now that is beneficial and helpful to others. this is my last day on this planet. later at night I will sleep again with no assurance that I will still wake up. Tomorrow, if I am blessed to wake up again I will have another 24 hours to fulfill my designated duty. and I will wholeheartedly be thankful for this blessing. I will do my best to fulfill my existence on this planet. I want to express compassion, love, understanding and any good deed no matter how small without expecting anything in return. this is my principle: I am not a holy man who follows the principles of other people or speaker of rules and dogma of religion. and this will not happen to me until the day I leave this world. please, don't expect for me to follow things that I could not understand and nothing but fantasy. I have no ability to give meaning or explain these things. because I am giving more attention to my existence on this world; who I am, where I am headed, and what mission is given to me. we all have our own package that we need to play out. as long as I do not have enough knowledge about myself, I am like a dried stick that is being carried away by a raging river. I am swiftly taken away with no clear direction. I don't want this to happen to me. there are many things I need to do in this life. especially for the sake of my love ones. I have no time for useless things that cannot be fully explained. the time I will spend on this I would rather spend to be exemplary and useful in the society I am in. it is my duty be prepared, knowledgeable and compassionate to anyone. I am doing this without expecting anything in return or for the promise of false prophets for paradise. it is not in my system to become holy and to become a gentle sheep in this world of struggle. every passing day, I always need to be awake and on the right reasoning. if I will be negligent, my awareness will be snatched. our two friends which are nuns said, "don't trust, and fully trust." in the dollar bill of Americans, it is written, "in God we trust" it proves, that when you face a person, he is not perfect and changes his mind often. reminder to not sleep while awake. I always say even back then when I was in elementary, "I do not go to school to get high grades, but to learn." in case I get high grades, it's my teacher's problem. I do not compete with anyone, the only one I compete with is myself. I try to overcome whatever I did yesterday. it's my habit to look carefully at the path that I am walking on, and to ask myself: what is my intention and why am I doing this? does this path have a heart? if it agrees and on the right reasoning. the path is towards goodness. and if not, there is no sense for me to continue. because all I will ever get is failure. as for me, the only truth is to be true; in mind, in words, and in actions: to become a true Filipino.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_46829238 <no-speech> here I am going to work later . oh how are they and mother there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . still okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ? oh what how are you do you have a job ? they are okay and mother here . <no-speech> <no-speech> already have . <no-speech> <no-speech> oh what is your job ? in the fast food I am -- I am working in a fast food now . <no-speech> where ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> in fast food . of ? <no-speech> <no-speech> four . burger . good for you you already have a job . <no-speech> <no-speech> ha ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> eh what about you what are you doing there now ? hello ? <no-speech> nothing . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing yet helping around the house . hello ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> still here in the house helping taking care of my nephews . (()) you are neglecting him . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? nothing I said . <no-speech> here overseeing the house . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> overseeing the house . don't you have any company there ? <no-speech> you ? <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_99536223 his immediate responsibility by Pinoy Weekly national issues needed to be faced by the Duterte regime. what should be the content of the State of the Nation Address (SONA) of President Duterte? different progressive organizations have initially presented the 15-point People's Agenda to Duterte. for the progressives, this should hopefully be the focus of SONA. but most of those in the agenda are for the larger change in the society. what are the immediate cases or issues in relation to these agenda which should better be addressed first by the new president? the Pinoy Weekly put a content to these agenda - concrete issues that should be faced by Duterte in each people's agenda. support national sovereignty and integrity in the territory of the Philippines the Duterte administration expressed that it will continue the assertion of the sovereignty of the country of the West Philippine Sea. the difference in Duterte, he wants to launch a bilateral talk with China. but he has initially said that he has not seen any mistake in the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement or EDCA. about the Visiting Forces Agreement or VFA, Duterte said previously that this should be dismissed because this is not helping the Filipinos. what is good, he attacks US again whom he said to have been bringing terrorism in the countries in the Middle East because of its interference to these countries. respect human rights and embody democracy. Duterte has been open to the release of political prisoners. but the incidents of killings of those suspected drug users and pushers are now controversial. this is condemned by various groups. according to Karapatan, a human rights group, their stand against extrajudicial killings in any individual remains. meanwhile, the Department of Justice dismissed the cases against the Lumad leaders and their supporters in helping the Lumad evacuees in the United Church of Christ in the Philippines - Haran in Davao City. assert the decision of the nation in its own livelihood, take care of the national patrimony Duterte has initially criticized the World Trade Organization (WTO), a global organization which is pushing for the opening of the markets of countries to be benefited by imperialist countries. but the content of the 10-point economic plan of the government is the continuance of the neoliberal policies in the economy. the duty now of Duterte, turn his back from those policies which are worsening the poverty of the citizens. launch a national industrialization Duterte said that he agrees with industrialization. the statements of the adviser of the president for the economy RJ Jacinto are positive in relation to the plan of rising the metal industry. but despite of this, the enticement to foreign capitalists continues - not to capitalize in the industrialization of the country but for the cheap work force and exploitation of natural resources. implement the authentic land reform Duterte has a go-signal to solve the problem in Hacienda Luisita. the Department of Agrarian Reform, through the leadership of Sec. Rafael Mariano, released a status quo order. these steps are positive. but the monopoly of few families and corporation of big agricultural lands still remain in the country. for the minimum, the Genuine Agrarian Reform Bill of Makabayan needs to be certified as urgent in the Legislative Chamber. raise the salary, livelihood of workers according to Labor Secretary Silvestre Bello III, the marching order of the president to him is the dismissal of contract-based employment. but just recently, Bello also said that perhaps the end of the "endo" or end of contract will be commenced on the year 2017. but he has not been saying if he is going to fulfill the wish of the workers for a National Minimum Wage. meanwhile, aside from the increase of wage and dismissal of the end of contract, the Workers' Agenda of the May One Movement (MOM) also includes the respect of the rights of workers to form a union. enlarge public service Duterte is not yet retreating the policy on privatizing public housing and relocation. the positive, he promises that there is no demolition until there is no relocation. meanwhile, privatized or going towards privatization of the hospital like the Fabella Memorial Hospital. all public services - housing, education, health, transportation, communication and livelihood - are privatized. the public character should be given back to the citizens and not to businesses and foreigners. covered the issue in the print edition of the Pinoy Weekly released this July 24, 2016. stop anomalies and all forms of irregularities and corruption the former president Estrada and Arroyo are ousted and jailed because of anomalies and other sins towards the nation. in the recent not-guilty announcement for Arroyo for anomalous cases, there is a need to call for an answer from all corrupt such as former president Aquino and all his accomplices. from the Disbursement Acceleration Program and Priority Development Assistance Fund to the Conditional Cash Transfer and 4Ps, the systematic corruption needs to be finished. lessen the military budget, allocate it to the economy and public services it is clear that the military force is laid back, from nationalist principles to equipment and facilities. the high budget which has been allocated for a long time should be ended, especially that it continues the mercenary tradition of creating violence in the state and being used by private and foreign politicians and business. the funds for violence is too high, while public services, wages for teachers are snatched and glared by spiders. uphold a patriotic, democratic, scientific and progressive system of education and culture aside from K-12, the discussion centered in the excision of the Filipino language as a subject in the schools, while the incorrect and crooked discussion of the history of the Philippines in textbooks have become issues. this should be given a full notice so that the patriotism of our students will not be lost and make sure of the patriotic education for the next generation. uphold equality of gender and fight against sexual and gender discrimination the discrimination towards the gay, lesbians and transgender communities continues cause by the patriarchal orientation of our culture. but the struggle of the community continues to achieve equality in the eyes of the society towards them. ensure a brilliant use of natural resources and take care of the environment the exploitation of the environment in the country continues especially by foreign mining companies. laid now in the new administration is the dismissal of the policies which have bad effects to the environment such as the Executive Order 79 of Aquino. respect the rights of the national minority for self-determination and development the Lumad in Mindanao calls to stop the military operation in their ancestral lands so that they can come home. the suspension of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources to the destructive mining in their places which are part of their ancestral lands is a huge help. part of these mining are the Benguet Corporation, Nickel Mines Incorporated, Zambales Diversified Metals Corporation, LNL Archipelago Minerals Incorporated and Eramen Minerals Incorporated. continue the peace negotiation with NDF and complete those with the MILF the government and the National Democratic Front has preliminary talks in Oslo, Norway even before Duterte formally steps in office last June. Duterte has been open to the talk with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. the duty of Duterte now, to ensure the continuance of peace talks even there is a much pressure from the military and the US government against it. persevere for an independent international law Duterte promises to fulfill the previously signed international agreement even it is clear that most of these are against the sovereignty. along with review of the unequal agreement, Duterte needs to show that we are not going to be subjugated under the interest of the US or any imperialist in the international relations of the Philippines.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_29272811 a system of "whatever comes" in marriage "marriage is not like a rice that you feed in, and when you get burned, you can spit it out," the old ones said. not only to some but many young people have fallen to danger, to separation from their support in life or spouse, because of familial problems that they are experiencing because they are not ripe to wade through a married life. their children are suffering, losing a real father and mother to guide them, but when they cannot endure each other, in the difficulty of carrying out the married life. in our observation of the current times, those who are getting married are becoming younger and younger. the one in your service has a question to lovers. do you have a sufficient age and ability to raise a family? have you finished your studies and have a stable livelihood? or, you are giving difficulty to your parents because they are going to raise your new family, and you are going to live with them? how will it be, when you are short of money, because you have not finished school yet and does not have a livelihood? where are you going to get the rent for the house, payment for electricity, water, food for the every day, various expenses, especially in the time now, the kind of lifestyles seemed to be higher? we cannot tell the words "whatever comes," because, surely, this will cause our lives with uncertain future which will bring anyone to danger. so for the youth, even those in the right age, who are dreaming of wading through a married life, but has not stable livelihood. pray and ask guidance from God before you decide on your tasks. do not hurry, there are many opportunities which will arrive in your life which will cause relief, happiness which you will never ever regret until you get old, because you have done what is right.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_54104427 senior associate justice Antonio Carpio will take the seat of acting chief justice of the supreme court after former chief justice was dismissed by the senate impeachment court . Corona was immediately removed from the position after he was sentenced guilty of lying about his Statement of Assets Liabilities and Net Worth . the acting capacity of Carpio is under the internal rules of the supreme court where it was stated that the highest senior associate justice will sit as chief justice if the chief justice is absent . Attorney Gleoresty Guerra will serve as the supreme court spokesperson as replacement of court administrator Midas Marquez while acting chief justice Antonio Carpio is in position . <no-speech> the position of Attorney Midas as court administrator is a permanent one so it's not co-pernimus with the term of chief justice Corona . that's the statement of the acting supreme court spokesperson Attorney Gleo Guerra .
query313 election machine
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_12040032 heat stroke and the oven MRT and LRT citizens affected by heat stroke because of the severely hot weather are increasing. many pets, like water buffalos and cows, are also dying because of the extremely hot weather. they also get heat stroke. but what is worrisome is the heat stroke that affects people. because if you do not die, your family, even your neighbors, will get dragged into your distress. a big loss. for farmers, the death of their partners in farming, the water buffalo and cow, due to the hot weather is a big loss. because farmers use the water buffalos and cows in plowing farm fields, towing their carts while shopping at the market, selling their products and hauling their products, like boho and others, from the mountain. next to this is the farmers' use of machines, which do nothing but eat up their earnings through very expensive petroleum products and parts. this is where the difficulty of having no partners is felt by the farmers. heat stroke in humans. it is severe when heat stroke affects people. if you do not die, you will be paralyzed for a long time. and if you are the head of the family or supporting your family, you can just imagine the kind of suffering that your family will experience. it is okay if you are rich and the needs of your family isn't your problem. but what if you are just a common citizen? or what if you are living from hand to mouth? I should have just died. for a father or mother who is seeing his or her family suffering, he or she would just usually say, "I should have just died." because getting sick with heat stroke is associated with a child dropping out from school, crisis in electricity and water utility bills, crisis in buying medicine and hospitalization and other crises like getting kicked out of your rented house or housing paid by installment. with difficult times right now and with the government itself admitting that poverty and hunger is really widespread. 15 years of progress. son of a bitch. the government is saying that it would take 15 years before ordinary citizens could feel what they are boasting about as the progress of my beloved country. 15 years? how could this happen when some Filipinos manage to be among the richest in the world in just four - six years because of the Philippines' progress? or if you are a senator and congressman, or in the Palace of Malacanang, it would just take you months or years to be safe from the crises that we already mentioned. with the number or enormity of stolen national funds from the government. right, Madame Janet Lim-Napoles? in this case, those who get affected by heat stroke will have to wait for 15 years before they can have the money to buy medicine and be safe from the crises that we mentioned. son of 15 wasps! can you please shut up. heat stroke at the MRT and LRT. the complaints against the MRT and LRT, brothers, happen daily. many of its cars do not have air-conditioning. does their management know that many are having difficulty in breathing and there are some who collapse because of the heat in the cars of these trains? this should be checked by the management of the two railways. but it is the greater duty of the government to ensure that the passengers are safe from sickness. the government needs to convince the management to put an air conditioner in each car. if not, the passengers should not be packed tightly as if in a can of sardines to avoid any illness, like what is created by the hot weather. in other words, brothers, vans should not be allowed to be overloaded and it needs to be ensured that passengers are able to breathe and will not be squished like sardines while they are riding. corruption in the LRT-MRT. perhaps the citizens would not experience so much crisis in riding the LRT-MRT if there was no corruption in the construction, maintenance and improvement of the railways. like here in the new cars that are supposed to be for the MRT, it was allegedly filled with corruption. and its result, it would allegedly reach three years before all the cars for it gets here. this means that the cars are faulty, and for three years many would feel hot inside them. there is no news on what people from the LRT would do, which is complained about even more by passengers because of the lack of air-conditioning in many of its cars. President Noynoy, what is this? we might be alarmed when this LRT-MRT becomes the cause of death or severe illness due to heat stroke. demand versus MRT-LRT. there really is a big possibility of someone getting heat stroke in the MRT-LRT. can they be demanded if their passengers get sick? how can the government help would-be victims of the stove-like LRT and MRT? or are the people on their own?
query1715 can you go now
query904 fireman
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_21070020 banana peel, amazing! after eating banana, don't throw the peel yet. because the peel can still be used. these are the things you can do that will really make you say that banana peel is amazing! 1. when roasting a chicken, wrap it with banana peel. banana peel has enzymes that will soften the meat. it also preserves the tenderness and juiciness of the roasted chicken. 2. a banana peel is also effective in polishing a shoe. just apply banana peel to the leather shoes, and wipe it with dry rug. 3. it can also be a cure to skin diseases such as rashes and allergies. according to experts, a banana has a property that helps remove itch felt on the body. just wipe the banana peel on affected areas 2 times a day. 4. based on studies, banana peel also helps in removing pimples. it's also effective in getting rid of wrinkles. just wipe the banana peel on face, and rinse with water after. do this within one week. 5. banana peel is also an answer to headache. it has a natural cool that helps in alleviating hot and throbbing head. Marjorie Ann Dacoro
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96377148 <no-speech> this is your brother who is monsignor Paciano Aniceto . archbishop of San Fernando Pampanga . <no-speech> because I have many dreams before . I want to be an ambassador . <no-speech> yes I want to be a lawyer . but because my family does not have an income . it was only ordinary that I did not expect to enter the seminary I to -- took an entrance exam on the Philippine Normal College I will become a teacher . but one of our priest compatriots monsignor Fernando Lansangan he said he said father he said I heard this child of yours is no longer going to be a priest ? yes father because we cannot afford it financially . ah this is what we will do he said (()) arrangement . half is mine half of the board and lodging is yours . well my father my father already consented so it is pure grace right ? that I became a priest . I did not expect to become a priest . I did not dream of that . I knew that I will enter Philippine Normal College . (()) well now it is Philippine Normal University . am I am brought by the Lord to the path of Christ .
query113 water buffalo
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_89819338 after the celebration of World Teacher's Day yesterday some teachers rushed to Malacañang earlier to once again raise increase of their salary . because according to the study of Alliance of Concerned Teachers or ACT Party List the Philippines is one of has the lowest salary for teachers in the whole ASEAN . this is my report . in the social media many are greeting our teachers a happy teacher's day . there are some personal thanks because of the lessons uncovered to them by their teachers . some posted photos of their teachers . they said thanks for bearing with the unruly . some call the teachers superheroes . this October five is World Teacher's Day but are the teachers of the Philippines really happy ? the teachers of the country is now fighting . some teachers are up against the police in Malacañang now . they call for increase of salary for teachers like them from eighteen thousand pesos to twenty-five thousand pesos . the palace's response is they're with them in wanting to lift the level of life of teachers however this has an effect to the budget . in the study of the party list Alliance of Concerned Teachers one of lowest salaries are received by Philippine teachers compared to the nearby countries in Asia . the highest to give salary to teachers is Singapore . more than four thousand U_S dollars or one hundred ninety-one thousand fifty-five pesos each month . Philippines followed Myanmar the salary of their teachers is one thousand two hundred dollars each month or fifty-two thousand eight hundred . compared to more than eighteen thousand two hundred sixteen pesos only in the Philippines . they say education is the key to poverty and the teachers are the bridge to education . but what if the teachers themselves are trapped in poverty ? the sixty year old teacher Luz de Vera already half of her life she dedicated to being a teacher . nineteen seventy four was when she started to be a teacher . three thousand pesos was the salary . now she is a step three teacher of math her salary twenty three thousand pesos each month . it means that in up to her forty years of teaching the increase of her salary is only twenty thousand . it will be nice if she could keep all of her salary . but usually only three thousand pesos each month because of debts . well you will just find another way so teachers do sidelines sometimes . selling anything . before I tutor when my children were studying because my net is not enough . it will not suffice even for food it is still not enough . many of the teachers in the country are in the same situation as Teacher Luz . it is no joke to some teachers being immersed in debts . last month two teachers were shot by a policeman who is Domino Alipio because they cannot pay their debts in Pangasinan National High School . Teacher Luz said sometimes she has thought of working in other countries even as not a teacher . well because in abroad you can find a greener pasture right ? the salary is somehow higher abroad even higher than here . the difference is big . for now there is a proposed law filed in the Legislative Chamber to raise the salary of the teachers the House Bill number two four five or the Alliance of Concerned Teachers . in the Senate this has a three counterpart bills . but for A_C_T Representative Antonio Tinio it might have a difficulty to be approved by the president . if only at the Congress and Senate the support is actually huge for the salary increase of teachers and other government employees . the clog is really with the president in Malacañang . we asked Secretary Butch Abad himself and he said it could be possibly on twenty sixteen . but there are still other reasons that Representative Tinio sees here . because mainly women are becoming teachers . because a woman is not considered as the main breadwinner . historically that way but the reality now I have asked Teacher Luz in the difficulty of the life of a teacher why could she not let go of this ? because she knows that despite of it all her sacrifices have rewards . your students your former students are already graduates from college despite our difficulty . at least we could be just happy too . if has returned to school then %incomplete yes you have met outside . sometimes will go to school . that they have graduated according . that is our consolation in our lives even though it is too difficult . it might have been right to call Teacher Luz and thousands of teachers as superheroes .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_51908392 Arci, outshined by Gelli by Alwin Ignacio. December 27, 2016 there are dramas where stars need to look poor and dirty, but what's mind-boggling is that their bangs and hair are dyed, their faces are plump, and their arms could pass for laundry paddles. thank goodness they already ended the hair-raising Oh My Mama, which, chances are, was not even watched by Maricel Soriano. if she did watch it, she surely got stressed with what she saw that she could not help but dance Shake, Body-Body Dancer. in Until the End, Arci Muñoz cannot be a damsel in distress. you should be put to shame by Gelli de Belen because of her extraordinary talent in the soap, she had to be killed and thrown off a building so it won't be obvious that she is really outshining and overpowering Muñoz in the scenes. this Christmas, which is chaotic for some but cheerful for many, having wider hips and bulging baby fats and belly cannot be avoided. may we have less and less of these. dramas about people afflicted with mental illnesses that are presented in full melodrama overload. thankfully, the actors here are good. you are both to blame, The Greatest Love and Someone To Watch Over Me. dramas that have themes of revenge and the villain is always smarter and wiser than the hero. enough, the stupidity of the stars of Doble Kara is already too much. what kind of luck does Maxene Magalona have that she always evades the police and justice? less of commercials in top-rating daytime and primetime shows. usually there are more advertisements. it is as if only 15 minutes are left in the program. less of the artists, who are always thanking their hair & make up ex-deals, stylist and clothing sponsors whenever they say goodbye in musical variety shows. less news about backstabbers, traitors and other sorts of vile behavior (especially rape, massacres) on primetime news. less of Mocha Uson, Cynthia Patag, Teddy Locsin Junior and tactless and politically incorrect statements from President Digong Duterte. less of the extra-judicial killings, campaign on drugs, the obsession with the complicated relationships of Senator Leila de Lima and the grandstanding and holier than thou attitude of some of the men in power during Congressional and Senate hearings, who are pretending to be in aide of legislation. less traffic, electrical, telephone, food and basic services bills. Less of the too much emotions of Kakai Bautista. many admire your talent but there are more who disapprove of how you aren't acting according to your beauty. less of the stars who act cute, especially those who are in their 20's or are of young adult age. you know who you are. I will not name you anymore. just learn to be good actresses. less of Xian Lim's modest, demure and prim and proper ways. less of musical CD's from recording artists, who are not singers, and less singers, who have super auto-tuned voices or are indirect and off key during live performances. less of Aljur Abrenica who feels that his last movie, Hermanong Puli, is a really huge artistic contribution to Philippine cinema. less of denial kings, especially those who have a video and photo scandals. if the merchandise is huge, man up! admit that it's yours! less of starlets and studlets who are begging to be noticed so they will be talked about, so let's just cover the mouths of Mo Twister, Mystica, Keana Reeves and the rest of their ilk. less of Baron Geisler. no explanations needed. less of Kiko Matos. the love teammate of Baron. again, should this still be memorized? less of corruption, discrimination, greed, hunger for power and homophobia.
query336 electricity shortage
query337 oil companies
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_18699714 <no-speech> no doubt Pampanga is the culinary capital of the country . in the midst of the sprout of modern recipes some are still making foods which have Kapampangan trademark alive since the time of war . here is my assignment . <no-speech> Japanese Korean Mongolian Italian American . seems all international cuisine could be found here in Pampanga . along with the flock of tourists various foreign dishes are sprouting on both sides . in fact almost sixty percent of guest arrivals in Angeles City last year were foreigners . it has rooted from what was that the presence of the military bases right so well of course -- if that is like that you would know that there are a lot of -- a lot of foreigners . some of the traditional Kapampangan dishes seemed to have finally buried in forgetfulness . so this is what the seventy-five year old Atching Lilian tries to resurrect . she has researched for six years to recover some of the vanishing dishes of Pampanga . just similar with Quisa which was often cooked at the time of war . this made with mixed products in Pampanga like peanuts sweet potato and corn cooked with the boiled rice . this recipe is called Ikim Baka only a few knows . adapted to a Spanish dish mixed with pork sausage potato tomato and cow tail . we should be proud of what our ancestors have planted . I call those first cooks the unsung heroes of the kitchen . because they weren't known but Pampanga was known because of them . not only his dishes are antique but also his things in the kitchen that was strengthened by many years . <foreign><foreign> we can see the things of my ancestors aging two centuries . who else will inherit the traditional Pampangan recipe but the youth . that's why here in Angeles City even at a young age children are already trained in cooking . Pampanga has to keep up it's reputation because they're Pampangan they have to know where they came from . their specialty this day is their pride the Kapampangan sisig . the -- our cooking is so yummy . it's delicious . we cook and cut food . there is nothing wrong with progress and coming of different influences of food . but in the middle of modernization let's not forget the dishes that made our culture and history delicious . the formula there is to balance right ? while -- while there are some new things that come out along the way we are still with the campaign of promoting our local cuisine that should not be lost . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52301601 boatmen, resort employees join the training of DOH Mimaropa May 30, 2016 Lyndon Plantilla City of Quezon, 30th of May (PIA) - the collaboration of the Philippine Coast Guard and the Department of Health Mimaropa to increase those knowledgeable of water search and rescue or WASAR continues. according to DOH-Mimaropa regional director (RD) Eduardo Janairo, this is to ensure the safety of our fellowmen visiting resorts. at present, up to 336 people in Palawan have passed the five-day DOH WASAR Training. the number is more than half of 500 people targeted by DOH-Mimaropa for the region. the latest training was held in the town of Coron where 17 people passed on May 23-27. through knowledge of WASAR, RD Janairo believes that the trainees can immediately help those drowning. aside from this, the dangers faced by rescuers or rescuers will decrease whatever the condition of the water may be: calm, full of waves, flood or river. the DOH WASAR Training or training of lifeguards and emergency responders is part of a bigger program - the Health in Tourism - launched by DOH-Mimaropa on March 24 in Puerto Princesa. included in Health in Tourism are the control of rats and disinfection, cleanliness in ports and ships, placing signage in strategic locations, creation of associations of clinics, setting up buoys (buoys), lifeguard tower, inspection of water and proper waste disposal. (DOH- Mimaropa/LP)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_63677080 how about your wife how is she ? <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing . <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> none . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> okay . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> do you have a job now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hmm ? just here . do you have a job now ? <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> do you have a job now ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> (()) in what . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> to us I will let you enter a job . what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> go here to us I will let you enter a job . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> is it noisy there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> do you have a lot of companions there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> are you there on standby ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> your godchild ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> how many children you got there ? <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> I heard there are already two . you're quick you have outlasted me . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> just here . what still with the same husband ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> won't you talk . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> *that* is still your same husband ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> to whom did Jenny finally get married to ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> not here . what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> to whom did Jenny finally get married to ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I already miss you all there . just here . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> are you still there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> comrade . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> are you still there ? yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> who's your bet at the N_B_A ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> hey . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> that is expensive here . <no-speech> Miami is the champion now . just here standing by . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> sure . <no-speech> your Oklahoma is nothing . <no-speech> does not even have a say . yes just here . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> have you seen the attacks of (()) ? <no-speech> (()) . <no-speech> yes . nothing . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> visit me sometimes . <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> yes . visit me sometimes . <no-speech> <no-speech> you are not going here anymore . here . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> visit us here sometimes . <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_61197901 editorial: the style needs to be changed December 20, 2016 the message is clear in the last public survey: Pinoys want the iron hand and serious war against illegal drugs but they don't want the killings left and right that are happening. the non-stop operation of the police against drug personalities is right but they should be caught alive, prosecuted and sentenced to be punished for being involved in illegal drugs. life should never be easily wasted. the majority of Pinoys believe that everybody has a chance to change and this chance should not be removed by anyone. even a popular leader like President Digong Duterte. even if the justice system in the country has many holes and bluffs, Pinoys would still like to undergo this process of convicting drug suspects. here in this current system of "killings", no proof, no clear process by law, even the voices of the witnesses are drowned by loud words and declaration of the President that says, "drugs is a pest and protecting and rescuing the next generation is what I am doing." he repeatedly says that the killings will continue until there is a drug dealer and pusher standing in street. but what the people doesn't understand is why Peter Lim which he named himself (President Duterte) as one of the big-time drug lords in the Philippines and also said that he himself will kill him at the moment the moment he would step foot in the airport in the Philippines, until now freely enjoys his life when he met with the President, President Duterte said himself "help us help you clear your name". words that the President does not say to the ordinary drug suspects in the streets. those who do not have "access" to speak with him. those who only wear slippers, naked while paddling a pedicab or the ones covered with tattoos who were caught with a pack of meth. in such cases, people are thinking why is there a difference on how the President treats drug personalities.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_69063852 replay: youth and people movement in 2011 to the accompaniment of pop songs by Vencer Crisostomo, January 21, 2012 the youth and the people's movement for change last year seemed like a grand "baby you're a firework". while "everyday I'm shufflin" and people are struggling in poverty, today "I feel like not doing anything" of Malacañang to the grievances of the nation. that's why they are fed up with things "just the way you are" and the protests roared with "boomburumbumum". because of the worsening crisis, it seems a combination of picket protests, campus strikes, transport caravans, planking protests, occupy and campouts increased because of "someone like you" that "Moves Like Jagger". MRT / LRT fare, Oil Price Hikes Soundtrack: Price tag (It's not about the money) / Party Rock (Everday we're shufflin). in the early part of the year, "everyday is shufflin" the looming increase in prices of oil, electricity, water, tuition fees, vegetables, MRT/LRT "It's not about the money" because of the very high price, there is really no more money and pockets are empty. that's why everyday these suffering were struck with protests. in the early part, the youth led the Strike the Hike Movement and the activities against the increase in MRT and LRT fares that was eventually retracted by the government because of protests. transport strike and people's protests against oil price hikes were launched one after the other. the pinnacle of the protests was the public mass action last May 1. anti-budget cut strikes, fight for education soundtrack: born this way (jingle link) dance step: planking at freeze mob "because education / is our right / stand-up scholars for our nation no to commercialization / and privatization / stand-up scholars let us fight" we get "gaga" about the reduction of the budget for education and public services. thus, the youth and the people addressed the budget cuts of Aquino with protests after protests and a national strike. more than 20,000 people participated in strikes, planking, freeze mob, and long-march in the whole country. the youth also protested against the high increase in matriculation and miscellaneous fees that forced the Malacañang to promise a new tuition policy (which until now, by the way, there is none). the Commission on Higher Education was exposed of inaction that appears to be "born this way" in favor of capitalist-educators. there were also successes after the resounding protests at the University of Santo Tomas (UST) against the no promissory note policy and the closing of the Philippine Maritime Institute (PMI). Clinton visit protests soundtrack: hey soul sister / just the way you are "I don't want to miss a single thing you do" of no protest - was the promise of the youth at the arrival of Hillary Clinton in the country. "sister" brought the further extreme intervention of the US here and "friendship" of the US and the Philippines through maintaining of unfair treaties like the VFA and others. that's why "when they saw her face face face" her convoy was ambushed and was yelled at the organized form in person. their appeal was to change the unequal relations and "just the way you are" is no longer possible. Ka Roger tribute soundtrack: firework "baby you're a firework." ComradeRoger Rosal's life was really passionate so when the nation heard about his passing, honor and tribute were offered by the nation, various sectors, the poor, members of the media and the youth. ComradeRoger was an important inspiration and example to those who want to fight the rotten system and the activists desiring to live simply and be a spokesperson for the oppressed. as long as the system is corrupt and the people are poor, there are many ComradeRoger who will give light to the darkness of the night and will shed light to the people. fight for Luisita soundtrack: the lazy song farm owner mode of Noynoy Aquino: "today I feel like not doing anything" about the distribution of Hacienda Luisita. due to the strong insistence and opposition of the farmers and the people, the Stock Distribution Option maneuver of Luisita was thwarted and the Supreme Court favored its distribution. in spite of the order of the court, "yes, I said it because I can,"  Noynoy supposedly wants to give "just compensation" to his relatives. isn't it enough, the suffering they gave to farmers with the land they stole, that they still want to earn? they should be given "nothing at all". occupy Mendiola / campout soundtrack: Superbass (boom boroom boom boom) it seems the chest of Noynoy Aquino was pounded with "boom burum bum bum" by the Occupy Mendiola Plan or Campout protest of the youth and the people last December. the goal of the action was to fight the rotten system of the few and foreigners in a few days stay in Mendiola and to occupy it. Malacañang quickly deployed a multitude of policemen before the planned protest even began and was violent. the youth and the people were not shaken, they asserted their rights and they continued the camp-out in various places in Metro Manila. in the end, many saw that there is no difference between the Aquino government and the violent leadership of Arroyo and the need for a massive action and bold fight to change the rotten system. accountability of Arroyo, worthlessness of Aquino soundtrack: someone like you / moves like Jagger. after a year of the obvious agreement of Aquino and Arroyo regarding the unaccountability of the latter because of the absence of charges filed, the conflict of those in power intensified when Arroyo "moves like Jagger" and nearly escaped because of Aquino inutility. Aquino scurried in his last few moments and was exposed that they could speedily file a case, something that they didn't do in the past 500 days. until now, only light charges were filed by Aquino against Arroyo and it seems there's a special treatment with Gloria's hospital arrest. to divert the attention from his mistakes, and to look like he is serious to make Arroyo accountable, Aquino campaigned for the impeachment of SC CJ Corona. environment and tragedy soundtrack: party like 2012 / teach me how to doggie while it was almost like the end of the world for those who were devastated in the tragedy, Aquino was exposed to have been partying and teaching how to doggie in the Palace. Aquino has a greater liability in partying and allowing big mining and logging companies to feast using the resources of the nation without respect and consideration to the lives of the Filipinos. 2011 was victorious and meaningful for the youth and the protest movement. a greater victory awaits the youth and the people in 2012. it is not yet the end of the world. the big battles to end and change the social system are just beginning.
query441 money church
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_68726681 63 farmers of Bataraza, Palawan, granted their own farm land August 25, 2016 Leila B. Dagot Puerto Princesa, Palawan, August 25 (PIA) - the farmers of Barangay Marangas in Bataraza, Palawan recently received the Certificates of Land Ownership Award (CLOA) from the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR). this was after DAR succeeded to pass to the 63 farmers the ownership of the 43 hectares of land, which was formerly owned by the Agro-Marine Industrial Corporation, under the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform (CARP). "like a thorn was pricked out of us, seemed impossible, like a dream that we can finally farm the land given by the government to us," said Allan Bello, President of the Boli Ponti Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries' Association (BPARBA). the Association is composed of farmers whose primary wish is to be asserted in the government that the ownership covered by CARP be given to them. only this July 28 until 29, DAR officials went to the places along with the troops of the Philippine National Police (PNP), Marine Battalion Landing Team (MBLT) 12 and few personnel of the Commission on Human Rights (CHR) to lead the farmer beneficiaries and to settle safely in the said land. the farmers immediately started the building of temporary shelter in the place after the ownership of the land is passed to them which is granted by the government. according to DAR, in the total of 206 hectares of land under CARP, in accordance to Republic Act 6657, about 193 hectares is already distributed to the 151 farmer beneficiaries. the other part of the land is determined as inappropriate for agriculture. (LBD/PIAMIMAROPA-Palawan)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_87352859 chief of anti-drug team, dead in ambush by Al Jacinto, Betchai Julian August 15, 2016 Zamboanga City - a police official heading an anti-drug operation is dead after getting shot by two armed men while on his way back to his home in Tacurong City in Sultan Kudarat province in Mindanao. according to the police, 46-year-old Senior Inspector Orlando Guira immediately died due to bullet wounds in his body after he was attacked by suspected hired killers who quickly escaped aboard their motorcycle this Saturday evening. the wife of Guira luckily escaped death when she just rode a tricycle on her way home and if not she surely would have been involved. confiscated from the area are bullet cases from a .45 caliber pistol. it was discovered that Guira was a member of an anti-drug special task force in Cotabato City, but still not known is whether the death of the official is an act of revenge by drug lords. police investigation on the incident continues. President Rodrigo Duterte ordered the police and military, and other law enforcement agencies to strengthen their campaign against drugs. the police have killed hundreds of small-time drug pushers and users in the whole country since Duterte sat as president, while big-time drug lords caught by the authorities are alive.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_54499393 South Cotabato recognized by the National Solid Waste Commission February 16, 2016 Koronadal City, South Cotabato, February 16 (PIA) - a plaque of recognition was received yesterday by the provincial government of South Cotabato from the National Solid Waste Management Commission as acknowledgment of the efforts of the local government. during the flag raising ceremony at the Provincial Capitol, a representative from Environmental Management Bureau under the Department of Environment and Natural Resources 12 handed over the plaque of recognition to South Cotabato Governor Daisy Avance - Fuentes. The recognition was due to the completion and passing of the provincial government, 10 municipalities, and city of Koronadal to each of their 10-year Solid Waste Management Plan in accordance to the law Ecological Solid Waste Management Act of 2000 or Republic Act 9003. In connection to this, the Regional Development Council passed a resolution praising the provincial government of South Cotabato in their recognition. according to Dominador Samilin of EMB 12, the Comission was amazed of South Cotabato's accomplishment because of the simultaneous completion and approval of the 10-year Solid Waste Management Plan of the province, 10 municipalities, and Koronadal City. Governor Fuentes was grateful for the recognition that they received. she said, only two provinces in the whole country was given the award. (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_85616457 see you this August! aside from teaching two classes this sem, I agreed to different interviews this August (and there are some that had to be turned down because I can only take so much). the month started for me with an interview about writing for Ateneo Junior High School, particularly with the members of the Loyola Book Club, on August 3. I am still surprised at the interest of the children, and their questions and wonder. and as a book club, really almost all of them came to the room carrying each of the different books they read. now, in the last ten days of the month, here are the final four interviews I will give. hopefully we see each other in any of these. 21 August/ whole afternoon interview and workshop together with the students of PHINMA - University of Pangasinan in Dagupan City. I will travel to Dagupan on Sunday and stay overnight there to accommodate the interview from 8 o'clock to 5 o'clock, Q&A, and workshop to what they said are more or less 70 students. 27 August/ Bookuwentuhan about Janus Silang together with the students of Lourdes School in Quezon City. I will be with Adarna House here starting one o'clock in the afternoon. 27 August / after the Bookuwentuhan in Lourdes School, I will immediately travel up to Baguio for the interview the next day with Libro Ilokano 2016: 2nd Ilokano Book Fair that is a project of GUMIL and established by the NBDB. on the morning of August 27 is my interview together with Allan Popa. we will talk about my "seven reminders in writing a novel." 28 August / after the interview in Baguio, I will immediately go down to Manila for the panel discussion the next day on the final day of the The Philippine Readers & Writers Festival 2016 in Raffles Makati. with me in the panel about writing for children are Mary Gigi Constantino and Xi Zuq. will you be able to go to any of these? or do you want to invite me to give an interview with you? just contact me here.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65603883 Still Mission impossible By Jimmy Cantor July 12, 2016 Mission Impossible ended early for Gilas Pilipinas. after getting defeated by France in their first game, the national team was given a great chance to defeat New Zealand. but however good the game we played with France, the badly we have shown against Haka of New Zealand. For France, Tony Parker silently played during the eliminations and even during semifinals. but when he needed to push thoroughly during finals, he showed how a star NBA point guard plays. "I was saving it for last," he said after France defeated Canada for the sole Rio Olympics slot last Monday night. when will we have one Tony Parker who will take-charge of Gilas Pilipinas? Is this only one impossible dream? we shall await on the next days what will happen to the appeal of Philippine Sports Commission to Pagcor to return to five percent of its gross income as support provided to the athletes of the country. it is as stated by law. but during the time of President Fidel V. Ramos, began the non-compliance of the law. Almost only half of the five percent gross goes to PSC. we are expecting that under the administration of President Duterte will the law be complied. our athletes need all the support they can get to help them play at the Olympics and end our long wait for our first Olympic gold medal. and because we are already talking about Pagcor, the top position for their Corporate Communications Department is vacant now. we do not know if this will be read by President Duterte or even by the newly appointed Pagcor chair Andrea Domingo, but there is one long-time employee of Pagcor who is suitable for the said position. None other than our former fellow journalist Jesse Ong, who has been serving the agency for 13 years. we do not know about the plans of Madame Domingo, if she would prefer getting a person from within the agency for the said position, or not. but what I know is, colleague Jesse is suitable to the position because he is armed with knowledge on how Pagcor can better help in all sectors of society. And he is supported by our other colleagues from different news and media outlets.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_35362598 DSWD blames the LGUs in slow Bicol relief by Jun Tadios January 5, 2017 the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) has blamed the local government units (LGUs) in the delay experienced in the sending of relief goods to the places devastated by typhoon Nina particularly in Bicol. nevertheless, Secretary Judy Taguiwalo clarified that the government is not neglecting the sending of relief goods to the places devastated by typhoon Nina. DSWD was alert in taking action in the places hit by the typhoon last Christmas and guarantees that each need of the victims of the typhoon is given in accordance to the mandate or covered by the aide that their department can give. there might be incidents that the arrival of former relief goods is slow, this is already in the level of the local government because they are mandated to distribute to the affected barangay or place. this is a reaction of the DSWD in the statement of Vice President Leni Robredo on the slow arrival of aide to the victims of typhoons in Camarines Sue which is the hometown of the vice-president. "even before Nina has taken a landfall in the affected areas, the DSWD has prepositioned the food packs in addition to the respective food packs of the LGUs because they have each their own calamity funds. so, the DSWD should not be blamed in this kind of incident because we are pro-active and always ready to help our countrymen who are celebrating Christmas while there is a typhoon," the secretary said. nevertheless, the DSWD asks for an apology if there are said delays in the distribution of food packs from the national government. "this is a challenge to us. this kind of incident actually is present, so, we should not allow this to happen. we are here to help our fellow countrymen and our mandate to serve them is our top priority," asserted by Taguiwalo.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_73087875 bounce!!!: Kim d., the video makes the blood boil! by Joe Barrameda September 7, 2016 apart from being one of the sexiest Filipina today, kapuso sweetheart Kim Domingo is also good in singing, dancing. Kim proved that she is not just a sexy actress/model, because she now has an album, and her single know me from GMA records can be heard, available in Spotify and iTunes. she also has a segment in bubble gang where they also dance with her co-Bubbles every Friday night. "others do not know that I can sing. this is why I also like to share, because I really like singing. this is why here in my single, I plan to surprise everyone because this music video is super sexy, I will be dancing too. and also, 'its sound is international. so, it is not like other songs." those who did that music video together with Kim also said, what she did there is excessively warming to the blood, ha! Kim should also be expected in the movie Mang Kepweng returns together with versatile actor Vhong Navarro where it is planned to be included in the Metro Manila Film Festival. Jackie and Precy, skillful in caring! our suspicions then were correct that Jackie Ejercito will be replacing her mom who is former senator Loi Ejercito Estrada as chairman of mare foundation that in then 1996 was started by Doctor Loi and her female friends. lately we often see Jackie visible in the activities of the mare in the depressed area in Manila whose mayor is now his father president Erap. Jackie has a soft spot for the seniors and children. Jackie becomes emotional when they are talked about. that is why she has good feelings and helps them lovingly through the mare foundation. anyway, this morning (September 7), on the 50th birthday, there is a big event in Manila, for the kids, grandfathers/grandmothers, and for the new members of mare! Doctor Loi will be transferring the chairmanship of mare to Jackie. she will be helped by wife of senator Jinggoy Estrada who is Precy as vice chairman. we were witnesses on how the two take care of and look after the children. Gladys, does not feel left out with Ai Ai, Marian! Gladys Reyes it cannot be denied that the happiness given by the number one Sunday noontime habit of the country that is Sunday Pinasaya is unique. kapuso comedian Gladys Guevarra agrees to this, and according to her, she found a new family with a purpose to bring happiness to many viewers, like Marian Rivera and comedy queen Ai Ai delas Alas. "it is happy sometimes we eat together, change clothes together. it is okay. the bonding we achieved is different. we were happy then, we were like temporary visitors. now, we are included as regular hosts. also to my colleagues, we have a new group, troop. because in SPS, you won't feel that you are new, you are left out. no. it is really fun," Gladys said. Tom, Denis is his inspiration Max at Tom Tom Rodrigues is delighted that he became a member of the luminary talent group of Popoy Caritativo. in his family they are six siblings and he is the eldest. in luminary he is called older brother. Dennis Trillo is the inspiration of Tom as an actor and on how he came successful. starting from when Tom transferred to GMA his showbiz career quickly developed. and he is big time because he circled the three biggest networks. "I have circled the three networks (2, 5 and 7) and I'm extremely lucky because of that, my understanding of this industry became wider because there is a lot I have worked with, I was exposed. for example my relationship with luminary boys would not happen if I did not go here. and I am very lucky, I am very blessed where I am and I am just been so happy, extremely. that's why I am so thankful. anyway, the results was of the pilot episode of someone to watch over me of Lovi Poe and Max Collins were excellent, ha!"
query971 dry river
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_33137891 philanthropist Ben Uri, praiseworthy! today, April 5, the basketball game will be held by Mister Ben Uri, a famous business man and philanthropist in the city of Batangas. it will be attended by 20 teams who are going to fight for the trophies and cash that will be given by Mister Uri. this is a one-month tournament called "Bolbok Basketball for a Cause." this will be held at the new basketball court on the 2.5 hectare compound of the Tree House Restaurant, Hotel and Resorts which can be found on Diversion Road, Bolbok, Batangas, owned by Mister Uri. a splendid P.5 million was spent in the court construction, and Mister Uri is going to spend another P.5M for the realization of the said basketball competition. Mister Uri is a famous game fowl breeder and cocker who had the players uniform made to be used in the competition which will be finished on May 22 and by chance is also a fiesta in Barangay Bolbok. the game is an offering of Mister Uri to the many youth and residents of Bolbok who like sports, according to our friend Cris Ibon. similar to Mister Uri, Mister Ibon, a veteran journalist and businessman, is also a known game breeder and cocker in Batangas. Mister Uri took the services of Councilor Veksler Jason Andal and Rey Persincula, supervisor of the Tree House Restaurant, Hotel and Resorts as basketball coordinators. surely, the fiesta in Bolbok will be fun because Mister Uri will also get famous bands who are going to have a free live show on May 20 and coronation night on May 21. the 12-man team Team CIA Orig was led by Cristuz Vivo V. Ibon, an OFW and youngest child of the journalist and businessman Cris Ibon-Aclan, is one of the participants and considered as the dark horse of the tournament. Mister Ibon who is a resident of Bolbok have spent the entry of the CIA as a support to the sports advocacy of Mister Uri for his fellowman in Barangay Bolbok. the outreach program of Mister Uri is praiseworthy.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_36820082 17 schools in South Cotabato are given solar power kits February 17, 2016 City of Koronadal, South Cotabato, February 17 (PIA) - reached up to 17 schools in the far-flung places in South Cotabato are granted recently with solar home lighting kit system which is a donation of the NV Vogt Philippines Solar Energy One, Inc. the NV Vogt is the largest solar power investor in Mindanao. this one also built the 5 megawatt solar farm in Barangay Centrala, Surallah, South Cotabato. included in those who are given with solar photovoltaic home lighting system are the schools in Sitio Lubol and Kiantay in Upper Sepaka and Basag in Salacafe; Sitio Demamis, Dangkong and Salabanog in Laconon; Sitio Kebuling in Basag; Sitio Talambong and Motokling in Mongkayo; Sitio Balnabo, Datal Tablo, Coong, Datal Colon and Bengue in Maan, all in the municipalities in Tboli. given also with similar facilities are the schools in Sitio Lembuto in Lamlahak, Sitio Tboyong in Lamfugon, and Sitio Bulol Lahak in Klubi in the municipality of Lake Sebu. each school is given two solar photovoltaic home lighting system. the turn over ceremony was done last Monday in the covered court of the Provincial Capitol. together with the solar photovoltaic home lighting system are two LED lamps, home lighting system, AC-DC adaptor, mobile charging cord and 10-watt photovoltaic panel with stand set. the South Cotabato Schools Division sent out their utmost gratitude for the gifts of the NV Vogt Philippines. in his message, Assistant Schools Division Superintendent Mario Madrero said that this is a good opportunity for the students in the most far-flung parts of province to experience having light in their classrooms. Madrero also expects that more schools will be granted with the similar facility in the coming days. it is better, according to him, if the schools will be given with solar power kits which has the ability to operate a computer and computer printer so that the teachers will not need to travel to the town to encode and print the report that they are going to submit and make the instructional material. (DEDoguiles-PIA 12)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_65076262 good news are the increased PhilHealth coverage and free tuition in state universities and colleges but not everyone can benefit from the free tuition . Tina Panganiban-Perez reports . around twenty thousand . <no-speech> her mother abroad did everything for Vea's enrollment in U_P which is why she is happy about the news that tuition in state universities and colleges or S_U_C will be free because of the eight point three billion peso budget for them that the congress gave to the Commission on Higher Education . I experienced taking a loan before so if now if there will be free tuition it is really less hassle especially for my mom who goes abroad . but before people like Veia celebrate there is a clarification by senator Ralph Recto . only beneficiaries of the bridging program for the Filipino program or those coming from the poorest families can avail of the free tuition . because there were initial reports saying that all students of S_U_C will be exempt issue surfaced about the possibility of transfers from private schools and if eight billion peso will be enough to everyone who wishes to be exempted . according to C_H_E_D the guidelines will still be discussed which will include the establishing who will be admitted to enroll at S_U_C . will there be an exam and will it not be disadvantageous to many compared to those with advanced basic education in which the majority are rich ? there are existing socialized tuition fee schemes now right ? maybe those are being looked at making one a benchmark right ? because there are others capable of paying . it is unsure whether this will be repeated in the year twenty eighteen because the budget was taken from the lump sum initially intended by the chamber for A_R_M_M . this was opposed in the bicameral conference committee because this was a lump sum or it was unclear what was the actual expenditure which is why it was transferred to CHED . if you look at the budget books you will not really see because the fourth allocations are inserted and like crafty hidden . <no-speech> <no-speech> except if a law will be passed ordering allotment of funds that it is not like the universal health care of the country or the health expenses of the poor which will surely be funded partly by the collection of taxes from cigarettes and alcohol because that is ordered by the sin tax law . D_O_H boasts that all the poor even without Philhealth card are automatically get exemption in hospital billing and other fees enjoyed by PhilHealth members . they will become automatic members afterwards . the poor will also get free medicine because of the additional funding approved by the congress and because of the funds of PAGCOR . it was previously ordered by the president that part of the funds of %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_70911939 sweet gestures of Alden and Maine, unbelievable posted by: Vir Gonzales on March 13, 2017 in showbiz many has taken notice how the sweet gestures of Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza are for cinematic purposes only in Destined To Be Yours. it has a huge effect for viewers. it was obvious how the actor has no feelings of love for Maine. many advised the young lady to open up her eyes and find someone who would truly love her. sometimes it is hard to believe someone super handsome like Alden would love the young lady. to give an example is the relationship between Erich Gonzales and Daniel Matsunaga, did it not also end in separation? the couple's love affair did not last. in the television series of Alden and Maine, television viewers mentioned how they have already seen the wood chopping and water fetching of Alden. the scene they have watched was unrealistic. and how could they say that the scene was shot set during the old times when hair of the mother is dyed red, as played by Janice de Belen. it is a symbol of modern times.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_43658018 just sports! : a good send-off gift by Zaldy Perez July 20, 2016 President Rodrigo Duterte gave a good send-off gift to our 2016 Rio Olympics-bound athletes. in the courtesy call of the national athletes to the president in Malacañang two days ago, President Duterte surprised them by announcing that their former allowance of US$1,000 will become $3,000. even officials were included because from $3,000 their allowance became $5,000. but, wish President Duterte just switched it around so that athletes got $5,000 and he made real the joke that officials are rich so they only get P500 peso. still, because of what President Digong did, the athletes had additional inspiration for their participation in the Olympics. in the 12 athletes that will participate in the Olympics that will start on August 5 and end on August 21 only six were able to come to the send off. it is gladdening that the president of the country also has the welfare of athletes in mind. he also announced that he will support the training of national athletes and the money his administration will use will be the collection from tax evaders. but it is probably better if President Duterte will just include the funds for supporting our national athletes into the 2017 national budget. through this, our national athletes will be ensured of funds from our government every year.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_67055775 Kim, crawled on Vhong by Allan Diones January 7, 2017 the all-out support for Vhong Navarro not only by his companions in It's Showtime but also the other artists in ABS-CBN is gladdening. Vhong is well-loved and has many friends in Channel Two so his film Mang Kepweng Returns is supported by them. for the love of Vhong they plug it on social media, which surely helped because reportedly it reached P8. 8M in the film's opening day on Wednesday. Vhong also has a different appeal especially to the youth because his antics in Mang Kepweng Retuns are really a hit with them. when we watched it in Trinoma the laughter of the kids in the audience is loud and they react to the antics of Vhong. the magical bandana worn by Mang Keps when he heals is a hit. we saw many young people wearing cloth with polka dots that they put on the head ala Mang Kepweng. because of Vhong it seems like that bandana has become a fashion statement, which in the movie has fantastic magical and healing powers. the leading lady of Vhong Kim Domingo was not portrayed sexily in the film, but because her chest is overflowing the sexiness of the Kapuso star appears voluntarily. their kissing scenes are always halted, but there is a scene where Kim crawled on and topped Vhong while he was sleeping. you will not place malice on that scene because Kim is 'possessed' and her appearance suddenly changes while she is on top of Vhong. the film is for children and families so you will not feel indecent about Kim topping Mang Keps. Vhong's birthday wish is for his movie to earn, which seems like it will be given to him. in fairness the ward of Director Chito Roño is hardworking and kind, 2017 welcomed him beautifully because we heard Mang Kepweng returns already has a sequel. the producer of Cineko Productions said, The Adventures of Mang Kepweng is the title of the next installment of the movie remake.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_75163893 the P_N_P SAF commandos who were wounded at the Mamasapano clash are continuously recovering at the hospital . despite what happened to them the members of the elite force of P_N_P remained fearless . live from Quezon City Cedrick Castillo has a report Cedrick . Jessica one source confirmed with G_M_A news that uh some SAF commandos who survived at the Mamasapano uh clash in Maguindanao went to senate inquiry . but this is in respect only to the invitation of the uh senate but they still did not face the inquiry for the security of their relatives . <no-speech> the story was complicated uh . got wounded in the battle and lost comrades . two weeks after the bloody encounter at Mamasapano in Maguindanao the fifteen special action force or SAF commandos who are in the P_N_P General Hospital are continuously recovering but their morals remained high . they have a really high coping mechanism . remember this people are the people who responded also to Zamboanga seeds . the first (()) is sad right . uh they you know a little bit surprise of what happen knowing that uh they had successfully uh accomplish their mission . there is now changes in the members of the eighty fourth Seabourn company on the fourteen of the SAF commandos who are in the hospital at Camp Crame . they belong to the strike team who were supposed to issue an arrest warrant to the slain who was Marwan . included in those who are recovering is the sole survivor of the fifty fifth special action company who served as blocking force of the extracting team . bullet wound at the back and amputated finger are the gravest wounds obtained by SAF commandos . morning and afternoon their wounds are being cleaned . and in -- in the mid -- mid -- the morning before having lunch they undergo psycho-social uh conferences and they briefing . like miss Venus Raj and miss Ai-Ai Delas Alas and then uh there is miss Ellen Adarna what . this people took time out to -- to see them and the because it helps it boosts moral . despite the clash they experienced the members of the elite force of P_N_P are still fearless . actually uh some of them are eager to go back immediately . for the security of the relatives of SAF commandos it is prohibited to take a photo or video of the recovering police . the P_N_P is aware that the target is not ordinary as he was previously in the most wanted list of the F_B_I in America who is Marwan . as of now there has been no reported threat to the relatives of the SAF commandos . we can uh easily uh deploy uh personnel on their respective areas or respective uh for these families to ensure their safety . just in case this becomes an issue . the P_N_P ensures the public that there should be nothing to worry about now that the authorities have slain the proclaimed Osama Bin Laden of Southeast Asia . meanwhile the alert level like before stays high in the Mindanao area . in the area of uh Visayas and Luzon uh it is in a manageable level . we are guarding the possibility (()) of a possible uh (()) attack . <no-speech> Jessica the camp Crame is prepared to coordinate should the senators uh decide to do the executive session to the survivors of SAF commandos inside the camp Crame general hospital . Jessica ? yes did I hear it right Cedrick that there are celebrities who came to uh pour moral to the wounded uh SAF ? <no-speech> uh that is correct Mam Jes what at least three uh celebrities were already mentioned by uh -- uh by uh health service of P_N_P to us and visited the wounded SAF commandos . uh this was as part of their uh psychosocial uh recovery and uh we also learned that there is an advice to the celebrities who went there that they are prohibited to take pictures for the security of the SAF commandos Jessica . hmm uh so there is aside from curing their wounds there is also psychosocial counseling being done Cedrick right ? <no-speech> yes uh Ma'am Jess actually those are two categories uh we were being told by uh our resource person what uh their uh the physical uh their state needs to be ensured before if ever uh the P_N_P decides to discharge them they returned to their -- their respective units . but aside from that of their physical injury there is a need to secure their psychological state too . uh after all uh it cannot be denied how traumatic the uh -- very traumatic in fact what they uh a -- a said to have experienced . and there is uh said to be a possibility that this trauma accumulates in fact some members of this uh SAF troopers who had an encounter here at Mamasapano in uh two weeks ago is uh also got to join there at (()) in the past uh year . and uh it is also possible uh %incomplete in fact there is one of them was injured in (()) at got injured also here at Mamasapano encounter Jessica . hmm because there what we called war shocked right . that is what's needed to be remedied with injured soldiers or injured police . Cedrick ? <no-speech> uh right ma'am -- yes ma'am Jess those war shocked physically we asked and it looks like no one have experienced it here . and uh as told uh by uh chief -- chief inspector uh Dude Santos uh the resource personnel we spoke with there is continuous uh recovery of uh SAF commandos who needed uh care right now Jessica . many thanks to you Cedrick .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_56948139 new tax bill, ready as well by Aries Cano July 2, 2016 Marikina representative Miro Quimbo proposed a new and improved income tax measure. under his proposal House Bill 20 more than six million Filipino workers are expected to be given individual income tax brackets adjustments according to inflation and lowering of tax burdens. despite the previous congress failing to approve the proposal to lower the tax charged to ordinary workers due to the opposition of the Department of Finance (DOF) Quimbo is more determined to push for the reform of the current income tax system. the proposal he submitted is simpler, efficient and an equitable tax system especially now that the Duterte administration has expressed support for the proposal in accordance with its 10-point economic agenda too.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_16792701 because the classrooms that can be used will decrease time for studying will decrease . there is a shortage of classroom and what I caught up with is the grades one two and three had three shifts of classes where our students are short of two hours every day . <no-speech> teachers did all sorts of solutions . okay very good . okay arms -- the classroom was divided for two classes . <no-speech> ah that somehow there is a problem with noise . and that is what the teachers complain the noise from the other side can be heard too on the other side . <no-speech> they also erected four tents for the students in grade one . some have classes on stage . the home economics room conference room and computer laboratory were also made into classrooms . there is an effect . regretful because you cannot do the regular activities that we do everyday . there is also just one gate that can be used so entry and exit of the students is a challenge . <no-speech> whose bag is this ? the quality of education is affected . <no-speech> it was on July twenty fifteen when the public works of Manila visited the building based on their inspection the foundation of the lot where it was built on was weak . this is also the belief of one expert in a separate inspection that was done . say for example this part of the building would settle . you would notice that if it leans sideways there would be an inclination when -- the building or building becomes clear and it could possibly continue . if it continues the worst case is this building might collapse . <no-speech> which is why it is better not to use the building in the meantime . <no-speech> according to Engineer Allan Deboso one of the organizers in constructing the building in twenty ten there is no problem with the project . (()) temporary (()) him . you also have a supply of (()) Styro only cement plasters and some of those are (()) cement which is not part of the building's structural trading . which is why in our opinion it is structurally stable except for the middle of the two buildings that needs to be fixed . in that place ? <no-speech> yes . since it is allegedly possible that the project was not overseen properly . <no-speech> the cost of fixing the building would allegedly reach thirty million pesos . what happened before was that it was already done for the Leaning Tower of Pisa . they hinted that they injected soil into the part that was sinking or like it's a stabilizing agent but it's apparently continuous . <no-speech> this April former Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim was pressed with charges by the ombudsman regarding the defective building at Rosauro Almario Elementary School . among those who were pressed with charges are former city engineer Armando Andres former project inspector Allan Deboso and the former owner of New C_C Barcelona Construction Corporation who is Carlos C Barcelona . according to the complaint there was a connivance among city hall officials so that the contract can be given to New C_C Barcelona . we tried to get the view of former Manila mayor Alfredo Lim but he declined to give a statement . supposedly the construction of the building was rushed too . January twenty-nine twenty ten was when New C_C Barcelona was given the notice to proceed with the project . three months after this the project was completed . it's a shame that the building was erected for a very good cause to respond to the shortage of classrooms but after three years or more than three years of use it quickly %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_21885031 120 farmers of Sablayan, OccMin undergo training February 16, 2016 Voltaire N. Dequina Sablayan, Occidental Mindoro, February 16 (PIA) - 120 farmers from four barangays of Sablayan recently underwent the Agricultural Technology Training (ATT). the attendees from Barangay Ibud, Sto. Niño, San Francisco and San Vicente, were taught modern technology and methods of farming, including rice and corn production, animal livestock and poultry as well as fishery. according to Sofronio Baranda, Assistant Provincial Agriculturist (APA), students from the Occidental Mindoro State College (OMSC) led the training. "these students are graduating from Bachelor of Agricultural Technology course and they have the ability to teach our farmers," explained Baranda. the ATT program was not only useful to the farmers who attended, but also to the students who gained a teaching experience. (VND/LBR/PIA 4B/Occ Min)
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_69218348 Jojo and Mar Amba's briefs by Roy "AMBA" Seneres two more years and we will have a new President. it appears that only Jojo Binay and Mar Roxas have the political machinery that can seat them in Malacañang. but what the people should ask is where will the campaign funds of Jojo and Mar come from? it is estimated that a candidate for the presidency needs 3 billion pesos. is Jojo a billionaire? many are saying yes. but where did his wealth come from? before he became OIC mayor of Makati, he only had one car, a beat-up Volkswagen. Mar is allegedly rich because he is the grandson of Don Amado Araneta who owns Araneta Coliseum and wide tracks of land. he is a Filipino with Spanish blood. where did the wealth of Don Amado come from? was he or his ancestors given wide areas of land by the ruling Spaniards before the Philippines became free because of the heroism of Bonifacio and many others? what baffles me, after our heroes overthrew the oppressive Spanish colonial government, those who became rich were people with Spanish blood, Araneta, Ortigas, Zobel, Ayala, Aboitiz and others, instead of Filipino families. so the 2016 elections is the battle of two rich people. the other has a big question mark on where his wealth came from, while the other one came from his Spaniard grandfather. but it is certain that major businessmen in the Philippines like Lucio Tan, Henry Sy and other kings of contractualization will also give a huge contribution to the two presidential candidates. donations will also likely come from gambling lords, drug lords and others. so, contractualization, jueteng and proliferation of drugs will continue. whoever wins from the two, is the loss of the country.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_32661667 Arci, spaghetti twisting upwards and upwards! Nathalie, likes Lara Morena by Noel Ferrer December 30, 2016 the approved/disapproved list has become our tradition every year. we do it after Christmas, before New Year. in the list, the approved are those who gave a positive contribution to our industry. they are those with stories of inspiration and good effort. the disapproved are those NI ... needs improvement. those that lack impact despite how very hard they tried. hopefully, your celebration of Christmas is approved. and hopefully, we will not be disapproved in the New Year. approved: Charo Santos-Concio (for beautiful projects since her retirement in ABS-CBN. kudos to Ang Babaeng Humayo). disapproved: Nora Aunor (hopefully Ate Guy will choose already the next movie she will do. she no longer has anything to prove with her acting so hopefully, she will get to work with good projects and talented directors only. ) approved: Sharon Cuneta. after the The Voice Kids and a successful 2-night concert in Solaire, we can really feel the return of the Megastar in showbiz with Your Face Sounds Familiar Kids and her reunion movie with Gabby Concepcion. she also has a Cinemalaya film waiting. disapproved: Kris Aquino. from queen of all media, she has become the queen of social media. like other say, showbiz, is just like politics. there is a time for everyone. approved: Judy Ann Santos. Juday chooses no time. even without a regular show on TV, her endorsements continue because of her good example to the people. she was honored as an Anak TV Hall of Famer this year and recognized for her skill in the Cinemalaya entry Kusina. she and Ryan Agoncillo renewed their wedding vows after they were blessed with their third child Luna at the start of the year. disapproved: Claudine Barretto. the negativity that comes with her persona needs to disappear. an impending court case is her latest issue. when will all of that change? approved: Daniel Padilla. as time passes he becomes more handsome. possesses kindness and depth of acting. disapproved: Kathryn Bernardo. lacking. approved: Liza Soberano. her simple beauty really stands out. possesses kindness and depth of acting. (hopefully, she and Daniel will work together in a project. disapproved: Enrique Gil. lacking. approved: Agot Isidro. smart, beautiful and respected. disapproved: Mocha Uson. played with in social media. approved: Ang Probinsyano & Alyas Robin Hood. soaring high. off key: Forevermore and Till I Met You. already ending. approved: ABS-CBN Star Magic. just look at their catalogue and even up to MMFF, their talents soar. disapproved: GMA Artist Center. the biggest stars of their network are not from the Artist Center. why? aside from TV, the talents do not have major films and lack endorsements because of lack of branding and are lacking in many aspects too. more disapproved: TV5's Talent5. they have few talents left. the talented in them have transferred. approved: MMFF 2016 movies. change has come in Filipino movies. disapproved: Super Parental Guardians, Enteng Kabisote & Mano Po. resistant to change. approved: unanimous rated A films - Sunday Beauty Queen & Die Beautiful. outstanding. disapproved: Kabisera. a misstep by the CEB. approved: Arci Muñoz. career bloomed. the new Rufa Mae Quinto. disapproved: Nathalie Hart. no matter what she does, still disapproved! the new Lara Morena? approved: Eugene Domingo. comeback best actress of the film. with a love life too. disapproved: Kiray. was a hit in Love is Blind but immediately become disapproved in I Love You To Death. what happened? approved: Paolo Ballesteros. his skill was recognized by the whole world. he might have been suspended from the Dabarkads, but he was able to return and even bring honor. disapproved: Baron Geisler. take a break for now. reflect. change.
query1938 fork hyp utensil
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_96062668 mirror of life mirror of life by Apolinario B Villalobos a person cannot see his face unless he looks at a mirror. he will be able to see his whole face only in that way, that he has dirt he needs to wipe in order to be removed... that he has a mole under his left eye... that he has uneven teeth... that he has a sweet smile, etc. in our everyday life, we also need to have a "mirror" in order to know if we are doing something not good, vulgar, or kind. in this occasion, our "mirror" is our fellowman. through them we will see and know that we have done vulgar things so we can avoid repeating them. through their actions we will also be able to see the kindness we have done, but are not aware of. but using our fellowman as a mirror is effective only if we can accept our faults. until we cannot do this, we are limited to giving compliments when we see our fellowmen doing something good and condemning them if they do something bad - that we have done as well. because of that looking through a mirror via our fellowman is useless. in instances where we should have learned something but let it pass, we have no one to blame but ourselves - if we are suffering because of frequent shortage of money, disobedient children, loss of work, separation of spouse, etc. we may regret it... but it is too late.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_61857726 PNoy is a great example of gun possession although he is the highest official in the country, president Aquino did not hesitate in issuing a 'gun ban exemption' to the Commission on Elections (Comelec) last Thursday to continue carrying his personal gun. however, the agency clarified that as the highest leader of the country it is not necessary for the president, commander-in-chief of Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), because the gun ban is not there to suppress the operation of the military. since a gun enthusiast, president Noynoy wanted to always carry his personal gun that he uses for his practical shooting. there is only one meaning behind the actions of the president - he is one responsible gun owner. president Aquino did not take advantage of his position to violate the law. it is definitely possible for him to not get an exemption for the gun ban together with the members of the Presidential Security Group (PSG) however president PNoy showed to the nation equality and to not use biases. for president Aquino, the total gun ban should not push through because this could make way to worse chaos in the country since responsible gun owners would be restrained from carrying their things and only bad elements are the ones left carrying guns because they worry about nothing if they ever got caught for carrying firearms without enough documents. bad elements logic would be, if ever they get caught, they can always bail themselves out. as long as they will not be revealed to be protecting syndicates.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_56992226 right ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what will you say ? you're not clear . <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> nothing . <no-speech> nothing . fine yes . yes . <no-speech> just one . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> unclear . <no-speech> you're unclear -- unclear . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> nothing . have you eaten ? <no-speech> yes I'm done . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> good then . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you doing there ? hello ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . hello what are you doing there ? why ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you doing ? <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes ? <no-speech> what are you doing ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> sitting all the time . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> mobiles . <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you saying ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what are you doing ? hello ? <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> hello ? <no-speech> just hanging out . hello . you're doing nothing ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> huh ? <no-speech> you're really unclear . <no-speech> unclear unclear . I can't understand . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes none . <no-speech> nothing . nothing . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? <no-speech> I said I don't understand you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> I can't understand too . hello -- hello -- hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_25012944 nightmare in Juan's town tweet nowadays, it feels good to sleep because of the slowly cooling temperature as summer ends and the rainy season takes its place. that's why everyone is at ease. But why are Juan and Juana dela Cruz suddenly awakened from their slumber because of the daily struggles they face? why else? they are constantly reminded by the continued rise of oil prices which causes an increase in the prices of commodities, services such as electricity, water, and education. the people are deeply concerned about what's going on in their motherland. however, they've done nothing to urge the country's leaders to solve the problem of the people. are we contented with always being dictated and continuously accepting the said development of the government? The government has shown no proof of the Philippines' growth and development. the only things growing are the pockets of the government officials who do nothing but engage in corruption. What should the people do in order to stop the nightmare that disturbs their deep slumber? They must act. but how? Start by raising the children to love the country. prioritize the welfare of the majority and not oneself. Teach them that stealing, like what the puppets of the government do, is bad and, most of all, listen before passing judgement. nowadays, if you're an ally of the Aquino administration and a member of the Liberal Party, you are automatically safe from any accusation by witnesses in the hearing of anomalies such as the "pork barrel scam." from there, it can be seen that our leader has no love for the country even though he insists on the "righteous way," because he allows his country to fall into despair along with the people. It can also be seen that the leader takes thieves under his wing because there are accusations that go unnoticed and, instead, his opponent is emphasized. that's why one day, it won't be a surprise if the Philippines falls by drowning in debt and poverty.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_91818051 this hurts we were one of the first to praise the traffic enforcer selling rice cakes while wearing the MMDA uniform. we were joyed when he was promoted by Chairman Francis Tolentino because he was impressed with the story that the MMDA employee is working hard to increase his income for the college tuition of his child. but many complained about our article that praised the said enforcer. there were also MMDA employees who complained a bit: why was their colleague who had a sideline during work hours promoted, but they who are focused on their job were not? the effect when an employee uses his uniform in order to sell is the resulting issue. not so different to the story of teachers who sell tocino to the parents of their students? or prosecutors who sell condominium units to the people negotiating cases in court? is this right or wrong? does the teacher use his position in order to sell tocino? does the prosecutor use his power in order to sell a condo unit? indirectly, it can be. this point should be clear and the exact provision in the anti-graft law or in the code of conduct and ethical standards for public officials and employees should be looked at. for me, it is okay for government employees to have other jobs in order to earn more, but what they can do should be clear, what is right or wrong. for example is the traffic enforcer in uniform who sells rice cakes to bus drivers. but what is worse is the complaint that this MMDA traffic enforcer really uses his uniform in order to sell rice cakes and in higher prices. I was surprised by those who approached me, since our article which praised him was released, there are evidence of the corrupt acts against this person whom everyone admired. there are many issues that we are going to discuss in the following days about this, even it is painful to all our feelings. subscribe to our column. what is just important now is to not be deceived by people using symbols of our government agencies. email your reaction to ariel.inton@gmail.com or text 09178295982 or 09235388984. Sibol/Attorney Ariel Enrile-Inton
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_23345998 in order to alleviate the expected crowding of students in school the Department of Education is planning to broaden its alternative distance learning program . news brought by Sherrie Ann Torres . <no-speech> a volume of more than two million students is expected this school year twenty twelve twenty thirteen said the Department of Education . which is why severe congestion of students should be expected in public schools this coming school year in June . the solution seen by DepEd is to expand the alternative distance learning program which is often taken by artists who want to study . here one can study at home and the student only goes to school sometimes . we want to improve this so that even children who -- who are below sixteen who are having difficulty in coming to class five days a week can now do it through modules . umm . ah can just go to class on those scheduled days . umm . let's say for an exam or for a group activity . the program supposedly includes places with a high number of students young artists those with health problems those with not enough money to go to school regularly and those in rehabilitation centers . through alternative delivery modes either through computer-based or when one takes home the module that he can just do at at um -- at home . then he could just go there for let's say about a few days in a month . those who are like thirteen-year-old Raymond are also the target of the program . it was September last year when he stopped going to school when his mother passed away . feeling that someone is helping in your studies . <no-speech> then sometimes Sir when (()) when brought to think sometimes Sir because I remember mother . <no-speech> so Sir like she is always in my -- thoughts . this is also a good news for Genevieve who wants that she could make her sixteen year old child to finish studying . the child has gone with a gang so he has not finished elementary until now . he can avoid the -- example that he is here in the store with us . when his gang arrives will invite him . he cannot avoid not to go with along . so his siblings will catch him up if his siblings continue their studies . such as what I am Sir to him we are encouraging him that he is the eldest so he is a man . like their father is gone he should help me and then to make his life better . then to have an easier glimpse to the record of the students in the coming class opening each will have a student number . here his permanent record will be seen whether it be public or private school . avoiding technical malfunction in case of transferring to school . the reminder also of the Department of Education to the teachers it is prohibited to deny those who will enroll whether they have something to pay for the contribution or none . Sherrie Ann Torres .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_85188085 helicopter versus slow response during calamity what is really happening in the government now that calamities are happening one after the other? with the complaint of the public to the media, its assistance is very slow and very insufficient. on the other hand, it faster than lightning in fattening its more than 200 lawmakers in Congress. nothing arrives according to victims of calamities, it takes an eternity for the government to reach them for help. of course, we cannot belittle the desire, for example, of soldiers and police to help together with the civilian organizations and individuals. but transportation for a quick action is the real problem. hence there are the many deaths, injuries, hunger, sickness, and other misfortunes that the people experience. broken bridge, deep flood when bridges and roads get destroyed, those who want to help even the search and rescue team, get immobilized. this is also the case when floods are high during the typhoon season. the government has amphibian trucks again but just one at a time. they are even often under repair. even the Philippine National Red Cross uses it one at a time. just walk so, those who provide assistance just walk. because of this, they can bring very little food, medicine, water and other needs of the victims. while those who provide aid walk, they also deplete the supplies they have brought. they might be able to return alive from hunger, sickness and other misfortunes. the boats that can be used can only carry little and if they run out of gasoline, it is also a big problem. paddling won't do because there are fast currents and when will paddling get on you on time, huh? helicopter is needed the issue we are hitting here, bros, is the use of helicopters in emergencies and calamities. in truth, the flying coffins of the military and the police are scary. these came from junkshops and surplus shops because these flew during the time of the Vietcong in 1960 and 1970. this is the reason why we don't trust these helicopters especially they crash from time to time. not a priority it appears that the government does not prioritize having civilian helicopters for the needs of the people. if the government is interested in having helicopters, they want the ones for war. there are no calamities, no civilians. everything is for war. it seems like taking a gamble by fighting in war is more important than helping those affected by calamities. that's how serious the people see the government's negligence of public service at times of emergency and calamity. waging war is expensive do you know, bros, the price of war helicopters, especially if they are made by Americans? the cheapest is $10 million each. but these are also old. those priced at $20 million are good and all-weather, and they can fly even at night. civilian helicopters in the face of calamities, war helicopters are not needed. for civilian. and this is where we thought of looking for helicopters we could buy and could be used by the government. just cheap we were surprised by the price of second-hand helicopters, especially the small ones for 2-4 people. each one costs 155,000 dollars or 800,000 pesos. the others cost up to $1 million each or P43 million each. 26 passengers but there are new helicopters that can fit 26 people. for example, those Mi-171A1, Ka-62 made in Russia. 10 helicopters like this, Bros, are 2.5 billion only. we thought the government can buy many helicopters so the people in the government can deliver humanitarian aid, food, medicines and many others because these helicopters can fit many people. P24B PDAF, P13B DAP this is where we thought of the pork barrel that our abusive lawmakers, Bros. every year, the congressmen and senators have 24 billion pesos in the Priority Development Assistance Fund. in the last three years of the government today, they again gave 13 billion pesos as pork barrel to the lawmakers from the Disbursement Acceleration Fund. what if pork barrels like these are used to buy the aforementioned helicopters in order to quickly assist people devastated by calamity? hey, "senatong," "tongressman" and "konsuhol" in Malacanang, we are challenging you about this. oOo any complaint or comment can be sent through 09214303333.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_71637515 did you encounter a Ranger? did you encounter a Ranger? the Scout Rangers are widely known for their stealth, cunning and ferocity in combat. the unit's mascot is the Black Panther (also referred to as the local Musang). there are several records about the Rangers' accomplishments in military operations starting from the Huk campaign, the Muslim rebellion in the 1970's and the current operations against various threats. due to their superb skills in small-unit operations, the Scout Rangers are able to capitalize on stealth movement and the element of surprise, making them the enemies' worst nightmare. did you encounter a Ranger? the line, "did you encounter a Ranger?" got famous from drinking sessions and teasing among soldiers. in the original idea, this refers to the enemy who lost in battle. for example, after one success of the 4th Scout Ranger Company led by Sergeant Sabellina in Davao, this is what soldiers say to the NPA: "see, you won't surrender so you encountered a Ranger!" this is also used by Rangers who are courting someone. as Brigadier General Benjamin Duque (senior class 08) jokingly taught, Scout Rangers should show their musang patch when courting in order to gain the affection of their loved one right away. if the girlfriend of a Scout Ranger is pretty, some, especially non-Rangers, say: "that one encountered a Ranger!" once, this also became a reason for fighting among soldiers. in one instance, there was a missing cellphone in the Army Shooting Team and it could not be determined who took it. when there was an investigation, one soldier said: "sir, it looks like that cellphone was 'Rangered'!" and because of what he said, one muscular Ranger angrily confronted him and said: "you brute! just because you're a non-Ranger what do you think of us Rangers? thieves? let's just box!". I was able to restrain them, though. because of this, use the said terminology properly. otherwise, we might get "Ranger-ed".
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_71468875 Filipinos have no regard for history - the Red House yes that is correct! it seems that we really have no regard for our history so it is just all right if things related to it are destroyed. in fact it seems we have forgotten the monstrosities done during the time of Marcos. anyway, this post of ours is about the Red House in San Ildefonso, Bulacan that at present is eventually being destroyed and will disappear from our sight. why is it important? let us watch the video so we can find out what the Red House really is. Red House ... it is saddening to think that because of others' continuing destruction of the Red House it will gradually disappear, I thought it appropriate to upload this video so we can remember how important the Red House is to the history of our nation. (video credit Donelle Marie D. Agudo and Evelyn Agudo) posted by Pher Pahati on Sunday, December 6, 2015 how can the municipal government of San Ildefonso or even the provincial government allow for a historical location like this to vanish? will they do nothing to stop or care for it? doesn't the state have an imminent domain that can be used. like what our companion from the blog Republika Natin says, "come let us take action for our country". observe its pitiful appearance now. doesn't it make you grit your teeth? hope that you will share this issue and make it known to the authorities.
query117 August 29 hyp date
query114 hospital Manila
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_97498163 10 factors that Coup d'état stories in the Armed Forces of the Philippines are not true there are numerous stories published again about the Coup d'état and I consider it as worthy to share the factors as basis that those are unrealistic: 1. the soldiers are too exhausted in joining an actual Coup d'état or in attempts to overthrow the government. the lives which are destroyed because of joining this could not be counted. the worst are those who are getting killed in bloody Coup d'état without receiving any benefits. there are couples who got separated and the whole family is disrupted. I have a colleague in Basilan who just became a mere guard of a fish pond. there is a Scout Ranger who makes charcoal in Northern Luzon. few of those approached me for me to find them a job. the easiest they can apply is being a guard. once a masculine soldier just became a security guard because of Coup d'état. because I am able to talk to them and I know their families, I am pitying them more. the experience is bitter for those who have joined the previous Coup d'état. why should we do a Coup d'état? 2. a lot of modernization has been pushed forward in the AFP which raised the morale of the soldiers. example, when I was a lieutenant, we did not have a Combat Life Saver (CLS) Kit. we are just tying the wounds of our colleagues who are hit in a firefight with tattered clothes with guava leaves. now there is already a squad level CLS kit, there is still an individual issue. if before, old secondhand M14 Rifle and M16 Rifle and there were M203 40mm which would not fire were used, now there are already M4 Carbine Rifles, K3 SAW. aside from that, the stature of the Air Force and Navy is slowly coming back in the new warfare equipment which is bought. I will not mention the many aspects of modernization anymore and what I am sure of is, "better than before!". the soldiers are more confident to gamble their lives in implementing the mission if he is aware that they are better in technology, knowledge and in support systems being brought by the modernization program. why should we do a coup d'état? 3. in the current administration, our salary increased. because of this, we are able to provide for the needs of our family. in reality, if vices are just avoided and plan the family well, the salary of a soldier can sustain the family. of course, investing, having a business and studying Financial Literacy 101 are added strategies of a soldier. truly, that won't still be sufficient if we act like a millionaire? even if someone said our salary is insufficient, we are aware that we can still make a way to make it fit. why should we do a coup d'état? 4. the housing programs for the soldiers are increased. aside from the on-base housing of the AFP, the current government has also an off-base housing program which was not there before. there are already a lot of soldiers who have benefited this housing program of the current administration. we are aware that this is not yet finished and continually pushed by the government for the police and military. why should we do a coup d'état? 5. we do not have any connection in political conflict. even we are angry and fall unconscious of the loathing corruption stories which is making the country suffer, we are aware, especially the officials that we should not get involve here as soldiers. we are aware of the outcome if the armed groups such as soldiers who are getting involved in things which are for the politicians only. we are aware as professional soldiers that pushing through the reforms of the AFP, implementing our constitutional mandates should occupy our tasks. if there are opposing politicians, we have no care about their quarrels. why should we do a coup d'état? 6. the citizens who are trusting and unifying with the soldiers are becoming numerous. the bad effects of martial law is long-lasting where many Filipinos are hurt. if in hiding before, other country folks were trembling especially in far-flung places every time they can see a soldier, not now. it raises the morale in being able to interact with the masses who appreciate the services of a soldier. why should we do a coup d'état? 7. we are also seeing the progress of the economy. the Philippines has achieved the highest in the history of credit rating upgrade where the Standard and Poor is the one who has given our country the Investment Grade status. high-fallutin' (and not understandable) might be for the majority, we are one with the most number of masses who want our country to progress. we also want the investors to flock here, the income opportunities are going to increase and lessen the suffering Filipinos. we also want the OFWs to come home in the time where they can find right here in the Philippines the relief in life that they are searching for their families. in addition to that, really, poverty is also one of the reasons why the CPP-NPA-NDF can fool to join in the armed struggle? so, my siblings, if our economy is progressing, why should we do a coup d'état? (for us to drive away the foreign investors and tourists and let our country drown?) 8. we do not want violence especially in our co-Filipinos. really, why are we always pushing through with the peaceful resolution of armed conflicts? we are fully committed in the peace process that the government is campaigning because we are aware that murdering co-Filipinos in the war of the military and the secessionist groups in Mindanao and even the members of the NPA bandits will not bring any good. if we do not want murder as a solution to the problem, why should we do a coup d'état? 9. we are not going to follow the incitement and encouragement of retired officials. in fact, there is neither a story nor a whisper being heard that there is an encouragement, foolery or incitement by the retired or former military personnel for us to revolt. if there is, what are they, fools? example, the names involved in the current rumors are senior officers of the AFP which were formerly trying their best to stop many coup d'état. I don't think that they are the ones now saying, "have a Coup d'état now!". we, the active military personnel, believe that the retired senior officers that we respected would reverse what they had said in the past days against coup d'état, and their serious reminder for us to always observe the Chain of Command. aside from that, our leaders are listening in our feedbacks. why should we do a coup d'état? are we a Sar-com (personal command)? 10. we know that if there are those who are going to make a coup d'état, fellow soldiers are going to hurt each other. if the incident back in 1989 will happen again wherein fellow soldiers shot each other, the real enemies of the Filipino people are going to applaud: those who are snatching our territory in the West Philippine Sea and the NPA bandits whose real desire is for their bosses in politics to rule our country. why should we make a coup d'état?
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_83158901 Aiko, lost a lot of weight Ruby's son, with potential by Jun Lalin October 16, 2016 we spotted Aiko Melendez and her eldest daughter with Jomari Yllana, Andre, at Promenade Mall in Greenhills, San Juan last Thursday night. the mother and daughter were bonding. they were accompanied by the youngest sister of Aiko with her mom, Mommy Elsie. Aiko and Andre were very sweet. Aiko introduced to us her daughter, and she's all grown-up. Andre can very much be an actress. anyway, we noticed how thin Aiko got. She lost a lot of weight, and it's obvious that she's now smaller compared to the last time we saw her. Aiko is one of the actresses who's doing a "back-into-shape" program. aside from dieting, Aiko is very diligent in exercising. Aiko often posts her exercises in social media. before we saw Aiko, we also chatted with comedienne/TV host, Ruby Rodriguez, in Promenade Mall. Ruby and her family will celebrate Christmas with her siblings in Los Angeles, California. Ruby was with her son who was very handsome and has potential to be an actor. we saw Berwin Meiley in NCAA basketball game of San Beda Red Cubs last Friday afternoon in MOA Arena. Berwin was with his child who studies at San Beda Taytay. many adores Berwin because of how much weight he lost. Berwin joins marathons, and also organizes marathon events. Friday is Martin Nievera's arrival in the country from Los Angeles, California. Martin will host and sing in the Star Magic Ball this Saturday, the reason why he'll come home to the country. Monday (October 24) is Martin's schedule to come back to L.A. because he and Lani Misalucha have a concert at Pechangco Casino this October 29 and 30.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_52174034 carrying their babies more mothers went to health centers . because it's national immunization day on Wednesday . most of the mothers on queue are hoping there's Pentavalent vaccine already . but they are dismayed in knowing that until now there is still no Pentavalent vaccine in health centers . so Christy is worrying . her baby is already seven months and until now this is still not vaccinated with Penta . <foreign><foreign> there may be no Pentavalent vaccine but patiently waiting in line are the mothers . instead of Pentavalent the baby is given pneumococcal vaccine . <foreign> later we will still be back if there is Pentavalent . explains the city health office because there is no Pentavalent they can temporarily give Pneumococcal vaccine to the infants . they can be separate they can also be taken together . meaning if we have sufficient P_C_V thirteen and pentavalent they can be given together . one hundred infants are the target of every health center to get vaccinated with pentavalent vaccine every Wednesday . but because there is a shortage of supply those who were vaccinated last week did not reach twenty . the transition at the national headquarters of the department of health is one of the pinpointed reasons why their is a shortage in supply of Pentavalent vaccine . do not be scared please or do not be worried that your children will not be provided with pentavalent . definitely we are pursuing that they will not reach eleven months old without being given the vaccine . meaning they still have -- we have still time to pursue them . today came the supply of vaccine from D_O_H Manila . this Friday the city health office will be taking supplies at the regional center of D_O_H . that is why next week city health ensures that they can give pentavalent vaccine to infants .
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_50107418 (()) . starting February two until the present the number of surrendering members of the N_P_A reached seventy-three . an evidence of the success of the advancement of peace in the whole country . especially in the Mindanao part where most of the N_P_A are coming from . the one in -- our very latest here our local governments units are very active in giving that comprehensive local integration program . that they have been receiving an initial cash assistance there amounting to sixty-five thousand . our very latest here in the part of Compostela Valley province wherein thirty-five of the former rebels were given cash assistance amounting to almost two million . and separate from that among the thirty-five some have brought firearms . so there is a separate amount for the firearms that they have surrendered . promise of education work and beautiful life are some of the reasons why some of our Lumad fellowmen are chosen and encouraged to join the N_P_A rebel group . but the realization of these promises that will never be fulfilled is the reason why they have chosen more to surrender now to the government . so the former recruiter of the N_P_A is now the persuading its members to surrender and have a new life . a thing easier than going up the mountains far from the family and holding arms . in the past is according to %incomplete
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_28480754 <no-speech> oh ? (()) . <no-speech> ha ? <no-speech> I am going out of the house for the meantime . <no-speech> <no-speech> I am going out so I can talk to you properly . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> oh okay . huh ? <no-speech> ouch what is this I am going just about anywhere but everywhere I go it is always choppy . yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech> <no-speech> what ? hello ? <no-speech> what again ? is (()) there ? <no-speech> <no-speech> there is no Jimenez ? ha ? <no-speech> what ? huh ? <no-speech> none none none . no Jimenez ? <no-speech> no Jimenez . <no-speech> there's no Jimenez now it was cancelled . <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> why ? <no-speech> no money . <no-speech> <no-speech> what is Jen doing ? <no-speech> is Jen there ? <no-speech> ah ? <no-speech> yes she is here . huh ? <no-speech> yes she is here . is Jen there ? <no-speech> again yes she is here . what is she doing ? <no-speech> what is she doing ? because (()) it was low battery stripping mama . <no-speech> what is being done ? <no-speech> is it choppy can you not understand ? <no-speech> <no-speech> she is stripping mama . do you not understand me ? huh ? <no-speech> choppy ? <no-speech> <no-speech> confusing right choppy I can't understand you . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> hello . <no-speech>
query1758 canal hyp waterway
query1759 youngest sister hyp female
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_69114899 <no-speech> what are you doing ? lying down right here . <no-speech> <no-speech> take it easy hide there at home . <no-speech> ah . yes sitting down with nothing to do . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> you're sitting down ? <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . nothing to do . <no-speech> since it completely -- our fishnet of %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> bro let's play later . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> let's play later . aha ? <no-speech> we're competing against them . <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> let's play . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay okay . <no-speech> then call %incomplete <no-speech> later text Pareng Baybay too . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> yes how is your love life doing ? smells like %incomplete <no-speech> <no-speech> bro they stink there . <no-speech> huh ? no news of Mara ? <no-speech> <no-speech> they made up . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> but she loves you right ? (()) . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> of course . <no-speech> I love you . it's a shame right we were really angry about it bro . I love you what's up ? according to her she really loves you . <no-speech> <no-speech> yes . <no-speech> why are you acting shy ? <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> it's really like that bro . <no-speech> handsome no ? <no-speech> <no-speech> it's really like that . <no-speech> ah if it's like that get it right away . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> don't be shy anymore . <no-speech> <no-speech> say love you immediately if that is necessary .
query1757 controversial question syn inquiry
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_26764300 the noche buena of the scout rangers, one of the most anticipated chapters by troops assigned in the field, is coming home at Christmas to be together with family. when I was company commander in the 10th SRC, vacation schedule is already laid out by November. the team members already talk about how they will alternate vacation on Christmas and New Year. Christmas has an accompanying tradition where it is all festivity together with loved ones and the most important of all is the meal during noche buena. right? endless eating of delicious food in which some it is only in Christmas you get to taste them. of course, for us Filipinos, we save up for Christmas so noche buena is really extravagant like the photo below. the noche buena of the Musang a large percent of the soldiers are Christians and often are Catholics. this is the reason why the units also have celebrations following what is done by many civilians. after one of our encounters on December 17, 2000 in Patikul we had the chance to rest for 3 days in Barangay Taglibi to resupply bullets and food for the operations. I also took that as a chance to send for chicken meat, beef, fish and even bread and pancit miki that will be prepared for our small banquet. it is also once in a blue moon I allow them to taste alcohol. just a taste because there is only one bottle for each team. because it is forbidden to get wasted in the midst of combat operations. what we do is the ingredients are distributed to each team and their own dish assignments. division of labor as they say. in their small meetings, the platoon sergeant relays my order. "team 1, chicken adobo!" "team 2, sautéed pancit miki!" "team 3, stewed beef bone!" "team 4, marinade and raw fish!" of course, we have a feast like that only occasionally like if there is a unit anniversary or birthday celebration of the troop. the only difference for us, we changed the hour of noche buena. instead of midnight we do it before what is called the end of evening nautical twilight, or before it eventually darkens. why? of course, it can be difficult to eat in the middle of darkness! bro, you might ask if that is still 'noche buena'? I know that the meaning of that term is "good night" but of course we are practical in the field. the safety of the troop is more important instead of us using flashlight to lay out a meal at midnight. okay, let us just say, our feast is "buenas tardes" (good afternoon) because we eat our food for noche buena before evening. the most important of all, we are done. everyone is smiling and forgets the sadness felt by soldiers left fighting against bandits at Christmas. well, we were lucky then because we were in the 'admin area' to resupply operations. what if we were caught in the middle of the forest on Christmas? of course, our noche buena is tactical too. actually, the fighters in the forest of Patikul sent me a photo this Christmas of 2014. they were in the same area we explored only ten years ago. when I talked to the platoon leader, he passed on the message of his unit who have not stopped searching the forest to pursue the bandits still holding hostages. "sir, in order for us to feel the spirit of Christmas, we still prepare a special menu. we send to our fellowmen our warm greeting of Merry Christmas here from the forests of Patikul." in what I see from my time and now, our celebration of noche buena is almost the same. what is important to us is we become family with our companions in the troop and forget the sadness felt every time we remember our own families at home. our meal is that simple and whatever is available, we make do. what is important to us is to continue fulfilling our sworn duty to protect our fellowmen from forces of evil.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_24073403 to be able to borrow the children again: Claudine asking Raymart to fire his lawyer! Pik Pak Boom by Sol Gorgonio (Pilipino Star Ngayon) | updated July 6, 2014 - 12:00am Pik: Regine Velasquez returns to Sunday All Stars later, where she will have a death-defying act, and she will be featured in Special Duets. SAS, together with hosts of talk shows and variety shows, will also launch their new dance craze "Ang Saya-Saya" in here. pak: the opinion on a young actress by waiters and waitresses of a bar in Visayas changed, when she had a show in that place. our source just doesn't know how many bottles of beer the young actress had, but he is sure that she drank there an even ordered some light food as her snacks. after she drank, the bill was given to her but she suddenly complained because she needed to pay too many things that was supposedly placed in her bill. she no longer wanted to pay the bill because supposedly many things were added that she did not order. good thing some production staff who managed her show were there, so they just told the waiter to not charge her anymore, and they will take care of it. the waiter returned to the young actress and said her productions staff will just pay for it. "okay," was the only reply of the young actress then she left, getting away with free drinks and snacks. boom panes! boom: turns out Raymart Santiago had hung out with his children with Claudine Barretto two times. it looks like the couple's talks in front of the court went well, but the latest we heard, the actor was not able to hang out with his children. does their argument with the lawyers, which angered Claudine, have something to do with this? Raymart's lawyer, Attorney Ruth Castelo, is blamed by Claudine why there is chaos again. what we heard, Raymart and she will only make up if he will fire his lawyer Attorney Castelo. so Attorney Castelo was hoping to withdraw as lawyer of Raymart, but the actor did not permit it. as of press time, Attorney Castelo is still the legal counsel of Raymart and he has not been fired yet.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_97195971 easy to cook also popular to the kids . let us know the role recipes where in every bite you can enjoy the taste of every ingredient . <no-speech> are you smart in cooking mommies ? okay fine . can you guess the dish that could be made from the ingredients we are going to show ? okay fine game . <no-speech> ah spring rolls . <no-speech> <no-speech> so banana fritters . hmpf hurry . <no-speech> oh ham and cheese roll . <no-speech> we call these foods rolls because all of the ingredients are inside each roll . <no-speech> while it is easy to guess it is also easy to make and kids will enjoy eating . but now we will give rolled foods a new twist . what could be rolled that could be done with these ? do you give up ? okay Chef enter . the unique roll and food should not be difficult to make . what I will teach you today will surely guarantee that you could do this at home . come let us start . milk plus hot dog plus old bread plus vanilla syrup plus egg yolk plus maple syrup plus butter plus cinnamon powder equals French toast hot dog roll . <no-speech> lets get our stock bread . let's trim off the edges . <no-speech> to become more durable we need to fold the bread with our hands or rolling pin if we have it at home . next ingredient which is our hot dog . we could also put butter if we want it to become buttery but personally I won't because later we will also use butter in our next step . <no-speech> in a bowl we will make a French toast butter using fresh milk and egg yolk . do you know how important is the egg yolk in this recipe ? it helps bind it this will be that one that seals it . for the appetizing aroma put some cinnamon and vanilla syrup . <no-speech> this is our assembly . <no-speech> let's quickly dip the rolls in the batter what we created before cooking . <no-speech> when a golden yellow color has been achieved it can already be removed . this sweet breakfast can be made with the budget of one hundred thirty pesos for three servings . <no-speech> can you guess what we can be made with milk plus pancake plus egg plus oil plus sausage plus cheese ? yes to another breakfast recipe which is sausage pancake rolls . first step we will cook our sausage . <no-speech> <no-speech> we will do this first in this step because we want its fat to be rendered so its taste will go to our (()) . <no-speech> beat the egg and add nutritious milk . don't forget the salt and pepper ah . <no-speech> cook this in a pan then set aside for the meantime while making the pancake . <no-speech> if pancake mix will be bought egg and milk are only needed to be added there . let us pour the mixture to our non stick pan . <no-speech> <no-speech> okay after we cook out pancake it is ready for assembly . first step is our scrambled egg our sausage our cheese . what is the cheese for ? for creaminess of course . <no-speech> for one hundred ten pesos four servings can already be made in the pancake dish which is perfect for kids . we have plenty of leftover adobo in our chiller . we can definitely use it in our next recipe . tortilla wraps plus leftover adobo plus mayonnaise plus lettuce plus tomato equals C_L_T chicken lettuce tomato wraps . <no-speech> basically assembling is what we are only doing . we will just take the leftover adobo we'll just spread it . <no-speech> <no-speech> <no-speech> we can also mix mayonnaise into it . <no-speech> because it is rolled the vegetables are unnoticeable to picky little kids . one hundred twenty-five pesos per three up to four servings of this that could serve as packed meals or snacks . <no-speech> for dinner would be the ingredients ground beef onion mayonnaise lumpia wrapper egg white pepper and salt pickles cheese garlic and tomato paste . <no-speech> put them all together for a yummy cheeseburger rolls . let's get some onions . <no-speech> let's sauté it until it becomes translucent and aromatic . put ground beef in the pan . <no-speech> add salt and pepper into the mix . <no-speech> transfer it in a bowl when cooked . we need to speed up the process a bit because while the meat is still how we will put the quick melt cheese for it to melt and to incorporate it (()) . <no-speech> put some pickles on this or cucumber soaked in vinegar to balance the taste of meat . let's put them in the middle . <no-speech> to make the lumpia wrapper stick the most reliable to use is no other than egg white . and it's cooking time . my tip for the mothers it's away . we will put something like this so that the splash will go that way and not towards us . <no-speech> for the sauce simply mix the mayonnaise tomato paste paprika and garlic . <no-speech> it has a sweet and smokey taste . <no-speech> <no-speech> our traditional cheeseburger snack could now be partnered with rice . ready only one hundred sixty pesos for three servings . <no-speech> in preparing meals our wise mothers would not be left out . it has won in new discoveries it is was also approved in the taste of kids . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_36079027 Friday, December 27, 2013 are you lucky? shallow people believe in luck. intellectual people believe in cause and effect, action and reaction, action and result. being lucky or fortunate depends on the actions of many people related to you. if you know the secret about it, you will achieve your desires without any doubt from anyone, anywhere, anytime. two are its important elements: first, intense and diligent work only will not ensure you will succeed; second, the real key of lucky people to succeed is the knowledge of how to attract and obtain the cooperation of others to help them and provide them good opportunities. it makes life easier and you will have double the value for others to help you to the best of their ability. and, what's good here is you learn to lessen and avoid mistakes or bad luck coming your way. 7 secrets of successful people 1. make it easy to observe life - but do not play with it and ignore it. 2. study how to become affectionate to anyone - even if you are shy. 3. be known to resemble a kid due to insistence to learn and excel in tasks - non-stop research and training to improve knowledge and skills. 4. make the life of others easy and lively - if you are happy - this makes the people around you happy too. 5. allow powerful and influential people to own a part of your self - share any skill that can help especially to those with duties for abundant and easy service. 6. level and guard your bridges - in some way avoid forgetting the "bridges" that are your only path to your relationships, communication, and meaningful things that help you. 7. make your successes lucky chapters - every installment that comes your way is an important lesson for you to improve more to always be lucky. opportunity is inclined towards a prepared mind. because if you have a plan, 50 percent of your task is done already. but if you did not plan, you planned to eventually fail. one wisdom of an inexperienced person is, to not leave things to chance and not believe in luck. if you want to always be lucky, enact your dream immediately. on this day, you may act out your future to become lucky, not wait and expect that it will voluntarily come to you.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_91252237 you're extraordinary. express your uniqueness and talents; and if you are able to do this, you have trust in yourself that you are extraordinary and really different. be honest to yourself and most importantly, believe only the truth. not raw or not short. not inadequate and also not in excess no dirt, speck, or even a tiny mark. but only which is pure and perfectly true because this is where it mirrors who you are and the character you possess. here is your integrity and well-cared-for reputation. if this is not within you, you are part of those who have gone astray and a burden to the society you are a part of. instead of a solution, you even add to the problem. if you want to have an exemplary character, it is important for you to find out and heed the tiny voice that constantly commands you. here is your primary critic; critical, faultfinder and reproachful. it is packed with conflicting opinions, and if you are indifferent and conforming to any idea that it represents, you don't have control or any suppression on the outcome. it is too late even if you regret it. each of us has the power to choose. and choose right over wrong. however, we rarely use it. every time we are in danger and hopeless, that is only where we fumble to decide. when we actually have enough time to prepare and avoid any imminent danger. often times, what makes it difficult to do the right thing is the stubbornness of pride. insisting even if it's wrong just to prove that you have word of honor and stand. this is useless and hollow hypocrisy, even if the heart shouts for humility and acceptance of wrongdoing we all make mistakes, that is why a pencil was created with an eraser. best of all, accept the mistake so it can be rectified. for as long as it is hidden and covered up, the sin only intensifies. because we don't want to be criticized, we become blind to the opportunities in front of us. our self-esteem weakens and we lose faith to go on.
query1591 roof
query1618 beer
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_23406157 (()) girls . <no-speech> because of the extreme heat no longer children are getting sick . Miss Melody gives thanks for the free medicine given by the local government . he has a cough his children as well . because of the extreme perhaps -- (()) in colds . although the temperature slightly went down to thirty-five degrees celsius today the public is advised to be careful because the weather is changing . extreme heat in the morning but at night it's raining in some places -- . there is a change it's really coming from the heat and sudden rain . there's colds cough many . the public is also warned about food poisoning . this dry season food easily gets spoiled . you have to refrigerate the leftover and have it boiled before eating . according to PAGASA the weather is expected to be hot this morning until noon there's also a sporadic rain in the afternoon until evening but it won't be long . <no-speech>
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_46047547 Hebrew series 19: a new testament written by God in the heart of men by Zayith Hebron October 13, 2016 we are continuing with our study on the overall message of the Epistle of the Hebrews. this book can be found near the end of the new testament of the Holy Bible (between Philemon and James). the main texts we will examine from the book is the following: "this is the testament I will create in the house of Israel after those days, said the Lord; I will place my commandments in their minds, I will write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my nation, "and each one of them will not point to their neighbor, or each one will say to his sibling, 'know the Lord,' because all of them can see me, from the lowliest to the highest of them. "because I will be merciful to their evil, and I will not be concerned about their sins anymore. "in discussing the 'new testament', he made the former the past. and what is made the past grows old and almost disappears." (Hebrew 8:10-13) this is a very important part of the Epistle of the Hebrews. here the author says that the 'old testament' is past. actually, he just mentioned again what was written by the prophet Jeremiah in Jeremiah 31:31-34. which means, it was back during the time of Jeremiah around 627 B.C. when God first announced the prophecy of his nation; and it was also the time of Jeremiah when the God Yahweh punished the land of Israel because of its pride. God allowed Babylon to conquer Israel, destroy the city of Jerusalem, and take away the Israelites as hostages. Jeremiah was honest in teaching about this judgment on Israel and he did it for 40 years. God told Jeremiah that there will come a time when he will create a new testament between him and his nation. Israel failed to comply with the old testament. they did not fulfill the conditions of the old testament even if they swore to God that they will follow him. let us look at the notes of Exodus 24:33 - "Moses arrived and told the nation all the words of the Lord and all the rules; and the whole nation answered with one voice, and said, 'we will follow all the words spoken by the Lord. "but because the Israelites are disobedient, also as a result of the sin that runs through the veins of anyone, they did not obey the Lord. they accepted the serious misfortune of the destruction of their city and being taken as hostages into the land of their enemies. a bitter past. but here the author of Hebrews is saying to Christian Hebrews (around 700 years after the Babylonian capture of Israelites) that it is over. they should not return to the old testament of the Jewish religion. it is just a shadow of a better new testament that came to them. the perfect statement of the will and image of God is Jesus Christ himself. Jesus is the center of the new testament. Jewish rituals, ceremonies, and feasts no longer have meaning when it comes to the recovery of the damaged relationship of God with the Israelites. it also brings a message to the whole world; to all the people not Jewish or not Istraelite. let us return to what Hebrew 1:1-2 says - "back in the day, God spoke to our ancestors at different periods and in different ways through prophets, but on the latter days he spoke to us through his son..." before, the old testament was written in two stone blocks. God entrusted them to Moses to make the nation of Israel follow. today, the old testament is no longer written in "tablets of stone" but in the heart itself of real believers of Jesus Christ - as their savior or messiah, as their primary priest who offered himself for the forgiveness of their sins, as their God they will follow every day of their lives. this new relationship between God and the people is more effective than the old one. the former failed to make the people loyal to God. the new testament in the blood of Jesus possesses the blessing of absolute forgiveness to anyone surrendering his life to the messiah. the cleansing of sins of believers is absolute. Jesus did it more than 2,000 years ago, there in the cross in Calvary. together with that cleansing is the assurance of eternal life in heaven for anyone who believes in him and his deeds. friend, this message is important. have you thought about believing in the true messiah and God that is Jesus? you need him to have assurance of eternal life. the bible says that if we will reject his offer of salvation nothing can be offered anymore to pay for our shortcomings to God. our life on earth is just temporary. our life after death is longer, and at that point man has just two possible destinations. think about it well. Lord loves you, so he is offering this amazing blessing to you. follow Shower of Blessing every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. shalom and god bless!
query1119 Samar fisherman
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_10994489 editorial: save even just a bit! December 21, 2016 every time Christmas comes, many people act like millionaires when spending money. because, the money held is bigger than what is regularly received so there, full blast also in spending. what is only surprising about Pinoys, budget really well in small earnings. but if there is 'extra' received, also wastes money well. the word 'saving' might not really be part of the culture and mindset of the Pinoy. small or big income, it is the same. no savings. do not know how to save in excess. Pinoys are typical 'happy go lucky' in general. life is enjoyed like "today" is the last day. this is one of the good attributes of a Pinoy so we are known to be a happy race. whatever problem arrives, cheerfully go through it. that is because life is carried lightly. if there is none, sacrifice. if short, make do. anyway, if there is a lot or in excess, full blast also. this does not need to be changed in whole. it is right to enjoy life and do not worry too much about what has not yet happened. but it is important that when it comes to money that Filipinos have foresight. this needs to be learned. this needs to be practiced. learn to save if there is excess, especially in times of 13th month pay and bonus. December has no difference to the month of January to November so there is no reason for the manner of spending to change. the amount of budget that fits after 11 months, should be the same spent every December. or if there is a slight increase on budget, it should not be to consumer all the additional blessing received. especially in this coming year of 2017. there is no assurance on what the flow of the country's economy or the work of the members of the family will be. what if there is an unexpected unpleasant event? what if the source of income is suddenly lost or inflation rate suddenly skyrockets or there is conflict in other countries and the crisis affects oil which is relied on the pricing of all products? there should be savings that can be pulled out somehow!
query188 Chinese fisherman
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_20172440 left behind: lawyer, engineer, doctor what would K+12 do to raise the Philippines' rank which is always left behind at the QS world university ranking? we are asking this because surveys of universities in the past 10 years, my beloved Philippines is always on the fringes meanwhile, during graduation rites, guest speakers would brag how we are world class. whatever those smooth talking guest speakers mean, we cannot fathom. hehehe! here, President Noynoy Aquino and Department of Education secretary Armin Luistro, is the Philippines' record in the QS world ranking of universities and you can ponder about it. lawyers, Philippines is not listed in the top 200 law universities, colleges or schools for the year 2014-2015 China and Hong Kong, they have nine which is why they have best lawyers. what if we lose the case for the West Philippine Sea at the United Nations tribunal because we are not in the list of countries with good lawyers? we might have a summa cum laude in doctor of civil law but they got kicked out through impeachment due to possession of hidden wealth. he got kicked out by prosecutor-congressman and judge-senator by virtue of bribery from the Malacañang from P10-million - P100-million each. engineers, we also looked for the Philippine flag in the list of countries which has the best engineering schools. for civil engineering, the Philippines is not there and the same goes for chemical engineering. maybe this is the reason behind our easily damaged highballs, schools, and churches whenever there are earthquakes and the frequent poisoning in our food and us experiencing extreme pollution. among the top 300 on mechanical engineering, the Philippines is not included; but the traffic on our roads due to the number of vehicles is puzzling. one more thing, most of our cars are imported and majority of these came from junk shops, with engines thrown away but salvaged and is imported to us labeling it as brand new. included here are the flying coffin helicopters and airplanes of the military and police and ships of the Philippine Navy. computer science, let us look for the Philippines into the list of computer scientists. son of a bitch, we already reached the 400th rank and the Philippines is still not there. what happened? isn't the Philippines the text capital because we can consider cellphone as part of computer science? ah, can't afford to buy load which is why we can only text. our computers? used only for games raved about by kids until they get addicted to it and would no longer study and then stop schooling? ah, computer scientists are the ones who spread online gambling and cybersex and that is where we are good with computers and when we are annoyed, we go on hacking? doctors oops! good news for doctors! the University of the Philippines is on the list within the 251-300 bracket and number we are 45th from 251. son of a bitch, is this the reason why our hospitals are closing down or not accepting those heard carrying Ebola or Middle East Respiratory Syndrome-coronavirus? what about the complaints of our policemen that doctors get ahead of them in contacting the mortuary about people who died in hospitals? apparently, our doctors are number one in issuing prescriptions and agents for medicines made by multinational medicine factories because of huge commissions from these. and if you are poor needing an operation, the doctors' schedule would accommodate you this time next year. its like the mortuary will get to them first. but if you have the money, specialists will compete and cluster to take care of you. a P80,000 fee is nothing for a specialized doctor for an operation of a complicated vein, heart, kidney, etcetera. for food oops, apparently, the Philippines is included in the top 200 for agriculture and 44th in the 151-200 bracket. just a question: is this the only reason why we are the largest importer of rice in the whole world despite our very fertile rice paddies? Department of Agriculture secretary Proceso Alcala, answer! top 85 in corruption in the record of Transparency International, it is bad too. according to TI, our rating is poor with the country being 85th in 175 countries. and our poor rating is a sign of a widespread bribery, lack of punishment for the corrupt, and being indifferent to the needs of the populace. hey, corrupt and indifferent, stay away from the government.
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_56696334 Wednesday, May 09, 2012 where are you now? your view would become clear if you can manage to find it deep inside your heart. he who looks outside is dreaming, and he who feels his heart wakes up. effective levels to success. level 2: perspective is clear. it is already a habit of people to debate, to compete, to argue and to win. from education, which is a contest for higher grades; at work, which is a competition for promotion; in relationships, which is a rivalry for affection; and even more importantly in business, when the strongest is left in the competition. if your goal is simply not clear in anything you do, you have no chance to win. there has to be a clear perspective in order to not get lost. a clear process of imagination is important. at first you would think. you would have the consciousness to organize what you are thinking. you will come up with an idea and plan from here, and fulfill this. there will be a transformation for this to become a reality. you will always be happy and joyful. your spirit will be at peace until you achieve and experience your glory. (this can be read on the pages of awakening) this is your inspiration. this is the basis of those who are successful; having a strong, clear and definite guide towards the direction they are going to. enclosed herewith are desires, wishes, hopes, goals and ambitions. from simple imagination you can find direction. this is your perspective. if you do not have perspective, you have no mission to fulfill in order to reach your destination. you cannot create wishes in order to fulfill this. perspective is of great help in proving and discovering your dreams and greatest ideals in life. this keeps you deeply focused and helps lessen those that steal your attention. this is the guide for the fulfillment of your dreams. the difference between perspective and vision what is the meaning of perspective? in my dictionary; n foresight: individual power to observe or imagination to foresee what will happen in the future: the ability to internalize and understand what is hidden in those that are in plain view and to grasp the right meaning from the unexplained: the quality to identify what is real from what is fake and to choose and separate the righteous from those who have no right: give importance to natural occurrences and to correct doubts. what is the meaning of vision? n vision: based on dreams that have comprehensive results, the fulfillment of which is in taking action together: the power to see the positive outcomes of unity; responds to ambitions toward the greater good. in today's complicated life, you will understand things better if your descriptions here are correct, in order to customize a solution based on proper observation. you need to find an appropriate understanding of the jobs that we are doing. and along with this comes assertions. included here is having a decent job that would help you achieve your goal, fulfillment, contribution, connection and hope. remember that there are three kinds of consciousness that steals our attention when it comes to conviction. mentality of scarcity loss of ability mentality of abundance (there are pages of it here that discusses their power over our consciousness) if it cannot be understood and it appears negative to us, these have the power to hinder and lose sense even if it is for the improvement of your intentions. abundant perspective: the mentality of abundance. how am I identified? there are thoughts of abundance and a clear feeling of who we are. what we believe in and what we are good at in order to use our characteristics and abilities. this question proves the strength and personal integrity of our being, and how it molds our reputation, by which we are known. avoid; stealing the spotlight and imitating the traits of others. in the end, a fake personality instead of your original self will be your fate. do not allow your music to be left unplayed and be buried along with your passing. in which direction am I headed? prosperity comes from a clear sense of achieving the things we desire and why they should be done. when our personal aspirations are associated with our work in any organization, this becomes significant in being an extension in our voyage through life. it becomes easy for us to increase our colleagues and tasks. in helping others, this extends and gives a chance for us to serve the needs of the country. one day Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree. "which road do I take?" she asked. "where do you want to go?" was his response. "I don't know," Alice answered. "then," said the cat, "it doesn't matter." -Lewis Carroll avoid: constantly changing direction and an unknown perspective of where the right destination is, and actions that keep going back to the start; going around in circles achieving nothing. and there are no friendships or livelihoods formed with the ongoing uninformed perspective. who am I with? our prosperity is prolonged by meaningful relationships. with the constantly changing trend in economy, politics and work, this requires the continuous cooperation and teamwork of many people to succeed. our significant actions involve friendships, education and practices, teachers: mentors*, and joining professional organizations. *mentor: someone whose hindsight can become your foresight. avoid; negative things and those who belittle your abilities, are harmful and envious. this is the attitude of those with narrow minds and crab mentality. it is easy to identify them. they are the nosy ones. even when they are not asked, they like to answer and are always pointing fingers. where am I interested? it is important to give attention to your activities, where you can put it to better use, your likes, responds to your real ambitions and the direction you are headed. different people find different kinds of jobs to be easy, lively and addictive, and face different types of problems while being able to teach. avoid; being stuck in a job that you are forced to like and you are forcing your feet to move every morning as you go to work. this is a huge obstacle for you to properly reach your destination when you lose interest in it. what is an effective relationship like? if a bad attitude leads to distance, isolation and shame, regular and constant participation and cooperation with others leads to a spirit of unity and important things that are really needed and can help us are given attention. avoid; being selfish and indifferent to others. whatever you show and make others feel is what you will also get from others. if what you plant is a mango, what you will reap is also a mango. what needs to be done if you are are erring? failure is a powerful opportunity for you to become smart and your knowledge to grow. problems strengthen your will to move on and to not be contented with the status quo, and forget your goals in life. instead of escaping from what worries you, face it, solve it and move past it. this is just a test in each chapter of your life. abundance is little if you are always complacent. therefore, this is about you heading towards the right direction. what makes me happy? abundance includes simple activities, not those that are addictive and are becoming vices. reading jokes and laughter is a part of one's happiness joining a significant group that you respect and admire is another one. you are entertained by discussions; and your knowledge is increased. avoid; non-stop gossiping about the lives of others, actors and movies, meddling in the life of others that you have nothing to do with, and senseless shows on television and the internet. how do I face change? abundance can change at any moment - move successfully or recede into poverty. you just need to be ready at all times for changes. abundance can be gained not only from material things, but also in the growth of the mind. if you have many traits and abilities, you will not run out of things to earn money from and if prosperity is always in your mind, you no longer have the time for senseless things. as long as you have an awareness of what makes you succeed, whether it be material or intellectual, this is what you will do for entertainment. you are enjoying and earning as well. avoid; wandering around and senseless activities; aside from being addicted to vices, you are also losing your money. aside from being a waste of time, your health is also poisoned. change; if we can manage to be ruled over by defective thinking, senseless actions, useless gatherings, and wasting time for senseless things, then we can also manage to be smarter, and find things where an abundant life, peace and happiness can be gained. what makes one happy? as long as there is prosperity, you can pay attention to things that can make you even happier, you already have the ability to achieve your wishes without worries. and if you can keep yourself happy, happiness will be with you always. if you are already happy, you are free to fully achieve that state where in your ultimate goal prevails on its own, and at this point you can experience the glory that is meant for you. fulfilling your perspective the main ingredient of perspective: it is only focused on what is truly important and significant. the proper and correct process guarantees the right wishes, and helps to fulfill them in a short time and with little effort. you create your own life. mold it only according to what makes you happy. make guidelines that you have control of, so that everyone around you; people, events, even if you feel that it is good or if you have doubts. strive harder and make this very easy so you can feel good, and to the best of your ability in order to defeat any doubt. (please read The Greatest Principles of Life, 07 December/11) reality old and ordinary; when drowning, you will not say, "I would be really grateful, only when possible, if one person who has perspective notices me as I drown and approaches me and helps me get out of the water." timely and practical: when drowning, quickly say, "help me!". this is the only thing that is needed and no more beating around the bush. on proper foresight; significant, measured, certain, scheduled, in the right direction and can be finished. hindrances, instead of being faced and defeated, become fears when there is no guidance of foresight in our voyage. a clear and strong perspective is an important factor in putting things in order, to be certain and always prepared at all times. this is what makes wishes come true. to persevere, to finish and to succeed in any business or managing your personal life. and a student who wants to graduate and be a teacher needs to be an actual student first and work hard for it. if he cannot do this and will teach as a teacher, he will be judged as a student; and if what he teaches is senseless, he will be laughed at and be ridiculed by the ones he teaches. life is also like this, before you travel, you become aware and ready for the struggle you will face. until you have no self-awareness, you will have no plan that you can execute well. you have nowhere to start to be prepared in how to overcome obstacles. in studying: from the student, teacher, and those who teach, this is the process. this is clear. truth: a person who thinks will conform to the world; a person who has perspective will try fervently for the world to be in accordance to him. therefore, all means of advancement and progress depend and begin with a person who has perspective. when there is no vision, people are defeated. Proverbs 29:18 an ambition is a mission, and perspective is the response. "my Father, bless me to have vision." I always hear this in church being mentioned all the time. vision or perspective without doing anything is just dreaming. action without mission is a useless effort, and a vision that is responsibly fulfilled is the hope of the people. you, what is your ambition with the vision that you made in order to succeed? does this include your intense perspective? perspective is needed for success to always be your friend. Jesse Guevara city of Balanga, Bataan
MATERIAL_BASE-1B_78029035 DOH donated a unit of the Mobile Dental Bus to Romblon June 27, 2016 Dinnes M. Manzo Odiongan, Romblon, June 27 (PIA) - the province of Romblon recently received from the Department of Health (DOH) a unit of the Mobile Dental Bus. according to Doctor Ruth Cervo of DOH Romblon Provincial Office, the bus has two dental chairs, a stainless steel lavatory, reception chairs for those lined to consult, and a dentist desk. according to her, this is part of the aggressive advancement of DOH to achieve General Health and it can go around the different areas of jurisdiction of Romblon to carry out medical and dental missions. this project aims to provide to poor barangays basic health services such as ECG, X-Ray, check-up and tooth extraction. (DM/PIA-IVB/Romblon)
