<1>	Wajasiriamali Nzega wapewa mil. 20/-	entrepreneurs in Nzega are given 20 million.
<2>	Imeandikwa na Basil	written by Basil
<3>	Imechapishwa: 25 Oktoba 2016	published: 25th October, 2016.
<4>	KAMPUNI ya simu za mkononi ya Airtel kupitia mfuko wake maalumu wa kusaidia jamii wa Airtel FURSA Tunakuwezesha, imekabidhi hundi ya Sh milioni 20 kwa Mbunge wa Nzega Mjini, Hussen Bashe, kuwanufaisha wajasiriamali jimboni humo.	Airtel Mobile Phone Company, through its special fund for helping the community of Airtel Opportunity, we enable you, has handed a check of 20 million shillings to the parliamentarian of Nzega Town Hussen Bashe to benefit entrepreneurs in that county.
<5>	Akikabidhi hundi hiyo, Mkurugenzi Mkuu wa Airtel, Sunil Colasa alisema,	while handing the check, the general director of Airtel Sunil Colasa said,
<6>	“Airtel imejipanga kuhakikisha vijana wanaendelea kunufaika na mradi wa Airtel FURSA kwa kuwapatia misaada ya kukamilisha mipango yao waliyoipanga ya kupunguza changamoto walizonazo ikiwamo ya ukosefu wa ajira na mtaji ili watimize malengo yao kibiashara”.	"Airtel is set to ensure that youths continue to benefit from the Airtel Opportunity project through giving them aid to finalize their plans to reduce the challenges they face, including lack of employment and capital, so as to fulfill their business goals."
<7>	Bashe aliishukuru Airtel na kuahidi kusimamia mradi huo wa ukopeshaji kwa ajili ya kuweza kuinua vipato vya wananchi wa Nzega kama ilivyokusudiwa.	Bashe thanked Airtel and promised to oversee the lending project for the purpose of raising incomes of the citizens in Nzega as purposed.
<8>	Mradi wa Airtel Fursa, ulianzishwa Mei mwaka jana na tayari umewafikia vijana zaidi ya 5,000 kutoka katika mikoa 10 nchini pamoja na vijana 100 waliowezeshwa kwa kupewa mitaji na vitendea kazi.	the Airtel Opportunity project was started in May last year and it has already reached more than 5,000 youths from 10 provinces in the country together with 100 youths who were empowered by being given capital and working tools.
<9>	Programu hii kati ya Airtel na Mfuko wa Maendeleo Nzega chini ya Mbunge wa Jimbo la Nzega Mjini, Bashe, itawawezesha zaidi ya wajasiriamali 350 kunufaika na mikopo kupitia huduma ya Airtel Money.	this program between Airtel and the development fund Nzega under the parliamentarian of Nzega Town County, Bashe, will enable more than 350 entrepreneurs to benefit from loans through the Airtel Money service.
