<1>	Samsung yathibitisha betri kuwa chanzo cha Galaxy Note 7 kulipuka,	Samsung confirms that the battery is the cause of Galaxy Note 7 blowing up,
<2>	yapata hasara ya Dola 5.3 bilioni	gets a loss of about 5.3 billion dollars
<3>	Kampuni ya kutengeneza bidhaa za kieletroniki ya Samsung imethibitisha kuwa betri ambazo zimetumika katika simu za Galaxy Note 7 zina kasoro na hivyo kusababisha simu kuwaka moto na kulipuka.	electronics manufacturing company Samsung has confirmed that the batteries used in the Galaxy Note 7 phones have a problem and therefore cause the phone to catch fire up and blow up.
<4>	Katika taarifa ambayo imetolewa na kampuni hiyo ya Korea Kusini ilisema kuwa kuna uwezekano kuwa kukawa na tatizo lingine ambalo limesababisha lakini kwasasa wamegundua kuwa betri ndiyo chanzo.	a statement released by the Korean company says that there is a possibility that there is another problem that has caused this but for now they have determined that the battery is the cause.
<5>	“Kwa hitimisho tu betri ndiyo limegundulika kuwa chanzo cha matukio ambayo yalitokea kwa Note 7,” ilisema sehemu ya taarifa ya Samsung.	"in conclusion the battery has been discovered to be the cause of what happened to Note 7," said part of the Samsung statement.
<6>	Aidha Samsung imesema sababu ya tatizo kutokea katika betri ni uwezo mdogo wa kumudu matumizi ya simu hiyo jambo lililosababisha betri kuwa kupata joto kali na baadae kulipuka moto.	moreover, Samsung has said that the reason for the problem with the battery is the limited ability to sustain the usability of the phone, something that causes the battery to heat and later on burst into flames.
<7>	Pia kampuni hiyo imetangaza kuwa imepata hasara ya Dola 5.3 bilioni kwa ajili ya kurudisha simu hizo kiwandani ili kufanyiwa uchunguzi na kujua nini hasa chanzo cha simu hizo kuwaka moto na kulipuka.	also the company has announced that it has recorded a 5.3 billion dollar loss because of recalling the phones to the factory for investigation to know the cause of the phones over heating and exploding.
<8>	Samsung wamesema kuwa kwa sasa wamejifunza na wana uhakika kuwa tatizo kama hilo halitajitokeza katika toleo linalofata la Galaxy Note 8 ambayo inataraji kutoka mwaka huu.	Samsung has said that for now they have learned and they are sure that such a problem will not come up in the next edition of Galaxy Note 8, which is expected to be launched this year.
<9>	Simu ya Samsung Galaxy Note 7 ilitoka mwaka jana mwezi Agosti lakini baada ya mwezi mmoja simu hizo zilianza kuripotiwa kupata matatizo na hivyo Samsung ikarudisha simu zinazokadiriwa kufikia milioni 2.5 ili kuzichunguza.	Samsung Galaxy Note 7 was released in August last year but after a month the phones were reported to have problems and therefore Samsung recalled the phones, approximately 2.5 million, to be investigated.
