<1>	Wagombea chama cha soka Tabora hadharani	they fight over the soccer association in Tabora publicly
<2>	Imeandikwa na Alexander Sanga	it is written by Alexander Sanga.
<3>	Imechapishwa: 17 Desemba 2016	published: 17th December, 2016.
<4>	KAMATI ya uchaguzi ya Chama cha soka cha mkoani Tabora (Tarefa) imetangaza majina ya wagombea kwenye uwachaguzi wa chama hicho unaotarajiwa kufanyika Desemba 31 mwaka huu.	the election committee of the Tabora Soccer Association (TAREFA) has announced the names of the contestants running in the association's election, which is expected to take place on December 31st of this year.
<5>	Akizungumza na gazeti hili jana mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo Richard Lugomela aliwataja wagombea hao na nafasi wanazowania kwenye mabano ni John Kadutu, Gulamhussein Rhemtullah (Mwenyekiti).	while speaking with this newspaper yesterday, the chairperson of that committee, Richard Lugomela, mentioned the candidates with the positions they are vying for in brackets as John Kadutu, Gulamhussein Rhemtullah (chairperson).
<6>	John Mtesigwa, Biswalo Misana, Abdul Amani na Fredrick Msonga (Makamu Mwenyekiti), Athuman Kilundumya, Nassoro Said na Janeth Kabeho (Katibu Mkuu) huku nafasi ya katibu msaidizi ikiwaniwa na James Kabepele.	John Mtesigwa, Biswalo Misana, Abdul Amani and Fredrick Msonga (deputy chairperson), Athuman Kilundumya, Nassoro Said and Janeth Kabeho (general secretary) while James Kabepele is vying for the position of Deputy secretary .
<7>	Alisema kwa upande wa mweka hazina amejitokeza mgombea mmoja ambaye ni Maulid Sansa na wanaowania nafasi ya mjumbe wa mkutano mkuu wa Shirikisho la soka Tanzania (TFF) ni wawili ambao ni Richard Kiyenze na Dick Mlimuka.	he said that the only candidate for the position of treasurer is Maulid Sansa, whereas Richard Kiyenze and Dick Mlimuka are the two candidates vying for the position of the delegate of the Tanzania Football Federation's general committee.
<8>	Katika nafasi ya mwakilishi wa klabu inwagombewa na watu wawili ambao ni Acheri Manjoli na Razack Irumba huku mwakilishi kwenye soka la wanawake ni Joyce Babu na Maimuna Kiroge.	the position of the representative of the club is being contested by two people, Acheri Manjoli and Razack Irumba, while the candidates for representative for women's soccer are Joyce Babu and Maimuna Kiroge.
<9>	Wanaogombea nafasi ya mjumbe wa kamati ya utendaji ni Petro Mdaki, Shafii Rugema, Ramadhani Iddi, Janeth Michael, Geophrey Mabere na Stella Sagalani.	those vying for the position of the delegate of the operations committee are Petro Mdaki, Ramadhani Iddi, Janeth Michael, Geophrey Mabere and Stella Sagalani.
<10>	Nafasi hiyo inahitaji wajumbe watatu.	the position needs three people.
