<1>	Chama cha kuogelea wabadili katiba	swimming club changes constitution
<2>	Imeandikwa na Grace Mkojera	written by Grace Mkojera
<3>	Imechapishwa: 12 Oktoba 2016	published: 12th October 2016
<4>	CHAMA cha Kuogelea Tanzania (TSA) kimesema kimefanya marekebisho ya katiba katika mkutano mkuu uliofanyika Zanzibar na sasa hatua inayofuata ni kupeleka kwa msajili.	the Tanzanian Swimming Association (TSA) said it has made a constitutional amendment in a general meeting held in Zanzibar, and now the next step is to take it to the registrar.
<5>	Katibu Mkuu wa TSA, Ramadhan Namkoveka aliliambia gazeti hili jana kuwa katiba hiyo itakuwa inatoa nafasi kwa pande mbili Zanzibar na Tanzania bara kushirikiana katika masuala mbalimbali.	the Secretary General of TSA, Ramadhan Namkoveka, told this newspaper yesterday that the constitution will be giving an opportunity for the two sides, Zanzibar and Tanzania mainland, to cooperate on various issues.
<6>	Alisema moja ya vipengele vilivyoongezwa ni pamoja na kifungu kinachozungumzia kuanzishwa kwa vyama vya kuogelea vya mikoa na wachezaji wote wa kuogelea wanaoshiriki mashindano ya taifa na kimataifa sharti wasajiliwe na chama.	he said that one of the added features includes an article that talks about the introduction of regional swimming associations and that all swimming athletes who participate in national and international competitions must be registered by the association.
<7>	“Wajumbe wa mkutano mkuu walipinga kuongezwa kwa muda wa uongozi kukaa madarakani ambapo awali ilipendekezwa kikomo cha muda wa uongozi kwa muhula mmoja kuwa ni miaka mitano lakini kwa ridhaa ya wajumbe wote waliohudhuria muda wa kukaa madarakani imependekezwa kuwa ni miaka minne,” alisema.	"delegates at the general meeting opposed an extension of time for the leadership to serve in office, where earlier, the duration of one term in office was proposed to be limited to five years, but with the consent of all the delegates who attended, the period to serve in office was proposed to be four years," he said.
<8>	Alisema katiba hiyo itapelekwa kwa msajili na Shirikisho la Kuogelea Duniani kwa ajili ya kuitambulisha na kuanza kutumika mara moja na kutengeneza kanuni na sheria za chama hicho.	he said that the constitution will be taken to the registrar of World Swimming Federation for its recognition and will be effected immediately, and rules and regulations of the association will be formulated.
<9>	Namkoveka alisema azimio lingine ambalo liliungwa mkono na wajumbe wote ni kuitafsiri katiba kutoka kwa lugha ya kiingereza na kwenda lugha ya Kiswahili.	Namkoveka said that another suggestion that was supported by all the delegates is translating the constitution from English to Swahili.
<10>	“Zoezi la kutafsiri katiba iwe ya Kiswahili litafanyika baada ya rasimu hii ya marekebisho kusajiliwa rasmi katika vyombo rasmi,”alisema.	"the exercise of translating the constitution into Swahili will take place after this amended draft has been officially registered in official entities," he said.
<11>	Katika hatua nyingine, Katibu huyo aliwataja washindi katika mashindano ya taifa yaliyofanyika mwishoni mwa juma katika umri tofauti.	in another action, the secretary listed the winners of various ages of the national competitions that took place over the weekend.
<12>	Kwa upande wa wasichana wenye umri kati ya miaka 9 hadi 10 kwa mtindo wa Freestyle mita 100 mshindi wa kwanza ni Natalia Ladha aliyeogelea kwa dakika 1.18.44, na katika umri kati ya miaka 13 na 14 mshindi ni Celina Itatiro aliyeogelea dakika 1.08.69.	with regards to girls in the age category of 9 to 10 years old, the winner of the 100 meters freestyle race is Natalia Ladha, who swam it in 1.18.44 minutes, and in the age category of between 13 and 14 years, the winner is Celina Itatiro, who swam it in 1.08.69 minutes.
<13>	Kwa wavulana wenye umri kati ya miaka 13 hadi 16 mshindi alikuwa Mathew Guild aliyeogelea dakika 2.28.91 na katika umri wa miaka 17 butterfly mita 50 mshindi alikuwa Emanuel Stenson wa Morogoro aliyeogelea kwa sekunde 29.97.	for the boys between the ages of 13 to 16 years old, the winner was Mathew Guild, who swam it in 2.28.91 minutes, and at age 17 in the 50 meters butterfly race, the winner was Emanuel Stenson of Morogoro, who swam it in 29.97 seconds.
