Investment in Mbarali District is still underway.
May 08, 2014.

In the year 2006, the government bought its farms in Mbarali and Kapunga Village in Mbarali District, Mbeya Region, together with the noise from various stakeholders to oppose that action, still the leaders who had qualified in the period used to ensure those farms are sold, but there have been more than three billion shillings in a period of these articles as well as small-scale farmers.
EXIM Bank, Trading Company has bought Kapunga Village in Mbarali District, Mbeya Region by 23 billion shillings, today, it needs to be used more than 109 billion shillings, today, it needs to be used more than 11,089 billion, it is required to return to government.

That amount of compensation is a must that's released as a solution to the conflict between the investor and the locals of those areas, the conflict that lasted for since the first day of being sold to the farm.

In the session of January 11, the year 2013, that made an investor and a team of experts from the Kuwait Airlines Company (Corefa), an investor decided to release that land area that is recognized by the condition of getting money or a piece of land.
Compensation was greeted by the stakeholders.

One of its recommendations is to be paid compensation of American dollars (4000 shillings) which will be improved, whereby a total of 870% are required, where the investor will be required to be paid between 57,949 billion and 11,071 hectares, which are worth billions of dollars to approximately 600 billion Tanzanian shillings.
The second proposal and that was accepted by the team of Ciara and Life is the cause of a piece of land with a size not less than 470 hectares.

As it is not enough, a small manager and the implementation of the farm in Kapunga, Gervans home, Barsheba I will be ready to release that farm if they will be paid 20 million American dollars, equivalent to 32 billion American dollars.

"We have paid 500 hundred thousand in the country, I have tried to accumulating wealth," said the manager recently in a special interview with ZANU PF in his office, and that the offense was caused by the government itself from those who are involved, an investor and the citizens who are its neighborhood.

Bartez had agreed to put that issue in the hands of the concerned government in the country, and at the end of his position saying that they had given twenty American dollars, I leave it. "

It is clear that the picture is saying that just one thing, that the complaints from their country is expected to be sold to be the farm, which every person wants to come up and put off.

The system that is easy is that if the government will not accept to pay him in that farm, it will have repaired the benefits of not less than 29 billion shillings, it would have benefited from the money they had bought for that farm approximately eight years ago.

Citizens are questioning the wisdom that was used to reach that decision of making compensation to the investor from another area or another area when the price itself they used to be same as giving free for free.

"It has been sold at the price of being jailed, that area has been charged by mistake, then we are looking for compensation," says one of the citizens involved in fighting for the human rights going to the farm.

Before reaching that step of compensation, the government used a expert to conduct an evaluation of use and land needs in the area that surrounds the farm in Kapunga Village, Rujewa in Kapunga Village and neighboring villages.

Every person is surprised, now who is a teaser?

According to the documents of Cemetery about the farm, the report of that expert was discussed at a meeting with stakeholders that took place in Mbeya Province on December 12, 2012, is in that meeting where they were told that the farm had been reduced to 5,500 shillings from 7,70 hectares and then the investor is in severe condition of that area.

The size of the area that caused the investor is the cause of the conflict between the investor and the citizens that live in the neighborhood with the farm which they have been unable to identify that the government through NAFTA) requested them to be given a farm a size of 500 billion shillings and not 7,70 hectares that they had to be an investor.
