
Why is this one you should be happy!

For you.
Nasibu Abdul Diamond, "my condolences and work and who may face here and when I know you are very delicious with the work of every day.

For a very long time, we don't speak about this day when I read this day when you receive a phone very well, even so, it's not my aim to talk about that.

I believe today is correct for looking for this message and even if there are other things that I wanted to speak with you, but there is an issue that did you do on all other parts of the first.
Diamond, the secret of the success of a human being is in the provision of there, there are two times, to give birth to the ones who have not registered or give you a thanks for those who contribute your success!

Last year at the Leaders Club's Grounds in Kinondoni, Dar es Salaam at the Christmas and Ngapa festival, where it also allowed the children to play your song 'Number One which is inside it, there are just a taste of it.

Your promise for the winners was to teach those children in good schools as their gift, it was a good promise to you, because all of them were studying in normal primary schools, a shop of Saint Kayumba.

That was shown that the promise to be given, most of them believed that your action of fulfilling the promise on January 21, this year by taking those children at the East African International School (East Africa International School), that is in Mikocheni, Dar es Salaam to increase the great honor to the community.

This has shown it is in which way it has shown that the way it has shown to value the education it is difficult for another artist to take this record, even if the other comes to do, he will be happy from you.
I have heard those students, one in class four and another five years and all of them have promised each other until when they completed class seven.

Congratulations by Mister small, it has shown maturity in thoughts of high level, this issue should be a lesson to your fellow artists so they can be able to do great things to the community and to bring honor.

Without any doubt, you will have added that the fans believe in the act that maybe there is an artist who have never thought about it's success in your work, because it gives them part of your income to your fans.

My congratulations and I think you to do a work, but now Diamond, why do I hear our colleagues that I have heard of us, we will speak another day but this issue to pay for small fees, will take five days!
That same time.
Is you forever.

Joseph Shishi.
