
Work squad to follow up new ministers.
Frode Dyrdal of 1st, 2012.

The special work squad is expected to be made soon, being led by the chief secretary general so as to follow up on the performance of ministers, permanent secretaries and their ministers, according to the resolutions of the educative seminar that was held recently in Dodoma Province, our citizens has been told.
As a result of that work, that is expected to involved some directors, the government, the situation is expected to be volatile, ministers and senior secretaries who are leading in the ministry which for a long time have been touched in the corruption scandal and which does not have a good image in the public.
That step was arrived at a time when the government is expecting to complete his budget by 90 percent in the year whereby President Jakaya Kikwete is retiring from power (2015) for now the government is preparing a budget at least 60 percent and that are usually given by donors.
One of the work of that work squad is to implement and follow up on the implementation of 14 resolutions, as a result of a guiding seminar for leaders and senior officials in the government which took place on May 9 to 14, this year, in Dodoma Province, the Saint Gaspar hotel.
The chief secretary general, Philemon Lihanjo, has confirmed that strategy when he was reading the resolutions of the educative seminar of Dodoma.
"The office of the chief secretary will put up and managing the procedure of implementation and follow up (resolutions), leaders and senior directors will be required to submit the implementation of the implementation of their quarter-year's council," said Lihanjo.
In addition to that strategy, the reports from inside the educative seminar explains that the government has planned to stop doing and loss of more investors in the country for the purpose of investing and especially in partnership with the government.
In the educative seminar, it has been explained that the government was forced to borrow at making a lot of investors who participate in the country and its results, the picture of Tanzania in getting good investors is not good.
"We've Nakalega in making a lot of investors on bad luck, there are conmen and some who did not even have enough capital, they have gone to the country like investors and find themselves in partnership with the government and in the end, the end of the scandal.
"Now we want to prepare well as the government to ensure investors who go in the country are keenly, with integrity of integrity and not Imbachawene, some of the leaders to invest in foundations of tension," said one of the senior secretaries who participated in the educative seminar.
During the decision of "to mention the" foreign investors in the country, it has been discussed in details at the educative seminar, reports indicate that although some of the ministers have started to take action, there are leaders with the scandal that affects the weather.
Those ministries which have been tested in the corruption scandal of billions of money is together with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals which is caused by the scandal of emergency electricity projects.
Other ministries are housing and housing development that deals with provision of land ownership for more than one person and also distributing open areas, the scandal that deals with several councils in the country.
The Ministry of Infrastructure, in that list explains the scandal of getting a contract with investors with controversy, especially from RTO), others are the Ministry of Construction, which through the Road Agency (TRC), others are the Ministry of Construction, which through the roads, caused the loss of billions to the government by getting into contracts and contractors.
The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism continues with illegal immigrants in possession of illegal resources of the country especially the produce of forests, public service management is being faced with a scandal of paying ghost workers.
In that direction of controlling the names of ministers, chief secretaries and their ministers, President Jakaya Kikwete, has been made to inform them that despite posters of fighting corruption in their ministries, but bribery have been done in those ministries.
"Bribery have been done in your ministry, in your department, there is no one who is responsible for you to lead this fight, how do you finish with this matter so that we finish with you, or to reduce them," said Kikwete in his speech of closing the seminar in Dodoma, at the end of this week.
Kikwete urged his ministers to make sure the posters that cause bribery at the ministry should be like the behavior, trend and reputation of work in those offices.
"Meaning, if the officer continues to claim bribery in those offices, those posters will be an illusion," he said and added.
"Citizens would like to see after the speed of the speed and efficiency in implementing our responsibilities, it has been increasing especially in production and provision of services while focusing on good governance, law administration, to respect the constitution, discipline and accountability."
In the educative seminar of Dodoma, 14 resolutions were put which is implementing development, success and integrity, responsibilities in the government by considering the law, regulations and procedures.
Other resolutions are to avoid sexual violence and conflicts between the dollar that are the government, parliament and the courts, by considering the development plans of the year 2015, 15 years will be organized through middle-five years so as to reach the level of international income.
These resolutions are to increase the internal revenue and controlling the expenditure so as to reduce the level of aid in the budget up to 10 percent of the year 2015.
