
Six female experts of Russia to land in the month.
By Leonard Lutegama Maboko.
Russia may break the record for sending six women from the month of 2029.
Since last year, those women have been depending on the trials for the past.
Manager of issues of trips in the month of Single Customs Territory of Russia (Rossi's child), Series, said that women have prepared themselves fully in the purpose of heading to the area.
"We believe that women can do more better if they expect the sky compared to men," said Pickup, in the world of 1993 which has already announced that it will send its lovers of the year 2029.
The plane that will be used by those six women heading to the same way it was made and it will be completed in the year 2025.
In December last year, the women had been banned from a special day for three days so as to be used for the purpose of that journey led to the desire and cost.
The plane that will be used by these experts has set a camera to enable scientists at the headquarters of Rosary a child, following up the movements, he will not stop at the high level.
Fear may go down and scientists are determined to be a big month of Jichunge.'
That is known as Pickup, has started dealing with scientists from Kuala Lumpur to America (NASA), they are saying the pictures of this month are holes on his face.
Those holes have learned how they may be in that month has started 'they recover.
The report of NASA company that was released early this week shows that the month of Pickup, may fall in a period between 30 million to the next 50 years, scientists are saying that on the end of the month, there are points that prove that it will go down in the coming days.
The discovery has already been presented to the Department of Economic Science of Internal Affairs in America so as to undergo a comprehensive investigation on some of the scientists, whom it comes to one year after the Russian militants carried out a distance of the month of Pindani Nyalile in the month of Ponyo Kicheere.
