The purchase of illegal immigrants in Kilwa district in the lake region has continued to boycott the capital city of ten thousand in the past five and two days a situation known as a result of buying farmers despite the government giving ten days immediately, "said President Jakaya Kikwete, when he visited the exercise of buying crime and he has never been read for a license immediately after the warning was read.
While talking to channel, some of the farmers, Vivian ian are not their properties as a result of a fast rate in the district, he has said that the step of those musicians to fail to buy those allowances that are in the warehouses of the cooperative parties in the provinces of threats from Mtwara province has been caused to fail to pay their payments.
Whoever doesn't know what I don't know!
How is it?
We have ceased to say like in the past.
Hakainde Hichilema, it finished in the government has been the first woman to follow keenly and as a minister.
It ends with the people and farmers in general?
Where?
We are happy when we look at our colleagues in our country, our African countries and these people have protested in the past, I don't have another thing on how I don't have the father wants the whole day.
People have arrived.
He is still supposed to see the past passengers.
This decisions that when they start doing business as well as causing pain.
On his part, the member of parliament of Kilwa southern region Suleiman Jaffo has apologized to the government on claims of not caring for the farmers by bringing about oppressive systems that you can be forced to buy food to small farmers of the political parties.
.
The key to the farmers.
People from Kigoma.
All of them to fight the headlines there are where?
Little of us.
Air crafts have begun to inform the public that it is one hundred and two hundred thousand shillings per liter, where the farmer was supposed to pay 90 percent which is equivalent to eight hundred thousand shillings, equivalent to fifty hundred and fifty six shillings.
The second payments of three hundred and fifty-scale farmers have been put into the auction after forcing him that he made the minister of agriculture and security, Professor Jumanne Maghembe at the ten-four day for both buyers to get in the market to buy the farmers.
I'm the person from the city where they are holding on the channel.
