They have not seen?
And there are many examples.
However,.
When you're getting married when they pass in that high table.
That time when he comes with effects?
When he went to his journey where he is told his colleague that I had turned against that, Pinda.
But it is not true that the way that has been placed is very good.
But it's only that for that reason, it is a shame, to represent Tanzania, he is joining the photos of the effects.
What are many problems?
MASA is a wife of a person and where he completed it so much to blame the government journalist, a very big issue in our infrastructure.
We themselves as teachers, we have at a very big margin of Swahili.
Business are supposed to be difficult because the concerned parties and also we got it so much and dowry, we should have.
We need to know that we should know that the language of Swahili language.
I think the wife of communication but it is not that we will put up against it, we use a language of Swahili as it is a language that protects the knowledge, something that is not true for that woman and my family.
Swahili language, because we have completed the God that he believes is, I believe that I believe that it is not what I believe in this true time is a total of Tanzanian shillings but this points seems not to be sold as it appears.
Why is why it has not been given a chance.
We are a Swahili goalkeeper.
In doing things in his pain in different areas, then it seems to be known which was completed, it is same as a child every day you thank this child here, it doesn't know what she is going on and then it will continue to carry the ball until he is going to get the road then it will continue.
Those are the meaning that is happening in court because we are not aware of the positions in court we have not been given a chance in school, but if they are given a chance then it is going on, then if they are given a good position that causes the Swahili language to be the first one.
Another thing is love.
Another thing does not want.
When I say?
Anything that you are required to learn if you are ready, it would have been able to do it easily.
And a big thing that we do not depend on, that a Tanzanian marks will be aired by students who are in universities that are in schools that are in place when you see the honorable people who are in parliament and I love you quickly.
If a community comes in inside, the Swahili should not think so much the government.
It brings us the Swahili language to desire to use a Tanzanian shilling because even in faith, he said that the God does not like the complaints by everyone being ready to confirm whether you are ready and put hard strategies that we will succeed in front of us.
They will play while the agricultural trade contributes to the world of the world.
In the language of Swahili that were ideas from the high table that had contributed to the topic in front of us, it was saying that a Swahili language is our responsibility for our interests and the nation in this week is not true that we are supposed to promote and grow the Swahili language and also here, we have been told.
What happens, Swahili means that if a Tanzanian marks that was leading in this period, Said Fella will come out from the University of a letter and my colleague who came from the University of Iringa then one directly are those who came to them.
