
The doors for corruption have been closed down and Madata, the Deputy Minister Masasi- 27, 2012.

Recently, our writer, Paul Mzamili Ally, did a short interview with the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals, Steven Masinga, who is also a member of parliament for Shinyanga town and one of the young leaders in the council of ministers and these are those affected.
Mke Mwema should partner with our readers' benefits, to explain your history for short message, Steven Julius Masele, is the deputy minister of energy and minerals, and the member of parliament for Shinyanga town, I was born 32 years ago at Melela Kololo Hospital located in Shinyanga town.

Masele, I started my primary education in 1987, at the Kilakala Primary school which is in Morogoro province and started in form six and after there I was chosen to join secondary education in Morogoro Province (UDSM) and secondary education and international cooperation, in the year 2004.
Mke Mwema should you be a member of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), why do you continue to join politics in the age of others can say it is small.
Masele, is true that I am a member of CCM and I started a lot of days of politics in the Youth Union, (UVCCM) when I was surprised by President Joseph Kabila of the Democratic Republic of DRC, I was surprised by President Joseph Kabila of the country because when I was surprised by President Joseph Kabila of the country, I thank the first lady of Namibia and international cooperation.
Almighty God bless you, your experience is at position of leadership in your party and the government, I think it has been able to meet the needs of the ones who will lead?
Masele, a question is so good because many people have been wanting to know the life (I took me) apart from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, therefore, I have joined CRDB Bank for approximately six years.

President Kikwete being accompanied by the Youth Union of the Revolutionary Party since I was in secondary at a time when I was chosen as the member of parliament of Shinyanga province, until now I was appointed to vie for a member of parliament of Shinyanga province, until now I was chosen to be the representative of the African Union in Shinyanga region and later appointed to be the representative of the African Union in Shinyanga town and later appointed to be the representative of the African Union in Shinyanga town and later appointed to be the representative of the African Union in Shinyanga province.
Therefore, my participation in the big international institutions have made skills and great experience of performance and leadership and also a broad range of international issues, have also been used in various sessions of the African continent, but also, I have done various administration activities and leadership and recently, I have made various administration courses and leadership and recently, I have made various administration courses and leadership.
Mke Mwema, President Jakaya Kikwete has been forced to select the Deputy Minister of Energy and Minerals.
Masele, first I thank the President for his great faith that he showed up to the youth of Tanzania, because it will be appointed to be the deputy minister of energy and minerals, I will hold on the mining sector, more than me being working hard and integrity and with great professionalism.
Also I will give a great contribution to the mining industry so as to ensure that the growth of the mining sector in the country by the year 2025 and to make sure that the country has a great income and resources, markets, and law so that we can be able to build the ability of the economy in the country by the year 2025.
Mke Mwema should not be given that huge bail and to be trusted by President Magufuli, what changes has intended to be able to do in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals in conjunction with your fellow leaders and other servants?
Masele said that I have explained earlier on the leadership of the minister, Professor Muhongo said our intention is to build the ministry as a good management of the country in order to protect the natural resources and the economy of the country through goods and gas which is the reserve of our country as it is.
The president wants to come from us and encourage us to continue from us, stories of being treated in the end and that is why we're very keen in every issue and the step we take, there is no opportunity to do a mistake, especially in gas we do not want to repeat mistakes.
Brethren, the ministry that is leading is between few ministries in the government that are accused of corruption, has organized them to deal with that challenge especially the directors of the government going against the ethics of the service?
Masele, the Minister of Energy and Minerals has already given the government's stand that people to change him in front of patriotism and the interests of the nation instead of without any person, a company or servants who not expect to take disciplinary action against them, I would not need to say many words that they will talk about.

We cannot wake up in our ministry for any way the servants who do not benefit from corruption that are the source of citizens to start lack of faith in the government and if that I have explained, we have given instructions to the servants of the department and organizations that have been closed down and we should expect to see my real life that I would like to be involved in corruption.
Mke Mwema should also have a lot of complaints from small miners especially the small ones that the government has been trying and they will work with their complaints to which way?
Masele, our miners is our priority because their sector is giving a lot of employment to local farmers so that they are prepared to see the efforts of the government to care for actions and not to make sure we take them and pay all the taxes they are required to pay in accordance with the law.
Mke Mwema should you like to give your evaluation about the position of political youths in Tanzania?
Masele, the government is caring for the youth especially President Kikwete, if you remember that he himself is a product of youths who came to him inside the Revolutionary Party, therefore, he knows all the youths who are trusted so that we should inform professionalism and different from the performance of our work so that we are not knowing more.
Mke Mwema should give your opinion about the possibility of being sold to the shares of the gold mine of Barqat Mvungi (ADB) to the Tanzania national company.
Masele, the government's stand is the interests of our nation because these minerals belongs to our country without any objection because it involves our nation's resources and we are important to ensure that China is important for the interests of the nation in that business must be keen and we are following up every step keenly and we are organized well between us and TRA.
