
We need a parliament to act or not.
28th of 08, 2013.

In the previous edition of this newspaper, we published news about Flaviana Matata, a resident of Mutomera, in Zimbabwe, Sheila Mutasingwa John, who interviewed him, the American ambassador in that country, David Bruce Nthepheya.

According to the news, which for the first time was published yesterday by the Executive Director of Zimbabwe, ZANU PF, who is a member of the ruling party of Zimbabwe, ZANU PF, who was chosen to present his views to oppose the steps of the western countries who were led by America to put restrictions to his country.

In submitting his message to his emphasis, Sheila urged his foreign clothes, all the other parts of his body being open, announced Ambassador Wanzagi on his delegation when they were in one of the libraries in Zimbabwe, he was attacked and got a lot of words with carry the message that he wants.

According to the opinions of the citizens of Zimbabwe, some of them had agreed with his delegation but opposed the way he had using him, saying it has identified himself and that even President Robert Mugabe's fears but he was impressed by the Western countries on an issue and not by leaving with her first suit.
It is a must for every human being, especially the concept of implementing the community.

By considering this example, we think the action of some opposition members to be taught and to do other violence in parliament as a sign of opposing what they believe is to remove the speaker of the speaker on Monday this week, they would have been showing their differences in other different ways.

The parliament is being seen by many people, with the ability to understand who is known but he can be able to show his amount of maturity and wisdom, so as to enable people to believe that he is a leader who does not have great power in accordance with its wisdom.

We have tried to see some of the members of parliament to expand their own fish by getting married and try to kill them, in order for children who are near their homes in order to revive the teachers or a parent.

It's true that we do not support me, if we do not support a misleading reports about the parliamentary regulations for political interests, but also we do not support actions that are not beneficial to the country.

All the members of parliament in general, be able to understand that the parliament is wealth of parliamentarians, therefore, the honor of parliament is the honor of parliament is destroying of parliament because of other nations.

The parliament is not the wealth of members of parliament of a certain party to be the opposition or ruling party, that is not an agent to make events of all events in the country, that citizens can be able to maintain the honor of the agency, then the citizens can be able to maintain the honor and they can do so through the box for votes in the general elections.

Our call is that, members of parliament should stop each other and even discourage each other by considering the strength of the motion and not the strength of the issue.
