
Edusei for Lungangira who is a patient.
Dec 27, 2013.

Former mid-fielder for Yanga and Taifa Stars, Edusei for Lungangira who was popular in soccer in Tanzania, his health condition is not good, he has been admitted to Mwananyamala hospital in Dar es Salaam city.

Speaking to Good Citizen yesterday in Dar es Salaam City, the doctor of Yanga team, Nassoro Matuzya, who is also working in that hospital said that they arrested Llays but December 23, this morning, being very bad and he cannot go well.

"Alabis brought here yesterday (the day before yesterday), around the morning when he was unconscious. He was unconscious.

"The previous tests showed that his heart is big but we are still continuing with tests, good professionalism is not allowed to provide information of a patient without the consent of the family but that is the real situation he has now," said Doctor Matuzya.

Furthermore, Mke Mwema did not arrived at the Mwananyamala Hospital to try to see that player, there was no permission from the hospital leadership because the situation of a patient is not good and is not allowed to speak with any person.

This newspaper made efforts to get in a ward in another way, it was meeting with Lman's brothers, who were amant to talk about anything because the family is in the sessions to discuss about relocating the patient in another hospital or remain at Mwananyamala.

"It is true that there are the truth, there was a huge tension but I thank I have lived and you know that Muhimbili is everything once again, there is no need to kill our patients, even these district hospitals have good medical equipment.

However, the issue of a patient is to be given an appeal is the work of experts, I have talked to doctors who are attending to their brothers, although they are continuing with tests, they have told that there is need to make big tests, he will be taken to elsewhere or outside the country as possible, "said Doctor Matuzya.

One of the players that have ever played for Yanga in the past, Laurence Kabigiri said, "it's true I've heard a patient and his condition is not good but I did not succeed to talk with anything, the doctors tried to talk with anything.

Mwaluka, who won the Yanga in the middle of the year 1980, when required to speak a man man but if the player said he was the one who had Yanga leaders with him, when he was asking him to play soccer in Shinyanga province when he was reading.

"We went to play in Shinyanga at the end of 1980, I think it was in the year 1989, when I saw a small man but he played soccer at a high level when I met Yanga and finally he mentioned Yanga," he said.

However, when he was asked about the leadership of Yanga to get information and they are doing what to help the old player, he said, "Listure but it is a national person, but I did not come here as the leader of Yanga, but as a friend and the player.

"Leadership won the official statement yesterday night, and we are ready to know the procedures of knowing what to help his condition go back as in the past, I cannot say what they do and when he is, therefore, the leadership has received information."

Moreover, Doctor Matuzya, when he was asked by our writer about sportsmen that is faced with the heart disease, diabetes or blood pressure especially after retiring from games arising from what he said, "it is true that there are many reports of sportsmen that is faced with the problems of those diseases after retiring from.

"But this is due to change the system of life, because when they are participating in other games, we are participating in games, we are doing exercises for time to time and to rest on time, eat it, they do exercises and be careful.

In another step, the former doctor of Yanga from the year 1990 to 98 percent, Doctor Godfrey Ngupula has said that he was in the hospital for treatment, when he spoke to Lungangira who was a player who had a unique ability to play the football in the country.

"When I was when I was a doctor for Yanga, I saw Lungles, while playing for upcoming stars up to perform well in the whole Africa, he did not have a heart problem or any big disease of normal diseases as fever and malaria.

I have never seen soccer player of its kind, even these at the moment there is no one who doesn't know his level and I request the Tanzanians to vie for a one thing, but the man does not expect to be a man man, "said Doctor Kamani.
