.
Mr of 15, 2012

In the first part of this article, we saw the overthrowing of Zanzibar on January 12th, there were been organized by three different groups of parties with one aim but in a different environment, without involved leaders of their parties.
Those groups were a youth group of Afrima-Shirley (ASP) and the youth group of the Public Party (UP) where two countries which were joined by joining the communist party of China.
There was also a group of shivered, the farmers and the retired police who were sacked by the new Tanzania Telecommunications Company Limited (PPP) after independence, this was led by John Gahm's group we continue with this second part of getting the answer.
On Saturday of January 11, there were injured in the morning, Sultan Kipingo, Abdullah was killed in an event "was sent away by one of his friends that he would have tried to violence that day and they would send their weapons compared to Honorable Jamala who was the head of the country and Mohamed Shamte.
This Saturday was the last day for the completion of Ramadhan and the celebrations of Muslims open the month which they started with far.
That day in Unguja town started to witness the faces of not known, "we are not normal, but every person take it is only one of the holidays that is expected.
Mzee Thabit Kombo, was quoted in the 'book' tour of Sheikh Thabit Kombo, saying that the Revolutionary forces started to enter in town from ten o'clock in the evening and continued until night. "
Without any doubt, those were soldiers of the farmers and they sell the farms, who were given training by John Okello, by getting back to the villages, if I have explained the first.
It seems that up to the evening of that day, Sultan Kipingo, he started believing that the previous rumors on violence erupted, because more than one hour, the police to prevent the violence of Mtoni center, they were given an order to prevent the distance of four kilometers soon, and to stop some few hours at the station.
After tomorrow's night, more than 750,000 people recently, January 12, there were only the squad of John Gahura who is the 400 fighters, after getting tired of getting.
In a situation that revealed that many fighters of the 400 people did not have enough training, nor the courage and how to be in doubt, apart from someone who could get married, except 40 to them were waiting for him, and they are waiting for a sign.
With a lot of courage, Okello's courage, wants you to move ahead and put a gun to the defender and killing him for a recent surprise, and those who are waiting for him to sign the weapon's story and ban a lot of weapons and bomb attacks.
From Ziwani, those fighters attacked the Mtoni camp and scored many weapons, again easily because many police were sent in town yesterday evening.
The youth of Babu Tale (public) who stopped him in the tournament, while Mtoni is on fire and already John Okello's heading to Ziwani County, together with numerous responsibilities, they were given the responsibility of attacking the airport of Zanzibar.
Embassy reports on the morning were stated, "Afrima-Shirley (DPO) that are providing police, but the public (the son of Babu) who are requesting them to manage plans, strategies and ways of the fight."
This means that, getting to the public youth party at the morning, shivered and at least 6 hours since the start of the fight, universities in Ziwani County and Mtoni were abducted by 6 o'clock in the morning, the only opposition was from the police station in Malindi, near the port of Unguja.
By 2 o'clock in the morning, Malindi Province came in the hands of the revolutionary people that is where 3-1 trillion Tanzanian shillings this morning, the police officers have been unable to leave a short time, "a great war has been abducted.
