
The members of CCM, Serengeti will play for Edward Lowassa at the MTVs to take the form for vying for the presidency.

The leaders of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Serengeti district, Mara province, have requested the former prime minister who is also a member of parliament for Monduli, Edward Lowassa (CCM), to take the form of vying for the presidential position through that party.

Being led by the chairman of CCM of that district Vicent Nyamgenda, said the leaders gave that statement yesterday, Monduli, after arriving at home for Lowassa to present that request.

But in addition to those leaders to present that request, Lowassa did not give the answer to him or refused and instead he went to his statement by saying that the issue is big, needs the request and the blessings of the Almighty God.

"Your history shows it is a person who has the ability to make difficult decisions, little and correct for the interests of our country.

"For sure you have all the reputation of being the president of our country, we are requesting for a time when you take forms, citizens have great faith that you have," said Nyamajaj.

He added that socialism has witnessed the great ability of Lowassa in all the positions he did in and that is why his name now is to sign the only sign of citizens.

On his part, the member of the National Executive Council (NEC) of Serengeti district, Patric Kahemele, said that there is no leader inside the CCM who came up with Lowassa being able to hold that position.

"There is no alternative leader for Lowassa for now, he knows the history of our party and the country, in all his service, he will serve the party with integrity," he said.

On his part, the Chairperson of the council of Serengeti district, John Ng'ula has said that they have faith with Lowassa and that he will take a cry for us to take the form to vie for the presidency.

That step by those leaders came as a result of President Jakaya Kikwete that he made in February first this year of wanting CCM members with their ability to convince them to take forms for vying for that position on the leadership of CCM.
