Our match will be played on 105 minutes.
October, 23, 2013.

Last week I was in Kagera province to witness the match between Kagera Sugar and Coastal Union, where the match ended in Kagera Sugar emerging victorious with 1-0 goals.

But one week before the match, they got a lot of things inside the Coastal Union leadership, the words of being detained by the head coach of that team, Hemed Morindat, and later on one day before the match that was played on Saturday, October 19th, 's spokesperson for the party member of parliament.

All this issue has come back to the players, they have changed the direction and when they get to the pitch to defend his position there are those who were to make sure they are trusted.

Sunday, October 20 this year, we witnessed the historic match of old rivals, Simba and Yanga soccer club, is a match that had been played for a whole month and normal people will be played in 90 minutes.

If it is a match of the finals or any one that the winner is a must to be found, then the ball can be played up to 120 minutes and if the winner will not be found, finally the penalty shoots.

But Tanzania's match are usually be played outside the first stadium - sometimes one week before (1080 million) match will be played. There are some of the witch doctors, there are some who talk and referees and there are some who need to play against the registration players so that they play under high level.

In that system will take a lot of years to be high, it's not the world but even here in Africa.

Explaining how superstition can be given a chance here in the country, I don't remember one incident what I heard of the old rivals of Tanga province, that is the Coastal Union and African Sports.

One man of Tanga province wrote me that in a little time when the two teams managed to prepare well in the premier league, the elders of Sports went to clean the drugs they put on the railway, so as Coastal Union should not be affected by the drugs, they were not affected by roads.

Their senior health and told the African Sports have used a lot of drugs, therefore, so they can be no need to use any way when they go to the field but it is not from rail.

For those who have arrived in Tanga province, from 12 road where the African Sports Club, up to where it is at Mkwakwani stadium there is no other way which will be called without stopping the road.

The railway has been made by the German factory from Korogwe town, to continue ahead of Arusha province a short time you cannot arrive at the Mkwakwani stadium without stopping the sea.

That's when the elders of Sports did not meet a session and decided to use the sea. If they came out of Rutihinda, Mbezi Beach, they went to the field going on the Bambini Journal.

In addition to all the efforts, African Sports has still played 2-0!

Leaders of the team and coaches are supposed to try good flavor as a result of getting victory in any way even that it cannot get great changes that happened in the sports industry in a few years ago.

The Bongo soccer needs changes in the system, we should leave you to participate in the match by follow as usual and believe there is evidence of these days of bringing a revolution in the African continent.
