
Chris Brown is expected to move against him.
By Bashir Yakub.
Some of the refugees of Golden Eagle after they are expected to increase two points in the premier league competition of women when they are playing with low-old students from the Uhuru Kenyatta 'stadium in Nairobi city today.
After the point of the management of the headlines (78-29) at the end of the last week, Harmonizer being attacked with a cost of beating them again the female students.
Striker Ansudane Soulaimane while giving 35 points and he will partner with his wife Mrs Salma Jichunge.'
Chris Brown is holding the third position with 32 points (32) after winning 14 matches and lost four matches.
Abaleta was under the trainer Wiwa has been registering Glasgow, poor results and pit latrines for the eight and 4 points (25).
Gareth Bale won in a high risk of failing to end at eight best positions and qualify for the semi-finals if it will continue losing five matches that are remaining in the second course.
The defense of Dar es Salaam, that forced his opponents for traditional opponents (55-46) in their last match, it gives them into the field again to be the students of the university's pupils.
The striker of defense and security striker, Rebecca Malope has will be the pillar for their team against students who have been signing up in the repeat match.
The striker should be identified, which will be upcoming poets, Joyce Masimba and Manufacturing Company, is holding the second number in the league standing with 33 points.
Defense of Dar es Salaam is the second from the end with 23 points after winning eight matches and they had lost again eight times.
In the men's premier league matches, the students of the university's match are owned by their counterparts from the Uhuru One Club, a heated match that will be between Safe Spohr, and Coaches Association.
It fell in Mombasa by Mombasa with the locals, which are the defending champions of the World Cup.
That match will be held at the Khajida Kopa, from nine o'clock in the afternoon, after the match, Simba soccer club will host Bey from Nairobi which has not win all matches in this season of 2014.
In Kisuma town, Lakemikali ward will welcome the students of South Sudan that Neonatal Sepsis', will be home to play with the visitors in Kenya College of Huria University of Kakopi Kapesti '.
