Again.
Padre Joseph Makame close to you will write this newspaper today in my first head when I started with the Roman Church, where I will not be dealt with because they have been approved by the minister of foreign affairs and international relations, Benard Membe who has praised the church of internal affairs and the international relations, Benard Membe said that the appointment was written by the registrar of foreign affairs and the international cooperation Bernard Membe has praised the Catholic church!
But the news that will be easily read by four hundred million shillings in the media has been written on the first page where the police force is still holding the police commander in Mwanza province, is holding a resident of Buzohera at a resident of Zakora Matic Werema, at least five and five years after being arrested with fake money.
Most of the foreign affairs of the third page have been reported not to reduce the price of electricity, it is a mobile phone company not to be given under the company.
At the announcement of reducing electricity prices by twenty percent after doing great changes in the country, there are five in this newspaper but there is five in the villages and that it is also the councilor of Masasi District Council, Mtwara Province who is also the councilor of Masasi District Council, Mtwara Province who is also the councilor of Masasi District Council, Mtwara Province who is also the councilor for Minondo area as soon after going back to Joseph Chibehe.
I gave my views after the revolution said that the new coach of Simba, then Flamingo of Yanga is a journalist who was given a chance in many newspaper reports which was written about Yanga yesterday against Yanga FC by scoring four goals by without I believe that Joseph Magufuli before getting the news of thanks, Changaldine Soulaimane.
How do I do?
The late?
There is something called?
He hurts me, is a plan that came up and that we have closed, who is the head of province not to put up for now, I don't know that there is not an issue without considering that the child is not allowed since it was told a plot.
May God know what talks.
The challenges are there for business people to follow the procedures.
It is a foolish thing.
And the number of money and we do not know what those who follow or transporting it is still ongoing.
Thank you brothers, a reporter.
They are coming out of many and these others have come up even if the famous person did not understand the procedures I tried to educate each other.
And we have witnessed for this week they come and between them?
Let me feel.
July until now.
We have been able to sell more than five hundred thousand shillings of parliament in order to go.
Millions of tons.
Swahili, color, and though I hope someone can feel pain.
They do not play very well, why is the legal?
In addition to these challenges that have emerged is that the things to the business people and the citizens in general, welcome him to say that it is a must and procedures to follow.
In order to deal with the international procedures.
We were where we are playing.
I call my call.
Now it is all the produce of crops.
That are the registration of people who were corruption they believe.
.
James are required to consider the law to follow up for seven years.
What has been trying to take place.
But by considering that he will be international where he refused to ask for now when they get these procedures for us.
Business was not because.
The late God does not have a great cost and when we see their crops even so as to agree on the international market because someone being going to the internet.
And its effects were told.
It did not look for what America has wanted to get in his business and therefore he gets.
Without following the procedures, you will eat with you like that person you don't know the business people he added.
The late God who did not get the procedures, has turned up to him, the late Mister Nam Fabian Masinga, the director of the department of development projects from the ministry of agriculture, food and corporate, and Mister who is the one being the acting director of the department of food.
We want to arrive at the national stadium speaking about more procedures of getting a permit but to welcome him again when I would let you know the citizens I will make December in general they want to do business so as to know the procedures.
I don't know where they lost their capital, she can fall down during a look at you.
