
Yanga comes with a new video.

It has been written by Luteni Selemani.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

While the board of sponsors of Yanga Club is on the final stages of asking for Yusuf Manji, the team's leadership will be competed for sponsors at the Double M hall in Dar es Salaam.

The secretary general of Yanga, Baraka Deusdetit told the journalists yesterday that in that event, it will bring together stakeholders from different companies that will give them their tenders for the purpose of registering for that club which has left the sponsorship of Tanzania Breweries Limited (TBL).
"There are different companies that include, where their tenders will be dealt with who will have a good sign that we shall get in the contract," said Baraka.
Yanga has come out with the new song being a few weeks since it does not have a contract with TBL for what they got as illegal.
The chairman of that club, Manji said that the contract of TBL was illegal that was broken into a contract with International Tourism Company which has been given a work to supervise that exercise to ensure Yanga gets the sponsor of what is understood.
"The contract of beer company in the country (TBL) and Yanga was signed in the past five years by his predecessor," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract, "said Manji at one of his reports about breaking the contract," said Manji at
He said in his past term, he was able to implement all the differences that made in the contract, but he was unable.
"TBL is just one time has given out 20 million shillings for the Yanga festival which had promised to be released every year, it has not paid the money for the renovations of 30 million shillings or it has not been given then at the right time we wanted if it has promised.
He said International Company which is the assistant in that event is the company that he had its chairman which he had previously given sponsorship for Yanga and already the team is carrying 40 million shillings, Manji announced Yanga is alleged to be paid 545 million shillings which has also been unable to keep.
He said the club has been producing 1 billion shillings every year for 10 years thus he announced his intention to come up to the club for 10 percent of 75 percent of 75 percent and 25 percent of the club, the process that is going on and any time from now he will have done that club.
The member of the board of fans of Yanga, Francis Mutungi told journalists yesterday that his council has received the proposal of Manji and there are some sections they are working on, "there are few factors that we have decided to give him," he said.
