After the introduction of the commission in a report.
It is unacceptable, as we follow it, I request our founders of the member of parliament to live in power in the whole country, all of us are small in Dar es Salaam City.
For us they left the president with power.
The power has been reduced without following the procedure of founders, the founders of the court to register with the power, these countries have been tested from two countries, and we have two countries not to go back because we have the end in the end of this quote.
It is saying the report says the commission does not difficult for Zanzibar to go back to Zanzibar, because it is in order to return all things tomorrow's edition, there are one of the union to return to power and the president and to stop the previous countries for the constitution.
I commend the commission that together with these things usually is contrary to the constitution, something situation died, then the idea together and that the constitution is stolen, he was stolen he was married.
But by doing so, then the complaints from the continent, we shouldn't jump said that the commission doesn't affect the local government and the end of this argument being that together with Zanzibar to break the constitutional constitution to continue, therefore, the complaints by people should not be taxed.
What is the argument, the commission presented his proposal of three governments and without doubt.
The commission does not know that the money is very bad to the extent that yes, those are only an increase and given explanations in their last report.
I would so that we can be careful, to look at one point after which was done to do analysis and it's not my responsibility for us to go and go through one of the first time today, I don't be paid.
All of us before getting into the article itself of ten changes.
First, we know it is very important that we understand the concept of our country we met with the government the late.
I know we will live used in our constitution?
For you, it does not know that because it is the whole area in the land area, it is a question that is recognized by those who came into.
That prayers is the main authority of the administration.
What is it?
It encourages the seminar the special borders.
How would you say that American dollars must change the borders of administration.
If you get a surprise, in the legal language, I'm saying that I have given that right now, I believe it is no longer.
Three weeks, that is the main platform that is called.
The instrument for closing the law, we run the parliament and the instrument to be given a right that we find that the court is, together I will register it.
Most of the very many times in an easy language, we have mix up inside American dollars.
Only one organization only in three four hours has completed dollars it is very important to see the government and the current dollars in the country.
Different from Zanzibar before the fight against the government of the United Nations, I hear an eye on the ruling party.
Therefore we can have said that the government was also a government of baby Boy.
