
13 December 2012

A teacher had survived after being arrested.

With Thehabari.

A teacher of Kasoro Primary School located in Bukoba Municipality, Kagera Province, Miss Swahiba Saro (56), has been forced to use bombs and fire outbreaks that cause death and set it on the fire they are accusing to be a strong man.
Development activities for the former residents of Majengo Ward, Mister Kataaro, spread since the day before yesterday up to yesterday afternoon due to rumors that were done by citizens citizens.

Mister Kataaro, is accused of accommodating six children and making them don't know where the brother to the teachers, Mister Rutaisingwa, Bonny (63), who is a businessman in Rwanda, said those accusations have been contributed by the family conflicts.

He said on December 10 this year, their female child who is called Miss Benedicta Bukhai, arrived at home for a suspect who is her sister coming from Kamete Constituency with his two children so as to move it.

He added that, Miss Bukore, got the problems of being interviewed by her husband in Dar es Salaam city (Colonel Bukhai), who was buried recently.

"The wife of the late went to her sister to be able to rest for three days after being given a half time, her husband did not know his decision because they discovered the widow of nine days in order to complete some of the traditional things.

When he arrived at home for his sister, her husband went to a police station to give a report on their children and their mother who is a wife of the deceased, some of their wives and the widow arrived at Kasese district, Mister Kataaro, while accompanied by some of the police, "said Mister Mayingu.

He added that at the same time, Mister Kataaro, was in school therefore he was followed when the situation surprised her for the teachers and his colleagues, therefore after going back home, among them two children who were present at home.

He said one child of the deceased, Gloria Bukhai (21), is alleged to have a mental problem and he cannot talk well.
Where his brothers know it but because of.
It failed to be dealt with by the wife of the late, they started to throw words at each other.

Those words revealed that the feelings of citizens and started to spread in the whole city about the teachers was accused of posting a child, where the late wife was forced to go back with his two children, shows and Denis Ssebo.

Mister Bonny was forced to return to the country after hearing the death of his in-law and insisted that, in that family they don't have any conflict but he was surprised to hear the things that are emerged.

The defense and security committee of the district reached the scene of the scene, at three o'clock in the morning, led by the District Commissioner, Miss Zekiaga of Pangani, was unable to address hundreds of citizens who visited the area which were being used to be used as a result of that situation, police were forced to use illegal immigrants.
They intend to fight with them.

The government was forced to relocate the equipment for that teachers.
Using a car that is number plate T 516, the type of HIV and fined shillings.

Speaking to this newspaper, Miss Pangani said the problem which occurred in that area is not in relation to such as claimed but it is the reason that involved the registration of the board.
