Members of parliament have forgotten that political parties here in Tanzania.
Sei 12, 2013.

We have been able to invest in many ways of violence that happened in parliament on Thursday of the previous week in these initiatives that involve the legal issues, social, political, economic, history and other.

In addition to the fact that the Parliament of Tanzania is not the first in the world to allow "violence or boxing inside the parliamentary meeting hall, it is clear that which occurred here in our country are required to ensure that we are going from so that we can be taken so that we can be able to come from.

For being a lesson and there is a lot of such kind, what I know is to ask ourselves and discuss the future of America and our patriotism, an amount of fees or tests for our political parties.

For a long period of time, we have witnessed the way the process of preparation of the new constitution has been sold to be capital or loss of some political parties to fail more to the public, this has started on the idea and importance of the presence of this process of writing a new constitution.

It is known openly that at times, changes and needs of the constitution are usually given, the existence of the process of a new constitution is even so, when the process has started, it was the implementation of this process (instead of the process itself) that is the main issue.

For many old people and wise people, there was no need of conflicts about this issue and instead it is true that the needs of the period is very disturbing, and after there, it's not the truth, "the name of the constitution (under the killing of political parties), is still continuing to do it.

This system started with a result of argument of who "the father of the constitution," he has changed to who wants his interests with his party, that we have made some people to be careful, we have made some people to be satisfied by the love of the party and the citizens of Tanzania, and the parties are just a result of the good constitution that has given birth to the nation.

It is this mean that the love of their party has led to some of the parties and their people to cause violence in the constitutional councils of the constitution.

Democratic Republic, agree between two sides to understand the weight or the strength of the issue, with two regulations, "many of them," and the one of "wisdom or wisdom of a few can be used (they will be discussed)" they are faced with a lot of mind.

On this logic, the interests of the parties are not supposed to be about the main aim that enables all Tanzanians of good love and their country want to be informed.

When you go back to parliament the previous week, it is clear that most of the ones that were involved in one way or another, causing several issues that have been affected by many political parties, it was one of the biggest reasons for the political parties.

From starting, the action of the deputy speaker Job Ndugai, who turned the opportunity to speak to the leader of the opposition in parliament, Freeman Mbowe, who is the prime minister was not supposed to be heard through my position, Mbowe was supposed to be heard very fast, but this issue could have happened.

But it also blamed each other that the people of Zanzibar have not been required to give opinions to the parliamentary committee about the implementation of the constitutional change was not to be taken against what the second vice president of Zanzibar was to continue to oppose that report of the second vice president of Zanzibar.
