Corruption and illegal immigrants.
January 26, 2013.

It's a lesson in politics, especially political politics, things that don't like themselves as such as seen, as a good example is the current scandal in the northern region of Mali.
On the 10 of January, the workers were taking their army in saying that their intention is to sign the terrorists' terrorists.
They added that they also wanted to make sure that the employees of six hundred thousand living in Mali are safe.
Last week it will have to forgive me your phone when I am preparing to write a newspaper here in England, I was surprised at the article about that incident. I gave him a phone from the senior officials in the office of the president.
When they receive my phone, that officer had been forced to pay for permission and before accepting to open the mouth, speaking about the issue, he made a must that it was a must and it was not aware of his name.
Later I explained to what he refused because he refused to go down and why he did not want his name to be remembered because his soul wants to be remembered by his president and other African leaders Mister Haazu taking part in the blood and step of the citizens he told me that he told me in the African Continent.
"Our leaders, most of them, most of them and the religious leaders have no weeds, don't have faith or the legality of the political party, they still play a song that is celebrated by their colonial era, so that they can be able to get them," he said.
For some time now we have cautioned that America and its partners have an aim to change our continent to be the sector of war and they will release the excuse of dealing with terrorists.
The purpose, especially looking at the resources of Africa, especially now where America and his colleagues are blocking us from China for the way they benefited with its contracts and African countries with the wealth of oil and minerals.
The French step of entering the army in Mali is part of the strategy because its main reason is natural resources and the whole world that it started with the Mali such as minerals, gold, oil and other private companies.
France with 78 percent of its electricity from nuclear energy has changed the highest cost of Mali second time now, houses and the France industries get electricity from the floods which were sunk by French companies in Spain, neighboring country of Mali.
The former officer of Mali I talked about it's because he knows the step of France that it is difficult to make sure that we prepare to make the American army to make sure that our land is another example of the colonial era of liberal.
By getting the Mali, the workers are playing in a dangerous game. First, they will continue to measure, Mali whose government in Bena.
Secondly, they will give the terrorists' book in the whole area of Sawazisha ', a resident of Jamila Kakingo (famous by the name Boko Haram) in Nigeria and Harfanti from Al-Shabaab, not to say.
Third, there is a big possibility of employees of Mali to be like Afghanistan and the nation that does not affect the war, terrorism, corruption, and those involved with foreign soldiers.
If the I have been made to have done on things that don't know if you seen in the past, the major issues are affecting the cheating.
Let us look at a terrorist group in the northern region of Mali, all those groups are also a lot of ideologies or faults that do not participate in Syria and other countries of Resurrection and ideologies like the ones that concern them.
The question that is evident, this is why France makes a lot of patriotism in Mali though the same same with his partners have helped a lot of advice to Syria but how can it get a wall and Syria to be prosecuted?
This scandal of Mali started in April 2012 at two groups of the tribe of tribe, which were beaten in a large area in the north of the country and those groups are the Libyan army and Ang'Italia (Nakheel).
You know that, requesting for us to be with their country known as Azalea and Ansudane Soulaimane.
At the time you have already been identified by being unable and Anhela in collaboration with other groups that are following the ideology of people who live or resurrect together.
