Kinana opens up.
May 6th, 2013.

Approximately one week since the deputy minister of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and the Member of Parliament for Iringa town, Pastor Peter Msigwa has claimed that inside the parliament that the Secretary General of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), Retired Colonel Abdulrahman Kinana, is involved in the smuggling of elephant tusks.
Apart from showing those allegations, Kinana says he recognizes that work to investigate it will continue because those who are doing so have noted that it is a threat to the program against political parties that he termed as easy and destruction of water which are run by some of the leaders of the Party of Democracy and Licensing Agency (CHADEMA).
In his allegations in parliament during the handover of the revenue collection and use of the budget for the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism last week, Msigwa claimed that in the year 2009, the ivory comes from four tons from Tanzania and Kenya were arrested by security agencies for Vietnam, and that Kinana is involved with the incident.
He said that the cargo were arrested in being transported with a company from an agent of the ship known as Nyota Ndogo has sponsored by Kinana.
The explanation of Kinana.
This week the Mwema should wait for Kinana, so as to cooperate with other things, to listen to his part of explanations about those accusations made in parliament, and that they have also been successful in the streets after time.
He said Kinana about those allegations, "are false and a rumor that was made a special thing in relation to my name and does not loose the strength so that I get to continue with my current work to help our country.
"All those accusations have only political goals, but if good luck you expect you know my history than even if I will know me and why are those who are supposed to destroy the judgment.
"I believe we should know that Msigwa and his party (CHADEMA), their aim is to think that she is wrong, they did not have the courage to speak early and they have the courage to speak early," said Kinana and added.
"In order to prove out a political goals and not the interests of the country, Msigwa has used 20 years out of 40 in his speech in parliament to sign him a person just after confessing, it is obvious that someone has failed to answer the challenges they are facing and instead, they have decided to answer him from illegal politics.
"I wish you and understand this work (clean politics) it will continue, but to know that they will not give up or reduce my efforts to serve us, most of them don't like yourself and are disappointed by the trend of that behavior."
When he was asked why he believes that CHADEMA through God who have talked and if there are cooperation between some of the CCM members in running that campaign against him, Kinana answered me, "I have decided to do work that without doubt, they have begun to change their political capital.
"You know that in the process of war in the army there is an aim, and in the fight you can be removed from your goal, they can be sent away by your goal and to get married, I am saying I have shown their dreams and this army we have said that the police has managed to grow.
