
Theft on the internet!
The Friday, March 21, 2014.

The Zantel company involved in the manufacturing of the manufacturing.
Computers together with the program has emerged the new way to deal with the theft.
Social media which have discovered that caused a loss to the bank, a company and.
Private in many areas in the world.

The strategy has come at many banks in the country.
They were affected by the theft through the machine for giving money known.
ATM together with the transactions that are taking place through the communication system.
Computer.

Statistics show that in the period of October.
Until February 2013, Tanzania is estimated to be 700 million shillings.
In the bank at different times.

Arising from that situation the Governor of the Central Bank.
In Tanzania, Professor Benno Ndulu explained the financial institutions to take action.
So as to deal with that situation.

A report to the press that was given.
The executive director of Zantel Company, David Moyes has been explained.
They missed the new computers together with programs that are marrying them.
The theft.
It has set it open that the sale of computer programs in the world.
It has been the cause of those drugs to use the skill of getting information.
Secret associated with the computers of the institution and even people.
Connected to the internet.

"The company and government institutions are required.
To buy a new computer to a special agents that has been forced to be given. "
(Programs) are legal, "said 2013 and added.

"Research was given this year by a company.
International communication technology in partnership with the university.
University of Singapore shows the theft on the internet.
More than 315 billion American dollars per year, equivalent to 1665 shillings.
Trillion shillings.

Part of the report has been explained that.
Africa can serve as fast in the use of social networks.
Those acts of fund will have found themselves at a loss.
Their money.

"The theft of internet internet has been sensitized and put up.
The money without caring about the use of technology continues and take.
Important reports of someone, the identity, number secret or even money.
Zantel has planned to control those acts in order to increase security.
The report of the customers, "said 2013.

He says the research has revealed that 203 shillings.
I have bought at 11 different shops, they were found to have 61 percent.
They were affected by the theft program popularly known as AIDS.
In the eyes of the family, a penalty, the same way, pour it out and allows him to marry off.
