
The squad has signed up with new phones.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

The work squad that is set up by the government to investigate and the ones that were removed in the country has revealed that the new services that they had not been known in the past years, our citizens must change.

In talks with this newspaper this week, the head of that squad, Chief Executive of Government (AG), Judge Frederick Werema, said there are new areas that were witnessed in the previous days, people did not have reports that there are property rights reserved.

"You know for a long time Switzerland has been mentioned as a country where most of the financial funds are there and I think that country has been the victims of many days in the previous days.

"Mwageni has written (Good Citizen) about billions that are stored at the Caribbean islands but also I think it is not a new issue because the islands can be known because there are countries where people do not get to them," said Werema.

Judge Werema, he was not able to go apart from mentioning some of this new vehicles because the work of that squad that is set up by the government is continuing with the last report expected to be released immediately when he finished its work.

Together with other things, this newspaper was wanting to get information on how the government's squad of the government made this report written by this newspaper in the previous edition that Jeryson has opened Switzerland because of many property from Tanzania.

The performance of that squad of Werema, for some of the delegates from financial institutions, the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), the National Security Department and the police force has been great secret and details about the new reports are among the new reports from the public squad can be used until now.

In the previous edition of this newspaper, Kingunge Ngombale reported about a new report from England that explained that financial funds which are in the lake regions were estimated to reach an amount of 413 million pounds (5 billion shillings).

Those funds are enough to serve the budget for health, livestock and fisheries, community development, gender, and children, the Ministry of East Africa for the whole year without asking for money from sponsors and still the spending.

While giving his opinion about this new report of Judge Werema, to the chairman of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), Zitto Kabwe, who is also the issue of urging the government to investigate and property being reserved outside, he said the possibility of the presence of more information is big.

Giving an example, he said in his talks with various research that he has ever done, the country like Mauritius have in Africa, can be one of the awards for the new cars that were signed by the labor force.

"As it is in Switzerland, Jerru Silaa that surrounds the little tax and lack of privacy on the property being reserved, Mauritius also has the reputation such as a result of his close relationship," he said.

Zitto said that the launching of his new training shows the importance of the presence of international efforts to deal with the privacy of the wealth because the countries that are affected are many and there is no one country that can deal with that problem only.

Mke Mwema has a research report of July this year that was done by the economic growth of the capital city, Asumpta Mshama explained that the African continent has reduced an amount of 40 billion pounds in the islands while expanding the reserve an amount of 413 million pounds (1 trillion shillings).

However, the research has shown that the institution on fighting corruption of the Global TVOnline studio shows that during the period of the year 1980 to 2009, more than 1 trillion shillings have been killed from South Africa and moved out of the country such a rich country have improved in the African countries in the period.
