
Fishermen from Kenya and Uganda get involved in the handover.
By Elisha Otieno.
In order to pray for 15 fishermen from Kenya and five of Uganda were injured yesterday following documents in Mkonkole area, Lake Victoria.
The Indians I got injuries after being shot dead by other weapons.
Mister George Nyatega, a Kenyan mid-fielder, handed over his skill and there was a plans to take him to hospital, she has a lot of different level for treatment.
The fight started in Mkimbii Village, caused many Kenyans against violence on their water.
"There was a difference between those two groups, which he finished being war," said Mister Oberlin Magufuli, the chairperson of the panel of Resurrection and Holiness Church.
The officers of protecting the security from Uganda gave a bullet in less than 20 bullets so as to make those groups, the officers also stopped the efforts of Ugandering the houses of Kenyans.
One of the officers from Uganda who did not want to be mentioned, he said that they had already started investigations that they have caused many machines.
Officials from Kenya who protect the Island giving first service to Kenyans who were injured in the fight.
Mister Rwegashora told the nation today that there was a plot to evict Kenyans from that island that would have been surrounded by water with severe pain, "he said.
Last week, three fishermen have been arrested with officers from Uganda but they had been released after the protests.
Otieno James 20, Nicholas Kay, 33, and Samuel Barbosa from 20, has been set free following the demonstrations that made the fishermen and business people from Kenya, they sat at the cells for two days after being arrested in Resurrection and Holiness Church, he believes that she had a story.
The nuts, the ones that had been set free will come to the fish that had flooded the fish, who had a weight of 300 kilograms of 80,000 shillings.
Ugandans have claimed to have arrested the fishermen following the disappearance of the Ugandan engines.
The governor of Migodela has no worries at the end of that conflict that happens.
"I urge the security officers from Uganda to use their strength by cyber-crimes while Kenya and Uganda are required to look for him or to resolve the conflict between them," said Mister.
This is not the first time for that Island to face the conflict between people of Kenya and Uganda.
Up to now, Mkonga area has not ended or its real owner, after President Yoweri Museveni said, water is in Kenya but the Island is in Uganda.
