And asking.
And the only manager of adults.
The condition is this situation.
I arrived.
We were with the late Maggid Mjengwa.
Listen to him!
How is the Almighty God?
I know what we saw the late?
When you go through right you'll give you a modem.
Because we should know their thing, the people do we want to do our Mister.
On the right is the minister, I am taking your give you just the whole of me.
I was able to be.
And things should be things of something?
What should I do people should not know how it is needed.
We were not mentioned by the police his wife, Gramniotic fluid. I met the late.
The late God is why he said here is possible.
Do you know the type of skin why to think that he was far?
It has gone down but even names, it does not loose the late?
Friends are there if you said Ally decided not to see where he is because I don't have a lot, then I am happy and I don't see you, then I don't see you, then I don't see you, then I don't see you, then I don't know what we love the youth.
As soon, we see you.
It's supposed to be careful when using a lot of money, we have never been able to have any love to me, but if I am pleased that we do to play a dance style so that we can enjoy a song to go through the fire without an incident.
You don't know what happens in us.
A big margin in my new brothers, Jude Okoye is not allowed to send new constitution to give a short message on bail.
If you want to say anything related to I see seven in the country I don't know or not knowing what they do.
And nations of the room, don't know but with the nuclear nations has been silent but I was able to deal with love with love and peace this is the foundation of us.
In the stomach, through the budget we know that if they go through their blood, I am saying the love and solidarity which the nation of our nation can be love and do not know our problems.
May the month of May.
The Lord Jesus Christ is contributing in their claim is a good thing, he will make sure that all the people together with a kitenge on any video, and if you do not make sure you do not have a broader video in the new constitution, he said that he does not see a sharp object in the new constitution.
For you, you can't have been looking for the fire to the dock has only left the Chinese wherever they are, the late God is not happy to know a lot of a few days like that the old constitution did not allow you to know if you are happy, they do not know what they wrote from Tanzania.
She has no problem with which Ras Kiduku was not attractive to me.
