For a short time but we want to move forward and to look for our members who have the needs to look for sure we have a great needs of our party members and we will look at some of their needs and we will look at if we look at the procedures we have and we will look at if they look at the procedures of the organization.
We will look at how we can have us to use our members.
And that is why we were keen on that we have members of different income leaders.
And income in the middle we will look for the sector that can be used to help our members we will look for first.
So as to give our members the loans for I remember.
I arrived to be happy about to get loans.
Not having said that it is supposed to be.
The sheep is required to have been registered and I don't know what I can do for three years and more than this, it is open that is dangerous for you to have books that are outdated.
And yet it has fulfilled a lot of votes.
Because of we want to grow, our members are confirmed to know your activities and also to fulfill the conditions.
Because of us?
Our contract will go and there and then it needs first to fulfill the east where then we will meet.
There are different meanings among the loans we will also provide and other financial institutions, I give you which is for a long time and the child not going for up to five years.
One year and two are about ten more than two hundred points that have already finished, the source is a percentage in our legs, I have been the late because they stand for you, we know it's benefits that they have added more than three percent.
When you see a lot of time, when I was not only good because it is normal to make sure that they offer to ten and eight hours until the top of this is called a advice to members.
They don't know where to be paid here in the country, but that is what I will be found since we started this child, we request that many people in our party are saying that we request many people from our party, we request that most of us want to help in place, "he urged many people to help them and to try to look at anything related to them.
After getting information about three people in the department of law and in my front line with the lawyer, he gave them themselves but they would give them more information about how the law and are related to responsibilities though in a total of a organization.
Secondly, a total of total plans to advise all the departments of the community development about issues.
They have decided to give loans to their members, something that it must happen in accordance to the law.
School which has started the reserve fund.
As it appears from the law that seem to change.
Through the fifth law of two times and ten times.
But we are also looking for various guidelines which has been given by African class one because.
Bags of social media, but there is claim we need.
And the one has brought.
All the preparations are being taken as if I will fight against Pindani Nyalile after he is leading in which is given by the Central Bank.
About SACCOs, there are some who see and give correct advice from the ones that I think that can I get all that I have explained earlier, we are in part of the investment but here is n Fs.
What can I work with insurance?
And taking off the unit.
Entrepreneur do not go to the agent of the legal insurance fund, the team of controller and Chief of the insurance issues?
This unit has a great relationship with him.
For its first reason being in one department?
They get to you or any person who go to create a condition and to make its loan it is a must to make sure that we can be free because these members of the party will now be able to ensure that we can go and make sure that we are.
When a girl who is coming something like that, then the insurance company are supposed to pay for a long time a member or he has taken someone who have been unable to pay for a long time and even when this unit may not be noticed, that the father can't know it.
.
We should follow up that the loan for them is to get losses to the level that it comes back to defend the mountain.
.
.
The department for inspection for a new constitution, Adam Malima has been able to help the game as a big organization I believe in good investment and in my house, every thing that is done is also to remove the machines.
We have a must to see a unit like her work, it is a meaning that a matter which happened to Benjamin Mkapa in the district one week, a member that is in Benjamin Mkapa has gotten a disaster.
For us to talk about the public, there should be a possibility of going back again in the first state of that organization for that, I said it is an aim of our great job to make sure that all things are the name because of disasters, what happened it happens.
He can go back to the same state but not because of the organization.
