It is like you to continue enjoying life?
Because it is called your secret that we need for us from the University of Dodoma.
I would like to contribute to that the death of police have said dollars will have?
Players like the first players as we stop attacking the government in and to our leaders.
If we look at, we are fulfilling our responsibility but we are also just example and two last year there were only two universities for the whole year, they would like the heart of being self-employed and make preparations if they face the Big members.
I have hurt me even if you are as the real player you have remained in a short time, it does not make sure all over the world do not know all over the whole.
I will take them when he started doing exercises.
And the whole issue here is also because I think that the government has set aside a huge budget in sports.
The government can check me.
Outside the country.
It is enough in getting into the field from time.
Ayo TV I think it is still a little that it cannot invest well in doing the students so as to get them and make them be better in sports, I would like to contribute to them.
Why should we start doing badly in the African Community tournament, if you check if you should not be different from our country, we do not make sure that the competitions are there, but there is no need to participate in the tournament, but it is also required to make sure that the competition is available, but it is also required to make sure that the competition is available, but it is also a threat to the competitions.
If the government had a responsibility to the head because they read the doctor, there was a friend, where I visit is looking for talents to a girl, maybe if I'm in one region, there is a person who is supposed to follow it from what this journey has done you.
The contribution is.
Most importantly, at the neighborhood.
The sister speaking to talk about the issue of having strength.
Saba being given pictures and talked about.
The preparation of the preparations.
For preparations for preparations, I know what we want to do?
When it is expected to prepare early, but if you do when you go to the competition we will not have any medals, because you know if the athletics in our customers will also have football, therefore, your leaders can do the real time early from the lower levels.
The man will make the whole person that loves you, what does it mean to be done in my brothers.
He has said that Almighty God bless you to inform you, from the end of Dar es Salaam, I think I think about what I think in order for us to give me your grandfather's grandfather, I would like to sit down.
Me do I think about your efforts to work starting from players themselves as well as their leaders, because someone can be bad, but I am sure that I have a lot of people with an inexhauste what I have received.
Ten commandments of five in the minutes you need me that we want to walk with his death.
To do that.
But other areas we will see if we shall get, we request that the African Continent will get very much more there or those involved in the relevant area, therefore, I was very happy because they are doing a question and they are doing elections so that we find leaders to lead.
They died in provinces.
If you go to Grind.
The work is to you in my dear brothers, what should I be done?
And what will they work to like if we were putting on her the very important preparations, it decided to reduce that because other stakeholders get a half.
Cost the economy.
Most of the small people can't be resolved by the government, it cannot be able to pay but I think that song?
It was there.
