Whoever will give him Obama in his second term.
December 31st, 2013.

Barack Obama has been elected as the first time to be the president of the United States, the whole world, in order to make sure that we are local governments together with our colleagues who were born in this continent, we do not make it more than all of them.
All of us we want to see someone who like us to lead the nation that is within the first time in the world, that was a big incident.
We are in East Africa, we continue cheering because the father of the new president of America was a Kenyan mother and she's not a grandfather's grandfather's grandfather's grandfather's grandfather's grandfather who was born with the father who was a Muslim and my grandfather who was born.
The elected president of Obama condemned most of Tanzania who are still not ready to accept their fellow Tanzanian not to lead him if he does not have a foreign blood.
This disease is in the mainland and in the islands where we ask leaders of CCM when we hear the leaders of CCM following the learning of hatred aside, they woke up by our colleagues who mix the blood do not be trusted so that their party will be silent without even discourage them.
In his campaigns to vie for the presidency, President Obama promised a lot to the poor people of America whose most of them are of the African origin.
After Obama gets presidency, that Americans did not get any way to the poor and poor eyesight, but maybe the ones who are among one percent of Americans who are the rich by an amount.
About the first term of Obama had broken the heart of Obama claimed that it has not qualified for the continent of its origin while apart from Egypt where he spoke about several promise, while he promised that America will help South African continent to give success by addressing the bad rule.
That promise he does not have instead of Obama has been doing well with leading that ruling party, bad or because they are facing a democratic system or because they are inspiring.
On 14 June 2012, Obama had signed an agreement called "the American strategy to protect South Africa of the Sahara Desert," there is no new which is in the "strategy" which is caused by strengthening democracy in the African continent with business and investment in peace and security.
There is no new thing in those reasons because America has been working for a period of four years and there is no even one among those that happened in Africa to an extent of someone said, "we can say so about China but not about America's America.
There is a must that Obama does not want to fly the African continent for his first term as it does not get anything used to involve yourself in the father's continent instead of dealing with poor people in America.
Those who believe those are questioning that because his current term is the end, maybe he will have the courage to deal with all the issues.
We are required to know the truth is that in his second term, it will officially start in the 20th of this month and he will continue to fulfill the African continent for the war.
