When we got in Mbeya City only, then!
Sei, 26, 2013.

At the time I got into the field last Saturday just after the Tanzania Mainland Premier League between Simba and Mbeya City, Mbeya City, one person living with him and told the following words, "Mutta Jacobson and told him," had three attackers. "

I understood that which was a language in Kinyagged over the language of my mother and I left for reasons since the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam has started to be used but I have never talked to someone speaking in Kinyagigi.

Thanks for Mbeya City to climb the bridge and play in the high level in the country for soccer in the country for the soccer game in Kinyagarno which has happened in the National Stadium.

When I heard of it, it means like there in our home and fruits like the cause of having a team of the premier league, the Indian Ocean will agree that it could have a team and there was a team that would have come to the nation.

It is bad that as a result of many provinces, lack of teams to participate in that league, soccer fans should get good flavor of fanaticism from different provinces.

That is why in my opinion, the team that is still more than all in this season of Tanzania Premier League is Mbeya City that has been played in Mbeya City, is a team that is inside and outside the stadium.

It is a team that although it is owned by the City Council of Mbeya, has all the qualifications to be a team of Mbeya City, when I played this team, the whole city of Mbeya have a team that supports their behavior, their condition and their hope.

The Nyamkazi Primary School is people who don't think about this that you're doing inside the stadium when Mbeya City is playing against the Nyamkazi Primary School, that you feel like the Nyamuma team, who believe that you're being seen in the team.

In addition to that it was away away at that big stadium, Mbeya City did not play against Simba.

Barcelona who plays for Spain's premier league and is representing everything on the people of caterpillar working together with Liverpool that is participating in the England Premier League, is representing the British who talked about the need.

The London team are representing the British who participated in the need to marry Kidney and Newcastle makes the people who call him sweating as it is not easy to found a real name that supports Arsenal or Tottenham in London.

However, the old man in London was married to love Newcastle.

Among the things that can uplift the opposition parties in the country in the country is unblocked for the teams carrying the hopes of citizens involved in the provinces of Tanzania.

What has been made by Mbeya City Council to be followed by other councils of here in the country, as Mbeya have been able to be done by other councils in the country, as Mbeya have been able, what are playing in Mara, Mtwara and Kigoma provinces to have the teams that are carrying them?

The army of the army is good but its problem is that there are no fans due to the fact that they have no relationship with those teams so that the ball continues to have its own fans of those teams.

Since the end of the bridge to the Mtwara Port team, the citizens of that province have no entertainment to see the matches of the Tanzania Mainland Premier League, its results have been unknown people but they do not wait every week.

Due to the discovery of gas and industries that will come out in Mtwara, the concerned council can be able to start a team that is Monde and, they will be able to see if it is for them.

Instead of being given, informative "in Kinyagutwa, maybe I would have been given a lot of joy by Kimaiao and serve them in the national stadium!
