
Balluded the headlines on May 24th, 2012

The health condition of the Governor of the Central Bank of Tanzania (BoT), Doctor David Ballaghe (65), reports from his resignation and who the winner would succeed is the things that saw President Jakaya Kikwete, in the northern region of Tanzania.
Still there is no official report especially for the resignation of Ballana, together with the existence of news with weight to prove that those reports are made by President Kikwete, to be afraid that what is able to take his position.
Kikwete has already carried out all the important positions that were being held by people who came out by people concerning his predecessor, Benjamin Mkapa, not from BoT where Ballana who added for a period of two years in 2003) sitting for more than 10 years.
According to the law, the governor doesn't have lasted for five years and in recent days in one phase of the administration Mister Ballero has done a two phase of Mkapa and this is Kikwete.
Speaking to journalists in celebrating two years of his administration, last Wednesday, President Kikwete, confessed to know about suffering from Ballero, but denied rumors that Governor Ballidum and the allegations of corruption that were directed to BoT.
It is reported that day Kikwete when he met journalists last Wednesday, is the day that was explained to be written by Ballidum and was received at State House but there is no official report to confirm that which has been issued until now.
Director of communication in the State House, Salva Rweyemamu, told the journalists that President Kikwete is going on stage and said that if there is a letter done in accordance with the service procedures in the government, "said President Kikwete for work.
Ballero is in America at the National Stadium in Boston, where he had a big operation, he is in the moment for more than three months, but his health has not been restored to return to the country to continue with work.
He left the country silent and there is no good loss of information on his health condition as well as some people saying that it is a must that those reports will be given according to the government procedures. "
"When the father of the nation (Julius Nyerere) is going to London 1999, the government announced that he is going to be availed to his health as usual and even when the situation started well and treatment.
That is the government's language, "says one of the people who follow up this issue very close to them.
There is no one who has been able to speak with the fluency of issue of Ballero and especially about the news that he has already announced the resignation of a letter which is believed that its health reasons "he will not be able to continue with that position and therefore requesting the permission to rest.
Zigamba has been explained even so, that some of the officers and senior officials of the government have continued to visit the state of Ballero, including President Kikwete, when he was in his tour in America recently, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Bernard Membe and the director of National Security, Rashid Othman, who all are told to be touched by her bites.
One of the senior officials is told to visit Ballero on Sunday of December 31st.
In the year 2007 where he was told to show a clear possibility of how "the miracle of the Almighty God," you helped Ballness to fight with the disease that is disgracing.
Apart from being touched by "the miracle of the Almighty God," those talks touched on the possibility of Ballaghe because of giving out a chance to be appointed to elect him, but also a very important issue to return or not for him was part of those talks.
However, news reports indicate that the issue of not going back to the country if his health will not understand the family of Ballaghe because of being at their home where his mother and his brothers still live.
Ballero who is given a respect to the Tanzanian community in America, and even people from other nations who had been working with him have a private house in Betheseda Hall North West, Washington DC, Dongo.
Ballaghe said that apart from America as a student in the year 1959, he did a work for many years starting with Sauti Sol of America (WB) for approximately 25 years of work which will enable them to build their homes in that country while he is mentioned to have the documents of a human being given.
Suffering from him and finally, the announcement has resigned, there have been a lot of questions without answers and when all of his information have been given a half time without having enough information and up to now the Ministry of Finance, which is his employer has never been given open information about his condition and about his resignation.
Minister of Finance, Zakia Meghi, told the journalists that he has not received a letter from the resignation of Ballaghe because the procedures are forced to present his letter and not for President as it was reported.
Mke Mwema has been told that Governor Ballero was forced to communicate with his colleagues in Dar es Salaam city, who wrote that letter on his instructions and later it was taken to State House with not before the real letter taken to the normal way and being received.

"At the moment you see people's eyes not to resign or not from Ballaghe because it's a responsibility of leading BoT that has been contaminated by allegations of corruption and a huge violation of ethics," a news source in government.
In August this year, President Kikwete made the appointment of three deputy ministers as the new law as he wanted to be known as Professor Benno Ndullu said that she has shown the feelings of many from being mentioned as one of the ones being mentioned to have the ability to inherit the Ballness.
Professor Shumbusho has been reported to have a good performance history since the University of Dar es Salaam and he is explained to participate in the process of the establishment of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), a period that Kikwete was the minister of finance.
He was explained that he left the University of Dar es Salaam, 1989, going to Nairobi, Kenya to be the executive director of African Community in Dar es Salaam and later the headquarters, Washington Draw, before the appointment was the deputy governor.
Professor Baregu said that very close to the advisers of the president on economic issues due to their long-term work, but also there are saying that he was involved in their appointment.
Others being mentioned include the Secretary General of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Blacks, who has ever been the deputy secretary general of the Ministry of Finance, Gray Mgonja, who became the Deputy Secretary General of the CRDB Bank, Doctor Charles Kimei.
BoT has been facing a result of various accusations and at the moment it is being waited for reports of the international internal auditors from the Coca-Young Company that was handed over that job by the government through the office of the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).
The report about the report has been issued after the Prime Minister Zakia Meghji, that it will be released this week after the proposed by the CAG, while the CAG has not left her last Sunday and that he will give him the president January, 2008.
