
I will remember Kampala in entertainment.
Elias Msuya, Citizen.
It was seen a long journey to be enough due to its distance of approximately approximately 300 bricks for two different planes.
Recently, they went to Entebbe and Uganda to attend the investment meeting that was organized by Seasons Hotel (Southern and South Africa), Public Procurement Agency.
It was a meeting of business and investment that has involved various stakeholders from government institutions and private institutions from Kenya and Tanzania.
This has been my third time to arrive in Uganda especially in the city of Kampala in the year 2014 I reached in that city just two times when I visited air travel from Kigali, Rwanda because I visited Rwanda Air flight to go and return.
The second time they traveled with the solar eclipse was one directly and back to Uganda.
This journey I decided to travel with Ethiopia Airlines, first because I visited in Addis Ababa city.
I started my journey at nine o'clock at night and, we got in Addis Ababa city, the International Airport of grenle at 12 o'clock in the morning and I was waiting for competing for four hours in the morning.
Karlander said it is not a big field compared to big stadiums in the world that I have ever seen, but it has been kidnapped by the cause of many passengers who go to African countries and all over the world by Tanzania Airport, it has a lot of planes to go close to our field.
Although I would not be allowed to get out of the stadium to check the city, but even when I am enough, I was enough to change him, but it was impossible because the shops in the field did not get anything, but it was revealed to be patient until the time of the plane to leave.
Finally, it reached a time to leave Entebbe, the journey that took two hours in the sky and our colleagues in Uganda don't know because even the plane of aircraft does not have an airplane to go outside the country.
One thing that I learned in Uganda is big security since the airport of their police are careful.
You will end up and be dealt with, but when it comes back to Julius Nyerere stadium in Dar es Salaam, it was just known because the meeting was held in Entebbe and we got into Grosvenor House (Lake Victoria Hotel).
Entebbe is the city that is located in Wo District, Uganda without other provinces, is a distance of 35 kilometers to reach Kampala.
After a half I went to leave Kampala by using buses, each other, and the language used by Ugandans, though the language of the nation is English.
The Uganda problem is about the roads of Entebbe is going to Kampala in a large extent, not to mention the same time when it comes back, it is dangerous and became four and other road from Kampala to go out of the city called Gwao.
Different from Dar es Salaam where motorbikes have been forced to enter in town, Kampala will not be identified, therefore there will be a huge number of vehicles, motorcycle riders and people.
In that case, the traffic police have agreed on behalf of the legs to lead vehicles.
Different from Kampala, it is also a city of analysts, there are many clubs.
In addition to those entertainment, there are still strong winds of not knowing the army that protects the hotel or police they will go to Zanzibar when you want to get married if it appears in the State House.
Despite the entertainment, there are still the arrest of a religious religion in the streets when you reached at the junction of the gospel singer and maybe they are supposed to increase the speed of peace to deal with the speed of entertainment in that city.
