News is about you know that Swahili is the same way to end the world cup and not there are African countries that we are playing but we want to know what we are doing well and if I want to know it is true that the nation's father returns from, is also a pursuer to give the ball.
Of one way our players don't have no patriotism.
He has patriotism to listen to the documents.
When I look at Nigeria after the teaser sin?
But I know I have been able to fight against the candidates opposing him and that it is also able to identify the vehicle for building wherever you will be given to my people not so that this day you will be given to Diamond if you look for a little research that will be used in Africa.
The coming match was a new system that involves itself to youth teams Rogasian Kaijage, can be faced with one hundred thousand teams and the leaders of Ghana national team have been destroyed by leaders who have lost their game as the children's team under twenty-five years so as to remind the world a team of children aged twenty-one.
They have said friends we should strive and see and we are saying to get behind after the first match may be in the first match.
It has ended people who are continuing to receive.
He is doing the process, it is a terrorist who is coming up and sometimes it's not easy for people to have a very easy way to make sure we know how many people do not have, if there is Africa we want to produce those buildings.
African Cup, this year, there are also the sponsors of Mujahideen, in East Africa, age of age are not seekers of entrepreneurship for a very long time.
In still, he knew that he didn't know a lot and sure that all of them are done well in these African countries is the source of doing well Mister who is the star of Barcelona.
Including those who will not be not left.
Kibatala on fire and we will speak later to him.
It gives a lot of meeting to meet the team in the team doing well in the world at a cost.
I told me.
Views of everything?
A lady did not see me.
Some of the sponsors as a human being.
The project of mother makes a system.
An emergency general was the one that I agreed will also be.
Women from outside went with others.
For instance, it is a model.
They are not found.
If those are.
Cameroon we are depending on a cake.
