At the time of parliament to question the use of money against drugs.
Brightiles 15, 2013.

The Parliamentary Accounts Committee is an important institutions of the parliament to ensure that they are important to the parliament in order to make sure.
The government is responsible to the representatives of the citizens and responsibilities of this committee.
They have been quoted by the parliamentary regulations, additional eight documents.
The important one and the first in work of the committee to supervise the accounts is the report.
The controller and auditor general of the government (CAG).
Therefore, the Parliamentary Accounts Committee together with CAG, are supposed to work with great cooperation, that is why the budget of the CAG was prepared by PAC.
Already there is no authority to question again as PAC is the committee.
Authority to select the Chief Justice of the office of the CAG.
It is the responsibility of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee to help the parliament in serving.
The government said several times have been information that the parliamentary work is.
To advise the government, no.
Therefore, advice should not be dealt with more than management.
He wants the governments of the government to know the word of advice and taking them to the management.
Do not supposed to get into the trap of "their work is I advise you, because that is.
That has been set by customers so as to reduce the strength of the parliament.
Managing the government.
The Parliamentary Accounts Committee is the ones that have a huge burden on behalf of the parliament and therefore, integrity is a primary thing in this responsibility because that is why it is easy to see.
The Accounts Committee received every kind of accusations from being supervised by another time by using some members of parliament for knowing or not knowing.
At other times the parliamentary committee is usually told to look at the "signifies.
The responsibility of the parliamentary committee to check the public accounts and to see.
The use of public funds should enable the goals taken.
(An estimated 200 shillings).
It will be the madness of the committee to be satisfied by looking at the government's plan or public organizations for example, it is the responsibility of the committee to check if the costs made by the road construction is used to build the relevant road and not that it has been treated so as to benefit a few people.
It is a great responsibility for the committee to look like that road has been built to the required levels, it is called 'Fulfill Your Goals "in the performance of these work is important and it is a must, the parliamentary committee to use first reports of CAG.
The committee can also use information from different sources.
Citizens and media stations in reaching the goals of inspection.
For example, recently one of the newspapers in the country died.
Regarding the misuse of money in the meeting of Smart City, that approximately eight billion shillings have been blocked on corruption, CAG has been quoted saying he has not been released.
Any person that deals with CAG did not be afraid, he is requested to do a special inspection.
During the meeting.
The PAC Parliamentary Committee can use its authority to ask the CAG to make special inspection and to present its results in the committee and finally the parliamentary committee of public organizations (POAC) are in this responsibility well in the house of the governor of the Central Bank and due to that inspection, they took place.
In order to implement this important responsibility of accountability, parliamentary committees and security.
It is a must that to be enough for the training of skills (SMS) and knowledge.
(KMU). Without having a broader understanding of the committee too.
Doing a decision with great effects to the nation.
In implementing duties, it is important to be the delegates of the committee to avoid.
And acts of bribery since those actions prevent the management and eventually.
Developing bribery together were supervised by accountability is weapons against corruption.
And those who are searching for accountability is a must to be Wasafi, their private.
Before the clean up of land.
Integrity is the important thing in building accountability, without integrity, there is no accountability, because of lack of accountability, it makes you a culture of integrity in the community.
What are the things to consider?
We have seen the responsibility of the committee in charge of accountability in the government, some of the important things to consider is in the implementation of this responsibility is one day, together with all the expenditure of the government which the committee should supervise, there is use that has to put special emphasis.
