
Kinana is vying for the stronghold of CHADEMA.

The executive director of the executive committee of the Party for Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), handed the leadership of Doctor Kitila Mkumbo, Zitto Kabwe, Samson Majwala to cooperate with the party after the party's secretary of Chunya District, Bryceson Kiwelu with gwanda.

The step by that leader was just two days after the parliamentary chairperson of Lindi region, Ally Rufunga officially announced his get out of that position explaining that he is tired of the regional decision and affirmed that it is going on inside that party.

Apart from the chairmanship, Surbana has also been a member of the National Executive Council and the office of the executive secretary Mkuchika - Secretariat, who also announced his resignation from yesterday, but he promised to continue being a small member of parliament.

Speaking at a public meeting of CCM that took place in Chunya District, under the secretary general of CCM, Abdulrahman Kinana and his team, Mwasumilsaid, "I want to hear or the sins that I have assessed my brothers when I was to parliament.

"I understood a lot from you from you to know what you believe in me, I think you should not forgive him, but you know that those with great blame is parliament for their policies to urge members and its leaders to be careful.

The second time I have been encouraged to do violence in Sokomatola area, now I came up with 14 my colleagues to be played in prison, Luanda.

"Now before I have not continued to say that the clean, I request that first I appoint them to resolve this issue, I will answer my friend," said Bryson, while on the stage by all those.

After that, youths of CCM had given a red card and addressing a certificate of CCM members saying it is between the parties with policies, an aim and following the implementation of the manifesto and his promise.

Previously the Secretary General, Kinana urged the residents of Chunya District that the government will complete the construction of tarmac roads from Mbeya to Chunya District, today Kinana is expecting to arrive in Mbarali District.

And the member of parliament, Tumaini Makene said in his report yesterday concerning the resignation of Latifa, "the first issue of the executive committee of serving the party's leadership, Zitto Kabwe, Doctor Kitila Mkumbo, his debate on the party side have been buried, while the constitutional procedures are being implemented.
