28 December, 2012

The Mtwara gas pipeline has resulted from the citizens who are involving themselves from the sides, who is proud of with the promise that can't be implemented.

Goodluck Elshamy told Dar and Cornell Douglas company, Mtwara hundreds of residents of Mtwara province, yesterday they made demonstrations to convince the government to resolve the gas infrastructure so that it can benefit citizens in the province before being transported to other provinces in the country.
The protests in the city of Egypt started in three o'clock in the morning at the Amaan Grounds, Sinyati Enterprises LTD, insurance and end at Shycom Grounds.

The secretary of the union of political parties in that province, Mister Mkumbwa Ally, is the one who came out in the stadium to get the blessings of the police force who had flooded the security.

While addressing the demonstrators, Mister Karamaeli Mnjokava said that the residents of Mtwara should know their rights about the energy and how it can be revealed, because the gas is mentioned in the region but its infrastructure being built in other areas.

One of the demonstrators, Mister Joseph Siraji Muya, said the residents of that province have lack development for a long time and they have been facing the children despite digging gas.
That is in that province but symptoms show that will benefit.
It is not local citizens but from other provinces in the country.

"The government has been enabling small children to us the residents of this province by making us that this gas will benefit the local and its results are different from the moment," said Mister Djinnit.

In those demonstrations, citizens said they should not fear being transported to that gas but they want to be used for infrastructure that will enable them to benefit from.

He claimed that the government had promised to get electricity at a easy price instead, putting up 30 meters from the road is benefit from the reduction, therefore, they believe that the government ran away from having a cost of electricity.

The demonstrations that involved the followers of the political parties from CUF, TLP, CHADEMA and propagation of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), who did not participate.

Previously the demonstrations were being received by the head of that province, Retired Colonel Joseph Sinde Warioba but he denied the claims that happened on the day of work.
