The government dignitaries to return to Mtwara.
December 31st, 2013.

While the government has moved to Mtwara to deal with the challenges of the gas debate and the state of the things that were seen in yesterday, Tuesday, Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda, led a public meeting that took place with several ministers.

Ministers Doctor Abdallah Kigoda (industry and business) Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe (transport), Professor Anna Tibaijuka (land) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi (investment) and Doctor Emmanuel Nchimbi.
Together with those ministers, there are other big leaders of the security institutions together with the executive director of Tanzania Investment Center (TIC), Raymond Mbilinyi.
Some of the ministers who came to the end of the meeting, explanation that is being used to be done by the government concerning the discovery of gas and business of the resources in Lindi and Mtwara provinces.
In addition, in another step, the Prime Minister Pinda congratulated the head of Mtwara Province, Colonel Joseph Simbakalia who used that opportunity to ask for them to Mtwara to ask for him.
Simbachoma has been accused of giving a special statement while the voice that fell in gas was transported to a pipeline to live in Dar es Salaam city, emerged with the statements offered by the opposition to plan for a gas pipeline.
Another one being mentioned is the Minister of Energy and Minerals, Professor Muhongo who is being criticized as summoning demons.
Pinda explained that the crowd that his team did not have answers of all the challenges but that it would you want to answer it alone.
Pinda has approved Mkuchika (Newala).
Since the end of Mtwara at the end of last week, Pinda has been advising the president of South African ministers, George Mkuchika, Office of the President-good governance and the local government, that has lowered the accusations of South Sudan.
Reports indicate that the Prime Minister who is like the chairperson of the violence of gas, explained that at the CCM's meeting that was addressed by the party's secretary general, Abdulrahman Kinana, explained to the residents of Mtwara, where they have forgotten the news of benefit from one of "and gas, and they will not get easily.
"The skirmishes, he stopped on stage during the meeting of Kinana to tell people, after being asked, that all from Mtwara will not get married, gas will be taken to Dar es Salaam city after those explanations, they are my prime minister, Colonel (retired), Joseph Simbaegypti.

Our news source is that, the Prime Minister has also sent the Minister Mkuchika in the sittings that he did by various stakeholders who was alleged to be due to that leader.
Since the end of last week, Pinda has been meeting with various stakeholders, including religious leaders and all over the country, he has been collecting information and advice to those stakeholders together with that situation that has called other ministers in participating in its sessions so that the reports are not yet confirmed.
How was you reading?
The reports indicate that the incident of reading the fire of property and houses for some of the leaders took place with great skills and secret of who is involved in order to get out of motorbike riders who even so, they are still unknown.
Our news source from security has noted that, in a normal state, motorcycle riders popularly known as more than 50 machines were praised to the station of filling in oil, Masasi, and every one has been admitted to oil in the high level of quality.
That is the style that was used to get involved in transporting oil that was used to buy houses and various property, they have bought fuel by using drugs while they arrived at the front line when they were able to instill doubt, because they could have risen up of containers, because they would have forced them to fear.
"But it's like they were given instructions because they did not loose the office of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi because there was a historical record for payment of nuclear sales, if they would have seen its own meaning of other citizens who could be able to buy their debts."
Not knowing it was touched in Mkapa Bridge.
More questions have emerged as a result of reading the fire set on a house of member of parliament, Anna Abdallah and left the Retired President, Benjamin Mkapa, which are in the neighborhood of Masasi road heading to Newala district.
