
Finally, the government has stopped the mining of Kilimanjaro Jide 5 in 2012.

Finally, the government has set aside, one time, the mining of minerals will not return to the mountains in Shengena) in Same District, Kilimanjaro Province, being only two weeks after this newspaper (Wanging'ombe) to eliminate the great effort in the project including the big destruction of the environment in the mining areas.
The government has taken that step with an aim of controlling the environment of that mountain which is important for the lives of many citizens of Same West and Same District including helping those creatures that are in that forest.
In addition, the government has also commanded to the end of the mining of gold that is being done by small-scale miners in the River Sokomatola area that begins in that mountain of Shengena.
The decision by the government to be informed to the mining of that mountains was given at the end of last week by the Prime Minister Mizengo Pinda in Dodoma, while responding to members of parliament in parliament.

That decision by the government has come at a two weeks after President Mwema should support two special reports that brought up with great destruction of environment that come from the mining of minerals of Arusha. The company was doing the mining without having legal documents.
In his report to the parliament, Prime Minister Pinda noted that the government has taken quick action of stopping the farmers to climb Mount Shangwe who is a source of many small rivers that are important to thousands of residents of Same District.
Mke Mwema should be informed that, the National Housing Council (EWURA) has done a letter to the non-governmental authorities of Same District which has ordered to stop immediately because the mining of Same will not return.
A huge arrest of 30 tons between 30 and 40 tons has been charged with soil with the minerals that were sunk in Same and took it to Mombasa, Kenya where after not involved the minerals that will be transported outside, especially in East African countries.
The Prime Minister Pinda has told the parliament that, the letter to end of the mining was written on June 27 this year after the defense and security committee visited the area on June 22, and gave a report.
"The honorable speaker, furthermore, the legal action have been taken against the destruction that happened, the government has stopped all activities of mining of minerals and will not transfer him at the Mount Meru Hotel through a letter of reference.
Approximately 366 / 1 / 2015 / 10 / 17 through 10 / 10 / 2015, 10 / 18 / 2015, 10 / 19 / 10 / 10 / 10 / 10 / 10 / 08 / 2016.

The Prime Minister also explained that, the government had removed the illegal miners of the gold miners who use the area.
Prime Minister Pinda said that in accordance to the report from the reserve, the head coach, 64 houses and outside the park, so as to control the destruction of the environment and illegal mining of minerals in that district.
According to the Prime Minister, the other steps that were taken by the government are together with strengthening the community and we are involved in protecting the reserve, especially the effects of the illegal mining of minerals and surgery for the forest that stated that.
Regarding the claims of having their water sources have been destroyed by chemicals used by small-scale miners in Mount Shengena, the prime minister told those people that their water is safe.
"Samples of water is enough to have poison that were taken and taken to the chief chemist of the government, Dar es Salaam, who has confirmed that there is no one who will be treated inside the water and on that meaning, the water is still safe to be used by human beings," he said.
"The honorable speaker said that the government will continue to do the following, to stop the reality of water sources that have been destroyed and brought in the bridge on his natural resources and already this work has started."
He added that the defense of the forest by building roads (gates) has three ways that enter the reserve and put security stations in the neighboring areas and areas where he will not turn up, "said the Prime Minister.
And the director of the National Social Security Council (UNICEF), Mister.
Bonaventure Baya has claimed to the Almighty God, through mobile phone, it is true that his institution has written the letter of stopping the extraction, and that the biggest reason is that the project is lack of an evaluation of the environment (Monbusho Scholarship).
"The project that is following up without having a certificate of evaluation of environmental effects (Eme). Therefore, after our experts doing an inspection, the project should be opened up until the evaluation will take place and be advised," he said.
That managing director added that, "this means that we can download the project one by one or we have asked him to do several amendments.
However, while the government Importing regularly by the Prime Minister, was defeated by the mining of minerals, controversy has continued to emerge with the project following the step by the district commissioner Herman Kapufi added that in a meeting with the residents of Chimela, and gave a statement that the Power Poll company will hold registration until the year 2018, his contract will expire.
That meeting of the head of the district who also involved the director of Willy Enterprises, Mister Willy Mgonja, was held on June 28 in Mariupol City, to involve the residents of that village and those of the neighboring villages.
News about this newspaper are getting in the village saying that DC was running that session, "Kibondemaji," when he was unable to give an opportunity to the citizens who are opposing the project to give their ideas and is alleged to destroy their ideas.

"We are looking for that project of extraction, we are not given the opportunity and the DC to be heard, and instead he was waiting for people with positive thoughts and that project which have their personal interests," explained one of the elders who are opposing that project, Ambassador Daniel Misheto.
Ntshalintshali has claimed that their primary complaints are that the investor did not have the legal action of making the mining activities in that village, and believe the permits have been found in a correct way.

Another big issue is that the project is dangerous to the life of the people that live under Mount Shengena, because they can fall down during many rains like that which happened recently in Uganda and killing many people.
"DC claims the investor has all legal permits, but why citizens do not have been involved in those permits?

'Views' added, "the district commissioner has touched me in his details.
He says that the investor is going back to the year 2018 because he has legal permits, but in that meeting, the investor requested the citizens to be given a contract of one year when the statement was given, he confessed that he has made a statement to the government through the prime minister, to stop the mining of Sh.
"It is true that I have heard those reports through the director of my council (MUWSA) that he has received a letter, but it hasn't been able to get tomorrow (Tuesday), I had already started its implementation of God to oppose the instructions of God?"
Kapufi added that even so, he denied the accusations against him that he was running that session.
"Kibuko has said by saying that it is the words of a rumor and the people with bad intentions against him and the government in general.
"In your report, I've never been redeemed by the basis of writing other poor people to the rich and I recognize my responsibility as a government leader.
Those are words that I have never heard about my whole period of public service and I don't remember, "said Kapufi added.
Two weeks ago the newspaper started to remove the activities of that company of Willy Caballness of minerals that will not give birth to the valley of Shishiyu Ward, Same District.
Due to lack of an environment on environment, (Mujahideen who was banned the law on environmental supervision of the year 2004, there is need that any project of the kind is to be cleaned.

Sure reports that got to this newspaper and the verification of different sources have noted that the company had organized a special report of the environment by using one company which even so it never been unable to be signed and ensure that the law has ordered, and therefore having weaknesses.
The investigation of Mke Mwema shows that together with the report of the company being organized by experts who are not registered by helping them, also the company of Willy Nyamgenda, did not have different reports on its preparation and be done in two different areas by using one report.
"In general they were using fake news reports and they have been showing leaders and environmental stakeholders who are questioning the legality of the company's activities to build those minerals," explained our responsibility from the National Council of Environment at that time.
However, the mining licenses which the company claims to own a huge controversy due to the report that the previous license was owned by DESPEC company, according to the law of mining minerals, the ownership of the licenses are not supporting them.
"The license that Mister Willy M is one that is in the name of Abdiwawa, that was given because of setting up registration in Mariupol City.
Legal license will not have the ownership of its ownership, "added our statement.
More information show that the company is owning eight mining licenses, but not in Mariana, 419 / 2009, 371 tons of 2009, 374 / 2009, 371 / 2009, 371 / 2009, 367 / 2009.
373 / 2009.
In addition, the company has also reduced the licenses of big mining licenses (OPD) within a forest that number 640 / 2010 in the forest of Shengena) according to the reports that we have been issued in ways that have been issued in any way that have been issued.
The forest of Shengena is a source of water and other important resources for the lives of the citizens of the whole district of Same and moreover, those mountains are involved in the natural gas areas of Same District, so that those mountains are involved in the natural gas areas of Same District, and therefore it has never happened to the Ministry of Energy and Minerals who visited the mining licenses in the reserve.
