Its a very few times.
The lower level of taking their things and times a few times you read.
The middle period will help to control.
When the village council will take place in Dar es Salaam, I'll get the parliament so that all Tanzanians will come up with a lesson so as to come.
A little time.
Most of the Tanzanians who don't have learned in ten years and three for journalists in Iringa province including the wildlife as we follow it, it will reduce their opinion polls in the family market because I would like to inform all Tanzanians who like to go down.
We are doing?
To go for that is not by using other things among others.
I am surprised that nobody would like to go out of the country's income.
The camera in the location.
The journalist we talk to a book at the topic.
Our topic is something that was done so that we can talk to you that I have praised the late Ambassador Seif not to be careful after claiming that malaria and research show that Dar es Salaam, there are twenty new members.
From the picture.
Because he had a bad state together.
Excluding the little of you know.
In the city of Dar es Salaam you will visit friends when we are doing.
Others up to there are still a disease, water stakeholders like you see there is difficult to get a donation.
When he gets three goals, he was talked about by garnering 13,276 votes on something that comes back with a goal.
That can we be able to register their clothes to the house since it is seen.
The ability to see that another program here is one of the news that says that the government hospitals and treatment tests for the elderly and children of the age of five, you know more than ten years that they cannot get free medical services and this research has been done by a non-governmental institution that has been done by non-governmental institutions.
For more news in today's newspaper, it is another Friday because of their behavior they need.
We should not be read from the topic.
Madaha added that for free statements, Professor in the world is still a topic when I think Hawa Ndilowe at your opinion polls to appreciate your music and I don't see the answer to come out but I did not look at a Tanzanian.
Diamond is going on.
A very big number of them are many affected.
How do I start.
The friendly match against live.
Gold is taking to see the father?
Try and register more to her, it is good for you to have a plan and in bookshops.
The reason of someone has also relationship to arrest him in a serious issue where in the board and the others can put the popularity of bail and has been closed down the blood and a strong view.
And without a win through a hole will be used through a grandfather's grandfather, I think that you are being beaten two that has touched me all of us know what is my father.
I have reached.
I used you to sell him in there?
.
He can make sure some.
It can't have a foolish thought that you're getting business's business.
Bid farewell.
Most of the best musician than one thing at home, do not tire us and leave me and therefore as a result of the shivered.
The way of preventing God is a person of a Swahili language as a gift.
For instance the sacred heart do not lie?
My fighters here under Ras Kiduku was not known as a person, and someone has done a good thing.
What are there?
In protecting and produce a permit for you to pay a second thing.
There is just I'm in.
And think about the lorry that I got to the end of the first community to vote and therefore, I would like to look for more than another person, but we are also able to look for more than seven days, it shows that we are supposed to look for more than seven days, it shows that people have been able to look for more than seven days.
While giving a little something every thing, we had a house and buying of products that we want to return to the fire during good deeds that will be able to live on his first child at the end of the police only with the criteria they have to give them, we need them to support it.
Good but you?
At the beginning of you, you can't give him but not because of your children, because you know this children is like, he finished music with major people.
Small drivers.
In the period of the band by the president, there are the stakeholders, there and the ones that will die every one, and the number we are looking for everyone has decided to inform you, but on my view.
Visit your stand like?
It is something to save it.
Reason?
That many people have but been read.
So, this is the benefits of this period of houses, and also things.
Listen to it?
Entertainment and so bad.
You look at him.
If your partner has been there for a long period but for a long period of time, there should be a big award but when I think this, there is just a chance to take this award but when I think this, there is just a chance to take this award because we do not see what we are doing so that we don't see what we are doing.
We have heard that you will be able to see, Judith Wambura which in order to pray for Manchester United was asked to ask for there the income we go and take on the fanaticism and end if the father did, but he said the same logic.
We should know how they go back without taking action is without knowing that they have a saying something to be a friend of a human being.
If life is difficult, that everyone is a big percentage in the only people since that is why these people who live in the world.
We get married but now Mister Othman, who those who giving me know, I was the beat, they had bought her.
And at the table there is no one that has been written as we look at this period in our patriotism and I don't see what he has seen, what he refused because I got it at the same time I met but I was going on.
