Problem of Mwalimu Nyerere.
Kristen 31, 2013.

Controversy is touched on the construction of Mwalimu Nyerere International Conference Center in Dar es Salaam after the absence of reliable information if the building was built through a loan or donation while also the real value of its construction is not covered.

That building is the one that was used for the purpose of the international meeting of Smart City that took place at the end of June this year and although its construction has already been completed and the building is not known.

The building is in Shaaban Robert, in the city of Dar es Salaam and has four centers for the meetings and it has taken a area of 672 acres.

Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation who is the supervisors of that building, John Haule, he was found just after being interviewed by the Parliamentary Accounts Committee about the real value of the building at the end of last week.

First, our citizens has been told that Haule told the delegates of that committee that the building was just a donation before later changed and said it is a mixture of support and loans from the local government of China.

When he was asked by members of parliament for the loan they have a donation, Haule said the loan is 49 percent before later changed and said the loan is 64 percent.

"First, he said that it is a donation then later it was changed and said that it is a loan that was done by the support later said the loan is 49 percent and the only thing is a donation.

However, one of his skill said that the loan is 64 percent and that's when he mentioned those 64 percent, "the secretary general did not know anything," said the news source of this newspaper that attended that meeting.

The answers of the secretary general is rumored to have arrested those delegates of the PAC committee who already had gone to the fact that the building is mentioned to have a value of 27 billion shillings, by the government to have a list of things that will be used in the construction known by the name Bill of Quiros that was known by the name Bill of Quad Bongo Fleva.

While the government is looking at the cost of the hall to be 27 billion shillings, speaking to the Daily News newspaper, March this year, the project manager of construction of that hall, Evans Methew, claimed that until its completion, the hall will cost a government a sum of 45 billion shillings (30 million dollars).

By using Q Q, a person who is building its building is given a list of equipment that will be used, its value and another cost of construction.

Explaining about the Q Chief, the executive secretary of the institution if they expect the use of construction and buildings (QS Mhonda), Dibogo Wenje, said if the government can build a building without considering that the previous election is dangerous because it cannot follow what has been used and in which way.

"Someone who built his house, it is a must that the cost of that construction.

"It will be no wonder if the government can build a building without a man Q, if the money itself is for a loan, if a person knows his personal house, can I understand why it is his own money, but the government's money is for people," said Mushumbusi.

According to Raymond Mushumbusi, because of government buildings, it has been set that it is a must for the Q to be made and to be taught the cost of the cost that was signed in the board of preventing themselves in order for the government to get the real value of money that it used.

On his part, one of the leaders of the contractors of the contractors here in the country, said that the amount of 27 billion is mentioned like the value of that hall is big because the building is built without a motorcycle riders especially considering that it is a loan that the government will be required to pay a loan.

Without a man Q, the government will do that loan or who knows what to do and what should be used as usual, the farmer is looking at the prices of everything starting from the clinic, toilets, food, and everything that is used.

For now, you don't know what things are used, you can't know what, "said the leader who however did not want to mention his name on the explanation that his party is involved with the construction of roads and dams although the construction work is involved in injuries.

When he was asked by the members of parliament in that meeting, the Secretary General (Haule) said they are expecting to ask the Q-fielder from China and will take a committee after the reception.
