
South Africa continues to defend Mandela.
Frode Dyrdal of 28, 2013.

South African citizens have started informing the retired president of that nation, Nelson Mandela, while the media houses are saying that country will not be in violence if that leader will leave the world.

While Mandela uses his 18 day hospital on Tuesday this week, South Africa has started to prepare anything especially after President Jacob Zuma of that leader has a bad state.

Normally, it is not normal for the African government to provide information about the disease of its leaders with giving up and when it's time to give those reports, it means there is no need to live.

For example, the government of Ethiopia did not have a report of suffering from the former Prime Minister, Mijac Music, and started giving a few days before yesterday died on December last year in Brussels city, Belgium.

Starting from the night of Tuesday this week, the hospital's area, where he is admitted Mandela has continued to receive a letter written by different people who give thanks to the leader because he was fighting for justice and equity for the nation, which was dominated by discrimination of color.

"The police commandant Mandela, like it is not you, and I have been able to register themselves as the University," could be read the message that was set out of the entrance to the hospital here in the city.

The leader of the political party's political party (Boniface P), Chief Mongolia is unacceptable, yesterday seen in public when he spoke to Mandela and how he went to defend the Boers for approximately 40 years.

"Ah, Duncan, who was playing for more than 40 years so that we can benefit our freedom for your life and I see if you finish it together with the father and your friend, I request that if you continue with us here in accordance with the procedures of the tribe of Kings FM, I request if you continue with us again.

Assistant editor of the most popular newspaper in South Africa Television, Verbania Italy, wrote on his newspaper on Tuesday this week that it is "worry to think that there will be violence or faults of sexually transmitted diseases after the death of Mandela.

In the normal state, it will be committing of its kind to Mandela to think that what he wrote on the grave of Mandela is a very big man and that is why what he wrote on the grave of Mandela is a very big man and that is why what he wrote on the grave.

While the state of Mandela would like the deterioration of the family and his close relatives, they stopped the emergency session in Qunu village, the Eastern Arumeru region, with the aim of giving information.

That sitting was attended by Mandla claimed that he is the chief justice of Thriller 'where the comes from Mandela and was led by what I was led by the family and traditional activities of the cervix.

Because when I vote is that we are leading various cultural activities of the kind, ready to take that meeting as the symptoms of the family to start preparing and the procedures of receiving visitors and burial according to their procedures.

One of the close friends of Mandela, Andrew Mlenda, who was imprisoned for two years with that leader, has urged the citizens of that country to prepare well and receive with "with bad news to Mandela.

He said according to a human being, Mandela has done its responsibilities and right now, it will be the same to thank God and not to do justice to the leader because he is now tired and needs to rest.

"We want to enter the hospital for some time we think it is because of her body, when you reached it can be able to withstand natural fertility so that we can stay yourself and say the truth we can do something," said Mlenda.
