
Kajala Masanja went to the father of the United States of China about the importance of selling them.

Stories Miss Shakillah from Jongo and Musa.
As he continued to destroy the marriage of my friend, actress of Bongo movie actor, Kajala Masanja has recently been impressed by the husband of that same friend in China.

According to our source, Kajala Masanja has been unable to leave the different entertainment centers in that country as well as the man.
This is a woman who doesn't carry out his belts with his brothers in Bongo that he has gone to Zambia, why seems to be fed a finger to the husband to MSabatama, "he interviewed our source.

That source has continued to claim that Kajala Masanja has apologized to the husband of that friend called Mwengi, after seeing this.

According to our source, Kajala Masanja has been unable to leave the different entertainment centers in that country as well as the man.
This is a woman who doesn't carry out his belts with his brothers in Bongo that he has gone to Zambia, why seems to be fed a finger to the husband to MSabatama, "he interviewed our source.

That source has continued to claim that Kajala Masanja has apologized to the husband of that friend called Mwengi, after seeing this.

Speaking to a shot, MSabatama said that at the moment it is confused, because every day drinking alcohol so as to lose the thoughts of her husband and the same thing that he was not depending on his life.

"By true I am using a lot, previously there are some people who believed that I was looking for popularity by signing, Kajala Masanja, now every person sees it is true, I believe that God is not true," said Kwelukilwa.
This newspaper made the way of looking for him, Kajala so that they can be able to know yourself from that act a short time after serving his picture with the husband of MSabatama.

I'm in Rufiji, I'm looking for the film, "said Kajala.
In confirming that, our writer called for a close friend of Kajala Masanja (the name withheld), who confessed that the artist has done his brother to Dar es Salaam that he is going to Zambia to buy film equipment.
"However, my work is surprised that he is in China," said the friend.
