
Minister Doctor Mgimwa passes away.

Those reports which have been confirmed to us by the Minister of Finance and Economy, Doctor William Mgimwa, said that Tanzanian currency has continued to improve (VAT) against American dollars.

Apart from improving the shillings, Minister Mgimwa said that the price has intended to be controlled by 199, 9 of December last year up to 75% for now according to Mgimwa, the inflation has intended to be controlled due to the good distribution of food in the country.

That minister also says that the state of economy is good, the level of economic growth is currently 5 percent and 9 out of July, August and September, and the expectations was 648 percent.

We have no reason to fight with statistics together with the explanation of Minister Mgimwa and the government in general, we believe that the government, and especially the Ministry of Finance under the minister, Doctor Mgimwa and his colleagues, they can do well more.

We believe that the ability to help our officers are very big starting from the Central Bank (BoT) by the Governor Doctor Benno Ndullu said, and specialists from other levels who engage in economic issues in the country, we call on all concerned parties to continue to prevent many people who use the current state of economy.

For our experts to commend the efforts so that the inflation rate in Tarime, one billion (a single for it) it is true that the relief for these experts and therefore for them is to increase the difficulty of lives of contraception?

Bond of protecting the economy of every Tanzanian and the country in general is with your partner with our officers and therefore we need to witness more good results about more than this situation that is called by Minister Mgimwa.

We give this call to our economy officers, as we believe that the ability to do well economically like the country is very big, and especially after being blocked for the use of natural gas in the production of electricity in the country.
It is possible, everyone to fulfill the responsibility.
