
Conflict came out in Delhi.
And a picture.
Employees of Delhi hospital yesterday they went with an entrepreneur, concerning the ownership of four acres of land ownership, in the road area of Naemy Silayo, Nairobi, and they have been affected.
In that conflict, I do not end up with the war but the police from the same center have survived, and asked me.
Speaking to the journalists, the Executive Manager of the farm, Mister Nelson Mandela, together with employees explained that he was shocked by the claims of the new ownership of that land that claims by being eaten by an entrepreneur, a personal style.
Mister Rwizile said that the documents that were given by the company and the investor from the era of Madnat Hotel, says that they are the legal owners of the land, though the family of shambles has never been forced to sell any farm, the manager now wants the commission of ethics and fighting corruption (EPOC) to intervene.
"My family in Delhi, it has all documents of the farm and it has not sell any place of land for people who are claiming that we are leaving," he said.
That manager claimed that the actor of personal circumstances arrived at the end of the week and asked the workers that were there before the start of building.
He added, "this is saying our employees make report to the supervisors of the farm which they joined the police," Mister Rwizile said that they are not worried about the issue that he got documents of that land ownership documents.
He also claimed that the suspect was a fox that won the land but he informed that the supervisors will protect the land because they are their lives.
Similarly, he was surprised by the government of Nigeria that he can approve construction plans for land that is owned by Divine Kweka.
At the same time, he gave a challenge to an entrepreneur, to take him open and to identify the person who had moved to the land.
However, one director in the company, Madeama and Watumishi Housing Company, Mister Joseph Butiku, claimed that they had bought that land more than 15 years ago and that the construction was done well.
