
Samia is the government to promote the tourism sector.

It has been written by Ikunda Lyimo.

I was written in 08 September 2016.

The Vice President, Samia Suluhu Hassan has said the government is required to continue to promote the tourism and hotel sector in the country for making the competition and which will build a good environment of attracting tourists and therefore increasing the country's income.

He said that yesterday when he was launching the Ramada resort hotel that produces in Dar es Salaam city and insisted that the objectives of the country is to promote the tourism sector by strengthening various attractions together with ensuring that there is modern hotel.
"The government has intended to continue improving the tourism sector by making sure that there will be modern hotel that together with receiving visitors, will improve the contribution to the national income," he said.
While giving some statistics, Samia has said the tourism sector in the country is one of the sectors that contribute to the national income and that the year 2015, the sector made a lot of 2800 billion American Dollars by 1 billion American dollars in the year 2014.
In addition, the sector has given an official employment for more than 600,000 small jobs while the employment opportunities have been set aside for two million shillings, he said the sector can increase the income if other tourism attractions will increase including the modern hotel like the Ramada resort area.
The Vice President has said, a big issue that the government is doing is to ensure that a conducive environment for investors in the country so that their investment can have benefits to all sides.
He has said that the tourists that are coming in the country have increased where for now more than 1 million tourists from the country and the number is expected to increase.
He has said that the government recognizes the contribution of the private sector in tourism development in the country because it contributes to a large section of tourists to arrive in the country and one of the presence of hotels and other things and that the government will continue improving the investment environment as well as communication between them.
The director of that hotel, Abdul Ismail, said they are proud of giving employment to stem cells, while half of those employers are women with different positions of leadership in that hotel.
