
28 December, 2012

Tanzania expects to support the statement of theft of elephants.

Tanzania is partnering with the secretary general of the international organization that is involved in protecting the animals that are in danger of their disappearance in the world (IBCS), Mister John Scala, to support the statement of the rebels council of the United Nations to investigate it's place on the claims that claims that the rebels group in Uganda, Lil Undule.
The group is also rumored to be involved with the transportation of its teeth so as to get weapons and money that will stop its own activities.

Reports that was given to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday by the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Ambassador Hamis Kagasheki, said that statement has increased the strength of an issue that there is a relationship between the crimes and security in the Great Lakes region and Central Africa.

He said last week, the council made a statement that led to the United Nations (UN) and the African Union (AU), to investigate the group on how they get money to buy weapons and be involved in them in the crimes of elephants and transportation of its teeth.

This discussion took that, Lollipop, they are doing acts of transporting elephant teeth and expanding the areas that are caused by the elephants, reducing the killing of many elephants' killings in many African countries, "he said.

Ambassador Kagasheki, added that the teeth that come from water is taking place in the Great Lakes region and Central Africa are believed to be done by the rebels so as to be done by the rebels.
Money, weapons and bullet in the purpose of developing the violence between various countries in the neighboring country.

He said that Tanzania is ready to work with the United Nations in investigation about the participation of fighters and the wildlife officers, "we believe that, this investigation will not sign the international heads in the sale of elephants and its trend in the country, this investigation will be held in line with the ongoing efforts in the country to fight against violence," he said.

At the same time, Tanzania has discussed with different stakeholders so that the international conference on energy can be done in the country.
The year 2013, the conference will be attended by various stakeholders from African countries who are affected by the size of elephants and pastoralists. The aim of the conference is to discuss matters, share experiences and look for solutions against violence.
