
The speaker of Barsheba I was arrested in Turkey.
The speaker of the parliament of Mkomagu, he was arrested yesterday morning with the New York International Airport, as he went to climb the plane.
Mister William Kasele is a red carpet that was arrested for seven o'clock at night with officers of the investigation unit, who follow up on his involvement in the killings that took place Barwan.
He was expecting to travel, IHI, Turkey.
"This is to inform the friends of my colleagues, my brothers, my brothers and her daughters ik Tiote, he from Barbosa from Barbosa from Barsheba I have seen him to be arrested today at the Jomo Kenyatta.
Now I have been stopped here, "he said in a message he wrote on Facebook at eight at night.
Yesterday, the speaker had a special vehicle from the police vehicle and was accompanied by several officers so that it can be of the nation today it will lead them for three o'clock in the afternoon, he said that he was not interviewed.
However, I am happy about being related to recent violence, Barwan, because my friend me told the chief inspector of police David Kimaiyo he mentioned me to have two other representatives of Chato as suspects in the event that happened recently, "he said.
He was talking about the report that was given by Mister Kimaiyo, October 26, at Tumbi area, it was the one that was going to the headquarters of Ty.
"A long time last night was at the police station at the airport.
I will decide to go to Turkey for a whole week, "explained Mister a sweater.
He said that he is supporting the police to investigate that area and urged them to follow up on the violence of time to time to Barbosa and Turnbull.
Several people are among the three police who died from those violence that came out on Friday night, a group of medicine for livestock that is believed to be connected to the farmers were abducted by the rebels who were abducted by the police officers, was launched early this week.
On Tuesday, officers from the Geffi, in the ruling party, the police force to fight for livestock, they carried out a stern operation and got two gun that have been buried on the location.
