The boss of the speed of Dar es Salaam.
Brightiles 22, 2012

The chief executive officer of the Dar es Salaam Rapid Transit project in Dar es Salaam (DART), Stephano Cosmas in the country, who was participating in the construction of the road construction project of Dar es Salaam worth 212,150 billion shillings.
He has been removed from that position, Raia Mwema, it has dropped out.

That step has taken out two months after President Jakaya Kikwete has banned the use of two billion shillings that were requested to the government for the construction of a short center, at the University of Dar es Salaam.

President Kikwete said that using two billion shillings to build a period for a period of that project, the University of University, then after two years getting permanent success, it is not correct because it contributes to losing government funds.

President Kikwete stressed that when he launched the project on September 19 this year, and said that the "answer is your answer to build a health center and there is no longer build a period of entrepreneurship for a period of two years when it takes a permanent decision at the moment.

The next week, because you are the chairman (head of the province), and the director of DART, as refusing to tell me the same.
I am the head of Dar es Salaam Province, Director of DART, TANROADS and you don't know the same week that you defend the answers, I have agreed to know, "said Kikwete.

According to information just reaching that decision of blocking the officer, the chief officer was involved with various allegations of corruption that however, he has gone up, insisting that he has been doing his work with integrity.

Apart from allegations of corruption, Tanzania also claimed to have work by considering the advice of his fellow officers in that project and thus removing the concept of accountability together.

One of the DART officers who did not want his name to be written in newspaper saying that, some of the visitors were forced to be expelled from a dog, they did not want to advice, servants are such as usual.

But in his details about the accusations that were directed to him, Tauro, says that in August this year I wrote a letter to the office of the Prime Minister to announce the end of my contract on November 8th, this year, a letter was not to be presented.

"I have given the office after my five years ago in the year 1979 and 2004 when I have implemented big projects here in the country, as we start with the road infrastructure, cooking oil in all big towns in Arusha, Mwanza, Mbeya, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora, Tabora and Dar es Salaam."

According to his information, all the projects that he has been built through great success and there was no corruption of any kind.

I have never met any scandal in my heart, "said Tanzania.

As a result of leaving power, November 9 this year, Tanzania in handed the office.
Asteria Mlambo, who is competing in that position is the chief executive officer.

Asteria Mlambo, before getting to be given that position was the Director of Transport and Fisheries Development, says the action taken is a normal decision.

"Which was held is normal procedure, what I'll be in my position is not a problem, what doesn't maintain which way they are taking place.

"For this opportunity I was given to me is honor, a person who was pleased with the whole period, I believe so much in performance in the whole period and there is no doubt that the government needs good environment so that people can participate in the concerned project," he said in an interview with Raia Mwema, in his office.

Regarding the statement of Kikwete, to question the use of two billion shillings, he says that the directive by the explanations of the president have been advised as much, "we have been advised to be true, but we have been advised not to be true but the people they had been advised to build a lot of embezzlement.

He said together with the head of Dar es Salaam Province, Said Meck Sadik, the mayor of that town Doctor Didas Masaburi against the mayor of Kinondoni Municipality, Yusufu Mwenda, they are planning to get areas for construction of the regional bus station.

According to his information, the area is Mbezi Beach, Morogoro road where if they will succeed in Ubungo bus station will be distributed in Mbezi instead of building a period of five buses at the University of University.
