The presidential plans of 2015 is increasing in Mwanza.
Dec 12, 2013.

The race to vie for the presidency of Tanzania in the next general election that is supposed to withstand fire, though they are mentioned the very big names, the truth is that she was caught in the sea, but not the net.
One of the member of parliament for Bumbuli and the Deputy Minister of Communication, Science and Technology, January Makamba, who has returned them to "the lake region while his followers showed up a new procedure of seeing the young man in his activities of contesting for the peak of political leadership, in the year 2015.
That politician, who has been using more youths in his political activities, although he has not explained his intention to vie for the very high position in the national leadership in the country, statements and actions of his followers indicate the existence of a special agenda to that leader.
Recently, these are the ones that were witnessed by Mke Mwema, at the junction of the High Court in Mwanza City, where in that area, "we wrote posters, there was a result of posters that are close to 50 Cent while campaigning for that politician.
Some of those posters that will be easily read by January Mkamba (2015), "January Makamba like January Makamba like January Makamba such as Obama," January Makamba like January Makamba like January Makamba like January Makamba like January Makamba such that the youth is backed by many youths of Mwanza.
"This work has been brought by one person who wants to be complete today (Sunday) for a special work, but he has not been going on to work," said one of the youths doing that work.
The news that has received numerous citizens about those posters are saying that because of the tour he will have Makamba in Mwanza town, during the Eid holiday on December 25, this year, where he will be the guest of honor in the gospel music festival that is expected to take place at the CCM Kirumba Stadium.
"It is true that the tour is organized in a criterion to attend the gospel music festival, but its intention especially to build the lake region towards the year 2015, people do not see if it is not a threat but it seems that she has the courage to sign him," says one delegate of the political committee, Ilemela District.
"Every person has its strategy but I see I started under it and he is going to participate in the race," says one leader of the Revolutionary Party (CCM) in Mwanza province, who is alleged to have been invited to participate in the race for that politician when he is in Mwanza town at Christmas.
However, while speaking to Good Citizen from America through phone where he is working in Makamba said that if he would like to be received by demonstrations because the country's procedures have a kind of leaders who are being received because he does not want to stop the activities of the residents of Mwanza City.
"I have been invited by some religious leaders that contribute to the festival for good intentions, I wouldn't want it to do that religious activities to contribute a lot of other things that will be a solution to the citizens," said Makamba.
He said that they are preparing those posters so as to convince them to enter into the presidential race of 2015 that is not the first time.
"If they have a matter they want to talk to me, I will be ready to listen or even looking for them, but it is important to recognize that they are in the procedures of doing these things that are not supposed to be satisfied with any reason," he said.
The politician, has brought up a tension among the various universities in the whole country, after some of them are making environment towards the presidency of the year 2015, after some of them attend the seminar that was prepared by a non-governmental organization that is involved in fight against diseases, ignorance, and poverty (Fathers - M).
Those youths who some of them surprised our colleagues in that seminar, that when it reached the agenda to discuss the youth and politics that were discussed in every group they will be discussed if they will be presented with the youths that they are supposed to vie for the presidency.
"There were criticizing yourself who were put up so as to achieve the program, when it arrived at the topic of youth and politics in every group it was there and someone who wanted to have a topic about rumors that happened on August 12, 2013.
