He is in different countries that will depend on these days even in South Sudan the day before yesterday, I have sent a gospel team that will take place in Dar es Salaam because every lovers, Asha went to eradicate what I did so after the agricultural minister did not welcome him again!
The Indians I will go to Dodoma they are sold in South Sudan, we found the things that I have from?
Miss are saying we are happy.
The words are there.
For it is not the wealth of the tomatoes, what is also there in Karatu town, when you get to Kenya, then what we learned even vehicles that lead these types of criminal acts of people in Kenya.
But they don't know where we have been looking at each other, there are people who have come up or bad, we are using a lot of words that we have committed to us, but we can talk about these diseases, we can help each other and our colleagues that are in disasters and deaths in the areas of investment.
He is a lot of opportunities if you are coughing but what we need is, therefore we are using it.
Now on our part of our colleagues who in a big way I don't have the way we need me, then we are doing so as to help our colleague, but now your argument that you are used to use our colleagues there are us to use it and to make sure you get tomorrow.
Friends in our agricultural sector.
For the sector, you will get the ones that go down, we believe that I think it is very little when you missed the night before her sister even.
We need twenty million and nine million people have been banned for irrigation farming.
In that, me we have taken my grandfather's friend.
The three sectors are those in the army to cross the sun.
Another third reason is supposed to have a great desire to get the same as we are in Free Africa.
Now the few days ago that we did not know and they are still there.
Agriculture is still ongoing.
These youths who did not love for other reasons but?
When I was asked for irrigation, several years ago 18 percent of small-scale farmers were trying to look for them.
Who does not have shown that they are using cows.
I was coming from.
Now little, we have decided to invest more.
We are using our pension fund to give loans to the purpose of people who want to buy products.
Eastleigh we have banned tractors through this newspaper, we have increased a little percentage of each person, I say BoT has to pay that father the ones that use that father is a big percentage especially when we want many youths in agriculture to be able to enter this way in agriculture.
Not to get to do is to look at how we can be able to inherit the second phase of the youth being a rash on the youth.
Modern farming has reduced in farming for subsistence.
How will it be done in business agriculture I hope.
