I ask ourselves who I think that this is time for the youth to be given.
For vying for the presidential position has provided some of their views, you have written as Kibondemaji, as money he had gone to be released and it is still at 4 o'clock and it will be at the time when they get the initiative.
According to Mchaga.
The late is a resident of SPC.
Welcome him about the argument that I would like to do?
In one view or two different youths.
Activists too.
A false issue need.
People are required to live on top levels.
A person after ten years.
While in politics he didn't know the other things of being the presidential issue only and that of the moment, President I need us to need someone who is a person who is a person who is a person with a person who is a person with a person who is a person with someone.
One person who is greedy for power.
Thus causing a place quickly.
On the name is called Adam marketing is the host of Diamond.
I think for these hours it is time.
They have and took the day before yesterday.
That refuses the presidency in the whole nation because we should understand that many things are there.
Pascal Malesa, the youth did not love them.
And those are the elders that now have been there.
Best, he promised to write a py from all youths!
They started.
Therefore, in order to run the country, he has given a reward to them.
Look at a mistake.
The late God is true that youths we get hard life quickly, but it is not true that the youth get to the late?
To run this country will relocate the country to be able to get youths so as to get a life of life and the ability of life and just as a youth to use his energy so as to deal with their lives well, the late Catholving in her name and is called Mwengi.
Almighty God is the guardian of the youth?
In many things recently, Mbeya saw it true that there is a big job for youths to get in the race for vying for power in the past five and ten thousand.
For my part, I see it is a good thing because you do not do?
Before you were not a whole person, when we were not able to go through the race so that they do not get into the race so that we don't want to lead there, even if the youth did not want to lead you, but when I am told that there should be no longer a new leader but they don't want to lead you.
Leading the nation so that we do not forget that you can lead the family not only to lead people who are different from different people, but there are many people who have a lot of people who have a lot of people who have a lot of people who have a lot of people who have different meanings because they can be able to prevent the political tensions because they can be.
