
Our thinking is not for treason, 31 points, 2013.

In 1962, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere wrote a bit by what is called "understandable."
The teacher, even at that time, they believe the courage to want, as leaders, have the courage to identify leadership positions and work on them by dealing with the mockery.
And Mwalimu Nyerere did not see the Angels in his last year before your death, and he confessed to openly that, in his leadership there was a mistake held.
And the human beings we are not supposed to live in mind, we should have the courage to make changes but basically required according to the concerned time.
One of the owners of the teacher, for your opinion, is when he noted that the two-government union is the policies of the Revolutionary Party.

It does not see the issue of unity being the policy of the party, the issue of the presence of a union of AfriCloud and Tanoh, can be the policies of the Revolutionary Party, but the issue of the structure of the union of two countries supposed to be a national thing.
That is why the debate of the structure of our union should not be an issue of political parties because it is a national issue to check today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
Therefore, discuss the union and having different ideas with the party's stand or a group of people's not supposed to be equal to treason.
And we do not know this debate of the structure of our union as an opportunity to use them from here where we are and made another step towards the development of the country.
I have read the newspapers when the chairperson of CCM Jakaya Kikwete, when he told the members of CCM to prepare themselves, and the coming of three governments, that goes against him and the courage of leader.
That even if there is some of the idea, but that is enough to prepare well if the local government will decide to have three governments.
I believe in the way of Judge Warioba about the presence of a three-government union day and here I'll stop stuttering on the thoughts of those statements like to me, one of them is Doctor Augustine Mahiga.
Mister Mahiga says that even though the three governments have its cost, but politics has its benefits due to the long-term debates concerning the structure of the union.
Ambassador Mahiga has continued to be quoted saying that if the draft of the new constitution will be prepared by Tamfi, it is clear that Tanzania will have rectified the coalition nuisances for attaining 50 years in the year, through a way of talks.
For sure, this way of Judge Warioba is the one that we used to put it a lot as there is a lot of problems in the way, it is because the way he did not like the Judge Warioba and his constitution commission is to reduce that way so that other factors can benefit.
The new constitution has a meaning of great changes but I am happy to see me is the fear of changes in some of our leaders and even others are fear resulting from private reasons that are following up and even the opportunities to come in.
It's a habit of a human being and also fear about change, when even at your house, you will go back home, and you found your current employee, then it will be first to fear about those changes and maybe your mind will also be allowed to be used.
This is the third government, in history, we need to land for the women Judge Warioba to come up with this creativity, because it has been a huge nuisance that was done by the ministry.
We cannot continue with that situation in the year until the year.
Because, even me, I would have been asked in the year 2000 about the structure of the union, then, my first woman was one of the government or two governments as the last process.
But, 13 years later, and by looking at times, if you ask you today, my answer is very open and it is true that we can have three governments, the president, Zanzibar and Tanzania Mainland (Tanganyika).
And this is not the last respect that we shall get international, but we will also contribute to people of these two sides of the union to sit and cooperate more.
