The late does not thank you and until now many and we are unable to do so.
Doing work and in conjunction with the different community and Tanzanians living outside the country because there are a big community and I will also come back home to cooperate with our colleagues who are not in line with our colleagues who are not contrary to the procedures of people who are not contrary to the procedures of people who are not contrary to the procedures of people who are not contrary to the procedures of the countries.
I wish you an example of our brothers to come from their life, to go to different provinces to look for.
They give you their colleague who was supposed to have no direction.
The Almighty God continue to do maybe you can give him a resident.
The importance of continuing.
But me I asked himself to do anything together with being given the capital that he told Mister to do it.
.
.
What does Tanzanians need to do?
We should know the nation of the country is that we are doing with the money that I said is that it is to try to try to change.
Major General would like to discover that they know that we are people because you want to be so that we are.
We have we have no experience because when you get a certain country to you to register themselves.
But the problems of when you find the person getting married because the wedding is required to help me if I am going to register myself and that is why I am happy and that this conference will also be discussed if I am happy and that I am coming from here, even if I am going to help us all over what will be discussed at this conference.
We should learn to listen.
The manager and hement fans at any time that you will do against Palestine, but their lives outside the country.
Every month.
They are getting money at home for the purpose of development of the country, the late God rest his Tanzanians a challenge.
The challenge is facing Komba until now.
Let us talk to him!
You want to return and appreciate themselves.
Similarly, ordinary citizens go back and are taking place in war with different ways.
To return that money and which were not true and I cannot get all the days is because every statistics show the special person to say that this year.
Tanzania has condemned the Tanzanians living outside the country have contributed a certain amount and also because the Major General is.
Yes, those who give those second information here and other things are in different ways, but the third one is that there is an issue that will be discussed while talking to the constitutional parliament concerning the fact that people are treated but now let us think about what came out and benefit from different things.
I cannot and I have to be complete, I cannot have done it.
In our discussions, there was a few hours that we have in diaspora they are outside the country they don't have information about enough information about medical hours but we have given our soul in peace.
And there are these days?
I am happy and he sees me.
It is impossible to come to get those information in life.
Until when you talk to him that they don't have enough information, our journalists are there and we are grateful for the truth when we were in Dar es Salaam, but also the ambassador to see me say that they are able to talk about them and ensure they need to talk about them.
But now you know you.
Participate in those people are supposed to have a lot of information that they don't have any time, then you find another person among the problems, but the problems in the first, then we do not say that she is doing.
A report has been said.
He joins you just after a gun they need to know.
Our website has said that we are trying to work in collaboration with all institutions together with our ambassador to ensure that they have different challenges that give information about what we have the ability to save in the middle so as to reach those people who are outside and outside the country.
There is a debate of citizenship of two countries which have already been commanded?
May the Almighty God rest his views about the late church?
I personally.
And on behalf of
The institution is leading is that we are not supporting citizenship.
Because we have never been the same citizenship?
That Kitanzini ward will be the one who went outside the country and he decided to take another citizenship that he has died from the sun is that so as to reach there.
It is same as my in-law, I had already been taken to do then they will work hard to go back to Shinyanga where they will play two years and years but they want to invest.
To return that area in Shinyanga to eat a new year, you will leave a contract and we are not in the afternoon to inform our children is equal to our colleagues who are outside the country, and that even those are the opportunity and they have a lot of opportunities to return.
But now, explaining about the phone that we use Tigo Wekeza which does not make someone who is pregnant, there is no things that you can be afraid because we can make sure you know if you can remain in the country if he can go into a way they can do only two four times.
It's not like you are not lie like a whip, how is a Tanzanian who have everything done to make three things let me start because we want other visitors who don't have money to go with the money.
But in diaspora you want.
Even to get easily.
Or the current citizenship, for example, having a lot of education to the law and procedures of our country's regulations, that for example.
Someone who wanted to own a car also like so that a Tanzanian cannot get an oath there is a Tanzanian living in Oman.
He wants to come to build a five hundred dollar.
Our rights can be able to follow the citizenship of Tanzania, already there is a lot of money that would have come in our country to help him in development when you see you.
He has not been written anything by giving him one person to citizenship.
