The youth of CHADEMA and the FGM network of the social network.
January 26, 2013.

As it is for research, the discovery and finally start using a certain way in the world that is the results of the concerned research, development in science and technology have continued to bring a lot of challenges in this private sector.
According to how many days we are going, these development, especially in the ICT technology (ICT), it has failed to give a head experts in this sector, and more so much the users of all the total of all the sale or not the ICT.
For instance, on the side of Africa, the ICT challenge, or the view of how Africa has participated in the ICT use, has distributed the scholars of these issues in two groups.
The first group is the one that claimed that Africa does not have to get into the use of communication technology directly and in all sectors of life.
The believers of this first group, are looking on issues that, put communication technology in all sectors of life, because of entering the ICT, it is the foundation of development, therefore the government of African countries have no need to set priority on this issue.
This means that the African Government without caring about their economic condition, the history of their countries and its challenges, which are different from the developed countries, and that the use of this technology work on each other, to a private sector and the community as a whole.
In addition, the view of the second group on Africa involving themselves in the ICT use, is against him and the first group of this group is to remove it more on the view that Africa is required to fulfill the use of communication technology procedures and a big challenge.
That for now, Africa can't enter into the ICT use because the same procedure used the countries that are forced, because there are several differences between Africa and other countries which have continued, of other continents like Europe, America, and Asia.
In general and in a short time, it is that the issue of all two groups are many and they have the same logic or any way for that time, therefore we need a big debate and long time, but if we need me, if we are Africa, to have great keenness in everything that are doing the importation of the ICT system.
I have been forced to discuss the presence of two two groups related to so as to put well the context of the debate on this article of today, because many things are discussed in every group (between those two groups I have mentioned the above), here I will discuss a small part of "use of communication technology in the institutions or community development.
It should be known that anywhere in the world, it's also continuing to have a great shape on better use that are acceptable to even many of this technology in the community or various institutions.
For example, several institutions have continued to refuse to understand some of the ICT use for instance, different religion and various denominations do not agree with the idea that ICT can be used to reduce "the meetings' meetings by the believers of these religion.
That it is not a must for someone to get married or the church in order to participate in a service, but he can participate in a service while on television, radio or mobile phones what is happening in the field because it does not affect the reality and the meaning of worship!
However, in politics and administration, there are still a lot of challenges about how the ICT system should be used as well as the ones that are able to use ICT to take their views on the use of these technology even in several government activities, even in countries that allow them to identify Africa.
For example, the sender and some of security documents and others in many countries, is being done very much in the ways that are in the past, if they are used in the ICT development, a precaution that is taken is very big.
Even in our country, the use of communication technology, especially in the use of social media networks, although it has continued to grow fast, many institutions are continuing to take a lot of precaution to ensure these expenditure do not affect the community or the concerned institution.
