For your news, Tanzanians in a period of seeing us still as usual and they believe in our topic, it is opening the Tegeta Escrow scandal.
Yams flourish in shambles.
On my son.
I did not send.
You can you a long time?
I would love you.
Shame is a shame.
Your news click here is a very big reason for the citizens and the community to have me a day like today and as usual we become we start with the newspapers but here is where we start with me.
When you get pregnant, I explained to get reports on how we're with.
The committee is not ready to start with the newspapers in the newspaper about saying that it is not worried about those tests and also to reach these presidential candidate that are the ones that call them.
It is same.
Now the deaths of people.
Without a easy way.
So as to contest for him soon.
Our colleagues until the 90th minute will happen.
Do not have many greetings.
When the mistake is to give the candidate at it we came.
And a week.
Then it has paid the farmer that says that Tanzanians are hope for Tanzanians.
Dodoma the day before yesterday.
Approximately two weeks they will make up up and see that inside.
It will be better.
In a campaign I know very much, I don't have told him and maybe the price to see you are high-level, if he took the Big Results Now "every time it is at all times, then to make sure the children get pregnant we have started.
We have continued to cooperate and today our topics that I would vote for our today's topic, we agree with the topic saying that you know about the scandal.
Sheikh told Tanzanians I see that it is not the Escrow account that is being opened when talking with TANESCO when they got into a goalless draw, even these people were told to say that is why they decide the number of people who have never been heard.
All of us want.
.
They have not started.
Father said it fell in the ones they are, we will follow.
To say that it is wrong to ask for religious leaders starting from the game as you see you so much things that you want to do a problem about security about their security.
For any reason why could not forget yourself until today they know that there are different types, but every corner, they know that TANESCO decided to do so because of the conflict to ask for people they know where many people can't know where many people do not know where he was old.
If we don't say that TANESCO had when I was going to problems while providing electricity to Tanzanians, considering that Tanzanians eat food for Tanzanians especially when I saw them, I decided to help TANESCO and give them a lot of money and they decided to pave way for them.
As the first woman to pay and they decided to open your account.
However, but it is not a person in the account that he wanted to have said, they want to know what they got, he believes that he will not accept to accept it.
Therefore, when you read and this to give payments for a long time through the ones they get in the Escrow account, this is the Escrow account, I was in Tegeta Escrow account, which is in Tegeta Escrow account, is in the Escrow account, I have discovered that she had conned her boyfriend.
How do the questions who asked me while the neighborhood got.
They get baptized as.
It is still underway.
It has not been taken by the guest of honor.
And now at the time of Diamond, Kiba has talked to him today, I decided he believes for representing us.
TANESCO in order for the assistant to produce and supply electricity to public servants, that is known as Independent Power Limited, we got the contract with TANESCO to produce a lot of payments because TANESCO had a lot of payments more to 18 percent, this man completed it is a must for the government institutions that are involved with the Swahili judge and to reach this decisions.
So as he is the chief lawyer of all the laws of law and the government, and when he is required to make sure that they lead legal on sales and procurement.
We go back and so as to continue with the topic, it is TANESCO, electricity is people who hope that there is no other company producing maggots.
After that, after the incident, it will bring them an increase.
You get the body of TANESCO for that new year, then others were married that they have separated with her husband, what we believe in, there are many people who have been coming from there and therefore, when we think it's something to get married to you, what we think about what is happening and now, what we want to talk about what is done by the bank.
We go back to help the mother, there is a question that he asked but here is before the citizens who are in this platform, have not received the answer to a question due to the understanding they have got from this husband's scandal to make other Tanzanians.
They also know what I don't know if we look at.
Because his account is happy to ask you and our enemies for the reason of looking for them.
Being the contract.
Now, for Tanzanians to reach us from those buses from the way you take a lot of politics which I received as they don't know where the second time you took the child and we will do you get a great family to study and you have done this second event.
Those are big.
It doesn't understand the gospel by knowing if you're getting married like a child.
And we expect the region of Mister of the country, he has said that, the ministry is required to have a lot of person, I have been forced even so that every person will have said, if you get a brother, you will have heard about this money, you will have heard about this money to believe that you are enough funds.
As a result of making a public, the issues that took place to help each other in your opinion, think that it can be used in a high level or it will go up until the end of my view.
This is the attorney general in the year and the money he was trusted before.
He answered his answer Miss Vicky Kombe after being the government of God that the money is out and bringing up what is happening and they know what is happening.
Why has also decided to ask for that court, it's a member of parliament to give you a matter and also the court did not agree and give a letter that Ongea will be seen this in a short view.
This was something that we have committed a lot of work, we will get to tell him there are nothing else.
Now the reason for the parliament and I've asked the late I decided to do a mistake.
Because there is something that we had.
So they are determined by the members of parliament for parliamentarians.
They are saying that we have emphasized that, that school had five stars directed and now I think that I think on Thursday, we will continue with claims.
