Women Slaa about them.
October 17, 2013.

The senior secretaries of the political parties here in the country will be called for special documents to ask for him in front of the parliament because of violating the law of the country.

Those secretaries are of nine political parties that although they have received billions of tax in a period of grants for a period of four years ago, they have presented their accounts as required by the law.

Some of those secretaries are Seif Sharif Hamad of CUF (who is also the first vice president of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar (CCM), Abdulrahman Kinana to CCM and Doctor Wilison A. Slaa of CHADEMA.

Those secretaries will be given the certificate of being called me any time from today.

The chairperson of the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC), Zitto Kabwe, said in Dar es Salaam city on Tuesday this week that secretaries from those parties will be called to explain to his committee through special documents like the one that is given by the court.

"In general, nine parties have been paid an amount of 677 billion shillings for a period of four years ago and according to the law, they were required to be elected by the auditor general of the government and their report to be taken to the government newspaper (government).

"Mo Blog has done so since the year 2009 to 2010, these are money for citizens and they are required to know that they are used to fulfill this process of law is difficult or not knowing what these are things that we want to make sure," said Zitto Kabwe.

The law of political parties number five of the year 1992, that has been operated on how many issues are required to be in reports of the accounts of those parties.

Article 14 (1) (i) has said political parties loved for assistance required by the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) and (not), "a report of every year about all the property being done by the concerned party."

Article 18 of that law gives a lot of benefits that are acceptable in the parliamentary activities, community activities, and other activities with the logic of political parties.

That law of political parties is also urged the political parties to give information about other income outside the government service which usually get them.

According to the PAC chairperson, those political parties will also be able to give reports that involve their income outside a grant.

Inside the PAC sitting with the directors from the office of the registrar of political parties and CAG that took place yesterday, was confirmed that those political parties that have presented their reports.

Registrar of political parties, Judge Francis Mutungi, who has got that position recently, said that his office has not been defended any reports that made from those parties since the year 2009.

According to that party law, those parties are supposed to present their report at the office of the registrar who he will deal with the government's newspaper.

When he was asked by Good Citizen about the action that will be taken by his office after it was revealed that there is lack of law, Judge Mutungi wanted the author to meet him in his office for the purpose of getting more information.

On the side of the office of CAG, it was sent to the representative at the session of yesterday, Raia Mwema, explained that that office was unable to conduct inspections in the parties because of the lack of the budget to do that job.

However, the delegates of the CCM committee said that it was not a primary issue because according to the law, the office of CAG, is being allowed to do that inspection by using the concerned parties.

According to information that was given by that committee, CCM is leading in receiving a lot of money whereby for the four years, he has received an amount of 949 billion shillings while CUF was receiving a total of 63 billion shillings while CUF was receiving 3 billion shillings for that period.

Other parties loved for assistance from the government and the concerned amount in brackets as the NCCR-Revolution (5 million shillings) party (217 million), Mhami (11 million), Mhami (11 million), (23 million shillings).
