

And the clarification of the journalist, Dar es Salaam.
Tanzania is a country which is blessed with good areas which is a friend for doing every kind of investment, by ensuring that different stakeholders especially the development of development have been on the front line to use that opportunity for making it be part of a good development and a clean environment of living.
But all that have been not easy for patriotic investors to get a chance to do development compared to the positions, the students are given so much and be opened up for the purpose of investing in our land.
The existence of that bureaucracy, that is the biggest investors to fail to fulfill their plans despite having great benefits to the nation, because it has been normal to see these investors unable to be given priority in their country themselves compared to the visitors that have been easy.
Johnson Lukaza Blog is one of the local investors who have faced with the challenge of failing to be supported by the government despite having a good strategy which aims at providing various opportunities to our agents.
Maurus through the Maurus and Bongo Ondimba, which he is his director, has already been a strategy to start a big project that will have all important services, who believes that if you will make sure there will make the level of the city of Dar es Salaam that it will have a modern economy.
Maurus says, so as to confirm that Erdogan has a strong desire to bring development in the country, has built the area for that project that is located in Kisenga, Mbagala, Dar es Salaam city.
"The aim is to make Temeke Municipality to have the level of finding themselves so that this project will involve the presence of great and modern bus station outside the country, there will also be part of the big and modern bus station" Shopping 'a situation that will reduce the huge congestion of people to go to the city, "says Maurus.
He says the completion of that project will reduce the problem of many development residents, so they are forced to go to a vehicle at the bus bus stations in Ubungo and instead it will be easy for them to get those transport services at the center which will be built within that project.
In doing that decision, he had presented his plan in Temeke Municipality.
"The municipality is the one with the authority to run that project so that I received my project to see that it would be able to achieve this program and to see that it is good and request it to have a good strategy of improving the project with profit.
"But the efforts of the municipality go together with me in order to achieve this project caused by lack of money, instead they put me a letter on March 25, last year, he wanted me to look for partnership with other people because they are faced with a lot of debts," said Maurus.
That letter was saying that, after the discussion session in the session that took place on January 16th this year, we agreed with the council members to not mention the government's benefits to identify the benefits of the economic and community development.
