15th of November.

Fans of Simba, Yanga to play on Sunday.
And our correspondent.
Simba and Yanga fans in towns.
Tunduma and Morogoro provinces, they are expecting to get the opportunity to enjoy yourself in games.
Different through the special bonanza of Nani Mtani Jembe, which was organized.
Kilimanjaro Premium Larger to be held at the National Stadium in Tunduma.
The airport in Morogoro town the day after tomorrow.

The coordinator of that event, Lawrence Andrew said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that different games including soccer.
Seven players from every side, let's stand up and also a famous table as popularly known as FGM?

"Different entertainment also will go for.
Which will be held in Tunduma, including music from the high school band.
Different music artists of the new generation of Mbeya province.

He said in Morogoro Province a band of Beauts.
Sound Band will give entertainment to fans who will fight to participate in the bonanza, while artists.
Dance group GT broke out on stage.
The coordinator said.
There will be a different games of sending him.
Watch the hen on earth, in the end of the past, and a person getting a penalty.
It has been seen as the near future.
He said that she started.
That is expected to start at 3 o'clock in the morning are a continuation of the campaign of Nani.
Jembe which was launched in October 2nd, this year and is happening in the country.
They involved fans of Simba and Yanga teams.
Andrew said.
That campaign, Kilimanjaro Premium Lager is sponsored by Simba and Yanga.
100 million shillings and then distributed to those teams, whereby every one has shillings.
50 million that are being competed for by their fans.
And the Manager of Breweries.
Kilimanjaro, George Kavishe said Simba fans and Yanga are required.
Participate by participating in that campaign, so as to make sure that the team is.
One is getting a lot of money more than another team.
.
According to Kavishe, the outcome of the financial ratio about the injured from Simba.
Yanga will be announced every day until the end of the competition on December.
14, this year.
