
It is not true they surrendered everything to her husband.
Recently, my friend had a fundraising for making the money to pay for his wedding plans.
Therefore, it was our responsibility as our friends to come out and contribute to them, therefore, due to many work activities, some of us would be forced to do that through the service of sending money through mobile phone.
When I was surprised when I send the money to use the number of the girl and instead of looking at his name, the name of her husband was the one that was defeated.
When I had asked to confirm if the money he did not want to confirm that he has failed to register themselves in that service through the name of her husband because she doesn't have any way.
"The husband is supposed to know the money I received even through the short message because I do not do so, I don't have faith in marriage, he said.
Tickets should not be financial secret because they don't know if you get married, I know many love, Mister and feelings like this, the truth is that what is not in the world has a dream.
Dream.
Culture is all those who give men documents to show the payments they received and even give them their income because their culture can insisted that the husband is supposed to supervise their money at home.
This is despite them not knowing the salary of their husbands, these are same as the women who are living in home and receiving their husbands.
They have not been married that their responsibility is not to bring back but to stop themselves but to ease a husband's life.
These are as a result of her daughters in a certain place where they receive the house then you should not forget.
Whoever doesn't get involved with things that will improve their lives due to fear that they will affect their marriages.
For example, they have closed down the old friends that maybe was with them in school or in the university despite these are people who can inform us about different opportunities of improving life.
There are those who are not allowed to join with their fellow women in the parties because that is where women and bad training.
There are some of the women who know that they were done so that they can be done so much.
It does not mean that you have already been married then you like someone who's not there again. You are a wife to a person but your identity is pregnant in where he is.
Yams flourish at Shabiby bus.
