03 December 2013.

Zitto Kabwe getting his tour of Slaa.

CHADEMA is taking place with a game.

The fear of violence erupted in drugs.

By Zainul Mzige, Kigoma.

The Party of Democracy and.
Development (CHADEMA), Kigoma province, has made a visit to the secretary general of the party.
The national team, Doctor Wilison A. Slaa, which was scheduled to take place in the province.
December 5 to 13 this year, due to fear of security among the members.
He is not found.

Chairperson's chairperson.
The party leader in that province, Jafari Kasibu, said this yesterday.
Speaking to the press and said that, security in some.
Counties in that province is very little.

He said.
As a result of that situation, they have found a better tour to be taken to the first.
The violence that was organized by members against Doctor Slaa as he will be presented in the province.
The day before yesterday.

"The decision was a decision.
Stopping this tour, has been launched at the leadership council session in the province.
That took place on first December, this year and involved leaders of the regions.
Others are not found.

He said.
This is Kigoma Town, North and South Africa which together they explained the existence.
Conspiracy for sabotaging this tour so as to prevent Doctor Slaa, "he said.

He was mentioned.
Constituencies that were sentenced to politics due to the decision of the executive committee.
CHADEMA has taken positions for leadership who was the deputy secretary general of the party.
Mainland, Mister Zitto Kabwe being in Kigoma Town, North and South Africa.
The regions of Buhigwe are located, Kasulu, Zimbabwe and Buchosa districts.
Being a solution.

Speaking about the stand of the party.
In that province about the decision of the executive committee of leadership, Mister Kabwe on claims.
He wanted to pray for the party, he said that sitting was legal.

"All measures will be taken to the leadership Mister.
Kabwe and his colleagues Doctor Kitila Mkumbo and Mister Samson Namalla, were followed now if he think he is oppressed, has a right to appeal.
The Premier League.

"The tour of Doctor Slaa is in Kigoma town.
It does not have a relationship with the decision of the executive committee since he was scheduled for a long time.
To end, due to the sessions of the executive committee, the aim of this visit is the purpose of this tour.
Forthcoming general elections, "he said.

He urged some members.
Those who drive out of violence and sabotaging the party infrastructure to stop.
Therefore, because it is against the instructions of the party because he is where he is with violence.
Justice.

Some of the members of that party.
From the provinces that were mentioned to have violence, they met in Kigoma town in one.
The meeting hall to oppose the arrival of Doctor Slaa, December 5th this year.
Reading the statement of those members.
Ndela said they had refused that tour because CHADEMA has been.
They saw some of the leaders especially from the Western provinces and they are there.
Doing violence in order to prevent the leader.

He said they did not agree with the decision.
That were given by the executive committee against Mister Kabwe which has not submitted the rights.
According to the constitution.

He added that for a long time.
That has had a conflict that came from fear of power in the position.
The chairperson of the party that is alleged to have signed by Mister Kabwe being assisted by a friend.
His campaign in order to ensure that he is owning the seat.

Recently,
Some of the youths from Mwandoya Village, Kigoma North constituency.
The protests of the motorcycle that they don't sell the road safety, put cards, flag.
Dissolving the poster for the primary school in that village.
