What is the wealth of our country's wealth?
August 10, 2013.

Who has the gold farm that has been found in Tanzania right now because she has all the forest harvesters that is found recently in the Coastal Region, Lindi and Mtwara?
It is unacceptable, even if we are given an opportunity to lead 45 million our colleagues, we have told the citizens that "human resources are public property," it is true that the country's resources are public property, oil and natural gas.
The current constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania did not state anything about the 'wealth of the nation, except that in section nine (1) and (i) and article 27 (1), the issue of resources for the country has been given constitutional changes.
Article 9 (C) says the government activities should be implemented through ways that will ensure the wealth of all citizens in general and also to prevent someone to prevent someone else on article 9 (i) says the use of the wealth of the nation will be touched on the efforts of addressing poverty, ignorance, and diseases.
Article 27 it involves the responsibility of citizens to protect resources of the United Republic of the United Republic, article 9, there is no reason for the constitution to build socialism and there is no wealth of the constitution, "the wealth of the nation, this issue was released by parliament according to the law that was done by parliament.
Who produces minerals in the country?
The mining law of the year 2010 has said that minerals are public property, even so, it has put conditions of moving this ownership for people and the private companies in a license.
Gold is the public property at the time of looking for him and eventually the mining has not been released to a private person and the license has been suspended from the license and there's the nation remains only.
In reality, this system gives resources for the country to be owned by private individuals to be a citizen of Tanzania or not to look for this example.
A company known as Bodaboda, from Canada is coming from Dar es Salaam at the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and asked the license of looking for gold kilometers from Kahama Town, the ministry gives a license of looking for hundreds of 150 kilometers per day and start collecting money by using gold prices in Australia.
If you have received money starting from looking for and after getting the gold prices they announce with the price of the shares, this company aims to sell gold anywhere in the world or get more experience or more capital.
The action of the fight to sell its shares in Australia has already been owned by the citizens of that country or a citizen of any other country in the world with being able to buy shares in the market where the shares of the bus will be sold.
This is how you are done to do people who do not have the clothes to change, they get the licenses they are going to them, to get money in capital markets and be big rich by using Tanzanian resources and protect themselves from.
Therefore, it is the Bulyanhulu mine, Sinyati Enterprises Company which was given a license, it went to the market a business of that license, to invest more than 348 million dollars in accordance with the new law of minerals of the year 2010 that was paid by garnering 13,276 votes in accordance with the new law of minerals of the year 2010.
On the side of natural gas and oil resources, the situation is different from the public domain name and it is supervised by the Public Procurement Agency Limited from Australia when it continues to come here in the country and allowed to look for oil or gas and then build water.
