Entrepreneurs open about politics.
.
Suleiman Abeid, Shinyanga.

Members of groups.
The small entrepreneurs in the Kitete ward in Shinyanga municipality have been urged to avoid bringing politics in groups otherwise.
.

That warning was issued yesterday by the councilor of special seats (CCM).
Shinyanga municipality, Mariamu Nyanguda, when he was speaking to leaders of the citizens of the entrepreneurs who met.
The purpose of starting the association of cooperatives and loans (Saccos).

Nyanguga said the leaders of groups of entrepreneurs.
And their members in general are required to ensure they are running.
Their own without bringing or put the ideology of political parties in groups.
Something that can cause violence among them.

He said there are some of the politicians that use entrepreneurs.
Small goals to achieve their goals that they want to give them while others exploded.
The followers of their party not to cooperate with people who are not followers of their parties.
Politics even if their activities are operated by cooperation together.

My brothers, a strategy that I want to want to start it?
Good strategy will help them to run your activities with great success.
When you agree with your health you will help them to get capital.
Your business through the loans that we shall reach, with affordable terms.
That is given by our many banks in the country, "he said.

"I request that you're close to politics in groups.
When he went to his skill of being among our colleague has gotten her open.
A long period, make sure you run your activities without stopping.
Political and they feel that all those who will show the signs of getting politics in the country.
Groups, "said Nyanguda.

On his side, the district officer from Shinyanga municipality.
Athumani, said the government for a long period has been urging the importance of citizens.
To learn from their political parties and loans (Saccos) because it is.
Easy to be assisted by various financial institutions, "he said through Saccos.
Many people have succeeded in their businesses and some have been able to build houses.
The residential houses while others agree of their children without problems. "He said.
Primary is the responsibility of the leaders of Saccos that are being started in order to make sure.
They will have no members with integrity and those who consider the rules of operation.
The cooperatives.

In another step, those leaders of groups of entrepreneurs.
Small traders have made a short leadership that will supervise the procedures of launching it.
The Cooperatives and loans.

He said that it will be made with all groups that are in the ward.
Kitanzini ward to ensure that Saccos has been signed up so that it can start work.
One time.

Religious leaders are chosen.
Joseph (chairman), Richard Maige (assistant chairman), Patrick.
(Secretary), Masunga Elias (the assistant secretary), Professor Timothy Kakingo, he was elected.
Being treasurer is not a problem.
