
Nape Ningefanyaje being closed down, "can't sit down here.
One day after the opposition parties that make up the Citizens Constitution Constitution (Ukawa) announced to stop the presidential candidate in the presidential position and parliamentary seats, CCM has condemned the action, said that those leaders can't sit down.

While speaking yesterday, the secretary of the national executive council of CCM, ideology and propagation of CCM, Nape Nnauye said the leaders of Ukawa are suppressing the power of power so that can't join with that.

Nnauye said that leaders of the opposition parties joined with the aim of looking for good constitution, but they've changed the agenda and now they are addressing the presidency in the year 2015.

"These whom they are not true, their goals are not a constitution, but it is to look for power, the union of looking for power cannot succeed because all the leaders of Ukawa are love to power," said Nnauye.

He said citizens will witness the union being marred by Ukawa because leaders of Ukawa can't jump and bid farewell.

"To join it is a good thing, but the reason to join to be mentioned is to suspend the presidential candidate of the year 2015, will fall before the same time," he said.

He said that Ukawa have cut off the citizens that they stand for the best constitution and yet the main agenda is to lead the country.

This newspaper reported that Ukawa would also want to stop one parliamentary candidate in every region of elections.

In that report, the speaker of parliament who is also the leader of the opposition camp in parliament, Freeman Mbowe, the chairperson of CUF, Professor Ibrahim Lipumba and the chairperson of NCCR Revolutions, James Mbatia announced that plan.

The reports of existence of plan, those pictures have been a few days since the closing of another plan of the whole cabinet that will involve members of opposition parties in the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania in a budget that begins on May 6th, this year.
