
The chairmanship will be decided to announce changes in the police force.

The head of the police force in the country, IGP Said Mongomongo has made changes.
The police commander of Kagera province together with some of the heads of investigation.
The provinces and heads of police of the district in some of the provinces.
In the country.

In those changes, the former police commander.
The province of Kagera, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Philipo Kalangi.
Has been moved to the headquarters of the police in Dar es Salaam, as the head of the squad.
The improvement of environmental security and its position is taken for.
The senior assistant commissioner of police (TC), George Lwandamina.
He was the head of the squad of managing the environment at the headquarters of the police.
Dar es Salaam City.
Moreover, some of the heads of investigation of provinces (RCO) and the district police officers (OCD) there will be changed together.

The former head of criminal offenses in Tabora province.
Edward Lowassa has been moved to the headquarters of investigation in Dar es Salaam city.
The mayor of Geita province (RCO), ACP Francis Kibiga.
Njombe Province to be the head of investigation in the province and his position.
By SSP Simon Sirro from the headquarters of investigation in Dar es Salaam City.

Others are there.
He is the former district police commander (OCD) Wanging'ombe).
Francis Maro has been moved to the province of Katavi to be the police commissioner of the province.
With the former police commissioner of Katavi Region, ACP Emmanuel Nthepheya.
He has been moved to the police force in Dar es Salaam city.
The Rukwa, SSP, Peter Ngemera has been moved to the headquarters of investigation.
Dar es Salaam, his position is taken by SSP Alan Pardew, who was taken place by SSP Alan Pardew.
The head of investigation in Njombe Province.

Former police commander.
The middle (OCD) assistant superintendent of police (SP), Salum Ndeki.
The investigation head of Tabora province and the former police commissioner of Tabora province.
The Tunduru district (OCD) SP), Msalika as he was going to be the provincial commissioner.
The traffic squad.

That transfer is normal in improving the performance in accordance with the regulations, procedures and guidelines of the police force.

It has been released by Zanzibar.
Advera Senso, WHUSM.
The spokesman of the police force.
