After the other.
And that to succeed is not true that you cannot sit down here, I was at up until now it has met with any restrictions.
Yes, you can succeed and be patient and one with faith.
Now, by using our habit, they see a person who doesn't succeed as the ethics of Manchester Simba was the one that they had come from.
If they were being comforted, they have been forced to be patient and big patient now, if we want to start a team today the day after tomorrow you can be a specialist, but I would like to do my young people.
Those with one thing that's called?
To respect the teachers to have the love and teachers who are the ones who came to come out in a few percent program like five-three, all the player will do something that will make sure that you will have a good thing.
Rest.
And the one with love?
And those stakeholders who are collecting people to know do not fulfill the ball knows the football and the teachers, who are seeing each other that you should be able to bring development to the community.
Separate himself and I would like to see you.
Nusra on reasons for Yanga.
It is also been caused by the same platform but what I believe I have done inside a field who made him for teachers and encourage him to recognize him that what will do that took your eyes too without fear.
Today I would like you talk time to thank you more than three people recently, making this not be careful.
And the thoughts of all the woman I will do the analysis and inform them more so that we can be able to partner together we do not have a good thing in the commission of the nation.
It doesn't jump and Sunday Manara, a woman we have to sell women in the competitions are people who know her to love her.
Because they have been patient in their teams and the national team and a player if you want to be good.
They must have the international ones.
That the quality of knowing you want to listen to it before it is making sure there should be the announcement of a national team.
You want to be early even when you want to go.
They have decided to tell you that if a player is only international because we see my brother and consulting a lot for a long time and to continue contributing to the topic on this period of going back, I thank you so much for the teachers for your contribution to me.
We give an explanation to Shinyanga and he was forced to play for our team, which one do not register myself with the late God rest his soul in peace among the reasons, it was very good.
Let's go I think that, wanting us to leave everything because I see my brothers are ready to contribute to this topic, but I would like to advise you or contribute to the topic on how the fans of the national team.
In an evaluation when I look at each other, it is not allowed me.
Your good thing and goals are good.
Except it is that when you see we are losing the international status.
Because of it?
It is difficult for us to invest and sleep or three primary schools is time for players who are playing for what we agree.
We have been able to meet when I got into inth follower, but investing in two weeks, the presence of five invited guests will follow up so that I take it possible after that.
Your father is done to the researchers and there is Ambassador Seif, it is this problem when I was lost.
Earlier on the month when we told Mkulabi and even what is happening at the camp now, we cannot have electricity that workshop because it is not people that they do for a long time.
We should start under it and it started a period to take a period of time, it was not sold for two weeks time, one month, or another meaning your impatience will be like.
Speaking with her religion when the Bible has written you, then after that, there was no doubt that there was a place where we came into the end of the nation because it is complete and therefore, there is a fee so that there is a fee so that we can be avoided if they feel.
Leaders and stakeholders of the game to change.
When ovulation does not provide a short time, it has been affected by the internal ministry and the UDP party.
A long period of managers.
If the sun makes a sign of a long time and the money is currently at the international when they were shocked even even.
