
A big club has done it in groups!
16 best clubs are believed to be thrown in the small fight of the Europa League.
In the big percentage, there are some of the teams that might go back early due to the teams present at those groups.
But others, including Arsenal are among them being happy and put by putting up together with the team to oppose the FGM.
Their coach, Arsene Wenger is seen to play this draw after getting a group photo by the Monaco's team and those matches will be played at home and away matches that they fail to fall down.
But that coach did not remember that Suarez was defeated the championship of the premier league in France previously, despite that his performance was beaten in the final matches for the last 16.
Benitez also scored five goals in six matches that it has played.
Chelsea got a wall in a hard group, but according to their coach Jose Mourinho, he wanted so much to meet with the team they were given.
In that group, Chelsea will meet the PSG of France that is sharpened with Coach Laurent Blu and will have every child to prepare well for the match between them.
When they will meet, fans will remember the appeal of last season, the European Champions League entered into the group stages whereby Chelsea won in the repeat match in their Old Trafford stadium where Chelsea won in the repeat match in their Old Trafford field where Chelsea won in the repeat match.
That coach has claimed that for now his squad has improved after getting a striker, Diego Costa who will be followed by David Luiz, who was scored by Chelsea.
And the Blacks group on her side has thrown and warned Mourinho that he has a strong squad more than the last season.
Another match that will be big between Barcelona and champions of the England Premier League, Manchester City.
Here, as the reason it will be an act of last season in this step.
The opposition in a match that were played in Etihad's match is expected to have their opponents.
Finally, Barcelona emerged victorious with a total of 4-1 goals after two seasons.
But fans have started saying that Barcelona is not very big as it was previously.
In their match, Manchester United has organized well on the protection of security since the striker of Lionel Messi will disturb them immediately.
Defending champions, Real Madrid under Coach, Carlo Ancelotti, have found themselves together with Robin van Persie, this being the fifth time to meet since last season where Madrid have been on Cemetery.
Here, fans should expect another big victory after those champions won their five matches of groups.
This is a team that was completed in all parts of the past up to front.
It's Real Madrid they are given great opportunity to do when you get married that you are not against Roberto Di Matteo and now is under Roberto Di Matteo.
The match between Bayern Munich and Shakillah Donetsk Airport will be hard.
The Ukraine champions bought international soccer in the coming matches and maybe the surprising truth.
This team played some of the matches at home for a distance of 1000 shillings from violence.
But Madrid record for now is to be proud of especially those who lost their own-1 win against Roma and Italy.
Other war will be between Borussia Dortmund and Juventus.
Without doubt, it will be a very attractive match, despite Dortmund for now, he does not make it well in the Germany Premier League.
Juventus has been champions of Italy three times in a period of the current squad, it is good and maybe it's difficult for Dortmund to score a goal.
If their attackers will be in good state, Jurgen Klopp will get in trouble.
In another group, Atletico Madrid will meet with him in one match that is expected to be difficult.
Coach, Diego Simeone has opened up by enabling Madrid to win the Spain championship last season, apart from getting the European Champions League.
But under Coach, Zdravko Logarusic will play soccer known as Real Madrid and the address while according to how their opponents play every one has the ability to move forward.
The match between FC City and Basel will join those teams and the players who are born with great talents, although most of them have started moving to National Stadium while they won to Basel.
That league started with a landslide victory and a big percentage that was organized by many soccer fans.
Before the start of that league, different clubs made a huge registration to strengthen their squads.
In that registration, there are players who were mentioned to be important in the field due to their different responsibilities.
Among those players are Diego Costa, from Atletico Madrid joining Chelsea since he joined the Stamford Bridge club, coach Jose Mourinho has been involved in the squad.
Costa has joined Chelsea after the coach claimed that he does not have a striker from playing for Diego Costa on the left to Koke who is currently underway on the crime of attacks.
Elsewhere, coach of Arsenal, Arsene Wenger used a lot of money to sign him as soon after Theo Walcott, to get injuries.
Striker from Italy, AS Roma has defeated the striker, Juan Jesus Gonzalez, who the news agencies in that country have called "Lionel Messi." The citizen of Argentina landed in Verizon and now it is an important player from his quality of playing soccer.
Manchester United which did not participate in these matches are made a signing up in the last minute by beating Radamel Falcao from Arsenal.
Meanwhile, Man United under Coach Louis Van Gaal has been arrested, Angel Di Maria Falcao was expected to lead the striker but he was accompanied by injuries.
Champions of the European Champions League got 40 percent in all the registration that had been found.
