
A series of Directors of Korogwe, 15.

The government officials have started praying to the ball about the scandal of the director of Korogwe district, Anna Mwaura should continue with work.
Is being faced with a case of misuse of power in the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court in Kilimanjaro Province.

That Director is faced with a case at Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court on suspicion of misuse of power and bribery when he was the Director of Moshi Rural Council before being transferred to the district.
Complaints against him were unblocked for the first time by the council of small town of Mombo where they are complaining about being an obstacle to it in the city and that the council is against the promises of President Jakaya Kikwete during the general elections of the year 2010.
Together with other things, in their resolutions, in the session of the council that took place in July this year, the council announced that according to the law of public service that the director had been suspended from work but instead the government has gone to Korogwe.
"A lot of time he has been involved in his case at the court so that if they get time to work to serve the citizens and through a procedure they should know is that he is supposed to be given his work until when he completed his case in court," says the chairperson of that Council Richard Rwizile.
According to the regulations of public service, a servant who has a case, especially the embezzlement he is required to have been sacked until when his issue will be decided by the law but it was surprised by the step by the director to continue with work as usual, "he said.
That director is associated with the workers of his council for a lot of time he has been outside his work station as a result of being involved in the case facing the case facing so as to stop the many activities of work.
"Time for time, its position has been implemented by other servants that can't make any decisions with productivity and that situation has caused some of the primary issues inside the council to be unable to take place for a long time," says our source from within the council.
Moreover, more information say that during the period of June and July, the director was not at his work station for more than 30 days, something that is against the law of public service and there was no primary reasons for lack of him at work.
"Also other workers are questioning the why that director continue with work while facing a case when other servants without caring about their positions are facing a case they are accused of waiting for the fate of their cases to make peace," added that servant.
"We are unable to understand why the government does not have laws that are among them, other servants have been suspended and others are continuing with work while all of them are faced with heavy accusations," said the servant.
While speaking about that scandal, the administrative secretary of Tanga Benedict Liwenga, Mponjoli Mwabulambo has praised our citizens on phone that the issue is not present under his office because the employment of that director is coming from a high court.
"We ask you who are involved, RAS I am not involved with the employment of directors who have not been employed by another authority," said at a short time.
On his part, the Minister of Local Government (TAMISEMI) Hawa Bayumi said that it has not seen the issue of that director to continue with work because they have never been arraigned in his office.
"By true I have no information, there is no issue like that in my office for me, I've heard of you but I followed up to me," said the Prime Minister.
Speaking about the accusations that were directed to him, the director Engineer Anna Mwaura said that the issue of him continues to work together and that is being faced with the case is under the employer who is the government.

He said that service laws are open and have been touched on that, the employer can be able to suspend the servant when they see any part, they can't accept to be careful.
He said that they have been separated by the 38th regulations of public service delivery, thus I believe the intentions and intention of the government in this matter is good because the case in court did not affect in any way my work performance, "he said.
The director mentioned some of the people that he claimed was to be his fellow servants who are in the process of preventing and forcing him to buy a false accusations against him.
All of that I want me to tell you that it is a whole issue. I have never been unable to implement my responsibilities as claimed, but there are people who are doing an effort to thank you and I don't understand their goals, "he said.
He clarified that he has never tried or eliminate any way the plan to increase the status of the small town council of Mombo and the complaints made by those leaders of the city council were discussed at the council meetings which some of them are members.
