
The only clean left is the one that will attract fans.
It will be subdivided to soccer they will continue languishing in the field if the players will be unable to show a good game that will not depend on.
The Coastal soccer fans are well known by love their good game and even he usually ready to cheer up the away team that plays professional soccer more than home teams.
The former police officer of Lamu Island, Mohamed Shela Ali says if the Coast team will play a good game, viewers will return to field but if they will play recently, there is no way to return to many fans to witness the match.
"I remember how our players of during the past years were playing soccer to entertain the audience.
The tenth commandment says it's proud to see the state of soccer in the Coastal Region has dropped from a very high level and he believes that it is so many things is to be taught early as possible, football will rise up in the province.
Shela Ali who was the former deputy chairperson of Chakwama, FC said that modern boys are supposed to change their cargo and decided to play soccer since most of them were not involved in the training but not to participate in the training instead of being involved in playing.
He knows it so much the youths who are marrying them by being involved with bad luck, including vegetables, search and love to look at the English Premier League match on the video instead of doing exercises with their performance.
"The year-fielder who failed to fail is like those of our colleagues when they arrived at the training early and decided to take soccer game to be important," said Shela Ali who has also been an advisor at the Junction club's Club in Pemba Island.
That veteran will not be born on November 13, 1957, he requested the Coast soccer heads to ensure they sell players from goalkeepers, security guards and attackers every season ends.
The Jaguar type is believed to have the old players to be taught in choosing best players every time at the end of the season and the coalition government in the Coastal Union have risen up to all over the country, to show the courage and their quality.
"I don't know if the soccer managers will get a loss of involving and pay a little money from the old people, especially those who play against Taifa Stars to attend every match and recommend best players at the end of the year Coast Province," he said.
Shela Ali gives the rich people to come out to sponsor different teams that are doing well as the host of the nation as it was in the past so that the state of the game gets improving.
"Without private individuals to come out and strengthen our team, there are no development that can be available," he said.
Shela Ali who is a big fan of Liverpool club of England says he desires to go back to the pitch to witness the match "I believe I have never arrived at the field because there are no soccer clubs to be played these days," he said.
"I have great joy to see these days there are no Coastal players in the national team of Harambee Stars, but I don't know, as our youth they will work hard in their exercises and they play with the heart of victory, Coast will go back to perform well," he said.
He believes youths doing well, they will know the standards of the Coastal Union who were tested including women Mahmoud Abbas, Mohammed Maganjila, the Nassar Omar Mjenga, Ali Dhanji, and Mahmoud Ibrahim.
