
The votes do not have tax relations.
By Catherine MEMKWA.
The governors who broke the president Uhuru Kenyatta to make sure that tax standards will continue to support the votes of Tigo's decisions in the neighborhood.
Chairman of the governors of the governors of the Central Bank, Mister William Ruto, saw the explanation of President Kenyatta saying that it is false and urged Kenyans not to keep in mind.
"It is not true that tax exemptions have never been taxed?
When we want is to be given our responsibility so that we can be able to implement our responsibilities like the governors who are required, "said Mister Ruto (pictured).
He was speaking at Simanjaro District Hospital, the parliamentary seat of Beliebers, he says that he came to an accident when he participated in the fundraising.
Last week, President Kenyatta announced that in his office that the Diamond's government did not have more money of moving to the local government, he said he was surprised by what the banks want to get more, though they are not aware they were given last year.
"We do not have a lot of money they have given that he knows that if someone knows the tree that will go to get money to find the governors who are there.
We get all money from taxes and we do not want to increase taxes so that the demonstrators to get more money, "President Kenyatta said.
Mister Ruto, said Kenyans want to see many development projects being started under it.
He added that this will be possible if the governors who will be transferred more in the country and urged Kenyans to support the decision of Tigo Pesa accounts.
He said the rebels have refused the intention of President Kenyatta to leave the campaign of that votes when he met them at Nairobi city last week because he didn't give alternative ways of giving the government a lot of money.
We will continue with the referendum polls and we will not accept any person to make sure we have a situation where some of the governors who have been sacked so that they should not turn back, "he said.
The correct collection of support the votes will start at a time when he from the destruction of destruction, that was brought together with Kakingo in Saturday, that will be launched by the governors of the estates of that he said.
The Indiana governor, Paul Chesensi Gmwaijonga said that governors who have been married recently in a hole and got no media houses, though they were expected to take their husbands.
He said the banks want more money in order to implement their constitutional responsibilities.
Professor Chisholm, was surprised by what the main government came to get the distribution of the money that it made up to Belgium this year by using the government's revenue for the year 2009 / 2010 to rise up to 2800 billion shillings.
He urged the residents to support M-Pesa votes, he will continue supporting him and that of "save Kenya" of the United Nations.
