
EPOC is starting.
By Bashir Yakub.
Commission of ethics and corruption (EPOC) has started investigations about the scandal of over the appointment of over special representatives in the parliamentary seat, he said Lamu Island.
In the unique interview with the nation today, the acting director of Eucharist in the Coastal Region, Mister Hassan Khalid said that the investigation involves the cause of the free election commission and borders with the IEBC) to be appointed to ten special representatives in the opposition, he said that ten representatives who were chosen.
He said that the parliamentary parliament from Lollipop, it deserves to have special representatives under four years.
According to the new member of the special representatives, he said that he should not hesitate to be more than the number of those who were selected but he said that Lollipop, there are the same number that were chosen and who were chosen to know if it has the legal ability to know if it has the legal ability to identify that scandal.
"The host explained their lives in our meeting in Lamu Island and Deputy Chairperson of us (Irene Uwoya) and asked the doctors to be implemented immediately but first we are supposed to get legal advice on this issue before starting the investigation," he explained.
The ACT party, with two representatives who were chosen as Hasheem Mkenyi and Miss Zahara Muhidini Mohamed.
However, the political parties, United Democratic Forum, Democratic Republic of Kenya with one representatives who were chosen to have two special representatives every one.
Those special representatives are together with Mister Johannesburg, that, Karoli (Safina), Mrs Edith Mushi (RTO).
Maximilian Arnold at the scene, the one of Muthir was going on special party members that made many few days, "Masau boasted.
Family's camera, he appointed Mister Amishadai Owusu-Square, while New Democrat Party (TTCL) with one representative being appointed Miss Khadija Hamid Salute 5.
The deputy chairperson of the national party of UDP party, Mister Routh who led the investigation of EPOC in the whole activity of appointment of special representatives in that parliamentary seat, he from Lamu Island.
"We made noise from the IEBC but our request was accepted and they continued to distribute positions to special representatives of a friendly party, but that she deserves more than the few parties but the disabled should not hesitate to do," said Mister.
