
Ilala has given seven days in the floor.

The Municipal Council of Ilala has given a seven-day seminar.
The National Housing Corporation (NHC) together with the owner of the building building.
16 that are located in Maziku of Jichunge.'
Follow up inside that period.

The floor is that there is a business person.
Popularly known in Ally Rwasa has gone down after falling on the old building.
That type of March 29 this year and caused the deaths of 3689 people.
Injured 18 and destruction of property.

Speaking to the press in the city yesterday.
Mayor of Ilala Municipality, Jerry Silaa said that the notice has started.
May 27 to June 3 this year.

"We have already joined NHC and Ally Rémy at the owner.
The second floor of the seven days notice of wanting him to demolish that building.
Inside seven days and it does not complete more action against them.
It will be taken, "said Silaa.

"According to the law of urban planning.
The legal of that plot is the NHC, and they are the ones that didn't succeed in that area.
In order to build the floor, "he said.

According to Silaa, due to the map.
That was given by the urban planning, the Kisitu area are required to be built.
On the second floor and not otherwise, the surprising thing, engineer from the board.
The facilitator of engineers and contractors have been able to supervise the construction.
The knockout stage against the procedures.

He said that the action of that municipal to enter.
Some of the blame from NHC, engineers are derailing the buildings.
The contractors for implementing the construction of 16 days in that area.
It is allowed to be built on the 10th minute is same as not knowing what is not seen.
Due to that situation, everyone is supposed to be accountable according to the position.
For other days to be able to follow the law and procedures.
While to approve the buildings in the country.

He said, as a result of that situation, they have requested the commission.
That was set up for the purpose of looking for that floor to give information early.
They can discuss and give their recommendations.

That situation is received while the minister of land, housing.
And development officer, Professor Anna Tibaijuka the day before yesterday.
The estimates of the budget of his ministry, urged the Municipal of Ilala, NHC.
The owner of that entrance on the floor.
