
I warned them about the threat of shame to be a shame.
Nairobi.
Experts warned about the efforts of women to have a high standard.
Some of the things that we are doing even in the church fulfill the eyes not to change in life.
And especially the group that makes us fear, professionals are issues of Black Americans who want to be careful, some of these women and others want to buy a lot of oil or others when he confessed to be openly in the period of the president of the 24 years old, that he has changed the color of her skin because his body is his business. "
But what should be identified himself is a big amount of money that he used by the lady she explained that he used my 15 million shillings to get changes in color to her skin, "he said in an interview with our reporter," said in an interview with our reporter, "said in an interview with our reporter.
In addition to using a big amount of money to change the color of her skin, Vy Sendo was seen to be a very expensive life, where he said that the shoes that he got into the show put the cost of 3,500 million dollars and the effects that he had reduced, and using 1200 dollars.
Doctor Stanley Nkomola the expert of 'plastic seats, "says she is not a new issue to women even inside here in the country to use a big amount of money to make the benefit.
He explains that most of the treatment are supposed to be known as' Follow suit ', "which is usually able to fix the heart especially in the near future and to make sure that the sim card is especially for people when they start being inclined.
In an interview with the phone with the nation today, he explained that the cost of those treatment is "Landscrona" and "mystery" are usually starting from 70,000 shillings and a person is expected to return after every three months until six months where it will also increase the same level with that amount of money.
Inside here in Kenya, he explains that the treatment is being done so much especially through Skype and elsewhere, because it is not a lot of treatment that is needed to change color or not because if they were operated on, therefore he cautioned that there are different types of treatments and not to avoid skin rashes.
"The relevant board of medicine is supposed to happen on this issue because it is dangerous to people who have forgotten this issue without knowing that there are other effects not only with skin disorders or even to reduce their body weight.
Some of those effects are together with entering the blood, getting cancer and the type of diseases that can cause death, he added that Doctor Kraehenbuehl says that there are ways that can be used in the hospital where they can use fuel and someone from his body to be shaken.
However, issue of exchange of color, wants to change some of the body such as a fact, it is not a unique issue to Kenya, this is a matter that is being witnessed, especially for artists and property, a matter that is being witnessed, especially for the attempt to bring him effects.
In his interview with the Katete show that is in the internet, it has also worked with Amaso and a lot of self-employed in the United States, narrates on how he did to talk about her body and to resolve the ones that they did to bring.
However, a person who was the owner of Kising'a ward, who made a modem that was able to perform well and increase the size of his son because she was shocked that, for a period of five years he wouldn't want to have severe pain in her body.
There are a lot of kind of the 8am and even the needle conducted in the past and those alleged to be allowed to bring a certain shape as a day in River So'clock in Nairobi, it was allowed to bring a certain shape.
