
20 December 2012

A woman is treated with him.

By Philemon Blu, Morogoro.

Four people have died in Morogoro province in different events including one woman who was caught in a head with his fellow wife to the citizens of failing, they could make it a certificate.
Speaking to the press, the police commander of that province Faustine Ndungulile, named the woman who was killed as Joyce Masinga, (21), a resident of Kawe, Kilombero District.

He said the incident happened the day before yesterday at 4 o'clock at night in the village of Somanga Fungu, where a woman caused the killing is Miss Magreth Ngasa.

He added that, that death was caused by a conflict that happened between them where the late was announcing the accused that she has no anything in the house she is living.

"The words he put up the anger of his fellow wife so that he decided to take a surprise of them, he would beat up with him on the head and causing his death on there," he said.

Commander Sirro said that the suspect was being held in police and he will be presented in court after the investigation is completed.

In another event, the farmer and a resident of Nyandage Village, located in Lakonko District, Morogoro District, Sabha Abdallah (40), died after falling on a tree with a tree.

The incident happened the day before yesterday, at nine o'clock in the evening, where the cause of that death is a big wind that was accompanied by the rains that brought down the tree and caused his death.

Commander Sirro said that in that incident, two people were injured Miss Mariam Ling'ande, (the wife of the late) who had gone into the head and Mwaruka.

In the third event, the resident of the Gairo district, in that province.
Idd Shaban (17) has died after the motorcycle that he was carrying a non-communicable diseases (FS) of the Sokomatola area.
He lost direction and hit a tree and caused his death.

That event took place the day before yesterday, at 12 o'clock in the evening at the Chinise area, where the cause of the accident is a high speed for Remu.

At the same time, a class four student, Wida Mahalangu has died on the spot after falling with a vehicle with a non-communicable diseases (769 9705) of Steering company's property, for CCECC of Dar es Salaam, which makes those roads while running a bicycle.

Commander Siro has said, the incident happened the day before yesterday, at 4 o'clock in the morning at the Saba Saba area, Road Turky (Morogoro) and the cause of the accident is a high speed of a car that was being run by Mister Bromwich, (40).
The resident of Kihonda in Morogoro Municipality that was coming from Turiani to Morogoro.

He said that the late refused due to the car while carrying the body of the deceased being stored in the field of Chidinma along with the driver being held by police.
