David Mgombeni with Konyagi is a word of pneumonia.
Dec 12, 2014.

The name of Konyagi factory is popular than the name of the company that makes that show, Tanzania Electric Supply Company (DPO). After the popularity of that drink in the country, now they have put in the manufacturing of other types of drinks as well as the international market.
The Executive Director of Duva company, David Mgalula, (left), has spoken with the Ambassador Seif (TG) of England recently about the changes ongoing in that company which is the Uhuru of Tanganyika after the Swahili language is the newspaper.
TG, what is the secret of the success of the Konyagi factory?
Secondly, when we talk about cold drinks, a person can talk about the type of living or drinking alcohol, you can't read the Konyagi factory in the Konyagi group, it does not care for drinks as well as usual, it is only 35 percent.

That is the meaning that drinking alcohol get a good flavor, if you want to benefit from this drink, you are required to mix up with cold drinks or faults.
TG, a word that wall has a meaning?
The nurse of Konyagi is a word with the Wahaya tribe of the Wahaya tribe and has a meaning of "Npest and find a drink of the Wahaya tribe of the Tanzanian origin that concern the area of the Lake Victoria area.

TG, as a popular group of business, we thank God to do well in the Tanzanian market?
Secondly, Konyagi has only more than 42 years of this year, it is a long time for products to be in the market and a good thing is that this is a product that has resulted from domestic products.

In that period, Konyagi has been growing every day as the growth has increased in a period of four to five years ago as if you check the level of production today, it is ten times of the level that was being produced in five years ago.

We believe it is to make a unique offer in the market, we have made a drink in the market and we have made a drink which is in the middle of sexually transmitted diseases such as alcohol.
TG, more than Konyagi, there are other drinks that are produced by TDL, is the sales of Konyagi which is equivalent to how many percent of all drinks as you know?
Secondly, Konyagi contributes up to 65 percent of our sales for now, although we have other products in the market where many of them have been able to sell their prices, there was also a high cost known as' Zanzi. "

You can't understand the drink like Amarula or injections that are usually known but this is a drink in the market of most of the ones that are why you will find his sales have been planting a lot.

One of these achievements to view what the market needs and to produce it is that we are doing well even in the sales of outside the country last year alone, we sell more than 850,000 dollars in our country and I think it will enable us to be outside of six or seven drinks for the last year.

TG, are many countries where you will sell more than your more products in Tanzania?
Miss Tanzania, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), South Sudan, Rwanda, Zambia, Zambia and Mozambique, our strategy is to ensure that many of the market are needed to ensure the increase of 10 percent of the growth of our business in our business markets.

TG, do you have any plan to see Konyagi "is being sold at all over the world and not Africa alone?
If you receive, before going to there, we need first to make changes in things that though the current market is not so much, in the international markets, it is being viewed as a lot of issues such as processing (EFD) and winning (5).

Among the issues that we are doing so that we can be able to do on the front of the front line is to provide licenses for companies that are outside Tanzania to make sure what are needed there.
