Membe was surprised by the committee of Lowassa, the opposition camp.
Deodatha Makani, 2013.

If you get a car that came up due to the tension between the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA) and the Civic United Front (CUF) party, about the relationship of the local parties and international cooperation, passed away without any member of parliament who wanted to give a shilling to the prime minister, as it started in several ministries.

That budget broke the feelings of many people from the groups of groups inside the Revolutionary Party (CCM) also known that the involved in those politics have two important sides in the process of the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation, that is the minister of the ministry of foreign affairs, Edward Lowassa.
He was expecting to have a tough stand in passing that budget and others were unable to inform us that it will decide the budget to be easily available, but contrary to his debate, it had not been a tension and that contributed to more advice.

It is clear that it was not easy for Minister Membe, deputy Mahadhi Juma Maalim, secretary general John Haule, the deputy secretary general Ambassador Rajabu Kundya, directors, ambassadors and workers of that ministry because inside and outside the country there are many challenges.
Apart from the challenges that are in that ministry that is very important, the feelings of existence of weight to the budget resulted from the fact that Membe is alleged to have an intention to vie for presidency in the year 2015 while Lowassa was reported to inherit the President Jakaya Kikwete.
However, Lowassa himself did not stand to read the speech by the committee and instead he was read by a member of the committee, the Member of Parliament for Kondoa town, Juma Nonetheless, who however he was not found when he was called to speak during the sections of that budget, a area that was expected to take the sections or to prevent a minister.
As it was last year, the member of parliament of Kilindi, Beatrice Singano (CCM), with his contribution to the budget of the ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation, including direction due to contributing of advice and congratulating them in the appropriate areas.
What was surprised many are the answers of Minister Membe and his deputy president, who in a big way they were seen to have seen themselves in an extent in submitting their answers to the members of parliament and further it is how the minister had started doing political attacks to their opponents for allowing them that he will continue with the year 2015.
Answers of misunderstanding between the government's stand of Tanzania not to apologize to Rwanda, due to President Kikwete's statement, when he gave advice to the East African countries to cooperate with the rebels in the country.
Minister Membe was not happy about openly that the advice that was given by President Kikwete, is correct and that the Nyamisana of the country but not wanting him to apologize.
However, the argument that was seen as he allowed the ministry in relation to the committee to be taken to the officers from the office of the controller and auditor general (CAG), the ministry found himself keenly that he has received and "it was promising to work in collaboration with the office of the controller and auditor general of the government."
The argument that was seen as a threat to the ministry about what was believed that there is a plot in Dubai, an argument that was found dead by the deputy minister by saying that, "the government does not have any motion to Dubai," he said, "the government does not have anything related to the issue that was presented to the allegations.
The other accusations made by Minister Membe is some of the accusations of lack of money for the journey of the president 3 billion shillings, saying that there is no even one hour of those funds.
"This issue was reduced by different agencies and it was revealed that there is no financial theft that happened, but if not violating the regulations and financial procedures were misled," said Membe, explaining that the process of those funds was done when he was the deputy secretary and the secretary general when he returned them.
He said among the 11 servants who were accused, 10 workers have been taken against them and one servant was found guilty of any action, he said among those steps, they were tested from work levels to some of the servants who were accused.
Previously, while presenting his budget, Minister Membe said that the ministry has continued to implement educating and the involvement of cooperatives who live outside the country (CAG) to contribute to the development of the country, he said as it is in another country, the issue of people with the origin of this country living in the villages will be viewed at the context of Immigration and Development, (Miguel and Development).
