
Zitto Kabwe, presidency of 2015.
October 5, 2012

The reports of the youth politician, Zitto Kabwe, who is also a member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency (CHADEMA), is preparing to vie for the presidency of this nation at Majaliwa of the year 2015, first, I was not satisfied with the many other things that we have been seen from in the eyes of our politicians.

However, the last week, that quoted the politician, speaking to the citizens of Kigoma Municipality and its neighborhoods, putting his open position to his voters that he will not vie again for the presidential position, has started to inform us to have the real intention of our youth.

Basically every politician, is supposed to have a love to look for every position on time when he is, was unable to hold the presidential position of the country.
Any politician, that lives a political life and he did not know the love, he becomes a big politician to the country because it is not a special institution for the purpose of learning the presidential work.

What is preparing to pay a problem is the field which he will be in Zitto Kabwe, to fulfill his dreams as a student at the University of Dar es Salaam, and also the leader of the opposition camp in parliament who is also the leader of the opposition camp in parliament?

I told me that, Zitto can be the victims of political politics in the country.
The current authority is very good because it gives him the honor to the community living in peace, but this morning has its effects because when it was reached in the evening, the player can't have lost their respect and value in the concerned community.

That is why all who put things like wisdom and wisdom, usually comes back to politics and especially the parliamentary positions in the country, most of them have tried to open their offices and that is why you want to reach their goals, and that is why they failed to return to parliament again and again every election or an opportunity is available.

My brothers, there I met the stadium that Diamond Platnumz to reach his goals as the president of Tanzania. I have interviewed that stadium because of the political party that will use it because inside CHADEMA, I can say that because inside CHADEMA, I would say it is true that the door to Zitto Kabwe got into the State House, has been buried.

The reason is open about my last article on this newspaper during the end of last year, they managed to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to see the importance of him as the executive director of CHADEMA, Doctor Wilhelmina R. Slaa, to

In that period, I believe that Doctor Slaa did not tell me because I believe she had not yet thought Doctor Slaa and his party doing what I used to see Doctor Slaa and his party doing what I mentioned that the time to bring great debate between him and the secretary general.

The launch of the system of change, popularly known by the name M4C), continues to reach the residents of rural areas so as to give them education on the importance of making changes in administrative systems by removing citizens who have no doubt if the government will not hesitate in controlling the plan.

Inside M4C), Zitto Kabwe did not know if I heard Doctor Slaa, his chairman Freeman Mbowe and his fellow commanders, like God bless Lema, Kigomba and so on, this is one of my fellow leaders with your party members to strengthen the party.

The second reason and the last one to me for today, that makes me interview him is the party that Zitto will use it up to the State House 2015 which is self-conditional bail.
Until the year 2015, Zitto Kabwe has reached 10 years of returning as the member of parliament for Kigoma North constituency, we have politicians like a member of parliament of Kigoma North constituency, we have politicians like this 30 years, but they have never been even one day do you see if "Masau boasted."

The action of Zitto Zuberi to break his voters with Covenant Bank, will be the only presidential position and not another political position, I would like to inform you, a very high position or any party of CHADEMA and in Tanzania as a whole.

I conclude this article by putting openly that I don't have a problem with the ability of leadership of Zitto Kabwe, I don't have a problem with integrity, I don't have a problem with no patriotism in our nation, and I don't understand that your party has been coming out to join that party with a love to get leadership positions including that of the presidency.

In that environment, it is important for every leader of CHADEMA who has their vision to vie for the high position so as to take precaution in each other their vision!
