
Motorbike riders to listen to him.

Hundreds of the motorcycle workers yesterday attacked them for three consecutive days after their colleague fell and injured away with a car in that town, he answered that he was beaten.
The ones that got the vehicles will look at vehicles and adorned with the drivers while the situation is worried about it in the city.
While while carrying posters with the branches, the demonstrators also identified himself the cause of suffering from her colleague who was carrying two passengers near the Nice Catering company.
At the time of the tragedy, they have been forced to have a lot of injuries and they were rushed to Bugando hospital to get treatment.
Likewise, they also criticized the government for being unable to put restrictions at the tragedy area so as to prevent more accidents.
He claimed that 31 colleagues have died in that area while many others were injured and vehicles being built to travel from Meru up to Nairobi in a period of one year.
"We have talked with many accidents that have been involved in this area, we are tired of our colleagues every day," said the demonstrators.
He claimed that their efforts of wanting the government to put restrictions on that road is divided.
"We have presented a request to the government when we request it to be taught in that area, but there is no step that has been taken so that the government has not been taken even if we are special," said one of the demonstrators.
The workers of Yamoto Band talks with the chairman of the business party in the city of Arusha, Antony Mavunde, who wanted the government to put road accidents in the area.
Recently, five people have been killed by 27 others to be identified and therefore the government is supposed to do and put restrictions in order to prevent disaster which are not a must, "he said.
Mister Blue has warned that if the bombs will not be put up on the road, the number of people who use their lives through road accidents will rise.
After doing work done by Mister Pengo, the demonstrators came out and agreed to continue with their protests today if there is no action that will be taken.
- we are not aware of the benefits.
