
Doctor Mwakyembe is Mshereheshaji Shebe Machumani (22).

The speed of the Minister for Transport, Doctor Harrison Mwakyembe, contributing to the leadership of Tanzania Railways Limited and Zambia (TAZARA), has met with any hindrance of law, Almighty God, has been told.
The session of the ministers for transport from Tanzania and Zambia that happened in June, this year, has put a stand of not being sacked by the TAZARA director, he said he is a citizen of Zambia together with his assistant Damas Ndumbaro, a citizen of Tanzania who are accused of sabotaging the authority.
That decision of not leaving the work as it was the intention of Doctor Mwakyembe has resulted from the financial analysis which the authority could face them being a payment of them after a step of honor at work.
Allegations facing those senior officials are together with having cheating in the TAZARA railway during transporting a bronze medal from New York City, Zambia up to Dar es Salaam.
Other allegations against them are being involved in the theft of oil to run the train and sell some of the TAZARA resources contrary to the procedure.
More than that, they are also accused of being unable to submit it for a long period on suspicion of employees in the Social Security Fund (NSSF).
According to several news sources, the decision of the session of those ministers of transport of June, that took place in Dar es Salaam city, look at several areas including the conditions of their employment contracts.
"That session of June met all two governments, that is Tanzania and Zambia Honorable Zambia was presented by his Minister for Transport, Sarah K and Tanzania was represented by Doctor Mwakyembe.
"The session decided not to greet the director and its assistant because of the employment contracts the contracts it will protect and if the two governments would have got a great cost in paying those people due to breaking their contracts," explained our news source.
More reports indicate that the cost of payments for the directors of that position and especially by considering the leadership standards that was there before the current leaders are 3 million American dollars, which for that time, it was approximately 52 million shillings.
For now, it is estimated that leaders are paid between 4200 American Dollars and 5,000 shillings (out of six million shillings).
Apart from the decision of not supporting those directors, the session of the ministers for transport announced that the decision to join seven officers of that authority did not happen on the right.
It was noted that the board of directors did not be involved in the decision to protect those seven officers and that the decision was done by the chairman of the board of directors only, something that is not correct for the issue and take appropriate measures, "says our news source.

Those explanations from our news source has an explanation and the explanation he has made to unveil Doctor Mwakyembe recently, when he was asked several issues about TAZARA and our writer.
In his opinion, Doctor Mwakyembe said, "we have decided to form a working squad through the law created by TAZARA and law number 10 of the year 1995, which is the foundation of many problems facing this authority.
