Water is very important resources in life of his creation on social development and economic development.
A human beings will need water to its use of every day as well as using it and to be safely on.
Moreover, those water are needed in various economic activities.
Such as the production of irrigation farming.
Production of electricity and many other activities and that is why I did not know what we are saying?
Values.
Very well, I do not tire you shortly.
However, statistics show that more than fifty percent of people living in the villages which are twenty percent of all Tanzanians is a result of water and sometimes themselves having to walk for a long distance, there is twenty percent of people living in town, they need to be the one to get that service.
This situation is clear that despite the national policies of water of one year, it has called and every one that gives all citizens to get water into a distance of one hundred thousand shillings.
If you go down, due to the importance of water in life of his creation on a full list, today it has came out to his talent in Arumeru district in the province.
To create a lot of times in the market, which at least have not less than ten thousand shillings.
If they depend on a large extent of spreading water to the residents, it's not only the district of Arumeru district in the city of Arusha.
Defending champions Yanga is born.
One of his programs even a Chance, he says that the availability of water sources had great success which contributed to the traditional and traditional foods.
The late Adam with the Christian there was a human being that was creating because I have itself being the reason to say that someone is a shame.
Or when getting anything that is related to the community, it is clear that you can't know where it does not mean?
And the charges was to say that it is not money and that it is being taken to your livestock it's going on well for another person to repeat.
However, there is a big possibility for now is in danger of emerging as a result of great destruction of water and this was revealed to get away from the increase of work whereby each one for his position did not want to see if he gets every few hours from water sources.
Here, leaders with the authority to supervise the law to know the way of peace by taking a finger to the courage to fulfill their responsibilities.
The current situation now people have continued to be harmful, and there is no action taken.
Leaders in the office.
Ambassador Seif.
If you were a member of the house for ten years, the chairman of the village's chairperson of that village went to go down in the district.
There are no completely dealing with water sources and thus the destruction is very big.
The destruction is there.
They are people living with water catchment areas because you can try to pass through the law.
Those who joined the law says that people should be more than sixty meters from water sources.
Therefore for now, currently is true.
People are suffering from water sources of livestock that allow people who are involved with water catchment areas, it has been clear that the natural vegetation was there.
It has said that a mother in all the family is smoking of water as a result of its responsibilities for raising and serving the family and therefore the destruction of water is already started to bring effects to women living in this area.
For example, in our past well, we have to take a lot of water that there is no doubt that we have been hard and drop out of water sources up to the water still continues to grow, there are now we request that you are.
Our leaders in that market call them to help them closer.
They have joined the water sources so that we can be able to get water in large numbers in the past, we believe that there is a lot so much if the government we get water to a lot of fees in the beginning of water.
