
The development of agriculture Tanzania and the investors make a reminder that we are not involved.
October 23, 2013.

Investors have been encouraged to talk about false statements about land grabbing in Tanzania and continue with agricultural projects in the country.
Speaking at a meeting of business people and institutions, organizations and various companies to grow and produce in England and Tanzania, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, Engineer Christopher Chihira has emphasized that the government is ready to help anyone who wants to contribute to the important department of economy.

Minister Chiwanga who arrived in London on Monday, on a five-day tour leading a convoy for agricultural professionals, was responding to a question that was asked several times about the availability of land in Tanzania.
He explained, "there is one newspaper said that the government has taken three million dollars. It is not true.

The concerned meeting was held at the conference hall of Pembamnazi County, London City and involved traders with agricultural activities in Tanzania, big companies that are involved in Africa, Africa and England, for instance the popular shop of Saint- Germain.
Between the chief speakers were our Ambassador, England, Honorable Peter Kallaghe said that the policy of Tanzania is continuing to promote business relations instead of depending on a lot of foreign donations, Rachel Turner, the Executive Officer of the East African Development Bank (DFIT), Geoffrey Adroph), chairman of the parliamentary committee for agriculture, livestock and water.

In his speech Minister Chihira explained the three important goals about this tour, that is to continue with business opportunities and investment, to learn technology that is needed by explaining the farmers and many businessmen to reach them.
Emphasis on investment through private sector was brought to a good example by Mister Ringo who is the Executive Officer of the Africa that is leading the project to promote land, forests and good agriculture in East Africa.
Coulter, who has been a close relationship with Tanzania from 1987, explained that some of the problems facing the agriculture and insisted that "agriculture is high than all other parts of the world."
He mentioned some of the relevant problems that the availability of electricity, story and parks, the renovations of the equipment like tractors, diseases, plants, and knowing the seeds that are used and how to do.
"Due to that, the investment unit and private business is very important to promote agriculture in Africa," he reminded.
Honorable Minister Chihira is believed to meet namaofisa of Tanzania starting on Wednesday at the Tanzanian Embassy in London City, that they joined the head of this journey in the whole country.
