A resident of Mshindo here.
May 27, 2015.

To the soccer lovers in the country who were in the year 2008 to 70, they have got a ban on the death of a famous presenter in Radio Tanzania, Dar es Salaam, Mauritius have died on the world this week.
That reporter who has given her popularity through its only goal of announcing the football game died on May 24 at Hindu Mandal in Dar es Salaam city while on the age of 72 years and buried the next day at the Stade de Gaulle International Airport, neighboring the National Stadium.
During the days of his life, he also announced terms of Darcoboa, arts, and especially music music, he announced two programs that drive out politics of socialism and self-reliance among them being the Maksimir Stadium.
That program was done by many listeners of Radio Tanzania due to how he used to have a lot of love.
On the side of politics, Mkenyi and he was lucky to be one of the leaders of Tanaka while he is in the 70's secretary in the towns of Iringa and Zanzibar.
His talent in media issues made a chance to work with the Rural Development Bank (CRDB) that is called so, as the relations officer.
On the side of sports, Mkomagu led the founder of the Pan African Club of Dar es Salaam, and until his death was one of the chief sponsors of the club which is currently at the junction of Swahili and Kariakoo areas in Dar es Salaam city.
He is supposed to work at Yanga Club of Dar es Salaam as the secretary of the club for a certain period.
That is when he found himself using his love with Yanga, but many times he used to do anything when he attains the match between Yanga and another team.
For example, Yanga will have a victory of 2-1 goals against opposition, he has said that they are only one of them, "that situation made them to live more in the group of Yanga fans.
Speaking to the citizens of Tanzania during this period, the home of Mkwajuni, Temeke, Dar es Salaam, one of its children, Abdelhamid Radwan, said for several years the old man was suffering from diabetes.
"The disease caused the silence of the year 2012 and since that time he did not go back to his health until when he was faced with death of diabetes and pressure, made him to be careful when the situation comes up until day," said Abdelhamid Radwan.
Due to his history, the funeral of the elder that was attended by different people, while many of them is seen to be divided into two major groups, that is the journalists and sports stakeholders.
Some of them include the former chairman of the Tanzania Football Federation (fat), Muhidin Ndembeji, the Deputy Director of Azam Media Fund, Tido Mhando and Ahmed Kipozi and the secretary general of Yanga Club, Jonas Sauko.
Each one of these among them was talking to Mkaidi during a different time, Tido Mhando said that he termed as a very few days but he was forced to know more well when they met in Radio Tanzania.
Mhando explained that as the teachers in the media profession, "the great reputation that I can make sure that the late is how he had training some important things that until now they can help in the news profession," said Mhando.
On his part, Kipozi said that he will remember Mzee Mkaidi during his concept of urging journalists to work as one team.
He said that all the days he was continuing to see the workers of Radio Tanzania doing their work in collaboration without the presence of groups.
"I remember many times while in Radio Tanzania, the elder that he was insisting to work as one team and the truth is that the situation was able to help us because if a certain person not in, he is doing his term," he said.
Yanga secretary, Jonas Tiboroha has said that the club has lost a very important thing, whose time he could not be silent when some things are going on inside that club.
He said that Mkingie was one of the elders that we love for Yanga and they are ready for any time to give advice to any person without a cost.
"Many times he was taking a phone to Yanga's secretary, when they see that situation is not well or there are every sign of the problem inside that club, many times he used to vote him by using his experience to be one of the leaders of that club in the previous years," said Constantine.
The best player has left the widow of four children and that scored 20, one of them being a journalist of this newspaper, Abdul Mkonga.
