
Kikwete was given a bone "of Shy-Rose, who lost 20 years, 2014.

President Jakaya Kikwete is expected to be given the responsibility of deciding the fate of the member of parliament of the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA), Shy-Rose Migiro, when he was given the chairmanship of East African Community (EAC), at the end of this month.

President Kikwete is expected to take the chairmanship of EAC after the general meeting of East African countries planned to take place in Nairobi, Kenya, November 29th and 30th this year.

The current chairperson of EAC, President Uhuru Kenyatta, from Kenya taking his time this month to our citizens, he has been told that his first exams will be able to solve the conflict that is now among the members of EALA.

As a period, the member of parliament from Tanzania, is alleged to have some members of parliament, especially from Rwanda, Kenya, and Uganda, to provide a dirty language against them and the national leaders of their countries, the allegations that the former news reporter.

"Some of the members of parliament are ready to talk about this issue and in an accident, but there are members of parliament who say it did not be allowed to end without being removed from his parliamentary seat.

"Parliamentary sessions have been planned to take place where Rwanda did not take place last month.
Rwanda's members of parliament did not happen on the sessions that took place in Dar es Salaam city, while Kenya we are not aware if the sittings will be done although there are people they want.

"The argument that is given here is that when these parliamentarians were selected to discuss people?

Mke Mwema has a report that there is a group of members of parliament in a meeting that can be satisfied with the sessions that have been planned to start in Nairobi this week, to be easy for the secretary general of EAC, Doctor Richard Sezibera, he gave him Kikwete that the activities of EALA were stuck because of the previous terms.

The members of parliament, especially for the three countries, claims that Shy-Rose gave birth to their private words and presidents of their countries when they were on a way to go to the headquarters of the European Union (EU) in Brussels city, Belgium recently.

In the interview he made by this newspaper this week, he confessed the existence of disagreeing with his fellow parliamentarians during that journey, although he didn't leave any leader and that the issue has been postponed for another reason.

While clarifying, he explains that his problems with the members of parliament of Uganda, Rwanda, and Kenya have resulted from his stand of supporting the speaker of parliament, late Margaret Ziba, who now she should not overlap with some members of parliament of those countries.

He said there are members of parliament in those countries who have been supporting and said the efforts by members of parliament are led by the member of parliament of EALA from Uganda, Dorah Makinga, who was vying for speaker and Zeco centers to fail in the elections that took place in Arusha town.

"He said in the agenda to dismiss him from the Lake Region, I stopped very grateful for not supporting him because it did not have the interests of Tanzania and it was against the objectives of the cooperation of the whole community.
"The argument of congratulating the speaker was part of the" dirty game "of the secret agenda to set free in that position for the interests of the few people.
"The attempt failed to leave the speaker was done and were unable to get three times after lack of enough money from Tanzania, including me.
"After the campaign of Sergeant Samuel failing, several members of parliament were seen in the parliamentary sessions when he had already taken the sessions of the sitting for example the session that took place recently in Dar es Salaam.
The conflicts are together with the internal auditors so as to continue with the election agenda, the integration of this integration is being accused of being accused of being open for the countries that were involved and involving themselves at the parliament of EALA.
"For example, the accusations that I was given alcohol inside the plane is to break bottles, doing violence and being beaten in Belgium's journey is not true even a little.
"If these allegations are true, why did not be taken to the police, government or other media stations after the incident?
I have a lot of honor to the presidents of all the five countries and citizens of the country, where all of them have been received and lived in peace and love in those countries, I promise to explain this honor.
"I am a Tanzanian and it is a Tanzanian member of parliament and therefore, I have a responsibility to protect and defend the interests of our interests, so as to bring the integration of the same way to all the members.
"I promise I will continue to serve all our strength and cooperate with other members of EALA for the benefit of the East African Community.
"I have been saying this if I believe that we are happy and also be said many times you can be able to be true," he said.
Tanzania has nine members of EALA with the ones who are only two who are alleged to support the Lake Region to be removed from power, while seven others oppose that step.

According to the regulations, that members of parliament to succeed through the speaker is a must for four parliamentarians from five countries members of EAC who have the votes of not having faith in him and to the number of members of Tanzania who are opposing the step it is impossible.

Although the members of parliament have been forced to ask for him to be removed from being the member of parliament, that step is difficult because that decision can be taken by the authority that happened.

He said that he will also stop being a member of parliament if President Jakaya Kikwete will be appointed as the minister in the government of Tanzania or to give him another position that will enable her to fulfill his parliamentary answers.

This newspaper has been told that the reason for members of parliament have decided that issue to be handed to Kikwete while he was given the chairmanship of EAC.
