
Drivers who were abducted.

Has been written by our correspondent.

It has been published in 21st September 2016.
Motorbike drivers from Tanzania who had been abducted in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and were caught up, they will arrive in the country today.

Those drivers in the day before yesterday and the Governor of Bukavu and spoke about the bad state that affects the earthquake which was reported in September 14th this year in that country before being carried out by the army of Congo (DRC).
A report from the ministry of foreign affairs and East Africa cooperation which was given yesterday, said those drivers will arrive in the country today at nine o'clock in the afternoon by the plane of Rwanda Airport.
One of the close friend of one of the two drivers who emerged with Mister Fadhili Dononda, a citizen of Congo who identified himself as a phone from Congo that his friend (Fadhili N) is safe and he is preparing to return home in Tanzania with joy.
"He does not have any problem, he is safe and that I am no close to you had talked with him but he is for the Tanzanian Embassy here and others preparing to return there and I think until tomorrow at nine o'clock in the afternoon," said Colaso.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Congo explained that through the international and international media stations in that country, that those drivers were safe after they were kidnapped by the army of that country from lack of weapons that are the rebels and not the rebels, as it was explained previously in Congo explained that ranches.
Previously, the report of the ministry of foreign affairs and the East African Community in Tanzania to the press after the occurrence of the incident, it explained that 12 suspects were abducted in Kunzugu Ward, Southern Highlands, September 14, this year.
It explained that among those resolutions, the company is owned by Simba Registration Company, Kevin de Dewji and others are the business people from Kenya.
That report explained that most of the rebels are the rebel group of Maasais' and after realizing those vehicles, they've sent away drivers and to take off fake phones, all of 500 shillings for every driver so that they can pay for two drivers overpowered them and to give information about the incident.
However, the government in collaboration with the DRC government, saw them to sell those drivers by using the army of DRC.
