
What is the political parties or the strength of bribery in CCM?
Fly on 1st, 2012.

It was in 1962, in Dar es Salaam city, President Julius Nyerere at the time he was opening a seminar for the world youth meeting.

In his opening speech that he was given by the Ambassador Seif Sinyati Enterprises, he blamed socialism and the wealth of the country should be able to solve the problems of citizens especially equity and the few problems.

At that time, 51 years ago, Tanzania mainland did not have an expert in the concept of the rich to compete with the status, politics and power though also the teacher saw those symptoms.

In his speech of the English, he says that "Tufani '," Tufani', will not get married to the same time, or to the president of the country, or to the girl,!

"DRIVE LIVES, popularly known as cardinal Yakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakamatwa kwa makosa ya uhalifu na kukosa kusajili kadi za wateja wao.

According to the fact, he is talking in the competition that does not pollute the field so as to consider the authority, status or a lot of us because, everyone can use the millions of millions to deal with him or another.

By considering that logic, they are supposed to be satisfied with the development of CCM's elections, I believe that it is an issue of suddenly in the same time, it should be for CCM or other political parties in the country not to pass through CCM or other political parties in the country.

It is wrong to look at bribery and see politicians alone, it is possible that some of the parties now have had bribery agents, but it is important to view and address the source of this system of bribery.

Apart from politicians, the bribery system for now are required to move forward by involving business people or big investors.

We are supposed to discuss about the system of running business in the country, tax systems and even systems for your decision or politics.

Systems are industries for generating power, agents and guardians of bribery in all sectors, including politics.

By bad luck, the institution for preventing and fighting corruption (TAKUKURU) when they were misled and seen being faced with the results by Haulipizwi 'goalpost with the industries for making agents and coordinators of bribery.

Be keen on these words of a teacher, "Landscrona", popularly known as Cheupe bus station, which will be aired live with skin rashes.

There does not mean that business people should be able to compete for the benefits of Tanzania and the problem is how they get the benefits of Tanzania?

If an investor or business person has paid billions of taxes, it is obvious that he will have billions of billions that are blaming each other how to evade taxes in the coming days.

Whoever will make his politicians inside the ruling party with the opposition, they will decide whether to talk about what they do and in which way they are billions to be as a result of paying taxes, it has risen up a political system, a system to choose and to be elected.

Greste, will shine at the purchase of votes inside CCM or any other party, a politician that led to the cause of any great reputation is to make the legality of the financial expenditure, to be donations from the church or is in eternal peace.

The political planning committee in the way will be led by bribery, the basis of their primary issue is to comply with the power, status and many of us and not how the power they should benefit from the party or the concerned institution.

Through bribery, (not the strength of development plans), will make sure among the youths, women and elders of experts who live as a chosen candidate for the parliamentary seat for the presidential candidate.

The possibility of which Diamond is a slogan that their member of parliament has made political strength and the slogan is aimed at killing correct issues that those are not political strength but it's the strength of bribery.

They can succeed to get a parliamentary candidate or presidential candidate even so, it is difficult for them to get the winner of the parliamentary seat for the presidency.

As a candidate is one issue and that the winner of you will fill it is a whole issue and because it is many.

Among those reasons, it is true that, because their plans are implemented in bribery, the real voters in the streets they join us to meet the candidate who is their own system.

This have taken place in the country at some of the constituencies, corruption energy which were making candidates, citizens were competing with those candidates.

The advice to stem cells of this way is to recognize that, for example, the strength of Nelson Mandela or Mwalimu Nyerere did not be due to distributing bribery.

Bribery they did not know free from bribery, the fighters that are connected with corruption are the later army to destroy the bribery they had already taken place later, "said the right side to witness the rebels were waiting to go on the right side to witness the hostage.

We should learn that, it is not required to strengthen the TAKUKURU law alone while other laws of controlling the discipline in the economic activities are needed.
I conclude by earlier, these are the ones that said to have strength in CCM, so that those are political strength or strength of bribery?

God bless Tanzania, God bless TANZANIA.
