
The residents want us to know, they are taught.
By Lucy Lameck said the construction of a good water area in the Parliament of Kasese district, he from Nairobi city, have urged the local government, he has urged the government to give them the solution that was raping and passing the center of the residential areas and to make some of the owners of the house and to make sure they wait for them.
Those residents who confessed that the problem resulted from groups of youths to fail and the cost of transporting it was collecting from people's houses, now they have urged that government to implement its responsibilities in serving them.
"Masau boasted that was known here in the field of Clay City and filled up with one that came out here, has urged the residents and even the owners of that house to fail, it has caused the presence of a lot of diseases, especially when they had reduced," explained a resident Mister Ngapa.
He explained that he was among the youths who had started the electronic groups was buying 15 years ago, the aim being to help youths to avoid conflicts and drug abuse and agreed to the residents not to be informed as a habit of denying them that job.
A resident of Mister Simon Semira explained that they have tried to communicate with the concerned officers, but the problem that is in the country is that the government of he said that it has only one lorry that makes services to that area and that are needed to pay.
The shivered need for 2800 shillings when they had bought for every journey, this is a high cost to youth groups that drive more than 200 million shillings by touching the house or house.
We have tried to look for the help but we have not got the problem, it has become a nuisance to the residents, "he explained.
Samuel Gmwaijonga has said that they are a member of the youth group of Makabe, he said that they are ready to work because it can help them keep in many ways, but they need to be defeated in the issue of getting the lorry that will destroy the vehicle.
However, apart from the fear of the Ebola disease, Miss Julietha Kabete has explained that they had been problems because the children usually comes there, to collect every type of dirty and sometimes it is attractive, even a mosquito usually have been used to hospital.
But the councilor of the area, Mister Erastus Rufunguro speaking on himself saying that he was not happy about the issue of finishing getting into the place, but he has not succeeded and put aside the blame to the minister of environment, he said that he must be accountable.
