
Zitto has given his stand, he has never been reported in UKAWA or any group that is in parliament.

Yesterday on the 29th of July, I have done an interview in the Power Breakfast program that is being broadcasted with Clouds FM among some media stations have written about that interview. I would like to clarify about my stand about the process of the constitution.

First, I have never been in UKAWA or any group that is in the special Parliament of the constitution, apart from his presidential stand on the union being three governments that are being improved (S374) in order to have a stable union that is unacceptable, and it's not available to its participants.

Secondly, if I was supported, "there are some members of the special constitutional parliament to oppose abusive language and abusive language that were going on in that meeting so that I had supported the draft that is supposed to be discussed in the draft that will improve the United Republic of Tanzania.

Third, in the current state there is a terrorist in the availability of a good constitution. The one that led by the lack of great intentions of getting the constitutional parliament instead of building a whole process of writing the constitution until the year 2016 after the current constitution of the year 2015.

I said the Electoral Commission so that it should be free and they are expecting to be free, including the civil servants of the district, cities and cities in managing the elections.

II is to allow a presidential candidate.

III) to sell oil and gas like the union of coalition in Zanzibar to start just one of the availability of oil in the countries that are in that side of the union.

The meeting of the special Parliament that will take place without the existence of consent will not have any reason and it will be same as losing time and money for paying taxes which could buy drugs in the villages. I personally will not present a special parliamentary meeting like the rival sides will not be shaken.

Zitto Kabwe, MB million.
