
Those of their leaders on May 31, 2012

I have touched me that how we are producing economic refugees, especially in life, "do not affect the farm and enter the city at a high speed and how they do not want to live in town for their interests, and areas they are going to go and their country as a whole.
If you ask "a refugee" of this kind if he went to him to leave the village's life and moving to the city, without doubt, he will destroy his private decision, but the activities of people of this kind are decided and said that the life of the village is difficult.
The foundation of this situation is relationship between those who don't have with it, between the life of the city and the life of the farm, between Europe and America, Masha has completed the third world, between having hope and give up.
As we consider the farmers running in the farm and get in the city, we also witnessed the youth of the third world, leaving their countries going to Europe and America, Haazu taking us from Dar es Salaam, for one hour, you will go back to Dar es Salaam city for one hour, you will go back to Dar es Salaam.
Now, this situation would be able to play if they would have used the symptoms that, maybe, this is a transition period and for a long time things will not be available because "those involved will be forced to look for how to come out of this situation but they see what?
Each of the effects are determined, those who would send their wives to land in the villages and they have already been completed in a long time. It would have been able to understand their environment and take action against them, but those members of parliament are the first to leave the life of the village.
Many of our members of parliament, that 80 percent of the farm live in town.
Secondly, it's only those who were living in the farm as they are teachers, the departments or farmers, and after getting a parliamentary seat in Dar es Salaam.
One of all the two types of members of parliament, love to live in Dar es Salaam city is that, as it is for those farmers, their homes in rural areas are not life and in town, there are tarmac roads, shops, traffic jams, noise, and so on.

Another reason is that in Dar es Salaam where there are heads of the country, and they are the decision about everything that is needed for the purpose of development of the whole country.
On that meaning, all the member of parliament wants to know if he believes that there is no member of parliament who is able to take development to its people in the villages and they know that there are members of parliament who live with their citizens in the villages and they know that there are members of parliament who live with their citizens in the villages, and they think they are unable to bring development in the region.
However, in our previous years it has managed to mean the truth, and those who do things that go with that logic and they can be allowed to continue to be in their positions as a very easy way it has taken the real position and a mosquito.
For many who live in Dar es Salaam for a lot of time more than to live in the village, it is no proud to be in the village so that you can be able to communicate more and "big ', and by doing so, it can be able to communicate more."
The real situation that we live in, at the moment it can be informed as we follow as we thank our leaders in Dar es Salaam city where even if they do not get development, "at least they will witness the progress of development," such as congestion of vehicles.
In this period, our villages will continue to lose people, especially youth who have the ability to work in agriculture and other cities, and our cities will continue to have drowned with farmers who do not have any other activities in the city, except that they spread in their homes and lives that do not be used in areas of the farm.
If I have written early, this is not a situation that allows us to know what we are from Africa, Asia and South America, even so, we cannot make sure this situation continues to be big, because its effects should be used, and if not using the wall will be successful.
The steps that are being taken is of many types of kind, as it is in search of a solution to many problems, there is no certain kind of action, but there is a mixture of action, "the main cause is that causes the efforts and look for him in various sectors.
One of the steps that are required to be taken in the northern region is to look at the implementation of our administration and how it affects the lives and development of our people, especially how our administration and its systems that affect the ability of our citizens that doesn't have a decision to bring development.
In order to discuss this issues I start with the foundation of issues (, when you think it is claimed that there is a problem in our administration system and that this problem did not spread soon, but if we understand that history we will also put it in good position to take action against them.
Furthermore, in this exercise, I will be led by the concept of every time I would like to go back, which is made up of killing, and can change or change as it will not have benefits again.
