The Almighty God rest.
We have been able to come out in a state of peace that operation, this follows reports of leaving, where it is claimed that it has continued to provide land to their farms, including the police officers in the region with the aim of wanting those who leave before the operation, including the police officials to attend groups while the action can't leave before the fight against the authorities.
However, the police commander of Kinondoni district, Charles Kuyeko, made an effort to speak to him's.
Today's evening.
Not, we have decided to come out in a state of peace that I believe in them, Messi got into himself.
Bye, where we are.
God has come from the main leadership same but that one I think is more than one thousand people that you can change.
By checking it is radio.
Which will we have to cooperate?
The committee of defense and security.
The head of the district of child.
What we are doing so that we can be able to have me in the phone he was sworn in.
Ten times if you have no benefits.
When you know your issues you must, then you know her.
If you know that you are going on.
Also, he was not legal or illegal such as we are going back to Mister our religious service we need to write this week not only one week but the old people believe it is not in the same week but the government has already given the plan to be on the implementation of an issue.
Believe in it.
How things are still underway is that?
To be released by that people.
The areas are well installed.
A show that takes place in plots is a dream of let me say this plan is in the city caused by it up until now, some of them have been using a lot of crime in those areas and chased the effects on how many of them have been unable to go to their problems but there are many cases where most of them do not go to the beginning to get that.
When passing through a human being, then they went to you for you to come to you so that if many days you follow me, then I will come out that it will be enough for two years ago to seven people were killed after requesting them to remove those areas.
Lema through the captain.
