
Conspiracy led by the director of Mbeya Collesium Hotel, 2012.

The war's war came out in Mbeya City and now some of the councilors and executives of that city are using the ideology of their parties to make corrections they had planned to the controller and auditor general of the government (CAG) who was accompanied by stealing the mayor of the city, Athanase Kapunga.
The victims of that war is the director of Mbeya City, Juma Iddi, who is now alleged to have conspiracy by beating up on claims that it is disclaimer on the claims that she is not known as the Revolutionary Party (CCM), so as to be used a opposition picture.
Conspiracy led by that director are being prepared and coordinated by secret and some councilors and executives of the city who are alleged to be approved by that director claiming that it is an obstacle to their personal interests.
Previously, the strategy of preventing the director was run through councilors where some issues which were discussed were presented by the council of councilors, especially from CCM, claimed that the decision carrying the strategy is not correct, a situation that caused many citizens who did not agree with the concerned strategy.
The step of some councilors to fight with the decision was prepared in their council when they meet the citizens, it has caused the delay of implementation of some of the small laws of the city, especially concerning taxes, like taxes, buildings and poor infrastructure.
In its sources, Mbeya City is supposed to be a collection of funds from tax tax tax which is explained to be the springboard of great increase in revenue in that city for two years ago.
The national income of Mbeya City has risen up to 25 billion shillings in the year 2009 to 2010 to 105 billion shillings, in the year 2010 / 2011, success which will also be involved with the arrival of the current director, Iddi Juma.
After the previous strategy brought back, followed a letter given by the head of Mbeya Region, Abbas Kandoro, the audience requested to control the director who claimed to be a cousin to him, so as to put off his humanity and put him to him.
The secret letter to the head of the province against the director was written by the medical camp for the employees of Mbeya City, but going on their names.
Some of the directors of the council of that town have told BBC Afrique reports that the letter has been written by a small group of employees in collaboration with some councilors of CCM who have had their network of corruption that they have lost in that city for a long time.
"We have started our investigation silent for recognizing our colleagues who have spoilt, it is a small group, collaborating with some councilors of CCM, he has been used by those councilors and executives, he says that one employee of the city was forced to get into his name.
Those workers are discovered that they are not ready to be approved by a small group that is fighting for personal interests, and claimed that they have completed their investigation I will watch all those involved.
These are the ones who deal with the family (director) is that the network that involves money from the city, most of the servants who did not do on that network are not involved in the newspaper, "says another servant in the newspaper who did not want his name to be mentioned in the newspaper.
The Provincial Commissioner of Mbeya, Abbas Kandoro, has admitted receiving that letter and put it open that he is not ready to work hard, on the logic, that his letter told him to be written by the director, a letter claimed to be written by the workers of that city, it did not have the names of the complainants.
Kandoro who went up more about the plot after recently explained the council of councilors of that town in his special session, about receiving a letter from the medical camp of the city's workers but they were unable to write their names in the concerned letter.
In a step that maybe it was not expected by journalists from that letter that supports the head of the province to control their director, Kandoro who denied the club the director asking us to continue to keep in collecting revenue and control the existence of public funds.
"Iddi, continues, is controlling the availability of the city for development of the residents of Mbeya," said Kandoro, while mentioning all those by the councilors of CHADEMA while those of CCM were silent.
That Head of province explained to open the workers of that town that he does not want to identify themselves and warned them to leave it and that she is not open.
"There are people that saw the head letter of the province when you asked me saying I wouldn't affect the director even if it is my friend, I want to tell me what I have met with him here and we have no brotherhood," said Kandoro.
However, when the conspiracy happened to the councilors of CCM and those of CHADEMA, those councilors join the accusations against the controller and auditor general of the government together with the Parliamentary Committee on Local Governments (T), for what they claim is disdain.
The accusations of those councilors against the two authorities that deals with the step of CAG got the motion on the use of five million shillings for the journey of the mayor of Mbeya City, Athanase Kapunga, in China and that parliamentary committee has placed on that decision of CAG.
The head of province together with his administrative secretary, Mariam Mtunguja was requested the councilors not to improve the decision to oppose the decision of CAG and LAAC.
"This act did not meet the councilors to follow keenly, no responsibility is implementing our responsibility, any committee that it started on this letter," said Kandoro, urged those councilors to agree with the decision of the parliamentary committee.
The anger of those councilors arose from their faith that they have been contaminated by putting on that issue, saying it is not the CAG, she is proud to be given to the council of councilors but in concluding, they were not closed down.
"The local directors have been taken against the case they are in court, but this mayor and the journey from China, we explained that it will be informed, but today we should be informed," said the councilor in their special session.
In their stand, the councilors of that town were insisting that they were given a letter on invitation by their mayor to China, but on their details they did not be given that letter more than the previous results which they refused to be given an official letter.
Together with requested them to stop their stand, Kandoro, confessed that about the journey, he said it must be keen on how to get out of trips outside the leaders and especially the conditions that are in that, including the issue of paying the fare.
In insisting on his motion, Kandoro gave an example saying he himself was unable to try an invitation like that because he was supposed to pay the fare and his office was not a lot of money.
In addition to those two issues to be finished, still the political parties of Mbeya show that it's just a long time, due to faith that the group that has planned for him are believed to continue being treated due to the existence of a group of councilors that were forced to qualify for the mayor.
