The highest cost up to you know if they see Diamond is a high price from two hundred and Mister.
They have said that, instead of saying that you have been depending on a foolish thing.
Currently, if a customer want you to look at the teaching and urged them early to be served.
I have bought a group of the disease is better and I want to use example so as to resolve the school without knowing how he invented the school.
Vote to go.
That if you want to go to other networks but let me tell me that you can use it.
Other networks are still.
Kamanga was getting the internet that is in other companies and is the launch of a big use.
And I ask for him to join a person when you come up for me, I had already put it just to write and I had already put it just like the sister was looking for you to see Mister nine that you love you.
You order you mean that if you join the sun and you join you today who had joined one of the skills again, how your impatient will be a good example to talk about your phone and register it through a very normal procedure more than to see only.
Here if he bought it as a result of the fight that is being done here and it is supposed to happen here and to find an example which you're getting a sister sitting here.
When they meet your opinion, we are fighting the number of you to want to get a number one.
On the internet.
After realizing that they are getting one directly and called me.
Kariakoo of Dar es Salaam.
How do you get services to why they are bought Simba to get the services on the same way, we will make sure you get into the placenta.
Do I wait until when he got your upbringing when you want to reach when you will be able to see you?
Same, we will follow up with a brother, Japan has made you to be careful.
Here because it is ready to carry out it that you want to listen to their phones is in a step to give birth.
The child entered all of his ability.
Therefore, we will enable us to ensure our customers in the villages to get a good service against the second of more benefits then that is it good like it and explained how.
Your call for Tanzanians is to take place where this is mentioned to join easily.
On the side of our network, it is being found the whole time we will be avoided, we are expected to end up for example his meetings in Mwanza town, by an interview with Nyamagana animals, yesterday going to be close to Korogwe.
Go to Mbeya for others.
Go for instance, if we get to each other and to give them the right time for Tanzanians you are found to have done our office more than in accordance with the children who died.
Why is it?
It is set aside another was in Morogoro road where he is doing.
Below, when you get when he met with a youth but we have our shops even if you click here in this school there are more than five shops that are doing the celebrations but we also reach them.
When he dies.
Again with our brothers, therefore, all of them are found and wanted to get our services for example, our shops you get in all shops that are getting rid of these shops and do not pay taxes but they get our services.
Then that is the meaning?
It is just a company that if you are doing?
Mwasabite said that I took a gift to give him a gift because I see me like so that her good team which is currently color, and here we have this best to be a Muslim so that color is not good for the recent days in the continent.
Our phones at a very easy price and have a good and good governance.
I think it is not today when they surprised their services they did not like to use or do a customer to be like the table but they make sure that they give you a lot of money that are related to communication so as to listen to the perpetrators, so that those organizations are with at the Saba Saba Exhibition very near.
Our brothers do not encourage the support you and when we are playing.
When it was taken to greet the audience.
And the Tanzanians in general in our continent, but only the government shows this thirty o'clock.
The international business has when they play in a different style this year because we can be able to improve more than mobile phones and internet.
We don't have the ones that have countries done by mobile phones and affordable prices, we have been lowered from the phone and I use more than nine hundred thousand shillings and the phone uses your last sim card which we want to grow up with the Ambassador of Same and other networks.
Similarly, at the end of Dar es Salaam, we will give an offer to the exhibition for eight hours we can give an offer to Tanzanians by providing internet services on the internet, to make it put for all Tanzanians who are lucky to get there at the eight hours they have been able to get.
For children here.
And those who has used me are witnesses that the Swahili language has a great speed and it is better and we must inform the Tanzanians that the best and four financial services will be distributed in every second phase and its best services that have been built for every second phase and more than affordable communication services.
When we get in Dar es Salaam, we should know what I will inform me.
