On this speed, Kikwete will break the Lanham act!
Sei 12, 2013.

In the previous edition I discussed, among other things, the danger of the broke out of the East African Community in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi will continue with the current behavior of producing Tanzania - a habit that I have involved in getting married, recently, for a relationship between President Kagame and President Kikwete.
In addition, I saw my belief that I was carrying out a lot of money from my readers, but that allows you to get more that my son with phone number + 2283, whom it is producing Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi to meet their development plans.
"My dear brothers, it was surprised by Kikwete himself and I think his colleagues already put a different vision and when his colleagues are meeting together to put the regional strategies, he is outside the country (Australia) comes back."

I am saying that the message was able to break up because there I got to discuss this behavior of President Kikwete to look for the journey from outside the country instead of blocking his efforts in helping the country to build a foundation of being independent.
I don't have sure that until now his trips are outside, how many times them have reduced that amount of gaming in the internet, but I think it has never been forced to continue with his number) but I didn't remember that before going to Australia he went to Australia to return.
Shortly, the month did not support without President Kikwete to travel outside considering that this journey are being enough (JET), and especially those of huge shortage of distributing the sea, I do not sell it if it is usually have enough energy through him, and even follow up on several important issues for several hours.
Ludewa said, in all, I was happy about the importance of the leader of the country to travel abroad and to attract investors to attend important meetings outside, some of Ludewa said that, I was surprised that Kikwete is not the first leader in the world to make many foreign trips.
Certainly, the records have shown that the behavior of heads of the country in the world and other leaders to travel outside the 20 century. The first winner was the president of the United States who had travelled from Europe for seven months after the first war ended.
Record shows that the European leader holding the first position by getting a lot in the world is queen Darleen in England who in his 61 years of Morocco has done a three-governmental tour of 261 years.
Other leaders in the recent years who entered into the list of those who traveled with the government's journey include Hillary Clinton who in his four years of being the minister of foreign affairs of America who traveled with 100 countries, and therefore breaking the record of the old lady who traveled by 96 countries.
We believe you should not understand that all these examples are rich and at least they have enough money to legalize the journeys outside the country, but let us benefit from the African continent and for sure, it is not known as an African leader to support those trips from the taxpayer.
If I said first, I don't have sure that our President Kikwete has attained the number of many trips abroad, and we don't have a number of colleagues in East Africa - Tanzania's Kagame, Museveni, Pierre Nkurunzinza, (left the same presidency) so as to resolve the meaning of the statistics in Africa is another big problem in Africa.
However, at least there is no objection that in Africa's record, it is being held by Nigeria's former lover, Oliver Wema and his opinion that if Kikwete will reduce its own speed of traveling outside, he can get into the "the league that he played" Masau boasted.
The record shows that until May 29, 2007 when she was handing over the presidency of the new president of Nigeria, Oberlin Kisanga had done the journey outside that country that is 400, let me think about 400 trips that were paid for three years (1999-2007).
But that she is Athanase hanjo, you can say that he has the disease "of love to travel outside the country, because that behavior has continued even so, although not to be the head of the country.
Yes, right now in African continent, that if you go to a seminar or passport for a meeting or not in any part in Africa, you want to make sure that you get to him, what you are required to do if you use the tickets to sit and be able to come up!
