Thank you, is called on the time when he did not love this children.
I was a woman I have a lot of dreams, we will succeed in with I was born, I am saying I want to request for a woman.
I became I don't know how many of the kind, but it was.
Nusra on parole.
I look at which way I can get first employment.
They still need us, we will arrive with the teaching college where I got a diploma of teaching.
I did not even a bit when I started to no goals, I'll get into work, I request to be in one private company for five years for five.
I got I started.
You pay you for a day I remember that many years we are paid laughing or bake.
We have already started there like the elephants, I saw it when it's not good.
I started by.
It is how to get a message that is supposed to go, I get you.
And at all, I got even such treatment while he said the things like that, I also seen it is not enough, I also added more efforts.
It's good to get a chance if you see me when I get a chance, it does not use well and I am happy that I am pleased with it.
It depends on another position of planting his position and not having a penalty but being faced with an incident.
Where they have been and accommodation except that are being offered to the company.
And the customers.
For customers, as it is a work that it gets built and also training it.
The case going to the late I want to be my son to teach others but before that, after working for a short time.
I did work for a long time.
Three, I found it to be enough for my goals.
I want to ask for a woman, who wants I will do I vote?
To get a degree in welfare of the community is now being able to get a prayer.
I wrote me for three years when I was at work.
But you will succeed and get a good vehicle for finishing you and continue ahead and see that they are.
For having children in the country, I succeeded to succeed in the first year.
I am happy that a pregnant woman is doing a pregnant woman you said.
I saw it up to the end, I said it is good for us to have my youth who had gone to us because I think that you have been able to read my woman and let me do what other things are to be the mother and Lema is when they get back again to get children.
I want it is a time earlier, I was surprised by five hours to go to the step when a woman wants to be true that he has done therefore, I finished I finished, I finished I finished, he completed it.
Finishing giving birth to my children, I have found a degree and went ahead, therefore, we had never happened to the company while in all the journey, you can't accept when you go back to them, you can't accept to tell him that a woman is looking for him to tell you a woman that is wrong.
Thank you a lesson so that a woman is a must that you have the goals you should know where you want to be who after you came out, it is a must every woman there at home.
When you are at work, if you do not understand the goals to work there is no long time now makes a lot of money easily and we believe that there is something that we want to do when you know where there is someone who is at work.
That is something that most of us have on parole.
We are not supposed to work hard, it is supposed to be careful so that I can be careful.
Most of our brothers, I have been in industries, when I was in primary schools from primary schools, there are people who want to be given examinations by teachers, therefore there was a disease where most women don't know what I'm in, but I would have been able to work hard to work hard, it's not a first thing.
I love you.
Look at it?
Although there is still a thing that I was called even if it is a win, let it mean that AT has given a chance, otherwise, it will have maintained the disease, then you were not the producer.
That is why we have been able to do anything related to what I will do to work for sixty years of it as it's what I can do because we can get to work.
Another, you find the goals there is no one who can I do until ten years and how many of you will continue to get your chairperson, you will continue to start a new thing after there.
The late?
We have we say that we have a lot of resources.
With the speed but as' yes, she is saying that the situation has been contributed by Winnie, he says that I don't use my goals because I don't know or you can fulfill my goals but he knows me I want to fulfill my goals but he knows me I want to fulfill my goals but he knows me.
