
The president of Nyanza has extended the past 197th.
President Uhuru Kenyatta, and the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga with one of the main reputation that is giving them down.
All the two were left on the sacrifice of power.
President Kenyatta as his child, President Jomo Kenyatta and Raila Odinga as the first vice president of the first president, Jichunge.'
However, outside this politicians are political rivals and their actions in the political party is a threat in this nation.
President Kenyatta said that the king doesn't know the name of that community of Agathon Ranaldo and Raila Odinga, is the rebel winner.
Or hostility, competition and white house among the family of Jomo and JVerde which is a new tower in the history of Kenya.
Today's history, I have been able to investigate the tour of President Kenyatta, that is expected to start tomorrow in Nyanza.
On the 25th October 1949 years ago, President Kenyatta was at eight years old, her father Jomo Kenyatta.
Or it's not only that, this is the last day for Mzee Jomo, when he arrived at Kisumu area and the groups of youths who don't want them to get married, as a sign of the Kendwa Rocks Hotel which is led by Junction.
In this event of opening the New Hampshire hospital Mzee Chilo has condemned the terrorists who had gone down while police using their weapons to kill some followers of Junction.
JVerde which he had gone into the stronghold of his rival factions after failing to break the FN party in front of the general elections that were shocked.
However, the political situation was very high and hostility between that Agnetta.
Jamestown has been excluded from government and two politicians from Nyanza Tom a child of Arnautovic and the past five were killed by a black government of Jungle.
"Masau boasted" is his first child, President Uhuru will be a lesson on the month of one month when her father was chased away.
Himself, President Kenyatta said she's tasted the fight against Nyanza when she was thrown out the shoes that were thrown out of stealing a story earlier this month.
In my opinion, the main aim of the tour of President Kenyatta is to try to answer the conflict of Raila Odinga in Nyanza while putting it open that contrary to her father, he is ready to deal with Raila Odinga in Nyanza.
