
2,283,975 kilograms of sugar are distributed.
Our journalists, the Citizen's agent, annamatinde @ mkito.
In Dar / regions, the sugar industry is ongoing and planting prices, the Revenue Authority TRA in Lindi province has been blamed and distributed free of 2,2875 kilograms of sugar, and 31 institutions.
The sugar that is worth 33,5718 shillings has handed over 100 desks to the elderly, special schools, hospitals, normal schools, Prisons and various colleges after the verification of food and medicine authority (TFDA) to be safe for human use.
That sugar of Brazil was put in 5,319 bags with a capacity of 25 kilograms of each one, were arrested in February at the Lindi port because it was taken into the country contrary to the law together with cooking oil which was not safe for human use.
Speaking during the allocation of the sugar, the Director of Services and Education to the taxpayer, Richard Kayombo, said after the arrest of those products, TRA in collaboration with other government institutions decided to stop the production for people with needs in all districts in Lindi province.
"February first, this year the authority of revenue in collaboration with security and security agencies have seized the Mv Tanga ship that was led by Abdelhamid Radwan from Zanzibar, was carrying a cargo of sugar and other products that were in the country contrary to the procedures," he said.
The District Commissioner of Lindi, Yahaya Nawanda on behalf of the head of the province, he urged all institutions that got that sugar, as it has been directed and has been able to be sold anywhere.
He urged the business people to follow the procedures of the country and to avoid the western business, because the province has organized to fight with them.
Prices will continue to rise up for now sugar in various areas in the country be sold between 2,600 to 4,000, despite President Magufuli urged business people not to understand it and reduce its price.
In Mwanza town in Ighombwe Village, Pamba, the court has been sold at Mabatini, Mabatini, Mkukuta, who owns one kilograms of sugar yesterday was being sold at 4 trillion shillings, while some shops has been charged with a long time, "said Juma Masanja, a resident of Parliament.
Acting police commander of Mwanza province Augustino Senga said the police is continuing with the inspection of warehouses, so as to identify business people who share the criminal activities.
From his part, the business officer of that district, Cibitoke village, has urged citizens to help the government soon when they sign a violation of the order of being built on the sugar of more than 1 billion shillings per liter.
