Last week we discuss the world, Minister Membe and "Sports."
Petit 25, 2014.

In the middle of last year, when the former basketball player in the United States, Dennis Rodas, when he was in North Korea and met with the leader of the nation, Kim Jong Un, the world found a big subject that the other day of Diplomacy, we were used to it in politics.
Rodas he is a employee of the American government and he didn't have been sent by the government of that country, but his popularity in the United Kingdom has given the good opportunity to meet and speak to the leader of the nation with a relationship "cold" and many countries in the world especially in western countries, an opportunity that is not something to expected to be soon for leaders of the Western countries.
The player is the one who raised me the world that the leader has a female child together with that he didn't have been sent by America, to meet him and that leader did not have a good relationship between those countries but the action of being able to meet with that leader can be easily annoyed because it is an indication that the games can go far than politics.
Maybe the end of the success of diplomacy which can only be used by the American relationship with China during the peak of cold drinks in what was planned to be known as Barakah da Prince.
In 1971, America's football team got an invitation with Nagarno which is in the world championship of that game from China's team, while there was no any group of Americans who were invited to China since they started to rule in 1949.
The invitation was planned to come at the quarter century BC without the symptoms of the war involved in western countries led by the United States for one side and the East African Union (MK) on the other side.
After the invitation President of the United States at that time, Richard Miles, he did not want to lose that opportunity, when he stopped the minister of foreign affairs, Henry Kissasy and Peking during a tour to visit China for seven months later on February in the year 1972.
Prime Minister of China, China- Lali is not able to fulfill his skill of "it has never happened in history, the games will be used for success, as the way of Diplomacy," was quoted saying that by President I wish him that was "a week that changed the world."
The games can be used in the world and it can change the economy of the country and any nation that is depending on the way it is used for a few years, groups in our community as well as the fact that the community of Tanzania was not allowed to remove the standard of class, some of the groups were not aware of more than other importance.
The needs of the time and changes in the system of life in the world have caused some issues to change the community of athletes and film artists who are not seen as an important part of the community.
Today people that make these groups, together with the ones that concern food, surgery, motorcycle riders, or in large numbers or the ones that are with these people, will make sure that important people in a certain way in our community, economic, political and social.
