
They have forgotten that the world has 10 times.
Scientists from America have discovered that the biggest thing that can take close to 20,000 years going to the sun.
The size of the song known as' ninth name 'is 10 times compared to the world, according to the researchers and technology institutions, California Institute of Technology (Corefa).
"For sure this new service can be used between the 10,000 years and 20,000 shillings depending on the sun," said the report that was published in the criminal state of high-communicable diseases.
However, those researchers who were led by a prey in Batshuayi and Mike Brown confessed that they were not able to see that one directly in the high level.
"But we been discovered that the situation after paying taxes and for several trials in using computers," said Batanyita.
The size of the ninth commandment is one of the size of the swim, according to the researchers.
Those scientists are saying that the weight of that new video may not affect the shivered because of his soul.
Brown was among the Black Americans' scientists to be demolished and instead make sure that he will be called "said Mboma" in the year 2006.
Brown is together with his colleagues that they had found, "Erena which claimed that it used to shivered by the size.
Those researchers have condemned the crime of Erena.
But the International Civil Aviation Organization (AU), in the year 2006, followed the new criteria that are not allowed to have been seen before the things that has been found in the sky being identified.
The number of Erena and the sickles was unable to fulfill the criteria and to be removed from the list of the real situation.
Why does it take a long time before you were revealed for a ninth commandment "?
Brown and his colleagues claim that the ninth commandment may not be there while other big things like Junction, Sinyati Enterprises (Snowden), there is a red carpet.
Those scientists are saying that there may be the ninth commandment when it was going on in the high level and others that were manufacturing.
Those researchers have now use while having a high speed in search of the ninth commandment in a high table.
In the previous years, we did not see that there is a problem here, but after researching and we had promised that there is a big challenge in the sun's system, "said Batuli who is also the Professor of science concerning the sun," said Batuli who is also the Professor of science concerning the body, "said Batuli who is also the Professor of science explaining different trials in the year 1846.
That is one of the three factors that were revealed to scientists since last year.
On the November 2015, scientists from Australia claimed to have discovered that it is supposed to continue with the same time with the world in accordance with the reports that was published in the Jichunge.'
The past five months, the Institute of Civil Aviation Authority in America (NASA), launched a new world 'which was known as 21-0 (Khajida Kopa).
News about the discovery of Eleuteri Mangi - 438,667 that were shocked all over the world with hope that maybe a human being got other places to live different from here in the world.
NASA said that 21-0 is the biggest than the world that we live in the country, that institution claimed that the world has been growing up with this world like stones, in the sea and the stars affected by it.
That has been collected by Leonard Kazoba.
