
It is easy to start modern farming.
By Benedict Liwenga.
Trumps mirror does not play down the most popular song to us using abusive language, Mathaldine Soulaimane, Kangeni Village of Ilemi ward in a distance of her vegetables which seems to reduce well.
Mama Njekela said that if she is was known by the arrest of this area, it is a farmer that for ten years ago has been able to add a lot in farming for this kind.
"Since I was given here in the year 1975, I am very happy to sell this crime and even if I have touched the other types of vegetables I cannot live without any kind," mother Njekela explained that he is my life, "mother Njekela explained that he is doing well.
Mama Njegere said that due to the sales of cabbage, all the three children who have been born in education up to universities.
The main reason that made this mother to start this farming is that, he saw it is a must for people who have also added that Kabigiri ends are many.
"With a lot of vegetables you can sell to school, in the hospital if the cabbage market is very difficult to see the customer who have come forward to see the customer who have come forward, he used to visit the agricultural officer in that area which he bought the training that brought him so much.
"I was not seen in the future of therefore, I would like to look for him for the agricultural officer so as to tell them professionally as I could prevent me," says mother Njegere.
Deepening Trust, explains that it will give me a lot of opinion polls and to follow the tree and modifications of the way he advised the expert and when he bought the crops, he got money to increase another part of the farm.
According to him, it is not a must for someone to have a big part of the best land only when he gets the first understanding this season.
"I start with me that I received holes which was not very big so that I wish you to look for water so that you can be taught," explained Dealah.
It continues to explain that, "if you go to put your seedlings in holes, you can buy seedlings and be sold directly to the farm, that you buy medicine doesn't have diseases that can't be beaten by your farm."
After one week and a half hours, the two seasons, put the normal foundation from livestock and then start to fall in your plants, so that plants get strength to grow.
"You can only destroy the user with a hands if you missed this disease, it is important because it does not have chemicals considering that Kabigiri ends, among the two months now, therefore customers do not eat your cabbage which didn't be self-independent," said mother Njekela said.
If he knows, Dealah Prize, have touched on the other types of vegetables, when we continue to grow apart from the type of insects and therefore he is insisting that it is a must that the farmer can use drugs.
"If I am a man of medicine to see you just to get married so that I get to get the opportunity, pable to destroy our drugs, therefore the farmer is the first to get a training on the drugs that can be able to fulfill his plants," mother Njekela said.
The chickens in every three months have already been ready, he says that the farmer starts the search of her vegetables which were attaining the two months.
Debwa, says that when there is a good market for Kabage, he bought it out of 30 and 40 shillings per day and he can sell up to 50,000 shillings in a day when there are no other parts.
