
2August 2013.

Problems are there.

Another floor is a threat.
Those involved in mind.

By Goodluck Charles.

Some of the certificates that were built.
Dar es Salaam has continued to be noted that it is a threat to the residents that they use.
Let it pass through the neighbors as a result of having a sharp teeth that show it?
Remain at any time, while others got the step to start a terrorist.

How is the investigation.
The Majira newspaper in Dar es Salaam City.
To identify another incident that is a threat to the lives of citizens, but.
Surprisingly, the concerned authorities have continued to evade a partnership, despite being found.
This newspaper recently received news concerning the state of Golden State House.
That is in the scene of the bar and shivered and.

The building is.
That is approximately 10 percent in the age of Zanzi.
And Libya, Dar es Salaam city.
It has set aside an amount of being infected with another floor.

One is.
The officers in the Kisutu Resident Magistrate Court, Dar es Salaam city.
Dar es Salaam whose building is there.
His administrative area, (we have the name), said the state of that building they do not know many days, but the concerned parties.
He is the Municipal of Ilala.

He confessed.
He believed to know that building.
But professionally, Engineer Manento said that she is able to confirm him.
More than what is in that situation.

Some of the people.
The citizens that live in that area, they said.
A long time the building is.
They have been complaining, but there is no relevant authorities that have been able to show.
Cooperation.

"You know?
Our problem here is accountability, leaders, people who are waiting for.
To be accountable, we have complained to a long time, but we have not seen.
Accountability, "he said and added.

"Buildings.
This we need for a long time that they have passed but now continues with action.
Watch the meaning of its meaning that if you want to have a building (which is born) disaster could have happened. "

How is the newspaper.
This happens when I saw the condition of that building, while the life of that building is.
It continues as usual among the victims of that building.
Without caring about the danger of them.

The councilor.
Kisutu resident magistrate, who is the Deputy Mayor of Manerumango village, Khloe Kardashian.
When he was asked about the state of that building.
He said that they are not experts of buildings but those involved are there.

He said he knew the issue.
Since four years ago, but.
Now.
Something that took place since now there is no one authority directly.
Addressing that issue.

"The past.
The city is the one that deals with everything even when they are them?
And the referees in their municipality.
It was easy to see people who are doing mistakes but for now.
This is difficult because there are many authorities that deal with one thing.
Those results are discussed followed, "said the councilor.

He said.
Well every municipality should have a full authority to enable it to control buildings.
That type, talked about an example in that chamber by waste water which have been married.
Place themselves near the streets being close to the streets.

He said each.
Those involved in the ball, every person says he is not involved, but as a city.
It would have been an authority like in the past.
It could have been there and once action would have been taken.

B is a FGM?
Buildings' buildings while talking with this newspaper said other times.
That is as a result of being loaded with the size of the heart or sometimes.
A snare of cement, cement (33).

They said the construction of the floor.
Later it is caused by the seat aspirant on the floor.
It doesn't have a difficult time.

"Before you sell the pillar.
It is first to sit down until they can meet with a difficult time and that is when it started.
Building, but if you start the construction in a area which doesn't have a difficult time.
It is a must that it will affect on one side and his fate is down, "he said.
Mzee Mohamed Musa who is the supervisor of the construction of eight floor.

He said the floor can be a mosquito.
In Zekiem and comes back for a long time without falling, but all of them?
And the construction that did not follow the required levels.

He said many times.
That are holding on the floor is to introduce himself from 25 millimeters and which has sunk.
Therefore up to the end up of the end, but including one pillar that have 10 percent.
The others are put up to 16 millimeters and 20 millimeters and eight hours to be played.
His result is a plain truth when it appears to go down.

"An example of the white house (he is wearing the name) is the truth when she is fem themselves.
That was 10 years of age.
Last, but up to today, it is continuing to be used and not.
Only, there are many buildings.
Here in Kariakoo, "he said.

This newspaper made efforts.
To communicate with the chairman of the registration board of engineers (ERB) Engineer.
Mlote, so that to speak about that issue.
But it was impossible due to his secretary to say that day.
He would be able to speak with the writer of this news.

"Mo Blog will be able to speak with him.
It did not be written on the funeral book (book of people who are supposed to see.
That day,) said the executive secretary of that officer.

Previously the newspaper met?
Engineer Mtei using the phone way where he wanted the author to go to his office.
So as to finish that issue.
But when he was not able to meet him.

Together with the executive secretary.
Therefore, he still continued to hold that position that they are doing to see him are those.
He was an appointment.

This newspaper passed the Engineer of Ilala Municipality.
There is an issue.
While he was claiming he is in other activities or in the session.
