
"Virgin" is a threat in Uganda which brings us well in Tanzania!
Brightiles 15, 2012

President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda.

Until last week, the list has succeeded in four countries that are Ireland, Norway, Denmark and England. There are all signs that Sweden and other EU and other EU and they have joined that list.

What happened in Uganda to cater for the donations and those countries are cash, more than 13 million dollars were issued by the country to help improve infrastructure in two provinces of the North of Uganda which was affected by the fight against the fighters of Tanzania.

Those countries are requesting the funds that were stolen by the authorities to be approved by the ones that are arrested, arraigned before law, otherwise, Uganda cannot get donations from those countries.

That is the meaning that you want President Museveni, and that it is understood that, such as a lot of African countries, 25 percent of the Uganda government budget depend on money for the European countries.

In using his work, President Museveni has ordered the arrest of 12 officers, two of them have already been taken in court to answer the charges of being involved in the theft of those foreign funds.

President Museveni believed that the step would advise the employers and return the donations, but instead, last week, more than other countries (Norway) has been increasing at the list of the countries that have never made them.

It is clear that all the fourth countries have decided to continue with their stand because they do not meet the ones who were arrested until now those countries are saying that those who were arrested are rich and those involved in the corruption are accused of the government to protect President Museveni.

I don't know this tension between those European countries and the government of President Museveni about the issue of ending the donations you will end, but it's my opinion that, at least now, the government of President Museveni "had already made a lesson to the government.

If those partners have finally be given to the Uganda donations, I have sure things cannot be for the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption," said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against corruption, "said President Museveni cannot continue to continue with the fight against

And that is why I urge us to say that "virgin" is also used in Uganda to fulfill the problem "it will also be used by those countries in our country, which will not have a lot of corruption in our country.

In Uganda, he was the Controller Auditor General of the government who revealed in his report the theft of those funds in the office of the Prime Minister.
In Tanzania, every year the report of the Controller Auditor General of the Government Authorities (CAG) has written the theft of various samples of public funds including the ones that were made in court, but those who were arrested and arraigned in court for the theft are very few.

In that state, why our partners have not from using "virgin" that they used in Uganda to deal with our president, Jakaya Kikwete, to leave him to run the fight against corruption that is why it is in Uganda, us Tanzania, our budget is supposed to be a lot of money for those partners.

Last week (for example), following the discussion of the parliamentary debate about the private issue of member of parliament, Zitto Kabwe (CHADEMA) of wanting to be transferred to its country more than 196 million followed by our leader in Switzerland Bank.

I was listening keenly to the debate of the private argument of Zitto Kabwe and the answers of the government, especially his promise that it will do the investigation, and that the whole session of parliament will be explained to the steps taken about that investigation.

However, on my view, the issue and the promise of the government was to be known as an artist, "with other words, I did not see it's true that the government's intention of wanting those funds to be sold to them in the country, do not see the intention of mentioning all the names of the corruption that were involved with the cause of the money in the country.

It is my view that, as it was in another scandal of EPA, Richmond etc, this is like Switzerland, "an artist" and the government by checking it, "the artist and is doing so is to make sure that after a short time, it will die in the same time.

You can say that, what the government does the government in this issue of Switzerland, it's just a period of time so that finally you play a new scandal to reach this new scandal, and that is the origin of the money produced by Switzerland.

Let me think about since the Central Bank of Switzerland said it is not allowed to check the world that Tanzanian artists have set aside millions of dollars in its bank is about five months now, but our leaders and our parliament are still in the same time.

That is approximately five months since the Switzerland money scandal, still the country is in conflicts of themselves because they are not supposed to be TAKUKURU in the office of the attorney general of the government or the creation of parliamentary committee to follow up!

At the right now, Switzerland, will be still waiting for these crimes are finished so that it should be taken to why the corrupt people should be dealt with from using this period of conflicts between them and them to stop those funds and that it will be able to pay those funds in Switzerland?

For sure, I will not be surprised if one day of Switzerland we will be told that the Switzerland account have been supported and that investigators have arrived in there and found no one hour to restore Tanzania!

Who got to read the book on the rules of Sinyati Enterprises Limited (Monbusho Scholarship), that is called by the Ambassador of Darcoboa, they will know how it can be able to follow up and to know now where they can take 10 years!

In the rules of that foundation is a true incident, the dirty and international company called Wienerschnitzel that was donated by New York and Mchuchuma is in South Africa and violating the red carpet.

I believe that if this is how you will arise from those drugs, the people of Tanzania followed by Switzerland, those funds will be depending on the red carpet and the corrupt people in various banks in the world, to an extent that not TAKUKURU is not the office of the attorney general that can follow up all over the world and to return home.

That is why I personally believe that the government plays for a political game, but it does not have the true intention of seeing the money is brought back in the country and those involved have been arrested.

If it's true that our government would have been able to give the intention, they would have requested the early bank of Switzerland to prevent them from time to the account to reduce them since it reaches its legality.

Because I am not knowing that, it has not been done, and that is why they don't know it and they got enough opportunity to pay those accounts immediately or the growth of those funds in various banks of corruption.

Those corrupt people can even give their friends from abroad, so that they can be able to know their properties as their names, and therefore, they can make sure that the money through the same way until things will be taught about the corruption in Tanzania.

I'll end to insisted that it has been opposed by this government's edition that has been given any time during the issue of those funds affected by Switzerland, I will not be surprised if the end of all the money that will be found in those account.

It doesn't know this of our governments that will be done by our government in the issues of corruption so that finally the scandal that were unrecognized by the cause of the traditional death by time, can't be shown by the cause of the donation that they had been stolen by the leader of that country.

We know our government depends on the donations from outside the country, and that is why President Kikwete did not travel outside (Magufuli told Arusha province recently, he went to travel outside, so as to bring down the roads to build more roads as a solution.

In that state, I don't see any way that President Kikwete can continue to fight against corruption, "the artist" by making the donations from Tanzania to primary schools, "the biggest hostage.

I know there are some of the short thoughts that I don't have patriotism by urging parents not to take advantage of the money when they get married, but we believe you should not understand that, the money is for them or not the rich people.

We are giving out their money for tax to help us that they are the rich people, most of them are industries and offices in the normal life, but they believe that I will not help us as a nation, for making it the ability to protect themselves.

Now, our leader when they decided to marry off the money or the development of the ones that do not be, they are not being fair to those European citizens who agreed to be used in the country to help us.

And that is why I insisted to say that there is a teaser "that those partners have used in Uganda, recently, after their money, the money can also be used here in Tanzania where most of the suspects are usually paid for public funds including the end of development.
It depends on.
