
Corruption of the launch of Arusha gemology, 2012.

The launch of Arusha City that took place last Friday (28 October 2012) has requested the council of that city for more than 100 million shillings to be used as the cost of those celebrations while many payments have been affected.

That city was launched by President Jakaya Kikwete in a ceremony that took place at the Sheikh Amri Abeid grounds to attend the fight by various national leaders, international and citizens of Arusha.

However, in addition to the celebrations, already there are reports of allegations that the celebrations were caused by huge expenditure for the council of that city, with many benefits not to be a must.

During his previous report, my fellow citizens have succeeded to see if a penalty came out to the acting director of the city, Omar Mkole, from the treasurer of the city, Khajida Kopa, the treasurer of the city, Kuguru Mlabu all, so as to make those celebrations.
The outcome of the historical operation number MD / 10 / 739 / 74,000 (the cost of that town) was presented to payments until today 30 / 10 / 2012 a total of 6,000,000 shillings were requested for the cost of those costs that were before the arrival of President Jakaya Kikwete.

"The aim of writing this letter is to show the real situation of different costs and regulations made by the session of the financial committee of 23 / 10 / 2012" that was easily read.

News followed by our citizens, after the launching ceremony of Arusha City, it explains that the amount of money shillings 100 million that was requested to be used by the treasury at the organizing committee together with other servants of the department of finance.

According to his analysis, the money that has caused an eruption of controversy in the attack has caused the payments to the famous artists group Orijino Comedy Group from Dar es Salaam city which is rumored to be paid 12,00.

The payment of that amount of money caused a lot of controversy even in the session of the councilors Council where previously it was claimed that the artists agreed that if the artists agree that it had been taken by the District Commissioner of Arusha, John Mongela, paid a sum of 51 million shillings for the activity of giving entertainment at the celebrations.

"In the surprising situation, the treasurer is accused of seven million people, different from the previous agreements with the district commissioner that those artists could be paid more than five million shillings," says our news source.

The worst is that the source has said that those popular artists of Orijino Comedy Group did not get a chance to do their show, more than their leader, Masanja, being given more than three minutes to greet the citizens who attended.

Efforts to inform our citizens to get the head of the district, Mongela congratulated that report so as to get more explanations which he did not want to succeed until yesterday, Tuesday.

Another controversy of the use of money that is found in the payments of the new generation music artist, Diamond, who is alleged to be paid 10 million shillings as the artist was not supposed to get an opportunity to go on stage to entertain after the list of the activity brought in free and therefore the money he was paid for free.

More reports are indicating that the step of invited those artists followed with the aim of encouraging the citizens to attend the celebrations, and especially from what is claimed that the city of Arusha is the stronghold of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA), so many people could not participate in the celebrations.

That analysis has continued to be noted that an amount of 2671 shillings were used to buy 3,000 shillings while 2,148 desks were used to buy a red card where the guest of honor was to be sold at the time of that launch, being equivalent to an average of 200 shillings per hour.

The investigation that was done by this newspaper, has revealed that the price of the market at a draw is between 2,500 and 3,000 shillings, knowledge of issues are saying the price that was used to reduce the price is more than 1600 Tanzanian shillings.

Other funds which are being used along with 1,050,000 shillings that was paid in the Maasais' group which however, it was not seen and it did not perform, together with a payment of 2500,000 shillings to the art group of JKT Oljoro, which has also been found to get a chance to entertain.

Another problem is a payment of 2,148 desks which buy a red carpet.
Until now, it has not been able to be put clearly if the area was bought for true or it was given out from one of the money, a city has had a shortage of more than 200 meters per hour which is the price in the market according to the research that was done by this newspaper.

Other benefits that caused an eruption of controversy, is the payment of the leasing project at a cost of 1,000,000 shillings at a high cost of launching the city of Arusha 20,000 shillings and preparing and distribution of certificate of 1,569,824 shillings.

News from our sources sources are saying that after some of the councilors of the opposition camp to start discussing the use, now officials of the councils who were involved in the use of payments before the report of the funds should follow up to the media stations.

"In general, the situation is also critical in the municipality of Arusha (Arusha). Already there are officers have started to be afraid that the issue can be written on a poster for the government directors, especially the head of Arusha Province, Magesa Mulongo who is among the leaders that are known through their public funds," says our source from within the council of Arusha City.

Speaking about the controversy of the use of millions of money, the acting director of the city, Omar Mkwajuni, denied reports that those funds have been used badly, while insisting that the verification of money used.

He says Mkwajuni, "for now people from the financial department have a lot of money and full reports will be available after tomorrow (Tuesday) so we wait and see for us."

On his part, the mayor of Arusha City, Hance Lyimo, speaking to Good Citizen on phone, he said he has no information about the use of money because it was not there during the meeting of the finance committee.

"I don't know anything about the use of the use because by bad luck, I was out of an emergency office so I don't know the decision where I don't know how they will reach," said Lyimo.

The councilor of CHADEMA, Hasheem Mkonga, said that they are opposing the use of that big amount of money for a three-day celebration when the council has a lot of needs to serve the citizens.

"Boznia was brought to their fans in the council of councilors and we refused because there are a lot of payments which have already been used for many times, I have been used for a lot of money, but I've been used for a lot of money, I will be heard so much," says aron Nanyaro.

That councilor explained the blame to the finance committee of the council of councilors to donate the use of those funds and added that the servants who don't have the loopholes of stealing public funds due to the weaknesses of the councilors.

Arusha City's city was launched last week after the spread of a long time from the government due to various reasons including political parties and the leadership of the Arusha Municipal Council to fail to make important needs that do not meet the city.
