The problem progresses.
Sei 23, 2015.

Tanzania's team which participated in the African Champions League as' All African Games "is back in the country at the end of last week at nine o'clock at night.
Players have returned to the headlines because of failing to get one medals in all six games that were in place.
The competition is ending at the end of last week in Congo who witnessed continuing with the commemoration of 50 years since its start.
The participants of Tanzania were not able to wait for those celebrations and instead they decided to go back one day before closing the competition but they discovered that they could not feel extremely well when their colleagues when they feel they were sacked on the neck, while their colleagues clap.
I don't know whether to go back the night to those sportsmen resulting from the problem of transport or a distance of the country, they had a special plane that was allowed to take them and return to the tournament.
It may not enable Tanzania to invest this night because it is shame and the thoughts that are in their headlines because of being unable to fulfill what they had promised Tanzanians when they leave.
During the time of leaving, they had a lot of promise to sign him from the leaders of the sports parties together with the government which allowed that journey.
I am one of the journalists that they met with some of the sportsmen that went to participate in that tournament since they were in the previous preparations and until the last day they prepare to fight for Congo.
Their statements were as a way for him to prepare well for the meaning of going back to medals, things changed suddenly in our teams that were sold to be the hosts getting visitors in every game.
These words have been popular to sportsmen when they are expecting to participate in different competitions with because they are prepared to have enough funds.
Many times they have been giving this statement in front of the leaders with the responsibility of developing and managing sports but when it was unable to do what they want to be availed to the leaders.
These statements are the main cause of going back in sports because they are being affected by any truth and continuing to arrest people who do not have the ability and its results, the ones that we were getting to the Pan African Games competitions.
His week before the competitions were, we heard a lot of party leaders who have been appointed to represent the country in that tournament who complained of lack good preparations as a result of the government to give them an eye and it was released everything to prepare for the team.
But these are the last day they were asked if the teams are ready for the tournament.
We have witnessed the national soccer team of women doing preparations in a difficult state to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF), to ask for government to carry the responsibility because the team is going to participate in behalf of the whole nation.
Despite TFF to carry out that responsibility, but it was unable to reach the goals by all percent from that team lack the international friendly games.
The other team are the boxing matches, we have witnessed the exercise in a difficult state again without equipment, together with lack of a long-term camp where up to the last days, the boxers had travelled from their homes.
If the leaders do not know that the parties and the teams are unable to put open the real situation that is in sports so as to be satisfied, are stakeholders who are outside how they can be able to give assistance while they don't have a lot.
Recently, the chairperson of Chama cha Mapinduzi (TEF), JMhagama, after seeing they have enough preparations, they were able to leave and said if the government wants participants of international competitions like to help them in the preparations and the ones that went to fulfill their responsibilities and return to their responsibilities.
Different from preparations, something they should be taught, is to be given a few positions for participation when they are headed to meet with the country that are collecting many athletes so as to evade a shame to fail early.
"What is celebrated by many leaders of sports parties here in the country, is to love them by using the criterion of these attacks every year without caring for the preparations that they made.
"That is the meaning the games here in the country because they did not go to win but by using the journey," said Mhagama.
When you get into a statement he made, Mhagama said that our team's results were able to participate in "All African Games" can be followed by the truth because it's impossible for them to accept the journey and the ones that went to be hard to do what is expected to have many.
