We walk on all over the world but we do not see, we are not ready to buy products.
Mr, 27, 2013.

Until now my advice has been that we have to learn to build different types, such as urologists in mind, we are not invited here, we are not supposed to live here for a very long time, even one million is better than two hundred thousand.
The strength of community ideas which do not see if the permanent changes have come out in the thoughts of its people, but also in those statements, the permanent community did not think about the decision to meet today's decision without informing them due to the long time decision.
Truly, just after time, usually happens that transition problems are important that affects the development in view of a series of shortages, apart from they have no longer be dealt with as usual and it will be careful so as to pave way for permanent steps to be taken.
In the previous years I have already given an example (this Thursday) of public transport in Dar es Salaam city and implemented by the Dar es Salaam Stock Authority (UDA) in the beginning of the year 1980, after being removed from Dar es Salaaam.
Here I would like to go back my point in all the days, that in the development community, it is clear that this new day does not have better than today and tomorrow, it is obvious that there is a lot of disease in the concerned community but just if there is clear information that situation is not normal.
Now, 1995, the former prime minister of Tanzania, the late Edward Sokoine, announced to allow small cars for passengers from the towns of Moshi and Arusha to offer service for a transition period "transporting passengers in Dar es Salaam city while the government works on the permanent plans" for public transport in this city which is affecting each other.

Today, 30 years from there are those who have passed, and those of the whole period of "transition" which is part of the permanent search for public transport in this city is like this project is not expected to be expected and instead it has become a source of problems of the road users of every kind.
I am saying that one of the benefits of traveling abroad is to learn from other communities are doing his things and follow up because of the things that we saw in the other day and not knowing what they were in the same day, but not knowing what they did in the other day.
We are walking, but we do not see you, if we're going to life, "which can it be very bad if we could have to buy and 'knowledge of our colleagues so that we can use the doors, some of us will use the doors, some of them are suffering from.
There are countries that are developed to an extent that where we get such equipment, but if we look at a little time, these countries have dropped out three months ago, because in the past five years, since in the past five years, since in the year 1995, they had many others.
We have no need to ask ourselves what these countries that were shocked and we are not many years ago, we are not supposed to ask ourselves what we are doing and we are not surprised when we have remained there and sometimes we are going back to.
