Kikwete should know that youths do not like you in the country but they evade them.
APR, 03 / 2013.

Let me start this article by giving my condolences to my condolences to our fellows who were faced with a disaster which was affected by a high level building in Dar es Salaam, last Friday.

It is impossible to see the lives of our colleagues has been lost in the environment that essentially has never been avoided.

After those greetings, we shouldn't come out in the topic of this week that is discussing the recent statement of President Jakaya Kikwete about the drop in patriotism among local dances.

While speaking recently by the youth of the Youth Development Institution (UWAWa) in the city, President explained to be surprised by the behavior of some of the youth development (UWAWa) in the city, the president explained to be surprised by the behavior of some of the youth development (UWAWa) in the city, the president explained to be surprised by the behavior of some of the youth development (UWAWa) in the city, the president explained to be surprised by the behavior of some individuals including knowing more so that their country has come and claimed that the situation has been caused by them.

Meanwhile, President Kikwete claimed that in the past it was not easy to get people with similar behaviors because he explained that when his country was found in a difficult time, and that changes started coming out in the period of president's administration Ali Hassan Mwinyi, where the leader was sent away by "a great fire."

"These changes started by Mzee Mwinyi, our bodies as well as a difficult time, there is no one who was left alone," said President Magufuli and added that there is a surprising thing that we have heard about it, "said President Tenga, and added that there is a surprising thing even if I think it is due to many of them not having the heart to volunteer in their countries different from it was in the past."

First, I agree with President Kikwete that our country for now is facing a huge shortage of patriotism but maybe before the start to discuss this issue, maybe it is good to ask what we have been done here, we will expect to do what we have been done here, we will leave what to go to the ordinary citizen?

Secondly, when it is true that when he said, before his administration Mwinyi was not easy to know that, our country's politics is important to recognize that the past, despite being political parties which were very important to recognize the freedom of freedom of giving ideas (CAG).
It is also true that if he said President that anyone who tried to hear of our country was put in a difficult time, but also the thoughts that we had gone to them today is why some people we are calling.

At the time President Kikwete has every reason to agree with the situation of lack of patriotism, more important thing is not true but to take action against your strength, or if you know it, even with great strength "(this quote).

Now in this period that President Kikwete has had more than two years before retiring from him, he is doing an effort to restore patriotism among other pastors, but if we put aside a fact that he does not know why we have been seen in that situation.

Third, I don't know that every Tanzanian is saying that every Tanzanian is saying that every country has a mistake. It is wrong for him and the country in general for not doing efforts to restore our billions that took place in Switzerland, therefore, some of them are still in power (and maybe they continue to register them)?

So, it's a offense, "we believe that" our country when the robbers who are trusted and "their human rights" have been given priority, and therefore, he would have refused to pay a lot of funds they have dropped by our leaders, have refused to confirm it publicly (though others tell me.

And so, it is a sin "you know that" our country, this time we consider the deaths of our colleagues (who had gone down), and the former Prime Minister, Edward Lowassa made the commission and given recommendations that could be avoided?

It's just that, the president, the problem is not a Tanzanian, he said that his country has a problem, he said that it's impossible so that it is supposed to be highly commended.
