Even if religion did not start with this government.
MTVs, 2013.

Currently, there is a big debate that is going on in our nation because one of the debate is this one to emerge with religion in the country and I have been able to contribute to a-inch width in this debate.
In one of the contributions and opinions which were written about this debate, it is saying that the problem of religion did not start today.

In my contribution of last week I mentioned and I would like to repeat the situation as it is now, the president can be a problem and even in front we have faith, most of them don't like to do your decisions or they will be able to make decisions so as to sign a woman "the Lord 'and his religion.
This is not the current president who is currently currently, but even the presidents who passed, Christians and Muslims have many religious conflicts that came up in a long or certain religion, is caused by the directors not to stop the law but usually give their feelings of wanting to deal, "said Mister Mkubwa."

My point today is more than religion, even if religion did not start today, it should be religion or another problem that causes the peace of our nation at the moment, I would like to question what is now more?
Weaknesses,!
The word "weaknesses, is a result of every social responsibility here in the country and there is good for religious leaders and the public as a result of the officials and the public, therefore, the dispute between doctors and the government at the same time and some of the leaders and the government at the end of this important day.

The first chapter is to follow up and eventually, the delay of making decisions to prevent or stop the same chapter, is lack of great keenness and even in these decisions, it has been clear that my decision in this second chapter is lack of switching off by using petrol. "

Recently, the government has been banned for several media stations (radio) on claims of being involved in incitement, the complaints caused many days to this government and every time the effects of our leaders had confirmed that "the government can emerge with a step to ban the radio.

Following the news agency because of his term, the part of his program has been involved and growing up on a certain issue is to lack the keenly what will enable it to be the foundation of solving the community problems.
Criminals broke the bank and using the road to escape and get the road, an employee of the bank urged the corrupt people to buy a national grid when they join our nation by involving themselves with the plane through our fields, will play all fields that were paid.

In addition, people with great strength of religious networks are using the phone network and its companies, will have to thank all mobile companies so that they can be used in spreading incitement of religious exams.
In general, the decision to closing the media is the same as condemning acts, instead of switching off a candle after starting a big part and the weaknesses of dollars in or to take any decisions that are not keen.

However, police have.
In his last speech of the last month, President has ordered the police to work hard for all that involve religious conflicts, this is a total of a total with an aim of getting enough and blame to the religious leaders.
That is why even the steps that were taken by the government are supposed to be enough and blame to both religious leaders, the government has closed down one radio from those religion, but one thing that I believe is that even the police are religion and they want them so much as he does not respect his religion.
