
A new constitution and the strength of the nation on May 30th, 2012

There's no objection that the issue that affects the feelings of stem cells are currently the availability of their constitution their first time.
The previous constitution, including now, they had been prescribed by people who gave them a chance to lead them.

This is to come now, it will be the first to be written by all scholars, ones that do not have high education, farmers, farmers, elderly, elderly, religious leaders and all others, the list is very long.

Our sportsmen, artists and culture have our culture that we see the good for the giving them to our constitution, I request that I will give my personal opinions for the games of the games, "I request me to let me go back to soccer and on one issue.

Sihana Nkinga, explained that the constitution of the country is the primary law where all the laws and all the legal requirements are in line with the requirements of the constitution, that law or the system usually uses.

Therefore, as a result of other things, in games, I request that our new constitution will rise up with words, instead of being silent, it is the government will not be supposed to intervene in soccer issues to make them similar to the development of the game to be found.
That constitution will also increase the issues concerning the conflict between soccer which can be taken to court.

Our constitution is on the 4th of 4 (1) indicates Mrs Asha.
All the activities of the state authorities in the United Republic will be implemented and stable and the two with the authority of performance, the two of the authority to implement the provision of rights and also in accordance with the implementation of public activities "(details) and managing the implementation of public activities.

Article 10, the following day (2) is mentioned the agencies with the authority's authority to ensure our government's authority of the United Republic and the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar which is the authority to make laws and supervise the implementation of public activities will be parliament and the council of representatives.

There is no reason that the other political party in the country has been given the ability to have those strength to go to the media, so when the government wants to put aside football issues (1) that was quoted correctly when the government wants to intervene.

The important ways of soccer plans to be able to fulfill their responsibilities in developing soccer will be impossible because it gives him a lot of decisions against him so as to remove its weaknesses, that will last his position and does not have any objection anywhere.

After a long time, we were unable to get that way, that is when someone with the pain of soccer in this country can decide to request our court to give an order known as the soccer administration which they should need to implement, so our soccer can continue.
There, despite the constitutional reforms that was given to the court for all the rights issues if it was quoted there, there is a must for you to request FIFA to take football issues!

Friends we think it is same here that, contracts (form one and international standards have the legal strength to be used in one country, first, in that country members of educating the contracts, it is not other instructions or calls such as FIFA to the countries of the country as TFF.

Secondly, apart from that, it is a must that we be given to the constitution of the country because this is the FIFA rules to protect our court to protect our court through article 4 (1) and (2) that was quoted yesterday, with our constitution that will not be productive to our country.

It is my advice that our new constitution will take their soul and stop this controversy, but it should be open that the government will succeed in all soccer issues when the media itself will not be dealt with by the community which are soccer things but they are not involved in one of the soccer in the field.

In addition, our constitution should be open that our court will not be able to deal with soccer issues concerning the game one day and to decide who will lead the soccer game when the team's leadership can play without any legal action against soccer where the court does not participate in their daily performance, among other things.

There is no reason for FIFA rules to be used by a private sector even when one group of the soccer people did not use the regulations that will suppress women, by considering that the government is not supposed to intervene in the court because such as suppression of soccer!
When we enter the government to put up the government to put similar things to soccer while we cannot remove the support of success of our nation's soccer teams?

I urge you so much the new constitution to pass through this matter without caring about the FIFA membership card, FIFA does not destroy the party's membership without saying the reasons for the national soccer clubs to intervene in soccer issues.
If you go well and if we showing our constitution, they will cause a lot of understanding today, they will leave you so that we will remain with our status as a nation but there are days they will go to the group without changing our stand.

Currently, we usually get big fever that are quoted by FIFA not to do so that he can download Tanzania on the world's map which we have no great success to do any huge success until to remove its participation?
We consider that the nation has a great status, our constitution has a great value and all that are using 100 percent of what we are playing in international matches and lack of donations from FIFA to do a small family of soccer.

First, we were banned for getting a good time to strengthen themselves and prepare well before the opening and participating in the international matches with more effort, more strength and fast as the nation is very high.

We shall think this issue should be careful to be our nation, our constitution, our constitution of soccer parties in the country together with the World Football Federation on a permanent things but having good people to lead our soccer.
There's a day we will get big soccer leaders who will try to be very much without the government and its institutions to be able to be keen on FIFA ranks.
