
Seif Ali Shein takes place on May 23, 2012.

The presidential campaigns of Zanzibar have participated in the last week at the Unguja and Pemba Islands, with candidates vying to elect Maalim Seif Sharif Hamad of the Revolutionary Party (CUF) and Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein of the Revolutionary Party (CCM), launching the party's manifesto to vote.

During this week Zanzibar people will listen to the analysis of the party policies, especially the different from the implementation of the policies, a good message that came for all the candidates that are preparing to work together, to build better administration, and give a care of all the honor to the retired president, Doctor Amani Abeid Karume in recognizing his contribution to build the new Zanzibar president.

Since the launch of election campaigns, Doctor Shein has been supporting President Karume for the efforts to bring development in Zanzibar together with developing unity, peace and calmness and he has promised to follow in the footsteps of Karume.

But the leaders of CUF have gone far and urged the citizens to inform them, to respect and recognize the contribution of Doctor Karume in the new Zanzibar.
Jaffer Khamis Ali who is the deputy chairperson of CUF and the opposition leader, Hamad Rashid Mohamed, at different times, during the celebration of bananas' campaign in Unguja and Pemba, they wanted the followers of CUF to implement the promise of releasing the President Karume and asking them to vote.

This time is a great relief for Doctor Karume and his family when he was retiring from playing.
They are leaders or few presidents in Africa who are complaining of honor.
Analysis is saying that without doubt Karume and the secretary general of CUF Seif, have put a big history.

However, if he said Machano, Karume wants to thank him because he is in power and it was very easy because he refused to change the politics of Zanzibar but he decided that "last is not his brother.

In general the launch of political parties of CCM and CUF that are expected to form the government later this year started well in Unguja and Pemba despite the mistakes that until now they are still small. "

The mistakes that have been reported in police, is to flirt pictures of candidates where CUF was the first to go to listen to the pictures of the candidates.
CUF also has complained to be the leader of the location (Sheha) in Mkwajuni, North Unguja Province that he is blocking the campaign meeting of the party in that province on claims that the leader of the party was going on well until the end of last week to an extent that many people should enjoy.

In continuing to emphasized on the issue of peace, Machano has urged the lovers of his party not to answer by using strength if they do not see the person she has or destroyed pictures of the CUF candidates saying "he wants to report to police, not to take action of fighting."
Secretary of the special committee of 4 affairs of CCM Zanzibar, Vuai Ali Vuai, did not hesitate to say "we have condemned the habit of blocking him and taking a campaign photo.
We have decided to do a big campaign, it will be great, all parties that we request ethics will be used during the campaign. "

The decision by those parties is building great hopes that it is a year of running the campaign of peace and their patience due to the previous elections and the previous elections.

Presidential candidates Maalim Seif and Doctor Shein, at different times they launched their campaign to ask for votes in Unguja and Pemba Island to be able to carry the fans and listeners at the meeting grounds.

All meetings have been in Unguja and Pemba because it is normal for those parties to collect the followers and lovers from every corner of Zanzibar and bringing them in campaign meetings.

Maalim Seif was the first to officially launch the policies of his party in Unguja and Pemba, and he made Doctor Shein and the policies of CCM. This week those candidates want to ban their policies so as to convince him to vote.

Speaking about the high level, some of the CCM policies and CUF are similar to those of reducing poverty in the islands of dealing with bribery, economic growth, interests to workers and strengthening infrastructure, different can be used in implementing those policies as CUF claimed that CCM is prepared to make a lot and therefore requested the voters to be able to serve the citizens.

This week citizens will also get an opportunity to follow up on the analysis of those parties' policies which are expected to form the government together but the policies of CCM party and CUF do not match completely about the structure of the government of the union.
While Doctor Ali Mohamed Shein said he will continue with the two governments, Maalim Seif said he will arrive in the debate by the government of the union about the possibility of heading to a three government system.

He says he has prepared himself to make great efforts to bring change in the government of Zanzibar and the union in talks with leaders of the United Republic of Tanzania including the tax collection, international relations, and an agreement between the union.
Other issues are the service system in the government, to strengthen discipline, and interests to the workers are among the issues Maalim Seif has promised to do inside the national union of Zanzibar while the president.

He says Ambassador Seif "I believe in talks, and without doubt, our colleagues in unity will understanding and agreed to talk about the interests of all the two sides of the union."

On his part, Doctor Shein has started in giving a promise to continue all the good that were built under the administration of presidents of Zanzibar including President Karume, and also to respect the union of the type.

He says Doctor Shein, "I would like to tell me that I will improve the success done in the past phase, to respect the constitution, and to implement the manifesto of the CCM party."
