Shilole also that you to learn from that money and when it is also that, that is why things will not receive immediately because the general elections is complete.
They will look for us the truth when most of these hours you are doing that police are saying that there are a lot of events but if you check it but also my dear reader said if a person gets to help him but it is a must to help them but it is a must to help them but it is a must to help them but it is a must to help them but I will not fear because of two other things is not fear among them.
It is very happy to know that other things but I tell me what I wanted to do a question.
It is not the assistant of one politician who I do not tire to be in the albino killings but I want to cross it.
One is as I am menstruilding, starting from ten days and last year it is not us to change them in the section of one year before the elections started living.
Immediately when it comes up to the one that if the messengers is there, there is common we should not be remembered that there is a relationship between the political and elections and one.
I thank you very much for that, I am saying?
I cannot stay, I talked about the goats I don't know!
For the current reason, when you're blocking me, I also know that police depends on children and we do not know that we are saying in him.
That is there taxes like we we have said.
The best which did she get.
Another albino is a physically challenged person who dies.
It is a must he bought it.
What could be heavy to the young man with yourself I wanted to use WhatsApp.
I was very delicious.
We are saying the government could have received a Christmas holiday and I will give you I don't know if these regulations have been but what should I do?
If the Tanzanian is listening to you about the chicken between the murder of his phone, he was given a lot of money to enable them to enable it.
That we expect to make Tanzanians hope one of the albino killings maybe the growth has said that he will give him the answer is anything that Simba also has been taxed.
Prevent it said they put aside in illegal immigrants.
Temba caused the other people not only with albino oil to chew, police force up to one way to pay their bills so that you want to come to talk about luck and another person if you said if we want to come up to talk about what they had gone to the country that elephants should stay here.
And if you come up and we shall reach out to 6 percent from only five years!
?
Now, if you go with Tanzanians, he knew the big part of Tanzanians.
In that first time, he is supposed to have two money of set up on first of a short explanation and a member of parliament and the police officer to the police who went to sign a woman.
That registration of the opposition parties with a lot of wisdom and the opposition to prevent us and education and India says the existence of people with more witches if you have ever heard themselves.
For you to talk about where you are the meaning of the minister in other issues, even we did not know the night of Ruvu Shooting later, the projects will begin the tax education, we are doing issues of new constitution issues!
In the good example of churches in these meetings in a public meeting to tell Tanzanians that this is a must of condemning the killing of Ghana.
What does the Almighty God rest.
Let me put it is enough for five, it is a good example that we are made to fight those killings and even the first thing is that the end of the stage is to be able to deal with those killings but shivered because I have a family and people.
What does it mean to say?
Separate himself and there is no other to grow, that is different and he does not come to another person drinking and then he went to go.
We are saying four as you are involved in one way to see that my brothers and recently are currently involved in those killings from Zika virus, which a person is doing it is to be the first before I have seen me.
The contribution is called on the head that used this news to move the news that he was a mother for the woman to enable him to take his life because of her daughter, his son who is an Albino, who is an Albino girl, who is albino, dain.
I will not recognize her husband?
It's a woman of the year I have agreed to be shown because his child which is good, also get treatment to God, you will continue to live and watch it, but the different from you are saying it is true.
Something to ask him is that I have never seen his father Razkazon in Mpanda to help the youth who is orphans.
That is a phone that I have ever seen the delegates, one thing is this game because it is not a person to believe him.
Also, let me say that Tanzanians should know?
That the killing has revealed, I did not want there, then those who use their male dancers are not albino because it is not good because it is not a must.
Because the technicians are.
There are men who did not want.
And saying that there is no man, that man also for other small reasons, but I say?
A big one that is looking for?
Not the police force.
But it has said that it is not and ask you to fulfill the strategy of wanting the time to protect that period to protect that program that protects you, while they did not prepare for a long time to give that player the point that they were known were people with albinism.
An albino is a person with her foot.
Also, there is clear that there is a small primary school which have been built, he put him that they were very happy about what to do, but when we see you see the desire to save the albino, let me ask him to find him for you.
We want the community to receive.
That can baptize is to cooperate with them in the normal primary schools in the normal days, that is not that time to be able to sit for the vehicle, today I said I don't know what we are doing.
I will be called and my family and I have written about a human being, therefore we are not supposed to do me, I request it is that education for a long-term plan to teach in the first half because someone is to get.
Therefore, the albino as you read the well, they get married or a black person, that is a mistake by the office when you vote is to see if I am pleased with my eyes too.
Those are normal.
And every Tanzanian should know that those religion came out of them.
Especially education on a day in that meeting, Tanzanians should be able to go to America, it is a must for you to go and he was going on to the bus.
It is written together and asked me.
When you read the name the Albino Society, I have written many more in the world but these blood should know here, but it will be a day and it will be like that, it's why you are using this two, while there are Mexico from America is looking for him to say.
The limitations in that town claimed that as a result of skin disability, she didn't know long.
Your father, I feel you want to make sure that the killing of.
Here is very close to me.
That already there are ready to resolve it here, he is also a leader of CHADEMA party, who is also a member of parliament for Bongo Constituency, therefore, for a short time.
I started making a lot of bed and this year's motto, from a lot of them that Yohana then, the bishop of one wave, have been very disturbing.
Watch the last short time, I've heard a mother in getting a little in surfing and downloading easily.
Make sure to be followed by the minister, a voice in every time we will give birth to play and there is no long-term education, I met my losses when I've done a police conference and give them a point where I will be, that I will be.
In England.
That's the reason that could request the government by breaking a bomb attacks.
To speak to human rights.
You will talk about the old name of the fights that give it the right to thank Fid Q.
To talk about the life of one life, we can be believed to have been seen in the front of God?
Therefore, all of that is that there will be a market in a Swahili language or dies with any investigation when I was doing the investigation is why I became.
Or Slaa who is also there.
Or or!
It will be buried.
Very much, if you look for what he used saying it is to start making sure that you get the disabled of the Albino, even if a famous person may continue to thank him, therefore, causing a lot of life for seven days to Diamond, therefore, causing them to send a politician but also the activists and some who have stolen it.
Business club thus every sign that it is needed.
At this time it is not every step so that the news can be able to sit down, I would like to when it reached the things.
