
Lipumba went to help Kikwete the elections.

Lipumba went to inherit the White House - he visited the year 2010 in the year 2010.

The chairman of the Civic United Front (CUF) Professor Ibrahim Lipumba, has shared the big issue of involving his party and "to save" President Jakaya Kikwete in the last general elections.

Professor Lipumba gave out that secret in the 6th minute, Kariakoo, in Dar es Salaam city where he went to pray for Friday.

While insisting on the importance of solidarity of faith, Professor Lipumba started by talking about the results of the general elections of 2010, and a political competition that was there.

He said compared to the efforts they have made to save President Kikwete's to fail, since even under his leadership, Muslims have continued to be trusted.

"You know the Sheikhs of you know more than political condition as it was, that we had to be held efforts to save this ship but in addition to carry the ship, the real situation shows until now there is no any fruits that had been done, and we are in a difficult time," he said.

In a situation that it is said that the victory of President Kikwete was found on means, while others accused the National Electoral Commission to save the CCM candidate, this statement by Professor Lipumba has emphasized that he knows more strategy of the Electoral Commission.

In a normal state, Professor Lipumba seems to encourage Muslims to prepare saying "our colleagues have started working" towards 2015.

Therefore, if Muslims want to get our rights, if we want to live as a citizen of the first bridge in our country, we need to prepare well because our colleagues have started planning, otherwise we will continue to be poor and citizens of the fourth country in our country.

"The year 2010 when the winner of the presidential election when I was announced, I went to the event to be announced, and I went to answer, it's not an election that was free and fair, but I went to desire to know the political situation as it was at that time.

"When I met with Sheikh Abubakari Zuberi, I met him, he did not know if he doesn't know if he knows me, she told me," has shown the front of your faith and it has no doubt in things. "

However, despite Professor Lipumba asked Muslims to prepare for the general elections, he didn't say that he should prepare through that party.

But he emphasized that the next election is more than politics or president who are happy, but the interests, especially the good resources that are available in the coastal region of East, the area said it was born with people with Islamic faith.

In one of his statements, Professor Lipumba said that there is one party that is preparing to take power from the country, but it depends with other western countries, who do not know or pay faith in Islam.

For some time now, there have been rumors that CCM has been doing political politics against opposition parties, especially when seeing their interests are in danger.

In the year 2010, several leaders of CCM used the phone network to sit down (JNIA) with a phone message that attacked one opposition candidate, when it deals with his faith.

Lipumba's statement has confirmed the rumors that were there for a long time as some of the votes of Professor Lipumba came back to President Kikwete.

In that election, Lipumba was announced to take the third position behind President Kikwete and Doctor Willibrod Slaa of CHADEMA.

When he was asked about his tour, Professor Lipumba confessed that he went to talk about the political situation in the country.
