Zitto Kabwe's letter to the Prime Minister.
May 31, 2013.

For many years Tanzania has been having a relationship between development and England which have been great benefits, Tanzania is among the African countries that get major donations from England through the international organization for development projects (DFIT).
Certainly, in recent years the government of England has helped Tanzania to put a stable foundation of accountability in government and transparency in reaching those achievements, your country has also helped our parliament, public institutions and public institutions.
However, the donation has been done by the current situation where the government of Tanzania has been, every year, it will be a lot of money through tax payment and payment of taxes paid in the world, more that have been registered in our country or not in the country.
This is a great challenge and a long time to our nation - the challenge that, for sure, it reaches all the efforts that our country has been doing to build, strengthen and maintain the foundation of accountability.
The recent research that was done by Global Financial Institution (Gogo) shows that the countries that are ongoing in the world lack revenue through the cost of 890,536 billion American dollars per year.
That research shows that for every American dollars that are carried out in Africa as a donation of development, 10 dollars are given out of the continent through the illegal ways that have been removed from the entire African continent, because there is a lot of money in the African continent, because there is a lot of money to proceed.
Every year in my country, Tanzania is losing 560 million American dollars through cheating in tax payment and paying taxes which could be used to improve the infrastructure of Tanzania and to improve the education sector and health sector in the country - issues that he would inform you from many more better life.
This level of money for the tax revenue that Tanzania is being unable to help grow the economy of our country and therefore later help to expand the scope of tax of our country, between the year 2002 and 2008, Tanzania lost an amount of 2 billion American dollars through the collection of funds, approximately 5 percent of the National Identification Authority (GDP).
A large section of those funds were tested from institutions and European organizations that are under the British and other countries that are ongoing in Africa have been having problems to stop corruption, because of the existence of financial laws (Financial Services).
But your government can be able to stop this corruption if they will take legal action against the privacy of money, because of continuing to take their money to the efforts of our African countries to bring development, so as to deal with the poverty of their people.
In my province of Kigoma, the western part of Tanzania, statistics show that 933 children out of 100,000 die before attaining five years, the main level of deaths is because of the availability of poor health services in Tanzania.
The government of Tanzania does not have great ability to improve health services because of the small revenue collection that got into taxes and cheating in tax payment of international organizations that have never been postponed by the system of understanding of financial laws, is one of the reasons for the government of Tanzania to have a small income of tax.
It is my faith that if the government of the rich country in the 8-8 group will take a step of putting laws and regulations of funds that deal with transparency, this international standards have reduced, and that it will enable my country to continue to fight for the presence of accountability and transparency in those issues.
