Asha Mkwizu while posting his husband to her husband.
Brightiles 21, 2013.

Last week, we started a story on how Asha Mkwizu said that I saw the father of Happiness Senate, who was Mtwara to her husband, (Doctor (not pictured), today we are continuing with details when he was interviewed in police, just after being arrested for allegations of murder.
By Shaban Kalile.
In his details when he was a speech, Asha gave enough explanations about his life and his marriage problems and Doctor Huli (her husband). He continued to explain how they have discovered the relationship between Happiness and her husband and how he used to be brought to police and Happiness once again, to answer the allegations that he was announcing the news (Happiness).
Asha claimed that on November 22, he went to the police as he had been directed, after their issue was completed one day after when he arrived, she had already played 74 matches.
But the police told them that he would not be able to listen to their case because Doctor Slaa is not in the country and that they should wait until it will continue to finish their case and to be given an agreement.
The investigation police urged them not to marry each other while they are waiting for Doctor Chegeni, after defeating him, Happiness was the first one to leave and after 10 minutes and he left him and he found a person standing on the lights to break the vehicles to Salnero Hotel in Dar es Salaam city.
Those who survived, together with the second side, Pales Beach Hotel, where Asha saw Happiness and wanted him to deliver his greetings to the head of the school where he is working for him by the name Mwalimu Nyerere.
But Happiness did not know that he did not love school, but he also told Bongo that he feels hungry time and does something to eat Doctor Asha told him that for some time there is no service at Mlimani City Hotel, since it was four hours in the morning.
Happiness was asked, where he can get a shop for cold drinks and then Asha explained his neighbor and whenever there were living with cold drinks and cold drinks, "Happiness said it is good to have shown that, she had agreed to go together so as later, Happines has never known for her sister who was supporting Doctor Mvungi (rents in Kinondoni area, Dar es Salaam, for treatment.
On that explanation, Asha appeared to evade Happiness so that he can follow me in his home as he was quoted in a good state when he was quoted in a good state when he was being interviewed by SSP Geology, and he did not have his explanation and instead he was required to put his correct instructions in all the areas given by Xhosa culture.
Asha continued explaining that he arrived at home and welcoming Happiness there at his home and then he went to buy two bottles at home and then he went to buy two tons of beer with one hundred thousand shillings.
He taught the beer with buo.'
Asha told Happiness is for the way all of the two were shocked and Doctor she didn't know, Doctor she said, Doctor did not know her and he cannot see me until he dies.
Later he requested to be careful, and he was shown to be known, Happiness had gone down and told him, "right now, she did not tell you," Happiness is like a man, you can't be known as my son, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be known as a man, you can't be a
That is where Happiness told Asha for a foolish thing, "do I think it is proud to be insane are mutilated by Zubeida Malick.
And after saying that Happiness praised Asha and talked about the issue of security was shot dead in her boyfriend, Happiness saw him where he is and where she was shocked and he tried to give him first blood but it did not know, Happiness died.
About the delay of fire in the body of the deceased, before being swept away, the accused Asha claimed that the incident happened by bad luck and told him that he should not be careful when he was arrested by police if he did not have the identity card.
He also denied the claims of Musa that he got to them that the police that him Asha was married to be true before killing Happiness, his other claims that he was unable to tell him that he has done her way.
