
Three inside the violence erupted.
By Bashir Yakub.
Three people have been arrested and they are present at the police station in Mpanda area following the violence that erupted between Ugandans and shivered, a situation that lasted all the deaths of three people.
The first young man of Orlando America, was found yesterday morning at the Nairobi area, in Dakemikali ward, after being beaten by unknown people.
According to the accused of the area, Mister Abdi Boers Konde Village, the youth attacked approximately 200 meters from his home immediately when he made a modem.
Several hours later, other killings were implemented in Boko Haram.
"I'm looking for the killings made following the hatred among these two communities of Orlando America, after a young man were killed and I have been killed and it is in the forefront to revenge for the people who were killed by one person," said Elder Abdi.
That incident has also been confirmed by the police commander of Mkwajuni, Mister Leonard Akwilapo, who said that the security would have been taken to that area to hold elections.
Mister Mayingu, she told the nation today that the full source of the killings did not have been initiated by the police officer, moreover, he confessed that it has been set aside from the port of a long-term land between the community of farmers and farmers in the area that took place.
"We have already succeeded to give three suspects and have been stopped at the police station where these killings are due to land conflicts especially among the farmers and farmers so that we are doing an investigation that any person found," said Mister Abdulwakil.
In addition, he urged the citizens to be calm and to avoid taking the law in their hands up to yesterday evening, a state of tension was still ongoing countrywide in the whole world area where most of the residents knowing their safety after the murder of those three youths.
Following those killings, all the leaders from Lamu Lamu county led by Governor Issa Abdalla Tomas Rosary, today afternoon have organized a rally in Sumbawanga Town, so as to meet with the community of the area.
