
Thursday, 3, September 2015.

The important things to comply with the audience not to learn in agriculture.

Before you have decided to get into the agricultural sector it is required to understand the important things that will help in the issue of bringing the income and agriculture is one of the work of bringing the income and agriculture is one of the work with a lot of challenges that are needed to prepare them before being promised in the relevant farming.

Those important things are.

1, when the attempt failed to enter in agriculture.
You need to do before you get in agriculture that you have already been able to start doing farming, because another meaning you will improve the income and more efforts in your work and to avoid using it on the way.

2 during the end of the elections in agriculture and bake.
Before getting into farming it is first to do a farming election which you will do when you go through the elections you will be ready to pick up something that will be ready to choose an error in the agribusiness process and to produce livestock or accumulating livestock.

And here in the general election, agriculture that is not correct for you is that where there is a lot of challenges in your agricultural sector when you follow it, it will also be careful so that it can cause a huge loss in agriculture that does not allow you to recognize that the prices make it and have changed according to the rainy season and market prices.

3 that will follow the research and advice of Gallas.
After doing your elections you need to do research on that cost you will be able to prevent it in farming and for this and this will be able to do your farming at an affordable cost so that if it comes from a loss you have the ability to meet well.

4 buses have gone through your budget of Tanzania.
You need to use your budget before you start agriculture by looking for research and affordable advice on agriculture, it would have organized so as to deal with the problems that we need from the pocket for the purpose of services like drugs, the medicine.

Remember that the payment of those who will participate in your farming, do not forget where your budget and will go hand in accordance with the number of employers.

5 have a good management.
After the occurrence of your plans, you need to succeed in planning well the management of your agricultural, and here you do a mistake not to succeed and it does not mean that agriculture is needed more because your farming is needed without following the development of your farming.

6 months have been given to look for the advice of expertise to agriculture which was arrested.
Before you start not hesitate to look for professional advice from agriculture that brought me in order to make sure that you be close to them, you can't understand the problem in your agricultural sector before you continue using your farming for more sure.

7 we have shown the introduction of your verification exercise.
Finally, after through those steps, it started doing your farming for sure, it will also understand that agriculture is business like any business so that you can be careful in your agricultural sector so as to avoid challenges that will arise in your farming.

I urge you for using your time to read this time and I believe in one way or another, it is supposed to be remembered for someone who wants to continue with those who are in charge of agriculture.

--Madina, Lil Undule.
More than 11 @ mkito.
711493 billion shillings.
