
We are in the body of her mother in her house.
October 27, 2013.

Minister and all the others that have no need to contribute to the development of Tanzania.

We expect the residents of England to ensure that they are recognized that profession and experience in the country have been helped by the relevant agencies as they go back to the relevant agencies and investment of agriculture.
This statement was issued by the whole convoy of the leaders followed by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives, Engineer Christopher Chidinma when he met the embassy, London last Wednesday.

"The great goals," explained the minister, "it is the food security and studying in primary studies like maize, sugar, and rice, where we want to invest in agriculture development instead of buying one new phone."

While giving an example, he said that a Tanzanian who did not live in the games that wants to contribute to the best way contrary to the user and one device is one of the big equipment that farmers and the whole community do not affect the leprosy.
While explaining further, Minister Chihira has been able to come to England at an invitation of five-governmental institutions, he said it's good to enter the internet, "research is not easy to enter the internet so that the government can't answer the request for the truth.
Minister emphasized that our agriculture is still low-reliance, that depends on to be supported by 64 percent, "a lot of you don't walk around," we are ready to help them to fulfill the goals. "
Addressing this topic, the Chairperson of the parliamentary committee on agriculture, livestock and water, Professor Peter Msolla said all development activities in the country needs science and technology "every time they get water, agriculture, covers and livestock.
Professor Msolla said our country needs a lot to teachers of science and "we need to teachers of physics and accounts to the expertise that will help students continue to do those studies."

While talking to that crowd that attended him keenly, Professor Msolla who was the former minister for higher education, science and technology, gave an example of the Mkwawa Institute with 3,000 students but he said among those students, 156 they are not doing their accounts or science, "he complained.

And the other leader of the departments, Geoffrey Adroph, insisted that all mistakes of poverty and economy arose from the shortage of specialists.
Mister Kirombo, who is the chief executive officer, a special center for improving agriculture in the Southern Africa region (SAGCOT) explained that the main step of these development is to provide education to the farm, "there is also an example of a farmer looking at the market and there is also a solution to the problem of planning and profession in the country.

Speaking about the example of the rice of rice, which usually comes from Asia, Mister Blue has mentioned the northern region that produce 5 tons and a half years for a year "Kilombero is able to produce more than an entrepreneur."
The motion was made when he said that the African continent is supposed to reduce the world that is continuing to increase the number of people. "How can we continue controlling food like oil and cold drinks, but also Twaweza in all that?
And Engineer Mbogo Jairo has reminded the need of a mental profession at home and insisted on how the thoughts and "the catalyst to the view as required.

"Nyenshile, a lot of work with the Christian and sulky and does not learn the discipline of here in life is not like home and not like home then it can use the strength."
