
The case against Meninah is transferred to Kenya or Tanzania.

The case against the vice president of Kenya, William Ruto.
The International Criminal Court (ICC) may be distributed in Tanzania.
Kenya.

That is due to the decision taken by them.
Judges of ICC has given recommendations as the president of ICC.
The importance of giving permission from that case to be aired live in Kenya or.
Even so, it should not be remembered from Tanzania.

That decision can also cause effects.
Urging the court to relocate and also a case of that type that deals with the president.
Uhuru Kenyatta, who also his lawyers have requested the case against him.
You have lived in Mogadishu in Kenya or Tanzania.

Ruto, together with his fellow suspect,.
The radio presenter, Joshua Arnautovic and they are faced with several charges.
Crime against Altay FK was alleged to be involved in violence.
The general election of the year 2007 that caused the deaths of more than people.
1000 shillings

Those recommendations are as a result of that request.
That was sent in January 24 this year, which was still underway.
Being discussed by the authority that are involved in that court.

February this year, is running the chief charges.
ICC, Fatna Bony has told that court that he has no objection.
It will be shown that the case may not be in Tanzania or Kenya.

However, that court explained that.
Those are still being discussed in accordance with the procedures given.
The High Court.

However, yesterday ICC has given that statement.
Against God is accused of doing crime against human beings.
It will start on September 10 this year.

That report has said that the judges have decided to plan the date to be heard on that case earlier more than it was planned earlier.

President Kenyatta said that his assistant are needed.
To be taken to the dock to answer the charges they are facing.
Against his humanity does not mean that they were doing during violence.
That happened after the general elections of the year 2007 / 08.
