
The new secret of drugs represented by 6 shillings.

Despite the war against drug abuse in the country, including President Jakaya Kikwete in line with the existence of the commission of using drugs, sponsors and the customers of that business have condemned the new communication system about the areas of selling and buying those drugs, the investigation of our citizens has revealed.
The long-term investigation of the newspaper in Dar es Salaam, and especially the areas of Kinondoni and Magomeni of parliament has revealed that there is a special sign of involving all drug abuse and that some of the drugs are sold.

According to the investigation, every time when you see pairs of shoes that have been buried on the road lines, then few meters only are business in selling and buying drugs by considering your needs.

Our reporter has been seen in some of the areas and buying some of those drugs being part of reviewing our investigation in accordance with the professional requirements and be satisfied with how the relevant agencies, despite the existence of law to oppose that business, they have been using knowledge.
You can be able to pave way of shoes.

The investigation of Mke Mwema, has revealed that the internet of drugs that are small traders have been playing with a special name.
"He wrote" and that those youths are among the residents of the concerned areas and others when they appear in the streets where they are.

Despite having a special name of the network, those involved have been using that opportunity of failing to rise up of shoes with electricity lines as seen in the picture that was played by the team of our journalists that involved our investigation.
It is a special type of shoes.

It is not every type of shoes that can be buried as an average of existence.
"Shops do not use drugs in the concerned areas.

The special type of shoes is called for All Star, "is the shoes located in a special system in the country," flash disk "in some of the areas, the team of our journalists have been directed to the use of those drugs and now and buying those drugs.
Our investigation has revealed that in Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam on how to be able to pave way of shoes that has been used well in Tandale areas, Kinondoni, Mkwajuni, Msasani, Kinondoni District in the neighboring country and the headquarters of the Party of Democracy and Development (CHADEMA).
He has with the users "and users" in the village to be; therefore, our writer being accepted as one of the biggest users of illegal drug abuse, while talking to some of the real users of those drugs.

One of the users who met our reporter in the "Kibondemaji, Kinondoni, who after talks" explained to him, he confessed that in every area they are sold on those drugs have been following up on mobile lines.
The user of drugs who in this news will not know his name, he told our writer, "I don't have a lot of money and how to stop.
"All Star" (pairs of shoes) about electrical energy, as a sign of being sold, Mdungi (drugs), but I can agree with your words because all the areas that is sold "Mdungi 'is doing that sign.
In the past, we were imitating Americans of putting up 'All Star "in power generation, for now I don't know what's relationship with this business, but I would like to confirm it is true that every time you will be sold" Mdigo, "there is true that everything will be sold" Mdudu'.

Our reporter also spoke with another youth who is a small person of those drugs and here, because a special reason we will give him the real name of the church, Issa Issa.

Our reporter met with that youth that lives in the neighborhood of Togo, Kinondoni District in Dar es Salaam City.
The village is officially introduced to our writer and Baraka that she is the one who is a sales person of drug abuse, Pingping (sales) who in his talks with our reporter, he was not ready to confirm that they use the pairs of shoes in electricity generation.
But after heavy talks with our writer, the village is saying that "I see" I am just many areas where I will go to buy, "Bongo Flavor" have been buried on electricity, but not what I don't know what?

"For example the farm is near the CHADEMA offices there is a small" he was a load. "
(Selling drugs) when you go to the Mkwajuni area, the road will find many shoes that are there about electricity, there are also people get a load. "

The explanation of the authority of control.

Our team did not end there but went to the office of the squad of dealing with drugs in the country and meeting with the senior assistant commissioner of police, who is the head of the unit of controlling the drugs in the country, Godfrey Nzowa.

Commander Sirro told our writer that, he has given information of every new system that is used by big business people in the country.

According to commander Sirro, they have a special team of police in every area that is praised in that business.

"Therefore, I have never heard from the youth (my police), but we also have sure that we are still a new but we are happy for your research," said Nzowa.

The law aims at the heads of "unga.

However, in his explanation, Commander Siro said that although his squad will participate fully in controlling the group of owners of those drugs, the law is aiming to control the actor of those drugs in the country than distributors.

"We are following the law to control drug abuse of 95, (TFF) and the Institute of Geology in the country, which is depending on a lot about the actor more than users and distributors, although the side of us did not see me," said Commander Nzowa.
One acre affects one million people.

But Commander Nzowa he spoke about the level of effects, that is in which way to get a little amount of drug abuse) having the ability to affect the big number of users.
While clarifying, Commander Nzowa he said that the user can use the level of a total of 130 grams of 3 and 8 hours which are normal and that, one kilogram of drugs can affect the approximately one million users.

He said that although the aim of his squad is to destroy the use of drugs in the country but the challenge in reaching the success is many and they have been increasing every day.

He mentioned some of the challenges as well as lack of enough budget from the government, but when the budget is small, big number of drugs have had great ability.

The problem continue to be.
According to statistics that confirmed that Commander Nzowa he said last year (2011) of 264 kilograms of drugs that were arrested by the squad of preventing drugs and this year, up to end of May, already it has been arrested in 250 kilograms.

By considering those statistics, Commander Nzowa he says, "we will see that problem when we continue to increase, and the biggest reason is lack of cooperation from good citizens, in addition to lack of enough education about the effects of those drugs.

"Our work is to coordinate the way to provide education against drugs and to reach the actor, distributors or users, the aim being to build a lot of money because it is able to reach all people to have enough amount.

"We are not supposed to be very disappointed with small traders or users, the work we have told our colleagues of the police force and non-governmental organizations (Nida), who are the coordinators," said Mrs Shekau.

Although he confessed that there are foreign organizations that give financial support and different ways to achieve their responsibilities, but he emphasized that citizens should be able to control the problem because many times the drug trafficking are seen in the community.

"This business seems to attract many youths because it has a quick wealth, there are countries that provide the judgment of death but it's looking for every day the people are going.
We have decided and we put a stern warning to be a lesson. "

Is it enough punishment?

The punishment for the person talking to commander Sirro as a result of the proposed law by the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania, according to that law, a high punishment is for 20 years to become 20 years.

However, Commander Siro has said, they hope to be the new law held by parliament on April this year, which is waiting for signing by the president of Tanzania so that it can be used to increase the speed of control of drugs in the country.

"The parliament passed the new law I don't think that President she has gotten the signing, but if he has been signed, but the bomb that is being arrested by drugs in industries like the sun, Agnieszka Radnedge, his punishment will be a sentence of life."

The real situation in the country.

The problem of drugs in the country is still big and the size has not been caused by the level of efforts to control the problem among the community members.

The use of drugs for now is a big problem in the country especially considering that, drugs are business which involves people with a lot of money and among them are high leaders in the government.

But in the year 2006, President Kikwete decided to announce war against drugs.

In the recent years, it has ever been reported among religious leaders, after President Kikwete explained that, some of them are responsible for that business by the Kikwete's statement made in Songea, Ruvuma province, made various religious leaders in the country who wanted them to do it.

On the other side, some of the business people of drugs have been arrested in the country and recently last week, two foreign citizen, Edwin Ambandusi from Nigeria, had been arrested at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport, that they were arrested at the Mwalimu Nyerere International Airport, as a way to distribute them not to be trusted.

According to the report that was released by the assistant commissioner general, Godfrey Simbeye, said those drugs in together were worth 107,94 million shillings.
