
20 years of many parties in the country have no opposition is same as summoning demons.

20 years ago, that is July 2, 1992, the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania passed the law to allow them to return to the system of many political parties.

20 years have never been taken, we have managed several steps, but until today, the opposition is still interpreted as summoning demons.

And in our country, the thoughts of getting into the ruling party, CCM and the government have been set aside and even given bad names, I have never been told.

"He said, it does not speak with the conflict!" A person called "a conflict" he did a Tanzanian with a human being like others.

For sure, in discussing this new constitution, we have every reason to go through our history because I believe that history is a good teachers.

It will also be remembered, in the middle of the movement of political changes in the beginning of 90 years in the beginning, we expect the news that Oscar Assenga, who had gone into home.
The relatives of Oscar Pistorious, have been the talk of the city and outside of the city, there are some who came to go to the field to receive.

One night was heard by Augustine Mrema on the radio, the voice of the minister for internal affairs, Mrema opened up, that if Mwamalala was arrested on his leg in Dar es Salaam, then he was arrested to answer his charges for treason.

It is fear that the government of the government even at that time is fear of improving the opposition thoughts and the growth of the opposition, Mrema was used or he gave them to threaten and accumulating wealth, "he said in Dar es Salaam city, he did not have the charges to answer.

And Mrema, as the minister for internal affairs, he did not know the truth of being the 'bunch of government "he put it true that, I remember that night in the beginning of the year 1990 I heard Mrema speaking on the pitch to break the demonstrations and addressing them.

Mrema started on the radio when he's start on the radio when he scored a stern warning and that the demonstrations are not legal and he would have met with power of US dollars tomorrow, CUF went to the streets since it was the same day.

At Mnazi Mmoja the following day they died, and cause of them, Virginia Baker, chairman of CUF, he was not found there to be a report that he is wanted by the police.

Dar es Salaam was very small at that time, but James Jichunge.'
Those reports show that, James Jichunge.'
James Jalala speaking, this is the time for the youth to look for the elderly in the activities of political changes in the country, the elderly like, James Makusanya.

These are very important people who will be able to enable them to receive their story and then let it be remembered for our history as our history, we should not know why our correspondent.

I have been able to write, that we are determined to make great changes to our constitution and to do that, with good intentions and love for our country, I have been able to write, that in this constitution, we have been able to write, that in this way it meets the aim of the aim of our goals as a nation?
My answer is no.
And in this we have no reason to quarrel over poles while the houses we are building is one and all of us should be understood, that in the past, the claim that these allegations resulted from "conspiracy by the 70's constitution, has been called by time.
It is enough to recognize that when it has changed from Tanzanian in 1977 it is not a Tanzanian of the year 2011 when this issue of the constitution is not like a person who uses.
The issue of the constitution for now is being led by a big group of youths who want to change.
And the requirements of the constitutional changes have a long time because these are not a new process.
If it is possible for the court, then that incident is expected to be opened in court but what is happening now is a continuation of the process that it is not many, among the current youths who have memories of this fact.
Already in the year 2002, the movement to claim many parties and the new constitution was made to start.
Chief Abdallah FEST has led the committee that was formed, not by the government, but the activists, to coordinate the process of claiming many parties and the new constitution.
Even at that time, Elder Ali Hassan Mwinyi, as the president, made a stern warning, "that those claims should not be able to get the people or groups of people without a permit for government.
Pressure on the claims ended, we remember that Mzee Mwinyi was able to study at times.
He spoke at the University of Mlimani and put up the intention of the government to form the "Constitutional Review Commission," the commission used the whole country to ask ourselves as they want to continue with one party or many parties.
It will be remembered, chief FEST has given an answer that there was losing time and money for citizens so that it can also be remembered, Mabere Marando who was the secretary of the executive committee of the activists to coordinate the process of claims of having many parties and amendments of the constitution.
Marando said that he was quoted by the Daily News, April 12, 2002, "we have tried a lot of political lines because our constitution is bad," Marando said that in that seminar he was attended by about 800 people according to the Daily News newspaper, April 12, in the year 1991.
By chief chief FEST has been accompanied by the government and the ruling party in accordance with the Daily News, April 26, 1991, the Member of Parliament for Shinyanga, Paul Makanya, by saying that, in that issue of having many parties and the new constitution, Chief Falcke won't know the ideas of the Nyamisana of his colleagues.
Testify will not kill the Nyamwezi and Junction center, IT is the ambassador of Funer Mori and captain Bonna mawakala wao walionywa kuwa huenda wakakemikali ward, Shinyanga, Daily News, April 26, 2016.
May the Almighty God is told chief Abdalah, and all the others who are standing to maintain peace in our country.
