Life of the press in the life of the new constitution.
Dec 20, 2012

I did not go back to this column which I have been able to think about and give alternative thoughts that for my opinion can be able to give a contribution to the field we have, as a nation, in the fight.

When I was lost on this platform for a period of one period as a result of being stabbed with a lot of studies and I failed to run two bunches on one time.

Today I come back again in this platform to continue with the debate which we have been with and what I believe is needed for my contribution in the ongoing debate on the creation of the new constitution.

Tanzania is heading into the important period of history of its survival, where in commemorating the 50 years has made the president's commission to collect opinions about the constitution of the president, Judge Joseph Sinde Warioba, was created by the president of the United Republic of Tanzania, Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, April 6th, 2012.

While announcing the decision of creating a new constitution commission at the end of the year 2011, President Kikwete said that for the nation there was more than 50 years, there were every reason to look at afresh if the constitution depends on the needs of the society and educate them.

But it is clear that when President Kikwete announced his intention to form the opinion polls of the constitution ready for a long time the opposition parties were explained not being satisfied by the constitution that is still ongoing with the ruling party and that it was going on with the ruling party especially in elections.

If it was revealed that the destruction of writing the constitution is writing the constitution since independence the year 1961, has insisted that there is no political party to ensure the constitution can be used to write a constitution that will be used to write the constitution that will make the requirements of the citizens.

Already the commission of Judge Warioba continues with his hard work to collect the views of citizens and it is an important thing that the citizens are also needed.
To get an opportunity to be heard on this column, I expected to give a series of articles to discuss the problem of media houses in democracy of many parties including democracy in the environment like Tanzania and after this debate will give recommendations to the stakeholders in the sector about the position of media houses in the new constitution.

And those recommendations are not yet due to the context of the history, the meaning of the concept of democracy and minerals, about the importance of the media and therefore, this article takes a summary of history of the media position in the constitution of Tanzania and responsibility which was handed over since the country attained independence the year 1961.
