
Tanzania is expected to be sold at the treatment center of East Africa.
28th of 13, 2014.

The government has made Tanzania the medical center in the East and Central Region, the strategy that is being implemented in time which are already cancer and heart have been a threat in the region.
The implementation of the government plan has started on the improvement of health services in the country including infrastructure of the hospital, the purchase of modern equipment for the purpose of investigation of diseases and preparations for the experts.
Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Doctor Seif Rashid denied the decision by the government in his talks with civil servants who are in the Chanjamjawiri secondary school in India, at the end of the week.
Doctor Rashid was also there in the city for the opening of the international conference to deal with the cancer disease that increased very fast on the world, especially in countries outside the Sahara Desert.
He explained to the investors from the increase of cancer disease in the country, the government, in its program of improving health services in the country has started providing cancer treatment services in Bugando hospital in Mwanza and later it will be started in KCMC Referral Hospital and Mbeya City.
He said the step by the government to improve health services and to make Tanzania become the treatment center for countries in the region is to also eliminate the appeal procedure of outside the country whereby treatment to all diseases will be available in the country at a high level.
"The cancer problem has been increasing at the year up to last year, 438,90cancer patients were discovered every year and more than 35,000 tons due to this disease," said Doctor Rashid in his interview with Raia Mwema, Dar es Salaam city.
According to the statistics that were given by the Ocean Road organization, every year, there was a huge number of cancer patients, who however stated that it reaches the institution while the disease is in high level, because of the third and fourth step, it was said by the experts being the ones that caused its vision to be difficult.
However, only 10 percent of those cancer patients get the treatment services of the disease, the small number of people who are able to reach the cancer health services is reported to be lack of education about that disease and many citizens are not allowed to have medical services.
In addition to improving infrastructure, the government has been contributing in its special budget for the purpose of buying modern equipment for testing of various diseases including cancer and heart.
In that plan, the government is facing challenges of costs where it is said to be the Muhimbili National Institute (MOI) only, equipment have paid 15 billion shillings, but in the middle of those costs, the government said to be faced with a huge problem of administration and system, problems that cause it has dropped for health services together with the presence of modern equipment.
The executive director of the Ocean Road Institute, Doctor Rehema Madusa has denied the problem of erosion of ethics in the community that contributes to the small success of providing health services in the country together with the presence of modern equipment.
"These doctors since they are coming from, not in this community, this is a problem since it is a erosion of ethics in the nation, the health sector cannot leave, its people are part of the community," said Doctor Magufuli.
The Apollo Hospitals is popular among those who are many because of getting an appeal for cancer patients from the country, where due to many of them being treated, currently has become a solution to each Tanzanian.
