New generation and art against the colonial era.
Brightiles 14, 2013.

Being the second phase of the first week, I have been forced to increase efforts in giving you the Chinese drawings that called Mwengi. During the preparations for the examinations, our teachers used to elect the new Chinese names.

The big debate that happened doesn't affect every student to get a name and from now, my brothers, my brothers, my brothers, brethren, and I think it brings us because I think it is m Dewj.

When I go through different types of home, I was looking for great morale of writing this week I met with a new hip-hop artist, called 'Siri ya Mtungi'.

"A big thing is what he will be known, he will be a problem of his country with a bad car, so that he didn't get a person to sit inside him."

That is one of the forefront that is available in this song which is on the front line, explains about the reason of the one officer of the African countries who went to ask for donations from sponsors in the western countries where they agreed with the sponsor of evaluating the real situation.

Two ones, the officers of the poor country and the sponsor, when they met at the plane, the sponsor had a high level and the one who went to ask for donations was the first bridge.

These are the challenges that he would believe from the hip-hop artist, we live with using our ability, although only the poor.

It was impressed by the hip-hop songs, it is the cost of the heavy message to me that South Africa is still very much to reach the full liberation.

There are two types of musicians to the Way County, these are supposed to inform our problems and educate us to the African Continent, which problems are many, entertainment and need to inform the problems in order.

Likewise, politicians have discovered other use of this kind of musicians (entertainment) to increase people at the meeting.

The second kind of musicians are those who use music entertainment to get a big message, it has shown great community problems, economically and politics not only of its country but also the whole African continent.

However, the art that has emphasized to the message more than entertainment has its cost and it did not benefit from the market, this may be true because I have ever been involved in writing news about the art projects for development, whereby on my good experience but we have never seen the projects of those kind that depend on the entry fees (maybe).

Likewise, if you look at the trend of music market, many musicians of the new generation who in the past have made a good message, they have decided to leave the camp and make songs, themselves, "Simba Sports" to leave.

When we go back to the sports song, in that songs he has touched on many challenges that I had done in the African continent, although there are several effects especially concerning the art.
