
Let me say about my heart, the management of Malinzi and the future of our soccer in the country.

Rashid Mkonga.

"Every leader comes with his changes in order to complete his work performance, Malinzi has mentioned his decision because he got the contract with the national team from the view of the current president of TFF, Jamal Malinzi.

As a result of a lot of things that happened before the appointment of vying for the presidential seat of the Tanzania Football Association in TFF, there are many to learn about the current soccer club of Tanzania and the kind of leaders that are on that seat.

Malinzi is the second President since the establishment of the Football Federation in TFF after what was the football party in fat.

Tanzania's hope of Tanzania depends on more views of the leader in power, although the leader is not working like him but they work on behalf of the whole institution, but a high decision of the leader is seen and will not be better.

It is possible for knowing that the decision results from the decision of the panel of leaders of TFF is, especially it has been a reason to change the system of top leadership so as to enable President Malinzi in his decisions.

When you go back to say a lot that was said earlier on, the interests are not known by this leader until it was not seen as the presence of discrimination and even explained that there is no doubt that is spread in Tanzania's soccer but what is happening, it is showing the vision of or a hole in our soccer.

There is an issue among the stakeholders of soccer explaining their views about Malinzi for the fact that he has a problem with the soccer of our country or he is doing it is a way of building the status and private honor because of the decisions that he is doing inside our country's soccer.

We can say Malinzi has a lot of pain and the soccer of our country even to decide to give the contract to Kim Poulsen to give his money from his pocket, although it is not important to know how he will give me the money in his pocket. "

When I remember Kim went to the country from Denmark in the year 2010 while teaching youths under the age of 17, Serengeti Boys and later as the coach of Taifa Stars team and later to be the coach of Taifa Stars team, Kim Poulsen.

Poulsen has thrown out the national team since May 14, 2012 and complete a journey of 645 days since he started leading the Stars at approximately 30 days and later he has not been added another contract with TFF to continue to coach Stars.

We will continue being held up with the soccer history of our country to be taught with coaches as well as every coach who bought the national team leaving with history of its kind because of the view of leaders in power.

There are a lot of asking about change that he has done, Jamal Malinzi from when he decided to ban on behalf of the top leaders of TFF where in that step they were questioned, he believes that he is disrupting peace because he is following the good executives who have not qualified.

However, he said it was early to explain the future of our country's soccer for 100 days of Malinzi but it is important to put a directive in how that he has started in a speed of building hatred and executives who preceded him from his leadership.

"Let me say God bless Moalimu, my view about my view and the future of our soccer in the country," he is taking up!
