Ten and seven people have lost their lives and eight others being injured in the accident that happened in Tabora province, a story that occurred in Tabora province in accordance with our reporter to a house about several factors that are five hundred thousand.
Normal and up to have taken place in Katanga, eating foods that they have been taken to the health center in the Miss Aisha Bui hospital.
In addition to some of the residents of Tabora Region Kitete said that the deceased has been taken to hospital for a lot of cash due to the bodies, the government discovered his call to brothers, relatives and friends to arrive in the hospital to recognize the bodies of the deceased.
May God rest the soul of the deceased in eternal peace.
Strict wells and now is capable of its ability of Florida here in food where it has paid a total of one billion shillings in front of them being forced to leave if they are money.
With the aim of the name.
Richard has ended.
Starting from now, they should be selected to be selected to be appointed to defend those companies that we find information.
The government has explained that you need to increase by one hundred or two percent to one hundred and three hundred thousand shillings from ten thousand tons up to ten thousand tons up to five hundred thousand tons by five thousand tons.
That has been explained by the Vice President Doctor Mohammed Gharib Bilal when he was opening the exhibition of farmers and breeders and who took place nationally in Dodoma province where he has said that there have been various efforts to increase in life including building their ability and citizens so that they can be able to join district parties in the economic sector so as to reduce tomorrow we are encouraging.
Schools and?
Already you're getting married to the government.
Farming.
Agriculture.
So as to be able to meet the needs to fight for these nations right now.
Previously the second winner will be agriculture, Christopher Chihira said that in the past five years, the government will fulfill its promise and ensure that the availability of gender use to the farmers.
It is increasing a way to fulfill that goal.
They don't inform you about the best tax of agriculture and livestock.
Has increased from seven billion shillings from its own kind and six to one hundred thousand, one hundred and eight billion is for the same name.
For example, for this year it was one of fifty years compared to five and ten thousand Tanzanian shillings.
From the meeting.
The partner again and again.
