The fear of visitors to be signed is growing in Mbeya.
28th of 08, 2013.

While the preparations on going on the exercise to register all children below the age of five, fear is still among some of the government officials in Mbeya province about the visitors to use that loopholes to get in good departments in the country.

The fear of those government officials are as a result of the current situation in the borders of the country that is in that province, where there is no control of visitors that are in that province, where there is no control of visitors that come, a step that caused many to live and be informed as a citizen.

Mbeya Region is among the five provinces that will be involved in the previous implementation of the national strategy on registration of children under the age of five, other provinces are Mwanza, Geita, Simiyu, and Shinyanga.

The fear being built on the foundation of security of the country due to the loopholes that are in the implementation of the implementation of the exercise, loopholes that give a great opportunity for foreign citizens will register or register their children.

"The border is easy so much people who are not supposed to get birth certificates, certificates, positions for school and universities, and then it is recognized that a citizen is not easy," says the immigration officer with the borders of Ileje district, Tunduma and Kasese district in Mbeya Region.

The immigration officer told us the exercise to be self-employed.
The necessary so in the country, and that due to that step, he says that many visitors have been able to make it from a good government departments.

"You can say that the border conflicts like Ileje district, Kyela and Tunduma are safe, but it is easy to make it from a very important position as a result of lack of a good election, the request for him," said the officer.

In dealing with that problem, the officer advised the defense and security committee of the district to be used to do the legal requirements for the TRA department, TAKUKURU and Immigration as it is by the police force and the citizens.

The problem of lack of joy in the whole issue of employment to people in the country is also known by another government officer in Kyela district, saying that they are the loopholes that contributed to many visitors from the neighboring countries in the country being recognized as summoning demons.

"At the moment people do not wait, like it was in the past, when they come to register or register their children, in our areas, while the border is easy for visitors to get in love and register as they are the hosts," said the officer who however requested not to be mentioned in the newspaper.

In his report, the Registration and Licensing Agency (RITA) is complaining about a knee injury during the registration exercise of people in the country.
It is unacceptable, the high level that were registered and got certificates has continued to be very little compared to other African countries.

The weaknesses in the registration of children and many people, is explained by some of the immigration officers in that province that they have caused many visitors to do in that country living in them and being identified as a citizen, an act that gives the loopholes to register their children like pads and not like visitors.

"There is still an importance of the exercise to verify people who are registered from the village level up to the district commissioner then they are required to be keen with the immigration if the truth is a citizen, when this time has been removed," says the immigration officer.

The chief executive officer of RITA, Philipo Kalunga is mentioning the reasons for small registration as well as a distance of registration centers from the residential areas of citizens, where for now he is forced to go to the office of the heads of the district.

He added another reason that if it depends on registration procedures, it makes a three-day procedure to register up until being given a certificate, registration to remain with the lack of financial resources and people for the purpose of registration and registration fees to be an obstacle to many citizens in the country because of their poor performance.

In dealing with the low level problem of registration, RITA has come with the strategy of registering all children under the age of five, (under Bongo Five which are registered and among them only six percent of children under the age of the age are registered and among them, only six percent have been given birth certificates.

According to the chief executive officer of RITA, the new strategy is being attended by registration services to the county level, the aim is to enable children to be transferred to village levels, village and health centers, including health centers.
