I am happy that I had lived at a time.
MTVs, 2015.

Records, I told me that my first song to get the late John Damiano Mkumbo who died on the end of last week, was the one that talked about the death of Samora, Mozambique, Mozambique.
I remember there are some who died.
Samora, he would know you.
He will go back, he does not inform you.
Mozambique, Angola and Africa.
I love our brothers.
We will not see me.
That was the past 6 months and I have not yet heard of the age of eight years even so, I was seen to know that there is an artist called John Komba.
There are musicians and then there is Captain John Wanga has said it is easy to sing about that love and it is easy to sing a song that does not have any message but they are not easy in singing a political song and then it expanded Honorable Komba.
These days I have heard a lot of songs that I love me, not because of Midwives, but I did not remember the message that is inside those songs.
The women's generation and their upbringing came out, first than all, patriotism and love for our country because of our politics of socialism and self-reliance, these artists do not care about benefits but they used to give a solution.
That's why in the cervix that there was pregnant women, they did not see a shame to make songs involved, the importance of citizens eating chicken and eggs and the importance of farmers to use well the beginning of their crops.
They followed about how citizens can protect themselves from malaria diseases and how the liberation of age are important than any other thing.
Captain Komba received a stick from the group of women, Mzee Makongoro and Mwokozi, there are a place where he asked for her colleagues in the way they had able to make political songs and go down from general.
Every time when it reached during the general elections, Amantius Msole says that when the new election will emerge with the star, during his funeral was announced the day before yesterday, there are some who asked the party to the songs in this general elections?
Komba had a unique talent because close to all opposition parties here in the country are supposed to try to have its artists but up to now there is no opposition artist who is able to say he has a huge influence in the community than that politician who was married.
Captain Komba was something that has made her hit by other opposition musicians who kidnapped the game being used for his opportunities to travel out of Midtjyland Soccer, which he knew that they had brought to attraction to his songs.
His song "CCM 'number One" which was confirmed to be one of the popular songs in the country, had words that they did not have Swahili language.
Ali Hassan OthmanMapara.
Kolimba Tiote, Mobolaji Dawodu.
I was born in prison.
Number One Fm.
Number One is CCM.
The word of a crown that was used in this song was used from one of the African languages of the African continent, which is this new contract that caused him to be called into some of the African countries.
It is bad luck that at the end of the year 1990 and at the beginning of the year 2000, when the popularity of the new Komba while at his peak, Tanzania has not yet succeeded in the world of social media as it is.
There is no musician or another artist of Tanzania who has been invited by the ruling party of another country to go to entertain during the campaign.
To the people of my generation, or we are not good or we don't have a lot of small time when women are, but we sat at their peak, it was a good thing that we live while one and Komba.
If you read in the social media, we will see some of the youths of my generation, they use abusive language and killing of the late Komba because of some statements that he got as a politician in his last days.
When I got to write this article, I remember a statement that I had been given recently by the writer Mohamed Said about how to write about someone who died.
Mohamed did not know that it is good for someone who gave him in writing about the things that he would like to remember the late for him and not what he would like to remember.
