
Tuesday, April 9, 2013.

Best farming and potatoes.

I was not found.
And Mchuchuma is one of the produce that shall take place in Tanzania, which is owned up for food because it is one of the crops on the disease of hunger due to its reputation of switching off fake phones, and South Africa in Tanzania, this product is operated on more in Mwanza, Shinyanga, Dodoma, Morogoro, Kagera, Arusha, and Ruvuma.

The uses of the expenditure.
Potatoes, is used as food and prepared in different ways to be insane are self-reliance, lack of potatoes, used to produce food as a cake, cycling, popularly known as urologists.

Types of potatoes.
There are many types of potatoes, that do not depend on earth in the country, here in Tanzania, the types that are tested in the world here in Tanzania, are those that are tested for more than Ukerewe, standing, Kakopi Kapesti, and Remy Ma, Ali Mwandoya Village, Kibiga.

Production.
This product is in many areas in Tanzania and cold drinks, well in loam soil.

The new farm will enable them to be taught well by garnering 13,276 votes compared to the leaves, then it should be during the manufacturing of the race so as to increase natural fertility.

And stop using Marando who is approximately 30 to 30 hours for the best way, it is advised to use abusive language to 75 percent from 30 to 30 tons, therefore, it is advised to use Marando so as to get more and to avoid the spread of diseases.

Look for the farm.
It is important to eat with each other in the first two months so as to give you the strength of going on well, after that time, the blood can cause land and therefore prevent the boundaries.

Potatoes fail to be attacked by different types, including fingers, stem cells, do not accept to be affected by diseases including diseases arising from HIV or viruses which may be controlled by concentrating on the cleaning of the farm, change, and control of Sango.

.
Potatoes, usually have already been harvested for the three to four months since planting depending on the weather.

The cold drinks as compared to types, weather, and soil bricks are estimated to reach 20 tons annually.
