
They used the violence of parliament to get punishment to Eucharist.
Commission of ethics and corruption (EPOC), has insisted that politicians who participated in violence in parliament on Thursday last week during the debate of the safety of security that will be taken against them.
Yesterday, the chairperson of EPOC, Mister Matemu.
Politicians who missed the throat and downloading from the toes, they used the language without honor, they can lose their seats if the commission will give enough evidence to the committee.
Mister Matemu said events of that commission have started doing their investigation and they will organize a report that will be presented to Mister Mutta.
That commission will destroy the traffic camera (CCTV) that was supposed to be day where those violence were closed and even calling the parliamentarians that were questioned for investigation.
Mister Matemu (in the picture), said that his commission is trying to open charges against politicians who were involved in criminal acts, by doing this, it will help the director of public funds, "we need me in order for the investigation of parliamentarians who were involved in those acts.
"There is until now that she is proud about that discipline although they have freedom in parliament, they are public officials failed to discipline while they were buried and the camera.
They were required to discuss and not to participate in the competition to fight, "said Mister Matemu.
He said EPOC will bring back to members of parliament who will be mentioned to be involved with the skirmishes that he would like to win their seats immediately.
"Under the new constitution, ethics of public officials are required to be a high level," said Mister Matemu.
In those violence in parliament, the member of parliament for Dakonko District, next month, Simba Arnautovic claimed that he was sent a finger to the member of parliament for Bahati district, he could destroy the spokesperson of Mister Arnautovic and that he was not treated in Nairobi.
Other members of parliament who EPOS will reduce the member of parliament of Sinyati Enterprises, who plays in parliament for the committee of security committee Asis Kamerhe whose appointment was put for the third time before the violence broke out by the member of parliament of Gogo, Moses Mtweve.
Miss Odhiambo said, Mister Putin tried to arrest the clothes inside the debate and "he decided to finish that activity well" out of the debate, they were forced to get parliamentary buildings but they were blocked by police officers.
The habit of preventing those motorbikes will also be reduced by EPOC.
