
What should we prepare?
APR, 03 / 2013.

The deputy minister of information, youth, culture, and sports, Amos Makalla, has urged Tanzanians to stop fanaticism like Simba and Yanga, instead they should join Azam FC in their game on Saturday against the Young Constituent.
Speaking to Good Citizen yesterday this article, he said Azam has been a stable team and is supposed to make sure Tanzanians get married, therefore there is no need to cheer their cooperation.
We should leave the fanaticism like Simba and Yanga, on Saturday we want to cheer Azam through all the strength, it's not these who fly Azam through all Tanzanians who involve Azam all of us to be one thing, "said this article.
And the spokesperson of Azam Jaffer Idd, has told BBC Sport.
That the match is not easy like people who we think that it's only 2-1 which the last game is not satisfied because BYC is a good team and he is sure they want to move forward due to the benefits of one goal that he got in their home.
"The match is not easy like people who we think, we must be keen and we are happy to see players know their responsibility as all Tanzanians are looking at them.
"We are saying the government will support him together with TFF involved their representative Mzee Mshangama, who we received and we received our visitors until we're putting up a lot of people to come out in large numbers to ensure we are win this game," said Jaffer Idd.
The convoy of that team with 37 people including 21 players have been led by the chief executive officer (CEO) of that club Robert Alagutwa, who is the first child of Liberia, Ellen Lupimo.

The technical bench that is headed by the head coach Robert Lartey being assisted by Samuel Sanya, the team's manager, Clarence Chilumba.
Azam FC and BYC are meeting at the venue which will be played on Saturday April 6 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, where Azam are playing in the pitch after winning in the previous game that was played in Boncour.
If Azam will win that game they will enter the third round of the African Football Federation (CAF), where they will meet with team from Morocco or Libya.
