Kikwete's secret is found.
October, 31st, 2013.

Three leaders of the Revolutionary Party, including one minister, the ones mentioned to be able to vie for presidency by the party to vie for the presidency in the year 2015, has mentioned to be involved in giving money to some of the chairpersons and secretaries of the district of CCM who were in Dodoma in Dodoma last week, South Sudan, has been told.
According to our news sources, three presidential candidates are responsible for the list of the three candidates, the one leading is the one who was giving 400,000 shillings to some of the districts that attended the training seminar that took place in Dodoma last week.
The candidate has had a great office, who is from the northern region (name is reserved for now) and the others are together with the current minister in the government of Kikwete, who comes from the Lake Region.
Apart from those, another one who used to be the youth minister from the Lake Region.
On the side of the candidate from the northern region, his team of distributing money was reaching those funds through some of the secretaries from the district of CCM.
"It was called the district commissioner or it is a lot of 400,000 shillings is used in his mobile phone with a total of 400,000 shillings being used to help them" lives "in Dodoma but behind it is a plan to look for voters in the general meeting of 2015," says our news source of information.
According to the procedure of CCM, every district is giving 10 members of the meeting of that party and every district is led by the chairman and the secretary of the party.
On behalf of religious leaders of CCM, apart from the chairman and his secretary, is also mentioned to be a member of parliament.
"Therefore, I will see that the candidate with goals was able to convince him through any way the chairperson and the secretary of the district, together with the member of parliament, he is a big challenge to other seven delegates from the concerned district, who depend on the general meeting," Masau boasted.
More reports indicate that, there is no big veteran who was giving money under 100,000 shillings to some of the members whose total number 445.
Kikwete entertaining.

It is as a result of the situation of spreading bribery through phone or cash, it is alleged that President Jakaya Kikwete could not affect the anger and instead, explained to the delegates of the meeting that the party can be defeated in the general elections of the year 2015, if it will not play against bribery.

President Kikwete has been quoted saying "we should never tell ourselves about bribery in the year 2015, we will have a very difficult time and if this year we will succeed in power.
"I know that there is a situation that you are continuing to receive two hundred thousand shillings (time of communication), my brothers, I will not see or others will go down and others stuck," said the chairperson of CCM.

In confirming the availability of bribery, he continued to explain the chairpersons and those secretaries to CCM saying that, "leaders of the party say you have been agents of spreading bribery without even a shame, I request you to change, if we will continue this situation will be very difficult in different elections, I advise you to change."
The third defender and his colleagues will expire.
The reports indicate that among the party members and the leaders of CCM were adamant and helped with that plan of distributing bribery together with the leader from Mara Province, popularly known by the third winner.
It is said that, together with some of his fellow members were adamant to see him being satisfied by the senior leaders who are involved in that plan.
The challenge to Mangula.
At the moment, the Deputy Chairperson of CCM, Mzee Philip Mangula has been given another examination of making it after the previous examinations ended, despite giving a few months of addressing people who are believed to have gone into power inside CCM on bribery.
Our news source has that enough evidence has been collected from some of the involved in fighting corruption last week in Dodoma city and legal action will be taken against them.
"Mangula is a if he has been given an opportunity to register it after falling for his previous promise to address those who came into power in the election within the party through bribery they have not been given an open evidence," he explains one of the retired leaders inside CCM who did not want his name to be put into the newspaper.
Ethics and a new constitution.
