
Ngapa with good people.
The minister used by lack of lack.
Samuel Sitta comes with the Permanent Secretary of the Permanent Committee.
Hostility out of the chairperson of the national commission of land (NRF), Doctor Mohammed Sgood and the minister of land, Miss Charity Nganga continued to arrive yesterday, after the chairperson blamed Mrs. Ngapa with lack of considering the law.
While confirming the difference, Doctor the good wife told Taifa today that, those are not private, but it is legal.
"Different from where we were in the constitution, some people are following the whole country, despite having a new constitution that was chosen by the Kenyans," said Doctor.
Yesterday, Doctor Sgood said that the law has not been discovered that in that ministry, despite the president, through the general meeting of ministers Joseph Omog in organizing a meeting to resolve the differences.
We were with the meeting that was organized by Mister Shogholo Msangi and it was accepted that the constitution should be noted and that I had been the constitutional of the constitution, "he said.
Doctor human being has been blamed Mrs. Ngapa with lack of law, a situation that supports the services in that ministry since the beginning of this year.
According to Doctor's good, there is no one or a organization that has the ability to eliminate that commission and it's through the purpose of being prepared for opinion polls.
The tension between those two started on the month of October after the step of Mrs. Ngapa, handed over some of the head officers in that ministry, including the former Commissioner of Lands Nugu, Msalika as the Director of Lands Nuzulack Dausen and Mujengi Gage, something that Doctor was good.
Different meanings have affected many things in that ministry, including the correct signing of the land grabbing.
"People (listening to Minister Ngapa) are supposed to follow the law and his expectation is to be through the building for opinion polls it is going to speak about this commission in general and those people are supposed to know that," Doctor and good people should know the nation today.
