
The conflict is shame for the nation on May 31, 2012

There are some who are happy and to look at the crisis that is going on in CCM party, there are some who want to be responsible for that conflict to continue so that CCM has failed and maybe the opposition parties had a chance to agree with the film and the film that it means that his star is only big leaders of CCM.
And we are saying that we are the others that we know that it is good for CCM to break up so that we don't understand what we will be like the hyena that had been able to support someone else.
All the nine matches are saying what is happening now inside the Revolutionary Party and its government is shame, and again it is a shameful time for our nation.
It is a shame to protect himself and giving birth, it's a shame for the top leadership of CCM and CCM members, it is a shame for their families and it's a shame for President Kikwete for every time we cannot continue working on this shame and not to do so, we love us.

But if the English thing says, "Ambassador Seif I have tried after getting married" that is "chicken have come up at home to kill them" that is getting what the person claimed.
CCM promised to ask for conflicts in the opposition, because since the presence of many parties, especially the presence of the political parties, especially the presence of the CCM party, we did not remember well how the party leaders do, therefore, CCM does not delay in front of the party, therefore his party is not allowed.
"They have conflicts of these leaders," they were studying in every day.
Those who believe they will continue to inspect CCM because CCM appeared to return to CCM because CCM appeared to perform, its own policies and it's with no wonder because they were playing with a foolish thing, "the high table" today is no one who contested for so again.
However, those who had been going on to demonstrate to the executive committee is doing an issue, the president gave birth or chairman saying something with an entertaining person, today they do not believe in their shame, because they did not believe that the Teacher's teacher has reached an agreement.
So when you get conflicts with your colleagues, you will you have conflicts!
Yes, I am saying that what is going on today is a shame and it is not chicken to maintain themselves, and now they need me!
Shame of the visitors that were impressed by the statements that we want to hear and read about them that you want to change our headlines in sadness.
Others have tried to ask ourselves how it is still in government and in the party he continues to keep it as well and his country!
The words of the former Prime Minister who has ever met with Bakwata, Dodoma town, the Tanganyika scandal that Miss Simba does not depend on his mental checkup.
What does it mean to Mzee Malecela, he has a meaning to the council of ministers, there is a teaser? That one of the ministers of the United Republic of Tanzania has problems?
Now if he knows that, why should I tell her President for all the respect instead of getting to that mother in public about that way?
Or he wants to send a message to Kikwete that he has decided to be self-shame, but how will happen if you get to talk like that because what is the way he loves these things?
If you read the answers of Mzee Mengi, for Miss Simba is something like what I asked, there was no need to see Miss Simba and without knowing how it is false and giving explanations to Miss Simba for what to do?

And he was using the message of President Kikwete to be his former minister of national safety, he is using his authority, considering the citizens and why he does not use them to use one way by sending that message because it's just a shame.
It is a shame for the top leadership of CCM and all the members of CCM together with all that we will speak this today, ignorance, (I think this) that is going on in CCM today I would be divided into CCM's administration has failed, because its members are divided.
Your people are not one party in one parliament but even talk about it.
Their chairman has insisted that now the place people did not affect the water problem by fear he had gone into poison because this is a shame for the top leadership of CCM!
It means that inside CCM there is no reason that has the ability to destroy the discipline and political impasse that we are in, this is a shame.
Yes, it is a shame to the members of CCM who today are self-driven by claiming that their home is democracy but from CHADEMA, TLP, CUF is a conflict!
Today, members of CCM don't like to find out their differences because "the leadership problem" what was mentioned and can make sure that you get inside their party and they know why democracy of conflicts, is not allowed inside CCM but not in the opposition?
At least the opponents can be able to sit on one table and at least they were able to live and listen to the court because CCM should not get ractory sides, to sit together they don't know, that is just a shame.
Shame of their families and even I don't want to get married because these are friends, others are supposed to say "they have gotten a lot of salt" but they have talked about people living in Kariakoo to get pregnant in those days.
I don't know their children there and the ones that you want to do, "the mother is in me,"!
Friends, even if you do not respect each other and at least read your families.
In many people get married, I don't know whether you are not true, the CCM you have reached here and I don't know where you are not aware because it does not understand the power, but it is a shame, a shame and the eyes too.
Shame of the President Kikwete in the middle of everything that if I understood it is that those affected inside CCM today with his government who is being sold to have no importance inside the party and when he won in Zanzibar at the right time when Maalim and Karume had agreed with his investors!
It's a shame to be Kikwete because already he has problems in his whole council of ministers who are making fake certificates, the ministers who are claiming in government are private and thieves, if you see some of his appointment up to me, if you see some of his appointment until it is there or another person who dies.
It was surprised by me, but when he decided to receive Andrew Chenge, on his council to an extent that even though I had to come back to power despite the allegations against him, he didn't be forced to resign from that scandal, "he insisted.
Today, the chairperson of the party has no one who is not involved (EFL) inside his party.
When it's time, the former vice chairperson of the party explained his ability to appoint a minister for you to know what we have been able to take him in trouble, while he termed it against Simba that he has a lot of problems in one way he asked the person who defected to him!
It is impossible to be appointed to be careful when they continue with his position without discussing the ability of who accompanied him to test his wife!
I urge you to say President Kikwete because I don't see the presidential candidate and all these things, sometimes I think (I don't know if you are happy or faith) that there is possible President Kikwete urged the presidency to fulfill his dreams and not presidency as a responsibility of leadership.
Today, the president does not give the leadership that is needed for the country or in his party and instead he is following up with his fellow leaders they're on with each other and not knowing that he has no eyes to go to Egypt on the same time.
Now, we should not look at great problems if the president will not decided to bring discipline in his first government and the second in his party we cannot be satisfied and if everyone is using her bad news, then we have been arrested.
I have an intention even so that if President Kikwete sees a lot of government and the party is very close to him, and that these noises have been written, then he can talk about what that the constitution has set aside, therefore he will try to bring discipline.
If the two feel that these things are very big and they don't have a way, then the president would decide to convene the general elections earlier (maybe March this year) and he decided to vie for the general elections earlier (maybe March next year) and he decided to vie for this day so that CCM can stop each other.
Otherwise, Mkonde and President Kikwete showing the leadership of your nation, because this load of what does it mean to thank me, then you can inform me, then you can wake up early as it is part of democracy.
Otherwise, you're your member of CCM, I have done it is a shame for the whole nation but he will also love you alone like the ones that their opponents were for them and this is to you who will get themselves!
