Abdelhamid Radwan from animals.

It has been written by Hassan Silayo- information.

It has been published in 1st September 2016.

Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism, Professor Jumanne Maghembe has said that the government has banned business for transporting animals from outside the country until when they will be able to enable the country to benefit from that business.

Professor Maghembe has said this during the period of "we want this" organized by the department of information and information in conjunction with the Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation (TBC).
He has said that the government decided to look at the procedure of selling wild animals and decided to stop the business until when the procedure and good foundation of that business will be installed.
"It is true there was a procedure of selling animals from outside the country without enabling the country to get any benefit, therefore, if the country we decided to ban that business for the interests of the nation.
"It's impossible for eternal peace, then, they benefited from the same, not to sell and stop the country without any benefits of the presence of that resources, therefore, if the country we decided to ban that business until when the business foundation will be put and enable Tanzania to benefit from its resources," said Maghembe.
In addition, Professor Maghembe has said that for now the government has set strategies to fight against the wildlife officers like the elephants and minerals including the arrest of all people who are involved in that business and up to now they have arrested some people including a musician or who is alleged to be the head in that business.
Speaking about the theft of the forest products, Professor Maghembe has said that the government is continuing to take action against the theft of forest products and has agreed that if the vehicle will have been arrested with the produce without a permit, the government will be confiscated by the vehicle and those involved will be accused if they consider the economy.
He has said that the government has promised to start the poultry project in villages that are at the periphery of forests so as to be able to control the fire in those areas, a situation that will also improve the environment.
