Dar want to vote in the parliamentary seat of the constitution.
Memba, 26, 2014.

While the special constitutional parliament started discussing the draft of the constitution this week, the residents of Dar es Salaam. the residents of Dar es Salaam Province were interviewed about the whole issue of voting process, they have decided to be used for secret votes.
In addition, in another step, those residents have said that they did not support the issue of delegates of the parliament to be able to be given those allowances for what they have proposed that ethics.
Those opinions are the results of the research that was done by Almighty God for the period of March this year for 333 residents of Dar es Salaam city, that research has been done through mobile phone with the institutions of the institution and the Social Welfare (Petroleum Development Program).
The issue of voting system in the special Parliament of the Constitution has brought a huge tension during the parliament to make its operations and during the decision, they distributed the members of the two camp that has decided to agree or be open or open votes.
The issue for now is to be dealt with while parliament is going on but it has also been a matter that took place so much outside the parliament and the ones that were following the debate on that parliament.
The research of Mke Mwema should be officially known as' listening to Dar es Salaam city, it shows that 537 people out of 10 people were supporting delegates who want to vote on the issue of votes while 10 percent of them were not involved in any other side.
That research has brought together the residents of Dar es Salaam 333 from all the districts of that city, which will be 268 percent of the meeting of the special constitutional parliament that is going on in Dodoma when she was 65 percent, said they had not heard about the meeting of that parliament.
About the allowances, the residents of Dar es Salaam were asked if they were supporting or opposing the increase of allowances for the delegates of the special assembly of the constitution.
According to that research, 94 percent of nine residents opposed the increase of allowances that 3 percent were supporting the increase of allowances and other 3 percent saying they did not know anything about the increase of allowances.
In the beginning of the sessions of the Constitutional Assembly, emerged on behalf of the delegates of the Parliament wanting to be informed of allowances of 300,000 shillings for the required environment in Dodoma town and their status.
Some of the delegates listening to one of the allowances saying the lives of Dodoma shillings 300,000 shillings were questioning the citizens and other workers are paid how many shillings per month and how can I register life.
Some of the members of parliament including Zitto Kabwe, wanted the investigation to be allowed to confirm the cost of living in Dodoma.
The second day of the special parliamentary sitting, Richard Ndassa, the Member of Parliament of SUMATRA has said that he had gone into that issue of allowances that they were paid the delegates of the special assembly of constitution is small claiming that the delegates of the council of representatives have been commended.
And Suleiman Kisimba, asked the reason for them to be given those allowances while the delegates of the Marist commission worth 500,000 shillings when they were collecting opinions.
In those claims that he claimed that the status of the hotel that is supposed to sleep is from 70,000 shillings and also need oil for different people who requested the support.
